1 Section 2 Operating Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN ACTION Every year Debenhams and its employees are involved in a wide range of activities relating to the environment, to ethical trading and to supporting charities and communities on a local and national basis.
1 2 3 4 BLACKPOOL LIVINGSTON CLICS BREAST CANCER FAIRTRADE CLOTHING GROUND FORCE TO SUPPORT CHARITY CAMPAIGN In February 2008, we launched The new management team The team at the new store Debenhams has been a a range of Fairtrade clothing from the Blackpool store came in Livingston which opened on supporter of the Breast Cancer within our Maine Menswear together in June to create 16 October 2008 have adopted Campaign for a number of years.
brand in conjunction with a vegetable patch for the Clic Sargent as their charity with So far 1.5 million has been Olympic hero Sir Steve Blackpool Tiggers.
The local a fundraising target of 12,000 raised through the sale of special Redgraves FiveG brand.
Sir charity provides a sports, leisure in the first year.
The new products and in-store and head Steve travelled to the village and social club for children management team got o to oce events.
This years products of Dougourakoroni in on the autism spectrum.
a good start in June by taking include this Adore Moi Mali to see for himself the impact part in The Great Scottish Walk, balconette bra and thong.
Fairtrade has had on the lives of a 12 mile sponsored walk local farmers and communities.
28 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1.5m Contribution to Breast Cancer Campaign 2 4 3 6 60 yEARs Our longest serving employee Section 2 Operating Review 5 6 7 8 MARINE CONSERVATION ACHIEVEMENTS IN PETERBOROUGHS SIXTY YEARS AT SOCIETY ENERGY EFFICIENCY GREEN FUN DAY DEBENHAMS Menswear brand Mantaray is a Our achievements in energy The Peterborough Distribution Edna Lee from the Gloucester proud supporter of the Marine eciency were recognised in Centres Green Team held a store celebrated 60 years with Conservation Society which cares late 2007 when Retail Operations family fun day in August at which Debenhams in August, having for our seas, shores and wildlife.
Director Nigel Palmer was sta and their families could joined Bonmarche as the store Employees and customers have awarded the Ellen MacArthur learn about environmental issues was then called in 1948 as a 15- taken part in a number of beach Award for his personal leadership through displays provided by year old school leaver.
A moving clean-up days around the and achievement in retail energy recycling contractors, local tribute was paid to Ednas country, including this one eciency.
Dame Ellen presented council departments and other commitment and achievement in Brighton.
the award to Nigel at our Derby environmental agencies whilst at this years annual Celebrating store along with Debenhams having fun and enjoying Success event.
Edna amused the The rubbish was all logged and Energy Manager Alan Carter.
challenges such as rodeo audience with stories of life in provides vital information to the bull riding, bungee runs and retail during the past 60 years.
Marine Conservation Society sumo wrestling.
when tackling litter and dumping problems across the UK.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 8 7 5 Section 2 Operating Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW FOR 2008 Our aim is to have a positive impact on the millions of lives our business touches.
During 2008 Debenhams sent several crates of toys to crche facilities at suppliers factories in Bangladesh and Vietnam.
Here children at Stylecraft in Bangladesh enjoy the toys.
s a retail business, Debenhams operations impact the STORES lives of millions of people: our customers, our people, In 2008 we have increased the number of stores  the communities in which we operate, those who work and plastic waste to the distribution centre DC for recycling from 16 to in our supply chain and their own communities.
With the installation of a second high capacity baler into the We also have a duty to ensure our activities do not Peterborough DC the intention is to move as many of the remaining stores harm the environment.
Our aim is not just to as possible to backhauling.
Waste studies revealed that the amount of Aminimise our impact but to try to have a positive waste passed to landll as a result of implementing backhauling drops by impact on those whose lives we touch.
as much as 80 per cent as the bulk of store waste is card and plastic.
We believe that management of and accountability for corporate All stores also action some form of recycling, using multi-stream recovery responsibility CR should be embedded in the relevant business activity units across the country.
We are investigating the feasibility of incinerating rather than a centralised CR function.
Thus, ethical trading is the waste to divert from landll in the next year as well as composting of food responsibility of the Director of Supply Chain who reports directly to the waste generated by stores.
Chief Operating Ocer Michael Sharp and energy usage in stores is overseen by a dedicated Energy Manager who works closely with the We are increasing the percentage of hangers which are either re-used or Retail Operations Director Nigel Palmer.
A cross-functional CR steering returned to the DC for recycling.
committee meets regularly to review progress and policies.
The committee is chaired by Nikki Zamblera, HR Director, who has executive responsibility DISTRIBUTION CENTRES for CR issues.
Waste disposal and recycling statistics for the distribution centres are detailed in the following table.
For 2008, the target is to move to 98 per cent of DC waste recycled.
Recycling points have been installed at all three DCs and Environmental individual waste bins removed from all oces.
CARBON FOOTPRINT AND ENERGY USAGE Disclosure on Debenhams carbon footprint and energy usage can be found in the insert on page 31.
WASTE RECYCLING Debenhams is committed to reducing the amount of waste generated by its activities.
We seek to divert as much waste away from landll through a number of recycling schemes.
30 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 98% target for DC waste recycling
