qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 12 12 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to integrating corporate and social responsibility into all areas of our business.
We recognise the importance of balancing the needs of our customers, our shareholders, our employees and the communities in which we work.
Introduction Mason and Gerald Martin in Hartlepool donated a new The Dignity Group is committed to integrating corporate memorial to eight soldiers who had been killed in World and social responsibility into all areas of our business.
War Two and buried in France so that their families could We recognise the importance of balancing the needs of pay their respects in their hometown.
Dignitys Easter Egg our customers, our shareholders, our employees and the challenge is still going strong with staff across the United communities in which we work.
This is central to the service Kingdom donating chocolate gifts to those less fortunate we provide to our clients and is reected in our business than themselves.
The Group also believes in creating the appropriate culture for our staff, who are the most At Dignity, we believe in supporting our staff every step of important asset of the business.
We aim to achieve our the way, providing advice and practical support for those business objectives in a caring and responsible manner, who want to give something back to their local community.
recognising the economic, social and environmental impact of our activities.
Supporting charities Thank you In addition to our commitment to local communities, Richard Portman, Corporate Services Director, is accountable staff at Dignity raise thousands of pounds each year for for corporate and social responsibility and under this remit national and local charities of their choosing.
identies key issues and reports these to his fellow Board members.
In 2008, the staff at Dignity raised over 26,000 for the staff elected charity Help the Hospices a sum which was In our communities matched by the Group.
Help the Hospices is the national Making a difference to the local communities we serve membership charity for the hospice movement, supporting is at the heart of everything we do.
The staff at Dignity are over 240 local hospices in their vital work caring for people extremely committed to this ethos and support hundreds with terminal illness.
Dignity will continue to support this of local activities every year.
From organising fundraising worthwhile cause in 2009. events for national charities to helping out village ftes, our employees donate a large amount of their time to helping There were many fund raising initiatives held nationwide good causes and charities.
By listening to and understanding during the year including memorial services, tea parties, the needs of local communities our staff are able to picnics and barbecues whilst some employees raised money respond by providing help where it is really needed.
by abseiling, white water rafting and bungee jumping.
For example, our funeral directors in Surrey and Berkshire The heroes of our armed services were commemorated offer the use of their mini-bus to provide transport for local in November with window dressings and numerous poppy community groups and care homes.
D J Evans Forse & Co appeals raising much-needed funds for the Royal British in Cardiff helped to raise 10,000 to replace a school Legion.
Several funeral locations raised money for Breast mini-bus that had been destroyed in an arson attack.
Cancer Campaigns Wear It Pink awareness day and at SUPPORTING OUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES Making a difference to the local communities we serve is at the heart of everything we do.
By listening to and understanding the needs of local communities our staff are able to respond by providing help where it is really needed.
Left: Hilary Al Rasheed, Community Manager, Philip Ford & Son, Stroud, Gloucestershire and Marianne Sweet, Marketing Manager, Cotswold Care Hospice.
qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 13 13 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 SUPPORTING LOCAL CHARITIES In addition to our commitment to local communities, staff at Dignity raise thousands of pounds each year for national and local charities.
In 2008, the staff at Dignity raised over 26,000 for the staff elected charity Help the Hospices a sum which was matched by the business.
qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 14 14 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED the end of September there were various coffee mornings for our veneered cofns, which account for 23 per cent of held in aid of Macmillan and the fabulous work they do.
Due to inconsistencies in supply-chain sources it is difficult to achieve accreditation for our oak cofns, which Our four charity fairground organs continued to be a vital comprise 4 per cent of our manufacturing output.
aid in fundraising activities and in 2008 almost 10,000 was raised for a variety of national and local charities.
All promotional literature developed by the pre-arranged funeral plan division is printed on paper with FSC Mixed Environment Sources accreditation with up to 70 per cent of marketing As in previous years, our business continues to have a literature printed on recycled material.
low environmental impact and its activities are not expected to give rise to any significant environmental risk over the The Group and its employees undertake to act whenever next twelve months.
necessary to meet or exceed the standards of current environmental legislation and continue to review the Maintaining the quality of the environment in which policies, systems and services to this end.
All waste we all live is an important concern for Dignity.
All areas generated is properly disposed of in accordance with of the business operate in accordance with the Groups current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste environmental policy.
We recognise the impact of our wherever this is practical.
operations on local surroundings and our aim is to reduce this impact and operate in an environmentally A recycling mission statement was developed and circulated friendly manner.
At our cofn manufacturing facility in East Yorkshire all Health and Safety wood waste from the manufacture of cofns is used to Effective heath and safety management is critical to heat the factory.
A significant and increasing proportion the Group and a key priority of the Directors.
Its operations of packaging, which cofns are packed in for transit to our are conducted at all times in such a way as to ensure, as funeral locations, is now returned to the factory for re-use.
far as is reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare As this is done when the next delivery is made there is no of all its employees and all persons who may be attending increase in the use of vehicles or emissions to achieve this.
All raw materials used in the manufacture of our cofns Dignity is committed to the prevention of accidents and are sourced from well-managed and sustainable sources, regularly reviews and updates procedures and training 73 per cent of whom have FSC Forest Stewardship Council to ensure that staff minimise any risks associated with accreditation.
We are currently seeking FSC accreditation their role.
MINIMISING OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT We recognise the impact of our operations on local surroundings and our aim is to reduce this and operate in an environmentally friendly manner.
At our head ofce in Sutton Coldeld paper and card recycling policies have been successfully introduced.
Left: Debbie Parcell, Plantsbrook House, Sutton Coldeld.
qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 15 15 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 PRIORITISING HEALTH AND SAFETY Effective heath and safety management is critical to the Group and a key priority of the Directors.
As with all Dignity premises, we are committed to the prevention of accidents at our manufacturing unit in Drifeld and procedures are regularly reviewed and updated.
Right: Nigel Turner, Logistics and Health & Safety Manager and Keith Turner, Factory Supervisor, Manufacturing facility, Drifeld, Yorkshire.
The Group has a full-time Health and Safety Consultant tutoring for professional qualications.
These professional who is dedicated to these issues and is supported by qualications include the NAFD National Association of two Health and Safety Managers, both of whom have Funeral Directors Diploma and Membership of the BIE completed NEBOSH National Examination Board in British Institute of Embalmers.
In addition, the Group has Occupational Safety and Health General Certicate five members of staff who are accredited NAFD tutors and Training.
The manufacturing facility also has its own three BIE training specialists.
The Group provides additional support to staff development In 2008, Dignity instigated a Health and Safety training through its Welfare Trust, which provides funds for programme ranging from a one-day introduction course professional training and hardship grants.
The Trust has to the four-day IOSH Institution of Occupational Safety and approximately 1.6 million available for future use.
During the year, approximately half of the Groups 36 Funeral Service Managers were trained to IOSH Dignity publishes a quarterly in-house magazine, Dignity Managing Safely Certicate standard and 50 per cent of Express, which is supplemented by monthly news bulletins junior managers have been trained to Level 2 Health and to keep all employees informed of what is happening in Safety Certicate standard.
There are now approximately the Group.
Dignity Express is also circulated to the Groups 90 co-ordinators embedded into the business and there are retired employees.
News, useful information and background plans for further members of staff to take the IOSH course on the Group is also available to staff via a dedicated in 2009 including Operations Director, Andrew Davies and employee website which was re-launched in 2008.
Corporate Services Director, Richard Portman.
The Group has also continued with its staff vaccination programme and plans to conclude this in 2009.
During the next twelve months Dignity will also publish its Health and Safety manual and distribute this to all premises.
Supporting our staff Our employees are critical to the continued success of Dignity.
We are committed to high standards of employment practice and aim to encourage and develop employees.
The Group provides direct support to employees through both in-house training and external training courses.
External training includes both relevant job training and SUPPORTING OUR STAFF Our employees are critical to the continued success of Dignity.
External training includes tutoring for professional qualications such as the NAFD Diploma.
In addition, the Group has five members of staff who are accredited NAFD tutors and three specialists in embalming training.
Left: Susan Lewis, Trainee Funeral Director, A V Band, Worcester.
