42 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Corporate responsibility report Licence to Operate: OVERVIEW Dimension Data operates globally, spanning five continents and This aspect of our environmental policy covers our compliance over 47 countries.
The Group is aware of its responsibilities as with local and international environmental legislation and our a global corporate citizen not only to deliver value and profit to commitment to measuring, monitoring and ultimately reducing shareholders, but also to adhere to a code of ethical conduct: our carbon footprint.
During the year we completed our first to provide a fair and unprejudiced employment framework for its submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP6 and have employees: to deliver solutions that answer the environmental finalised our Carbon Management Plan.
Subsequent to year requirements of our clients, and to ensure that we operate as end, Dimension Data was placed in the Leadership Index CDLI sustainably as is practical.
for non-carbon-intensive sectors with a rating of 93.
In 2009 we intend to roll out an Environmental Management System During the year ended 30 September 2008 the Board has employing the ISO 14001 framework with a focus on energy reviewed our corporate responsibility programme, including the consumption, business travel and waste management.
long and short term risks to the value of the Group associated with ethical, environmental and social issues.
Following this Go-to-Market: review our efforts were refocused with the appointment of an Dimension Data offers a range of solutions and services that executive as Global Lead, Sustainability.
Our corporate can significantly reduce business energy consumption and responsibility programme now covers three main areas: business travel for our clients.
These offerings support our environmental issues, social issues including our own clients requirements to reduce their environmental impact and employees as well as community engagement : and ethics and include: data centre virtualisation and consolidation, data centre governance.
power and cooling, data centre design and architecture, virtual Dimension Data aims to integrate its Corporate Responsibility meeting options using a variety of visual communications programme into the Groups values, operations and business technologies, e-Procurement, and several bespoke services decisions at all levels, promoting an ethical and sustainable including our recently released Office Sustainability Service.
This report focuses on the progress made during the year in our environmental and social programmes.
Further Employee Engagement: details on ethics and governance can be found in the Business Conservation of the environment is a cause that our employees Review and Corporate Governance Report pages 39 to 41. have taken to heart.
We support this interest as the only way to build a truly credible and sustainable programme for Dimension ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMME Data.
During the year we deployed Greenpoint, an Dimension Data has a relatively low environmental impact environmental site on our intranet, which includes topical compared to similar sized organisations in different industry information, white papers and presentations.
However we acknowledge that climate change is a established environmental thinktanks in most of the regions global problem and we are committed to responsible where the voluntary participants include employees from all environmental practices throughout our business.
With this in divisions within Dimension Data and their charter is to ensure mind, our environmental strategy covers three pillars: Licence to the enhancement of our environmental strategy.
Operate, Go-to-Market and Employee Engagement.
Environmental Key Performance Indicators Key performance indicator Current status Priorities for 2009 Carbon Emissions Appointment of specialist professional Completion of Carbon Management services firm to prepare baseline Plan.
Rollout of Environmental Management Completed a submission to the Carbon System EMS using the ISO 14001 Disclosure Project CDP6.
framework initially in three geographies South Africa, UK and Australia.
Energy Efficiency Energy efficiency improvements have Deployment of video conferencing been carried out in our own data across all regions to reduce travel centres with reductions in numbers of costs and increase efficiency.
servers in North America, the UK and Global and European IT systems to be Australia.
hosted in two data centres with a significant commitment to consolidation and virtualisation.
43 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 including for example Cancer Research UK and Oxfam, while SOCIAL PROGRAMMES MAKING A POSITIVE other individual country operations supported employee DIFFERENCE TO THOSE IN NEED education with the Red Cross and cultural exchange The key themes of our social programmes are community programmes.
engagement, volunteering and stakeholder engagement, with black economic empowerment BEE a pivotal part of the In the United States our Corporate Responsibility initiatives are programme in South Africa.
co-ordinated under the banner of the Network of Hope.
In addition to contributing financially to local causes through the Community engagement United Way and City Year payroll deduction campaign, our This element of our policy incorporates our commitment to American employees volunteered for a range of causes with a various regional issues and causes, community involvement, total of 613 hours being devoted to 28 projects across the partnership with non-profit companies, charities and nonUnited States, including Thanksgiving food drives and governmental organisations and sponsorship of charitable construction, renovation and decorating work on Habitat for events.
In addition, in some regions we provide the structures to Humanity projects, and childrens and womens shelters.
facilitate workplace giving where employees can elect, with In our Middle East and Africa business we support a range of matching Group support, to make payments to charities directly exciting community initiatives.
Thirteen years ago, the business from the payroll.
in South Africa made a commitment to education as its community focus.
The Dimension Data Saturday School Some highlights from regional community engagement harnesses the power of technology via an e-learning projects during the year include: management system, and currently reaches 6,000 students, Asias regional programme, Carecraft, focuses on sponsoring aiming to reach 40,000 children by 2015.
It placed considerable focus on the Myanmar cyclone children are afforded the opportunity to further their studies, disaster and the earthquake in Chinas Szechuan province, and obtain life skills and become active participants in the all countries under the Datacraft brand contributed to these transformation of the country.
The Dimension Data Saturday two causes, raising over $90,000.
Employees also volunteered School is supplemented by the Mentorship Programme, where their services at the disaster sites and formed part of the employees volunteer to mentor 50 learners and provide a humanitarian effort.
In addition, in Korea we participated in the supportive relationship where knowledge and experience can Love Loaf programme as a fundraising initiative: in Singapore be shared.
We also support the CIDA City Campus and its we supported the children of the Melrose Home: in Hong Kong Winter School programme, and have contributed to the building we were involved with the Salvation Army and St James of school libraries at underfunded schools.
settlements for the elderly and homeless: and in India we supported the SOS Children's Villages and the Red Cross.
Our Black Economic Empowerment BEE in South Africa Asian business has a relationship with WorldVision, and Dimension Data has based its BEE strategy on the South adopted 142 children through WorldVisions child African Department of Trade and Industrys Codes of Good sponsorship initiative.
Practice issued in terms of Section 9 of the Broad-Based Black In Australia, through our Heads Hearts and Hands programme, Economic Empowerment Act No.
In we focus on three areas: environment, education and children.
2008, we made further strides to achieving our BEE targets Australian employees matched by Dimension Data donated through a continued focus on equity ownership, management approximately $240,000 to a range of local and international control, employment equity, skills development, preferential charities.
One example is our involvement in the John Maclean procurement, enterprise development and socio-economic Foundation, which raises funds for equipment such as development.
wheelchairs to children with special needs.
All six Australian Our BEE programmes aim to: branch offices participated in Earth Hour 2008.
We also have a mature volunteering programme that is a strong and positive Transform our employee profile at every level, as per our element contributing to a vibrant corporate culture.
A significant employment equity plan, to reflect the demographics of proportion of Australian employees volunteered their time during South Africa in the shortest possible time: and the year, estimated to be in excess of 600 working hours, Create capacity in our broader industry, through facilitating towards various charitable initiatives.
skills development from secondary to tertiary level and capacity creation through preferential procurement and At the instigation of our employees, our European operation entrepreneurship formation, facilitating access to capital, elected to support Unicef during the year.
Various local joint ventures and investments.
charitable organisations were supported throughout the region, 44 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Corporate responsibility report continued Details of Dimension Datas progress against the Codes can be Enterprise development.
Dimension Data acknowledges the found on the corporate website www.
com regional realities of the countries we work in.
One of the key realities in South Africa is the lack of BEE ICT companies Highlights of the advances we have made in 2008 in our BEE capable of supporting large enterprise and public sector programme include: clients.
We are committed to addressing this challenge Equity ownership.
The appointment of an Executive Director: through our Enterprise Development Programme, and Transformation proves Dimension Datas commitment to contribute 3.8% of net profit after tax from Dimension Data transformation.
In accordance with the Codes, Dimension Pty Limited, South African, to this programme.
Data Pty Limited is 25.4% black owned and its percentage Socio-economic development corporate social investment.
In the year ended 30 September Dimension Data has made the decision to focus the majority 2008 we achieved a Level Four Contributor BEE Rating and of its socio-economic development spend on initiatives that a 125% BEE Procurement Recognition Level, qualifying focus on education and access to ICT.
Details of some of Dimension Data Pty Limited as a Value Adding Supplier.
these initiatives are included in the Social Programmes Management control.
We continue to see operational section above.
management participation as the heart of our BEE strategy.
The South African organisation has now exceeded our commitment to achieving a set target of 40% black executive directorship by mid-2006.
In the year ended 30 September 2008, 77% of the executive directors of Dimension Data Pty Limited represent previously disadvantaged individuals PDIs.
The ultimate goal for Dimension Data is to have a demographic profile that is reflective of our areas of operation.
This profile includes both racial and gender complements.
For the year ended 30 September 2008, Dimension Data Pty Limited, South Africa, attained the following percentages of PDI employees: 30% of employees at senior management level: 22% of employees at middle management level: and 53% of employees at junior management level.
Overall, 32% of employees were female and 47% of employees were PDIs.
Ongoing training and skills development form the bedrock of transformation, and is an imperative for any company aiming to develop a competitive edge.
Dimension Data recognises the long term benefits of keeping employees motivated and more adept.
During the year ended 30 September 2008 3,052 people were provided with opportunities for further education, learning and development activities.
Various initiatives are in place, including preferential payment terms for small, medium and micro enterprises of 15 days and BEE vendor education to ensure that our suppliers become BEE compliant.
In the year ended 30 September 2008, 19.1% of Dimension Data Pty Limited's total procurement spend was channelled to BEE suppliers.
Each supplier is vetted through B1SA to determine their Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment status.
