22 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 We continue to integrate social, environmental and Corporate ethical initiatives into our business operations from design to disposal.
We understand the need to make Responsibility Review ethical practices sustainable and measurable in order for them to be widely and successfully adopted.
As a multi-channel electrical retailer our key accountabilities are in how we source, deliver and encourage responsible disposal of the goods we sell, how we empower our employees to deliver good service, and in how we help disadvantaged individuals and communities get the most We empower our employees to deliver good service.
We remain a constituent member of the Dow Jones Sustainability and FTSE4GOOD Indices, and one of the Business in the Community Top 100 Companies That Count.
During the year we were shortlisted for several awards for environmental sustainability including the National Energy Efficiency Awards and the Chartered Institute of Waste Management Awards.
During the year we reviewed our CR activities, in order to establish a detailed framework for our ongoing work.
This review was supervised by our Group CR Committee, a team of executives from all key operational areas of our business who meet quarterly and who advise the Board on non-financial risks and progress.
Kevin OByrne is the executive director with responsibility for CR matters.
com crgovernance to see the Committees Terms of Reference.
We review and update our employee policies to comply with current regulations.
Our overall principle is that no employees or stakeholders are discriminated against on the basis of age, gender, There are five Key Performance Indicators KPIs sexual orientation, nationality, ethnic origin, religious in this CR review.
Previous data can be found beliefs, disability, or for any other reason.
This along with information on all our practices at applies to the recruitment, training and career www.
com cr development of individuals.
We are a member of the Employers Forum on Disability and have been awarded the Two Ticks Positive about Disabled 1.
Staff diversity: age, gender and ethnicity of employees People accreditation from Jobcentre Plus.
2007 08 2006 07 To aid us in improving the environmental Female 33% 33% effectiveness of our UK operations, and our Male 67% 67% supply chain in particular, an Energy Management Full time 57% 56% Committee has recently been established.
Part time 43% 44% Ethnic minority non-national 17% 18% Aged over 50 8% 8% Average number of employees 40,730 38,596 Full time equivalents, excluding employees related to discontinued operations Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 23 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Workplace We are helping customers through the digital switchover.
In December 2007 we welcomed our new Chief Executive John Browett, who was introduced to employees through face to face briefings, and DVD and podcast interviews.
Regular Q&A sessions, a weekly employee blog and a well-publicised feedback email address, answered by John Browett personally, create a dialogue with colleagues and help to bring corporate vision and values to life.
We operate a balanced scorecard approach to drive employee performance and enhance customers experience.
This follows on from our previously reported hothousing initiatives that empower store teams to grow their own business and solve problems locally.
to buy shares in the Company at the end of the scheme at a pre-set discounted price.
As at We are in the process of introducing a new selling 26 June 2008 more than 16,000 employees model to store teams in the UK.
The model is based participate in our various share-based incentive on the structured sales process already used in our schemes, including Sharesave.
Nordic operations, and is designed to better establish customers needs and help them make a more Marketplace informed and complete choice.
Customer satisfaction is one of our principal concerns and in March 2008 we were delighted to In May 2008 we supported National Learning at win a Retail Week Award for Customer Service for Work Day, part of Adult Learners Week, with a series Currys free in-store and home collection recycling of training events at our UK Retail Support Centre service.
This is detailed further below.
We were also themed around personal development in and out a finalist for PC Worlds TechStick a device invented of the workplace.
by a PC World employee that helps our customers test drive a PC or laptop before purchase.
We implemented a single Group-wide employee engagement survey for the first time during the Following our participation in the digital switchover period, replacing divisional surveys.
This helps us trial in Whitehaven, Cumbria in which we supplied compare results more effectively.
More than 27,000 equipment to 450 homes switching over to digital employees participated in the survey and managers television in advance of the UK programme, we have were trained on how to share results with their teams remained heavily involved in work to support the and create action plans to tackle areas in which we switchover.
We are represented on the Spectrum could do better.
Planning Group and the Digital Stakeholder Group.
A summary of our activity can be found A record 50% rise in applications were received at www.
from UK and Ireland employees for our Sharesave scheme, under which employees save a set amount We have joined the Electronic Industry Code of from their salary over three or five years and can opt Conduct, under which global manufacturers and 3.
Performance on ethical supply chain audits 2007 08 2006 07 2.
Health and safety: employee accidents and injuries Meets requirements 20 14 2007 08 2006 07 Minor improvement required 66 51 Number of accidents or injuries 2,198 2,372 Major corrective action required 5 3 Delisted 8 3 Number of working days lost as a result of accidents 4,813 4,196 Total factories audited 99 71 24 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Corporate This worldwide environmental award programme for Responsibility Review schools encourages children to take responsibility for continued the environment.
We have worked with 53 schools and reached more than 18,500 children.
As a result, schools have developed gardening clubs, and fitted solar panels and wind turbines.
Using IT in home study can make a significant impact on the educational attainment of a child, but 1.4 million children in the UK do not have the use of a retailers collaborate to ensure safe conditions, worker computer for their studies at home.
Through the rights and environmental responsibility.
Further to e-Learning Foundation we have funded 22 schools last years update of our Ethical Purchasing Policy, and 1,200 pupils.
One school reported that 69% of our buying teams have received refreshed ethical pupils using laptops jumped three Information and sourcing training on supply chain best practice.
We Communication Technology sub levels in half a term, carry out audits of our suppliers factories to certify compared with the norm of two sub levels per year.
they are meeting our ethical sourcing standards and, during the year, we delisted eight suppliers as they were unable to meet these standards.
AbilityNet works to provide expert advice and IT Community equipment so that people with disabilities can In July 2006 we launched Switched on Communities perform everyday tasks such as communicating, a three year community involvement programme working, banking and shopping.
Using our funding, funded by our registered charity, The DSG international AbilityNet developed a network of charitable partners Foundation.
Through Switched on Communities we who have become mini AbilityNets across the UK.
provide technology and training to disadvantaged So far 56 organisations are linked to the project, communities, working with four main UK charitable working with 4,000 disabled people each year.
We also support smaller charities and PC World seconded a manager to AbilityNet to help encourage our employees throughout Europe in their with fundraising, and our funding and support volunteering and fundraising work.
enabled AbilityNet to secure a 750,000 lottery grant.
Last year we funded 300 smaller charities and gave 4.
Contributions to the community out 200 employee grants.
We also offer employees volunteering options with our main charity partners, for 2007 08 1,228,000 instance 18 volunteers have trained as Eco-Assessors 2006 07 1,141,000 and visit Eco-Schools to help them with projects and 2005 06 1,206,000 assess who deserves green flag status.
Value of cash, staff time and goods donated by the business to good causes Update: charitable partners We work to support smaller organisations throughout Europe.
In Greece, Kotsovolos is working with several charities, provides PCs for local schools and The Foyer Federation has a network of 130 centres, electrical equipment for a homeless hostel.
In Ireland giving homeless young people safe accommodation, we are working with FIT Fast-track into Technology.
guidance and access to learning and work.
So far We also support a childrens hospital in Dublin.
we have worked with 51 Foyers, improving the lives of more than 2,100 young people.
Projects have included providing kitchen equipment and IT suites, and teaching life skills by methods including in-store work experience.
Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 25 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 We launched the UKs first in-store and free home collection service if when a product is delivered.
collected in delivery lorries that would otherwise return to our national delivery centre empty, so the scheme is run within our existing carbon footprint.
Since the UK scheme was launched, 32,000 tonnes of electrical products have been recycled equating to 78 jumbo jets taken out of landfill sites.
Most goods will be back in use as a new item within two months, and 85% of goods received can be recycled.
We were delighted when the service won the Retail Week Customer Service Initiative of 2008 Award.
Our Nordic operations run a similar scheme, where end of life goods can be dropped off at stores 24 Environment hours a day in special containers.
As a Group, we We have been working on initiatives to improve have recycled more than 50,000 tonnes of end of the environmental effectiveness of our operations.
life electrical products to date as part of our WEEE Following on from the introduction of double-decker obligations across Europe.
We also work with the trailers in our home delivery network, reducing CO Furniture Retail Network charity, through which more 2 emissions by almost 600 tonnes per year, we have than 25,000 older electrical items have been given a implemented aerodynamically shaped biodiesel second life.
lorries to deliver stock to UK stores.
The lorry, which we call the RoadMouse due to its shape, has a Conclusion greater storage capacity and is 20% more CO We have made encouraging progress on the issues 2 efficient.
We are trialling reusable packaging for large we have identified as priorities for our business, and appliances and working with suppliers to reduce will continue to monitor our performance within the packaging for White Goods.
We are also working five KPIs outlined here.
We would like to thank all with the manufacturers of our own brand products our people for their contribution, operationally and to record energy consumption data in order to make through volunteering and fundraising, in making more informed decisions on the products we stock.
DSG international a good corporate citizen.
We supported the Energy Savings Trusts Energy Saving Week in October by offering our customers free delivery on a wide selection of energy saving goods.
Energy Doctors gave advice to customers in our flagship stores.
Top tips are also offered Kevin OByrne at Dixons.
co. uks Greenshop, which is a section Executive Director with responsibility for CR of the website highlighting good value energy saving products.
Waste recycled, as a percentage of waste produced excluding WEEE 2007 08 40% 2006 07 17% 2005 06 10% In July 2007 when the UK Government introduced the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive WEEE, which makes retailers responsible for financing the collection and recycling of end of life electrical products, we launched the UKs first and only in-store and free home collection recycling
