Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility CSR is an important part of the Groups day-to-day operations and encompasses a broad spectrum of activities with regards to the environment, our food, responsible growth, our employment practices, and the many ways in which we support the communities we operate in.
Carbon footprint Our environmental policy We are working with a local company called TEAM, The Group recognises that its day-to-day operations impact the using part-funding from the Carbon Trust, which has environment.
It is committed to delivering great tasting, freshly made calculated our carbon emissions and identi ed areas hot pizzas and will aim for continuous improvement in all aspects of its where we can reduce it.
Some of these actions have environmental performance, while continuing to deliver a great service already been implemented, for example we have to its customers.
increased the temperature in our data centre, hence reducing the amount of air cooling needed.
The Group is committed to monitoring its carbon emissions.
We have already implemented a number of projects which have reduced our In addition, we have set up an internal team to carbon emissions and have further projects both in progress and planned.
look at the recommendations and put the plans We will continue to look at projects to reduce our carbon footprint.
The team will include an environmental champion from each area of head of ce and we The Group has an internal environment group whose purpose is to will be regularly measuring our carbon outputs to investigate ways of reducing carbon emissions and implementing these ensure any implemented programmes are having a wherever possible.
Where we build new stores, they include energy saving devices such as light detectors.
In addition, the Distribution eet new commissary we are building in Milton Keynes One of the areas where we have already made is being built to the BREEAM Buildings Research signi cant progress is within our truck eet, which is Establishment Environmental Assessment Method already compliant with the Euro V emissions standard, Excellent rating the highest attainable standard.
three years ahead of its implementation.
We also have a number of other initiatives to reduce our environmental impact in this area.
These include the Our food use of route planning software to minimise mileage, The nutritional and allergen information on our top an on-board system that encourages drivers to drive selling lines is available on our website and we will in a manner that minimises fuel consumption, and be adding all remaining products during 2009. the use of Saltron to improve diesel quality and reduce emissions.
We are in the process of providing nutritional information for an independent website www.
co. uk and are in conversation Waste and recycling with the Food Standards Agency regarding the We aim to keep all our food waste to a minimum Governments food agenda.
and constantly review our packaging to see where potential improvements can be made.
Our boxes We already offer a low fat mozzarella cheese on are already made from 80% recycled cardboard our menus and are looking at areas where we could and are 100% recyclable.
reduce the salt in our products.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 23 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility continued Employment practices We are an equal opportunities employer and are committed to investing in team member advancement through a broad range of learning and development initiatives for corporate employees, franchisees and in-store teams.
We regularly communicate with our staff, franchisees and store teams through our intranet and portal systems and our quarterly magazine, Slice.
We encourage two-way communication and have an open door policy.
In addition, there is a direct line to the corporate HR team for store employees who may have issues with their franchisees that they cannot resolve directly.
We have also made it compulsory for franchisees to have a people management system, approved by us, to ensure that all the necessary and up to date policies, procedures and documentation are in place and that franchisees are operating best practice in human resource management and are protected in terms of employment law and health and safety.
We have outsourced the HR processes and health and safety requirements to a leading human resources and health and safety consultancy, which manages a voluntary organisation that specialises in yearthe service and monitors compliance levels.
round, local-level sports training for people with learning disabilities as well as local, national and international competition.
Responsible growth As a business, we underpin our expansion plans with In the Republic of Ireland, our franchisees contributed a culture of responsible growth.
Where we are opening 10,000 to the Barretstown Charity for Children new stores, we will always work with planners and with serious illnesses.
local residents to ensure that we minimise the impact on the social environment in terms of noise, odours In addition, a number of stores raise funds for other and traf c. We use a high speci cation of ventilation local charities and employees of our head of ce and and very few of our stores are open later than 11pm.
commissaries are encouraged to donate a day to help We actively encourage our customers not to generate a worthy cause.
This has worked well and examples litter and in a recent survey of 10 areas, conducted include our entire Estates Team working with Milton by Keep Britain Tidy, none of the branded litter Keynes Parks Trust to carry out scrub clearance on found in the streets came from Dominos.
an island in Furzton Lake, Milton Keynes.
Being a good neighbour is crucial to the success of our business and we believe in playing a part Going forward in the life of the communities where our stores are As a company, we still feel that we can improve located.
This has included franchisees participating in the CSR arena and, to this end, in January 2009 in youth schemes run by local police or social we joined Business in the Community BITC to help services, supporting residents group and providing focus our CSR strategy and ensure that it truly is an educational tours for local schoolchildren.
intrinsic part of our business operation.
BITC will be undertaking a programme with us to look Special Olympics and at the way in which we run our business in terms of charitable giving community, environment, marketplace and workplace, The Group has a number of systems in place to and we will be setting measureable objectives based donate to charity both nancially and through on CSR related targets.
We look forward to reporting human resource.
Our chosen charity in the UK is on our progress in 12 months time.
Special Olympics GB and we have donated an annual sum of 25,000 each year since 2006.
In addition, our stores raise money to help athletes in their local areas.
The Special Olympics GB is 24 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
