Drax Group plc 26 Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review Corporate and social responsibility review Investor relations No political donations were made in the CSR and our business Drax is committed to delivering shareholder UK or elsewhere during 2008, and the We operate our business within a framework value.
We communicate our results and Companys contact with those active in of increasingly stringent and challenging prospects to our shareholders in an accurate the political arena has been and will continue legislative and regulatory requirements.
and timely manner using a variety of to be aimed solely at the promotion of the We are, however, mindful of the still tougher channels.
In addition to the Annual General Companys business interests.
expectations held by our wider stakeholder Meeting, we communicate through our Suppliers group.
For us, corporate and social Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year As in previous years, we encouraged local responsibility is about achieving a balance Report, Interim Management Statements and national companies to bid for contracts between the commercial and regulatory and Trading Updates.
All of these documents to supply the many goods and services rigours of the competitive sector within are made available on our website at required by the Company.
In making purchases, which we operate and our commitment www.
significant matters we are mindful that some companies or to our stakeholders.
relating to trading and the development of indeed countries may have poor ethical the business are disseminated to the market The Board has ultimate control of policies standards or human rights issues.
Covering, by way of announcements via a regulatory in respect of both the wider corporate as we do, a varied marketplace with a number information service and those announcements and social responsibility and in relation to of indirect manufacturers supporting the appear as soon as practicable on our website.
environmental and health and safety matters.
end product, it is impossible for us to be The Boards policies are implemented by Announcements are followed up with either certain that we do not indirectly trade dedicated specialists who make sure conference calls or presentations to provide with certain companies or countries whose effective processes and procedures are in further detail and greater understanding.
However, we do not place to assure compliance and to identify In addition, face-to-face meetings are held knowingly support or trade with such and to report on risks and opportunities.
with our major institutional shareholders, companies or countries and we remain again to assist them in their understanding alert to changing circumstances.
As in previous years we have continued of the announcements, but also to ensure to invest, not only to comply with the that the Board is aware of their views environmental and health and safety Caring for the environment and concerns.
In 2008, a formal meeting requirements, but, where practicable, to go Tackling climate change programme was delivered in the UK after further.
Throughout 2008, we maintained We believe we have an important part to each of the Preliminary and Half Year our presence in the FTSE4Good Index play in managing the transition of the UK Results announcements and in the US after Series, which is designed to measure the towards a low carbon economy.
At Drax the Preliminary Results announcement.
performance of companies that meet globally Power Station our focus is on co-ring To aid our communication with our private recognised corporate responsibility standards and thermal efficiency improvement.
investors, during 2008 we continued to and facilitate investment in those companies.
develop further the investor section of our On co-ring, we aim to produce 12.5% of our website improving the information that is output from renewable biomass materials Engaging with readily available.
by mid-2010, the equivalent output of around our stakeholders 600 wind turbines which will save over two External relations and a half million tonnes of CO2 each year.
As with previous years, we maintained our Like many businesses, our stakeholders engagement with public affairs audiences are many and diverse, including our During 2008, we co-red 412,000 tonnes on issues with implications for our business.
shareholders, employees, customers, of biomass, which, due to the carbon neutral suppliers, the local community, status of biomass, avoided emissions of We engaged with Parliamentarians and Government, non-governmental 644,000 tonnes of CO2.
ofcials both in the UK and the EU on organisations, opinion formers, issues including forthcoming environmental At the centre of our thermal efficiency and the media.
Communication with all legislation, energy prices, security of supply, improvement programme is the 100 million our stakeholders is considered to be an renewables policy and wholesale market issues.
upgrade of the high and low pressure essential part of our business and we turbines of each of our six generating units.
The form of engagement was varied and aim to be open and transparent in all During the major planned outages of 2008 included both face-to-face and written briengs, that we do.
We full our communication we installed one high pressure and three participation in public consultations, commitments through an investor relations low pressure turbine modules to each of written and oral evidence to select programme and a wide-ranging external two units.
Together with the early installation committees and visits by Parliamentarians relations programme.
of one high pressure turbine module during and ofcials to Drax Power Station.
2007, this means that we are now just over Locally, we have continued to engage one-third of the way through the upgrade with parish, town, district and county project and already saving over one-third councillors and ofcers, with the intention of a million tonnes of CO2 emissions a year.
of keeping them up to date with our business issues and developments.
Our regular communication channel with these and other local opinion formers takes the form of an annual consultative meeting, and three meetings each year with our local parish and town councillors.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 27 On completion of the upgrade in 2011 we will see an improvement in our overall baseload efficiency of 5%, taking it towards 40%, and an additional annual saving of one million tonnes of CO2 emissions.
We fully recognise the challenge that we and other fossil fuel-red power stations face in tackling carbon emissions and these two projects, when complete, will reduce our emissions of CO2 by over three and a half million tonnes or 17.5% by the end of 2011.
Our focus on co-ring and in particular biomass procurement has made us well placed to pursue the development of a dedicated biomass-red power generation business.
Our plan to develop three 300MW biomass-red power plants alongside the co-ring capability at Drax Power Station, could result in Drax becoming responsible for supplying at least 15% of the UKs renewable power, and up to 10% of total UK electricity.
At the heart of our work with biomass is our sustainability policy, which places us at the forefront of the introduction of sustainable biomass practices in the UK.
Through a set of sustainability principles we aim to ensure that the biomass consumed in our generation Sustainability principles facilities is environmentally sustainable.
As a result of our policy we will strive to Our policy is designed to ensure that the biomass reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least consumed in our generation facilities is environmentally 70% in comparison to coal-red generation.
Furthermore, we will engage a qualied third sustainable.
More specically, our procurement process party to develop and implement a rigorous is designed to ensure that the production and delivery programme of audit and verication of of our biomass will: biomass supply chains to ensure compliance against these principles and our policy.
Signicantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions compared In addition, we have been involved in with coal-red generation and give preference to biomass research projects with industry partners which have the potential for considerable sources that maximise this benefit.
We participated in Yorkshire Forwards initiative to examine Not result in a net release of carbon from the vegetation the potential for carbon capture and storage and soil of either forests or agricultural lands.
infrastructure in the Yorkshire area which reported in the year.
Not endanger food supply or communities where the use Taking these initiatives forward, and others of biomass is essential for subsistence for example, heat, like them, is only possible within a regulatory medicines, building materials.
framework which is both certain and predictable.
Given the right framework, Not adversely affect protected or vulnerable investment in clean coal technologies which will put the UK on a sure path to biodiversity and where possible we will give preference a low carbon future, whilst delivering to biomass production that strengthens biodiversity.
reliable and secure supplies of electricity, will be incentivised.
Deploy good practices to protect and or improve soil, water both ground and surface and air quality.
Contribute to local prosperity in the area of supply chain management and biomass production.
Contribute to the social wellbeing of employees and the local population in the area of the biomass production.
Drax Group plc 28 Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review Corporate and social responsibility review Emissions to air Carbon dioxide t GWh Sulphur dioxide g kWh Nitrogen oxides g kWh 2002 2002 1.78 2.55 2003 2003 2.49 1.70 2004 1.07 2004 2.36 2005 2005 2005 833 1.01 2.30 2006 2006 2.12 2006 844 0.78 831 2007 2007 1.99 2007 0.77 818 2008 2008 2008 0.71 1.42 Environmental performance We maintain investment in our emissions Disposals to land and compliance abatement equipment and consider this When coal is burnt, ash is left as a residue.
We recognise our responsibilities to to be a high priority.
Our FGD plant already The ner particles of ash, pulverised fuel society and the environment and we are complies with SO2 emissions limits to 2016 ash PFA, are collected from the ue committed to furthering the environmental and we have now completed a programme gas by electrostatic precipitators: the leadership position we hold in the coal-red of retrotting all units with low NOX, Boosted heavier ash, furnace bottom ash FBA sector.
Where practicable we work towards Over Fire Air technology in line with the NOX falls to the bottom of the boiler.
The majority reducing the environmental impacts of our requirements of the Large Combustion Plant of ash is sold to the construction industry business, in line with our policy to regard Directive LCPD.
All of our six units have with the remainder sent for landll at the compliance with legislation as a minimum been retrotted and performance has been power stations adjacent ash disposal site, level of achievement.
which over time has been developed into farmland, woodland and wetland features We manage our environmental compliance Discharges to water providing a haven to many species of wildlife under an Environmental Management Procedures are in place to ensure that and birdlife.
During the year our all discharges and drainage to water are EMS was externally audited and we were monitored and treated where necessary Whilst our target is zero ash landll, successful in maintaining certication to to meet our discharge consent limits.
our ability to sell ash depends on the the international standard ISO 14001: 2004.
There are a number of sources of discharge state of the construction industry.
and drainage as part of the electricity Hence performance in 2008 was not as We freely discuss our environmental generation process, including the cooling good as we would have liked, reecting performance and activities with our water used to cool the condensers, which as contraction in the construction industry stakeholders and are sensitive to their part of the steam cycle condense steam to in the second half of the year, and we were views and concerns.
Amongst our staff, water after it leaves the turbines and before forced to dispose of material to the ash business partners and contractors we returning to the boilers.
The FGD process disposal site.
The construction of an ash promote environmental awareness, produces efuent water which is treated rail loading facility was completed in 2008 ensuring that they understand the in a specially designed plant before it is and this will help us to improve our ash environmental aspects of their activities, discharged to the river, and there is also export capability through providing greater that they act responsibly and are competent drainage from the main plant, coal plant and more efficient access to construction to undertake their duties.
We are pleased to report that there were Water is abstracted mainly from the River We pay landll tax on the PFA disposed of no breaches of our environmental consents Ouse and boiler feedwater originates from to the ash disposal site.
Through the Landll during the year.
Approximately half of Tax Credit Scheme, we are able to claim a tax Emissions to air the water is returned to the River Ouse at a credit against our donations to recognised The principal emissions from burning coal few degrees warmer than the river water.
We have worked are CO2, sulphur dioxide SO2, nitrogen with Groundwork Selby since 2001 on oxides NOX, and particulates dust.
projects designed to help mitigate the Our generating units have all been effects of landll upon our local community.
retrotted with Flue Gas Desulphurisation During 2008, we contributed approximately FGD equipment which removes, on 71,500 towards local community-based average, at least 90% of SO2 emissions projects designed to bring about sustainable before the ue gas is released via the environmental benets and contribute chimney into the atmosphere.
to the social and economic regeneration of the area.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 29 Alternative fuels To help maintain our vital role in the UK economy and safeguard cost effective power production, our fuel strategy recognises the need to sustain a ready supply of traditional quality coal and how best to incorporate alternative fuels, including different fossil fuels and renewable biomass materials.
The choice of fuels has to be balanced with availability and exibility of supply.
The combustion of petcoke, a fuel derived from the petroleum industry, is an integral part of our strategy of developing and utilising alternative fuels.
A considerable amount of environmental data on the combustion of petcoke has been collected and analysed, where possible using independent specialists.
In line with our policy on openness and transparency all data have been made publicly available.
Our results have provided conclusive evidence that there is no detectable impact on the environment through burning blends of coal and up to 15% petcoke compared to coal at Drax and, as a result, in early 2008 the Environment Agency accepted our case for commercial burn of coal petcoke blends across all six units up to 600,000 tonnes per year of petcoke.
The use of petcoke is now a normal part of station operation and during the year we burnt 268,000 tonnes.
Our people Lifelong learning We are committed to improving the skill, knowledge and experience of every person in employment.
Our actions are focused on enabling individuals to make the most of Laboratory analysis their personal and potential contribution The fully equipped laboratory at the power station enables comprehensive analysis of a whole range at work.
By its very nature, this is an of samples ensuring close monitoring of our endless endeavour.
In 2008, we invested over 1,000 per person, 0.8 million, in training activities to enhance technical skills and knowledge, leadership and management knowledge and experience, and a fundamental understanding of every relevant aspect of safe working and the safety of colleagues.
As a consequence, 38 of our people took on a promotion and increased responsibility.
The people at Drax are not merely the crucial asset.
Through their dedication, commitment and positive culture they help to achieve outstanding results personally and collectively.
Drax Group plc 30 Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review Corporate and social responsibility review Employment We employed 727 people at the year end.
During the year we increased employment by 40 jobs.
We endeavour to recruit in our local catchment area.
Nearly four out of ten Drax people have been with the Company for 20 years or more, constituting a unique core of skill, experience and knowledge.
Our employee retention rate is over 96% per annum.
Our compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations is non-negotiable.
We work to achieve high standards in the areas of employment practices, for example, through the avoidance of discriminatory practices, and the Internal communication speedy and clear resolution of queries We strive to communicate in a clear and timely manner to all our employees.
In 2008, we launched and grievances.
We review each of our our newsletter, theGen, which covers a range of policies and procedures on a regular basis, work-related and human interest topics.
normally annually, to ensure improvement of service and legal compliance.
Industrial partnership We recognise and negotiate with independent Trades Unions representing a substantial number of our people.
This is a long-standing and well-developed partnership.
Both parties work hard to ensure that more objectives are shared than are disputed.
As a consequence, we maintain a positive industrial relations climate in which continuity of the Companys operations is acknowledged to be paramount.
We are committed to be fair in the settlement of any grievances or dispute.
We undertake to consult staff fully on all changes that have a material impact on their employment.
Quality of internal communication We use a variety of communication techniques, one-way and two-way, formal and informal, to ensure that all our staff are kept fully informed of developments in the Companys operations.
In the last year the communication methods have included monthly team briefs to all staff, plant-wide meetings at least every six months on Company performance and major initiatives, written communications such as leaets and newsletters, e-mails, and 360 feedback.
The Company intranet is also widely used.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 31 Fair pay and benets Our occupational health team undertakes Personal safety statistics 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 We operate fair and visible remuneration regular programmes to screen colleagues Fatality 00 0 1 0 policies which ensure that staff are paid who are in contact with high noise-levels Lost time accident 87 2 10 4 an appropriate salary for the work they and sensitive respiratory conditions.
The lowest level of salary paid Everyone working in operational areas has work accident 64 1 2 1 at Drax is substantially higher than the a three-yearly lung function test.
Eye-sight Medical treatment national minimum wage.
tests are carried out for all on a three-year accident 51 1 3 7 cycle, alongside the periodic medical First aid 182 140 127 267 273 Benets, such as holidays and pension, examination.
During 2008, 200 employees 1 RIDDOR reportable 66 2 13 7 match or exceed the best in the industry were tested and given specialist advice.
Notes: sector and the local area.
1 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences In 2008, the occupational health team Regulations.
We commission independent experts to promoted a Stop Smoking campaign, benchmark our salaries and benets at Attaining leading performance supported by the Hull and East Riding every level against the industry sector The lost time injury rate and total recordable stop smoking service.
We also injury rate for 2008are signicantly participate in specialist industry meetings The average level of absence at Drax lower than in 2007.
This improvement in to exchange information and developments for 2008 was 2.8%, lower than the UK performance is commendable given the in employment policy.
average for the manufacturing industrial significant increase in contractor man-hours working environment.
worked during the year, andis a clear We commit to maintain and support a indication that the safety programmes range of share plans which encourage all New skills for young people implemented in the last few years are now of our staff to build a personal stake in the Drax runs an active and developing delivering sound sustainable performance.
In the case of apprenticeship programme, currently Our safety record continues to compare executive directors and senior staff this training 24 young men and women over favourably with that of our sector peers includes a commitment to own shares to a a four-year training period.
significant percentage of their annual salary.
our second year apprentices won the Apprentice Team Award, and one of its The Company has been successful in Health and wellbeing number, Oliver Dann, won Power Generation retaining accreditation of its Health and Health and safety is our priority.
We are Apprentice of the Year and the Engineering Safety Management System to the recently committed to promoting the wellbeing Academy Apprentice of the Year Award.
updated internationally recognised of all our staff and to ensure a professional Occupational Health and Safety standard response to all emergency situations that The third age OHSAS 18001.
Drax is proud to be one of a occur.
We ensure that our first aid response Each year we invite over 350 Drax select group of large coal-red power stations is the best that we can make it by training pensioners to a celebratory event at in the country to hold this standard, which is our staff to the highest level we can.
The Retired Employees Association approved by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
organise trips and other events during the In addition to this, the Company was equally course of the year for our people who have delighted to be awarded the RoSPA Gold now retired from Drax.
Award for the fourth year running.
There are 117 Pensioners in the Drax Power Processes underpinning performance Group Section of the Electricity Supply The Production Integrity Management Pension Scheme ESPS, 54 deferred Systems PIMS programme launched Accident frequency rate members and 425 active contributors still last year continues to provide the platform working at Drax.
Since 2000, new recruits Lost time injury rate the business needs to deliver continuous have joined the Group Personal Pension Plan improvement of business critical systems which now has 268 contributing members.
2004 0.42 which are fundamental to the safe and Health and safety 2005 0.35 effective operation of the power station.
Health and safety is at the heart of our Spotlight on Safety is our implementation 2006 0.08 corporate responsibility.
Protecting our of the internationally proven DuPont employees, contractors and all visitors from 2007 0.34 STOP programme.
This behavioural safety injury and promoting employee wellbeing programme coupled with the Drax Task Risk 2008 0.10 is fundamental to our business philosophy.
Assessment TRA process, the Safety We are committed to developing and Kick-Off start of shift safety briengs and maintaining a positive health and safety Total recordable injury rate the dynamic point of work risk assessment culture in which statutory requirements POWRA initiatives give us the framework are viewed as a minimum standard and 2004 0.99 we need for open engagement between leading performance our goal.
operatives and supervisors to develop the 2005 0.60 defensive behaviours which are a fundamental 2006 0.17 component of the robust world-class safety culture we aspire to create.
2007 0.49 2008 0.31 Notes: 1 Lost time injury rate number of time losing injuries hours worked x 100,000.
2 Total recordable injury rate number of time losing injuries number of worst than first aid injuries hours worked x 100,000.
Drax Group plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review Corporate and social responsibility review Safety leadership and recognition Each month the team meets to consider Caring for the community The Company has made a concerted effort requests received for charitable donations We are committed to being a good to improve the critical safety leadership and community sponsorship and makes awards neighbour to our local community and contribution required from first line against our criteria of furthering community, our caring for the community philosophy supervisors.
The expectations of both environmental and sporting interests.
involves being part of local and regional management and supervisors have been An example of the good causes supported communities.
Our involvement takes debated afresh and reafrmed in a Safety through the sponsorship team in 2008 is the form of sponsoring a variety of Leadership Charter.
The Prince of Wales Hospice in Pontefract, local charities and fund raising events, People working on the site at all levels who West Yorkshire.
Providing services to around promoting our own campaigns which have demonstrated safety leadership have 190,000 local people, the hospice cares focus on the three themes of youth sport, been given recognition awards.
for adults with progressive illnesses free education and the environment, and of charge.
Heavily dependent on donations, maintaining open communication channels Communicating the safety message we are pleased to play a small part in helping and good working relationships with the Our Weekly Safety Bulletin brieng to keep these services available.
process provides a fast track communication vehicle to reach all those working on the Drax also operates a for matching Sponsorship in the community site.
We use the process to draw attention scheme, under which we match, for, During 2008, we gave financial support of to specic safety issues, our performance any monies raised for charity by employees.
137,012 in total across a range of charitable record and to recognise achievements.
During 2008, approximately 31,300 of and non-charitable causes.
Of that total, Active engagement in the safety brieng the total donations made were through charitable donations amounted to 99,952 process is a job requirement.
2007: 73,754. the safety representatives and management For the fourth year running, we ran a Some 24,000 of the total donations were team members of the Health and Safety scheme to encourage and reward good made under the direction of our sponsorship Advisory Committee continue to play a safety performance during the planned team, across a range of activities within a vital role in facilitating staff consultation outage periods.
Through the scheme 500 20-mile radius of the power station.
on health and safety issues.
is donated for every seven days that goes by Our ongoing safety exchange relationships without an injury requiring more than first with ScottishPowers Longannet Power aid treatment.
In total 8,000 was raised Station and E. ONs Ratcliffe-on-Soar Power during the two outages.
The money was Station continue to provide new ideas and divided equally between Lindsey Lodge a stimulus to drive our health and safety Hospice in Scunthorpe, a charity chosen improvement efforts forward.
by Drax and Martin House Childrens Hospice in Boston Spa, selected by our contractors, Doosan Babcock.
Caring for the community Our approach to community engagement takes many forms, but adheres to the themes of environment, education and youth sport.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 33 For the second year running we held a A total of 270 primary schools, treble the Visitors to Drax charity corporate golf tournament at the number of last year, across Yorkshire took Thousands of visitors are welcomed to championship course at Fulford, York.
part in the knock-out tournament organised the power station every year.
The appeal The event raised 3,000 for The Yorkshire by The Yorkshire County Cricket Club of discovering more about how power Air Ambulance, which provides a crucial Yorkshire CCC in conjunction with The is produced and the sheer scale of emergency service for the region.
Yorkshire Cricket Board and The Yorkshire the site and its associated activities Schools Cricket Association.
The semi-nals attracts schools and colleges as well as Other sponsorship activities included and final were played at Headingley business organisations and associations.
a 40,000 donation to the Selby Abbey Carnegie Stadium, the home of Yorkshire During 2008, we played host to some Restoration Appeal.
The donation not CCC and a long-standing venue for test 6,550 visitors.
only ensured that the Appeals 4.5 million matches and one-day internationals.
target was met, but importantly that Visitors This year the winning school was High View a reserve fund was set up to assist with Learning Centre, in Wombwell, near Barnsley.
Under the Art in the Community banner, 2007 Education in the community 5,750 we held our second art competition for Our Cricket in the Community initiative 2008 6,550 primary and secondary schools.
Double the launched in May 2006 has continued to number of entries of the previous years prove popular with local schools.
The competition were received and the winners England and Wales Cricket Board ECB and their schools shared in prize money qualied coaches on our staff, together with totalling over 2,500.
England ladies cricketer, Katherine Brunt took cricket coaching to schools in the local We also held a two-day art camp in the area as part of our support for education Summer for seven to 13 year-olds.
Under the and to promote sports learning as part of guidance of local artist, Mark Hearld, the the National Curriculum.
budding artists produced their own artistic interpretations of the Drax nature reserve Strengthening our links with the game and the materials handing area of the of cricket, for the second year we ran the power station site.
The artwork is to be Drax Cup, a cricket competition for teams pieced together to produce a large format of girls and boys under the age of nine.
mural which will become a permanent feature in the newly refurbished materials handling ofces.
This image shows the heart of our trading systems, updated during the year with sophisticated and dynamic analysis software personalised to our trading needs.
Trading our specialism in getting power to market Throughout the year we maintained our focus on delivering added value from our 24 7 trading capability.
In 2008, we continued to improve our ability to hedge our output and expand the options available to us through setting up a gas trading desk, providing a natural hedge for our power sales.
