Corporate Responsibility Review Safety at work is our highest priority.
Our Principles and Approach to Health and Safety Corporate Responsibility DS Smith is committed to the protection and safety of its staff DS Smith is committed to providing good sustainable returns and others affected by its operations.
Being our top priority, for its investors while maintaining high standards in the safety at work is the first xed agenda item at all main way we conduct our business.
The Group has over 11,500 Board, executive committee and divisional review meetings.
employees working at over 100 locations worldwide.
Our Providing a safe workplace and ensuring safe working campaign has been primary consideration is the safety of everyone involved practices are not only legal and ethical responsibilities for implemented worldwide.
We also place considerable emphasis the Group but are also essential factors in achieving our on fullling our responsibilities towards the environment aims of attracting and retaining a high-quality and welland on the way we interact with our employees and local motivated workforce and in carrying out our operations Lost Time Accidents communities.
This review presents information on these productively and cost-effectively.
Number of accidents high priority aspects of corporate responsibility CR We give particular attention to communicating with our resulting in lost time of for the Group.
people about the importance of safety at work and involving one shift or more The Board considers risks to the Groups shortand longthem closely in initiatives aimed at nding ways to improve term value arising from CR matters as part of its regular safety on our sites.
Our campaign, launched in autumn review of the key risks to the Groups operations.
It ensures 2006, under the slogan think safe be safe!
continues to that the Group has in place effective policies and systems be a central feature of our drive to raise further employees for managing any significant CR risks and it receives regular awareness of their individual responsibilities for preventing reports on performance.
The Group Chief Executive is the accidents.
The core theme has been reinforced and Director responsible for CR matters and he reports to the developed through supplementary Group-wide initiatives, Board on these.
It is the responsibility of the Divisional including a multi-media campaign which highlighted ways Chief Executives and General Managers of the individual to prevent injuries from trips or falls.
The core campaign 06 07 08 businesses to communicate and to apply the policies, material, translated where necessary into the local to ensure compliance and to review procedures, taking languages, is used throughout our operations worldwide account of local legislation and potential risks.
Divisional as a basis for introducing safety programmes which Accident Chief Executives are required annually to attest that the concentrate on the safety issues which are most relevant Frequency Rate companies for which they are responsible have complied to each business.
Number of accidents of all with relevant Group and divisional policies.
Information on safety performance, including statistics types per million hours worked The way in which we require our people and businesses related to our key performance indicators KPIs, is reported to operate is dened in the Groups Key Corporate Values, to the Board quarterly.
Our divisions set improvement which, in summary, stipulate that all employees will at all targets against the KPIs, which reect the nature of their times act ethically and with integrity, treat their colleagues business and their previous performance.
In 2007 08, fairly, equitably and with respect, work safely and protect our continuing emphasis on safety was reected in a 7% the environment.
The Key Corporate Values statement is reduction in the number of accidents that resulted in one reinforced by more detailed policies on health and safety, shift or more of working time being lost and a 6% reduction the environment and other relevant topics: these documents in the accident frequency rate, which measures all accidents may be viewed on the Groups website at: in proportion to the number of hours worked.
The Group has improvements, there was an increase, for the second year a Workplace Malpractice Policy, under which employees in succession, in the accident severity rate, which measures may report in confidence any perceived wrongdoing within the hours lost as a result of all accidents as a percentage of the total hours worked.
The 4% increase in this measurement the Group on matters relating to safety, the environment, Accident unethical business conduct or breaches of Group policies, in 2007 08 reects a combination of a small number of Severity Rate the law or other regulations.
This policy is reinforced by serious accidents, which resulted in employees being unable Working hours lost as a condential Employee Concern Helpline and e-mail to work for extended periods, and a larger number of a result of accidents facility which is progressively being made available to our relatively minor accidents, after which employees took a as a percentage of employees worldwide as local legal and regulatory issues longer time to return to work: we are addressing the underlying hours worked are resolved: to date it has been extended to over 70% of reasons for the latter type of absences from work.
our employees, located in nine countries.
Any concerns Our businesses use information on the performance of other reported are appropriately investigated.
Group businesses and external health and safety statistics to benchmark their performance and to identify areas DS Smith has been selected as a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK Index of companies deemed to meet for increased attention.
Site health and safety audits by globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
internal specialists and external consultants are also used to DS Smith is also a constituent of the Kempen SNS Smaller measure performance and highlight areas for improvement.
Europe SRI Index for smaller companies deemed to have Investigations are carried out of all accidents and situations high social responsibility standards and practice.
that might have resulted in accidents to ensure that we learn 06 07 08 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 33 96.0 0.22 324 83.9 0.23 299 79.2 0.24 278 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review continued the UK is required to recycle at least 60% of all paper from these incidents and prevent recurrence.
Our businesses packaging by 2008: it is already well ahead of this target, undertake extensive programmes of employee training, focusing particularly on the major, or most frequent, risks with 78% of paper packaging being recycled in 2006, and in their operations.
Training in risk assessment and rootDS Smith is the largest contributor to this reprocessing.
cause analysis features strongly in health and safety Packaging and the environment training programmes.
The conservation of resources and the lowering of the amount of waste being disposed of in landll are important Environment aspects of caring for our environment.
As a result of this, Protecting the environment is an important feature of there is increasing pressure from society and government DS Smiths business.
We continually seek to reduce the to reduce the overall quantity of packaging in use and impact of our own operations on the environment and Corrugated boxes can be to increase the proportion of packaging that is recycled.
to contribute to reducing energy usage, greenhouse readily recycled into paper The Group recognises its responsibility to contribute to and then into new boxes.
gas emissions and waste throughout our supply chains.
the conservation of resources and we are fullling this The bres in corrugated Signicantly, the Group makes a major contribution to responsibility through both the provision of packaging boxes can be back on the conserving resources and reducing landll waste through products which enable our customers to meet their shelf in-store within 14 days.
its leading positions in recycling in the UK.
Our Packaging environmental objectives and the development of our products are made from recycled raw materials wherever recycling services.
it is practicable and 72% of the paper, polymers and lms Although packaging receives a lot of attention in the media, used to produce them in 2007 08 were recycled material.
it plays an important part in making modern lifestyles Our Packaging businesses use their expertise in packaging possible and its signicance should be seen in perspective.
design to assist customers and retailers in optimising the Packaging is just one, often relatively minor, aspect of the use of resources and reducing waste in their supply chains.
total environmental impact of a product: ten times more In corrugated packaging, which is fully recyclable, we are energy goes into the production of the food and goods at the forefront of the trend to use lightweight paper to lower that it contains than into the packaging itself.
In the UK, the weight of packaging used.
Spicers offers its customers packaging of all types accounts for less than 5% of total an increasingly large selection of products which are made landll waste and approximately 20% of household dustbin from recycled materials, are recyclable or have other 1 waste : approximately 60% of the packaging of all types environmentally beneficial features.
We continue to carry 2 used in the UK is recycled.
out work to evaluate not only the carbon footprint of our own packaging products but to understand better the role Our packaging businesses work with their customers to of our packaging in the total lifecycle of the product for develop packaging of the optimum specication for the which it is used.
Most packaging performs the valuable functions of protecting products, reducing product wastage, Recycling enabling more efficient and lower-cost handling and The Groups operations make a major contribution to transportation and, in many cases, contributes to lowering the corrugated packaging recycling process.
In the UK, the environmental impact of the supply of goods.
The Severnside Recycling is the largest collector of waste paper choice of the most appropriate packaging material and and also collects other materials for recycling.
It sources pack design for a particular product depends upon a waste from major supermarkets, other retailers and wide range of factors including the nature of the product industrial operations and is providing the waste collection itself, how the total supply chain for the product operates services for Tesco plcs front-of-store automated recycling and the requirements of retailers and consumers.
centres which are being located at an increasing number of its stores.
All of the paper produced by the Group is Corrugated packaging, the Groups principal packaging made from recycled waste paper.
St Regis is the UKs product, is 100% recyclable and in the UK over 80% of all leading recycler of packaging waste and largest producer 3 corrugated packaging is recycled.
Although corrugated of recycled paper, while DS Smith Kaysersberg is a packaging is not generally re-used, it is a fully recyclable significant recycler of waste paper in France: in total packaging material that is produced predominantly from the Group recycled 1.3 million tonnes of paper in recycled paper in what is essentially a loop system, which 2007 08.
75% of the paper used by the Groups is described in more detail on page 19.
Used corrugated corrugated packaging operations in 2007 08 was 100% boxes are recycled into paper: this paper is converted into recycled paper and a further 3% was paper made from a boxes which are packed with goods: retailers or consumers mixture of recycled and virgin wood pulp.
The other 22% discard the used boxes which are then collected for of the paper used was made from 100% virgin wood pulp: recycling and delivered to the paper mill to be turned into it has particular strength and appearance characteristics paper once again.
Corrugated products are playing an which certain customers require for their packaging and increasingly important role in the pursuit of sustainable, it is sourced from producers who obtain their wood pulp  packaging.
The Group has been at from sustainable forestry sources.
the forefront of the trend to lower the weight of corrugated packaging used through the use of lightweight paper and The Groups paper collection and recycling operations play improved box design.
DS Smith Packagings PackRight tool an important role in meeting the EU and UK government enables all the factors relating to a particular pack to be objectives for recycling of packaging waste, as prescribed analysed and in many instances our design and technical in the EU Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive and the UK Packaging Waste Regulations.
Under the Directive, expertise enables the customer to reduce the weight of raw 1 Source: Industry Council for Packaging and the Environment INCPEN 2 Source: Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA 3 Source: Confederation of Paper Industries CPI 34 www.
com materials used in a pack as well as to pack the goods more are investigated immediately and, when appropriate, the efficiently: this reduces transport costs and thereby the findings and lessons learnt are communicated throughout carbon emissions per unit.
the Group as part of our drive to reduce such incidents.
The Environment Agency is investigating possible procedural In circumstances where packaging is designed to be re-used breaches of the Pollution Prevention and Control PPC many times, plastic returnable transit packaging may be permit at St Regis Higher Kings Mill: an independent required by customers if the packaging can be readily investigation has indicated that these breaches did not recovered, transported and cleaned for re-use.
Plastic bagresult in any significant environmental impact.
in-box packaging is increasingly being used to contain liquids in bulk as well as for consumer use.
It has significant The Groups paper manufacturing operations account for benets for storing and transporting beverages and other over 80% of the Groups environmental impact, particularly Severnside Recycling works liquids hygienically and securely, and can substantially because their manufacturing process uses large quantities with DS Smith Packaging to extend the storage life of products, thus reducing product of energy and water.
The UK paper mills are regulated help businesses reduce the wastage.
Bag-in-box packs use space efficiently and are through PPC permits under which they each have specic amount of waste they send relatively light-weight compared with bottles or drums so improvement programmes and targets: St Regis overall to landll.
they may reduce the overall energy usage in the supply compliance with its environmental permits, which now chain because they can be transported and stored more include those under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme EU efficiently.
Plastic materials may be more difficult to recycle ETS, was 98.4% in 2007 08.
St Regis is a key participant than some other materials, due to the large variety of in the UK paper sector Climate Change Levy CCL polymers in use, the practicalities of separate collection and Agreement with the Department of Environment, Food and processing, contamination from contact with food and other Rural Affairs under which the industry has undertaken to technical considerations.
Wherever it is appropriate, our achieve energy consumption reduction targets.
St Regis met Plastic Packaging businesses use recycled materials and, in its target for the year to September 2007 and is on course 2007 08, 12% of the polymer and lm raw material they to meet its next target for the year to September 2008. used was recycled.
The Groups UK and French paper operations are subject to the terms of their respective national schemes for Our Packaging businesses continue to carry out work to implementing the EU Emissions Trading Directive.
Under evaluate the carbon footprint of their products.
This work the terms of the UK scheme, our UK mills opted out of the is enabling us to collaborate with other companies in our first phase of EU ETS as they are participants in the UK supply chain on analyses of the total environmental impact paper sector CCL Agreement: they are now subject to the of products that use our packaging.
DS Smith Packaging second phase of EU ETS, which commenced in January and Severnside Recycling are working together to help 2008.
During EU ETS Phase 1, our French paper mills had large supermarket chains and other businesses to reduce an emissions allocation in excess of their actual emissions, the amount of waste they send to landll and improve their due to our investment in a combined heat and power CHP environmental performance with regard to packaging.
We expect the Groups emissions allocations and Environmental management and regulation our actual emissions during EU ETS Phase 2 to be broadly The environmental performance and activities of the in balance.
The effects of subsequent phases from 2013 divisions are reviewed at the Group Environment onwards are likely to be more onerous, being dependent Committee, which meets three times a year and is chaired upon the details of the emissions allocations and the market by the Group Chief Executive.
Under the terms of the price of carbon under future phases of the scheme.
Groups Environment Policy, which may be viewed on Environmental performance the Groups website, each of our sites is required to Our businesses undertook, in the course of 2007 08, a implement an environmental management system EMS wide range of projects, involving investment and changes in which is appropriate to its activity.
Of our total operations, operating practices, aimed at reducing their environmental 35 have been identied as having higher potential impact.
The Groups overall performance in 2007 08 is environmental impact, due to their size or type of activity: reected in the environmental performance indicators shown 34 of these are accredited under the internationally in the adjacent table.
A fuller report on our environmental recognised ISO 14001 EMS standard and the one performance is available in the Corporate Responsibility remaining operation is in the process of working towards section of our website.
The Groups other 62 operations, which are required to have in place a simplied EMS, appropriate The Group consumed 2% less energy in 2007 08 compared to their lower level of potential environmental impact, with the previous year, principally as a result of the closure review and improve these systems regularly, often with of Taplow Mill in October 2006.
Energy usage per 000 the assistance of external auditors.
As part of their EMS, of revenue was 12% lower.
Excluding the effect of the paper many Group businesses have procedures in place for mill closure, energy usage increased by 1%, principally assessing their suppliers environmental policies and reecting increased production at our continuing UK management systems, as appropriate.
The Groups paper mills improved their energy efficiency and reduced the energy usage per The Group had a number of minor environmental incidents tonne of paper produced by 2%.
during the year, following which prompt corrective action and steps to prevent any recurrence were taken and, where Our two largest paper mills, at Kemsley in the UK and necessary, the appropriate agencies were informed.
The Kaysersberg in France, which account for approximately circumstances surrounding all environmental incidents 65% of the Groups energy usage, have on-site CHP plants.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 35 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review continued Environmental Performance Indicators 2007 08 2006 07 1 Energy consumption Gigawatt hours 3,046 3,106 Megawatt hours 000 revenue 1.55 1.76 2 Carbon dioxide CO emissions 2 Scope 1 direct emissions 000 tonnes 315 336 Scope 2 indirect emissions 000 tonnes 481 474 Total Scopes 1 and 2 emissions 000 tonnes 796 810 Kilograms 000 revenue 405 459 Water usage Million cubic metres 9.2 9.5 000 cubic metres 000 revenue 4.7 5.4 Waste management Total waste generated 000 tonnes 348 394 Kilograms 000 revenue 177 223 Waste sent to landll 000 tonnes 59 62 Kilograms 000 revenue 30 35 3 Waste recycled 000 tonnes 289 332 Kilograms 000 revenue 147 188 % of total waste recycled 83% 84% Methodology: The Group is working towards collecting and reporting its environmental data in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHGP, to the extent that this is currently practicable.
The gures relate to all of the Groups wholly owned or majority-owned operations.
Data on other aspects of the Groups environmental performance are provided on the Groups website.
1 Energy gures relate to usage of all fuels, including diesel for freight transport.
2 CO emissions have been calculated from the usage of all fuels, including for freight transport.
As required by the GHGP, Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO emissions are 2 2 reported separately.
Scope 1 direct emissions are those arising from combustion of fuel in installations or vehicles owned by the Group: Scope 2 indirect emissions are those arising from bought-in energy i. e. electricity or steam where the combustion has been carried out by another company.
The 2007 08 Scope 1 emissions included 18,000 tonnes 2006 07: 18,000 tonnes of CO which were associated with the production of electricity which was sold to the grid from one of our 2 CHP plants.
3 Waste gures relate to waste generated by our operations: waste recycled includes recycling through agricultural use as landspread and energy recovery at our waste-to-energy plant.
These CHP facilities provide energy more efficiently, with The Groups lower energy usage in 2007 08 resulted in lower carbon dioxide CO emissions and at signicantly a 2% reduction in total emissions of CO.
There was a 2 2 small change in the balance between direct Scope 1 and lower cost than if it were to be sourced from the external indirect Scope 2 CO emissions due to a variation in the grid.
In addition, Kemsley Mill recycles, in the form of 2 mix of energy sources used.
The Groups total water usage energy recovery, a substantial proportion of the reject was 3% lower than in 2006 07.
We reduced the total material, such as plastic and polystyrene, which enters amount of waste generated by our businesses by 12% and its process mixed in with the waste paper and is separated the quantity of waste sent to landll by 5%.
As a result of out during paper manufacture: the mills own waste-tothe reduction in the total waste being principally due to energy plant efficiently recovers the energy to produce the elimination of types of waste that had previously been steam for use in the mills operations.
We continue to recycled, the proportion of our waste that was recycled fell investigate the potential for using alternative energy by one percentage point to 83%.
sources, including refuse-derived fuel, particularly for our paper manufacturing operations.
Employees DS Smith Packaging became the first UK corrugated We aim to create a working environment which will attract, packaging producer to be accredited under the UKs retain and motivate good people, and enable them to full Energy efficiency Accreditation Scheme, in recognition of their potential.
The Group ensures that the divisions have its energy efficiency, approach to energy management and in place appropriate structures, procedures and resources achievements in reducing energy consumption: the scheme to implement the employee-related aspects of the Groups is independently assessed by the Energy Institute on behalf Key Corporate Values, which include: providing fair of The Carbon Trust.
opportunities for employment to all: treating everyone 36 www.
com with dignity and respect: not tolerating any form of Community Involvement harassment or discrimination: ensuring advancement is We seek to develop and maintain good relations in based on merit: and providing appropriate training and the local communities in which we operate.
As well as development opportunities.
providing significant employment opportunities, we aim to make positive contributions to these communities and The Group is committed to applying equal opportunities build a reputation as a good neighbour and employer.
in all recruitment and employment practices.
It is also Our businesses work closely with local schools and colleges committed, as a minimum, to meeting the labour rights providing training, mentoring, work experience placements and legislation requirements in each of the countries in and other opportunities for pupils to learn about industry which it operates: in practice the Group often exceeds and business.
The Group is involved in a wide range of the local and international requirements.
As DS Smiths other local community activities including sponsorship of operations are almost entirely located in member countries community projects or sports teams and provision of adult of the OECD, human rights matters are not perceived as skills training.
Our businesses participate in liaison groups a significant Group risk.
with local residents, particularly at locations where there The annual turnover rate in the Groups workforce is a need to review ways in which we can reduce any worldwide of 9% 2006 07: 11% compares favourably inconvenience to neighbours from our operations as a result 4 with the UK national average of 18.1%.
Recruitment and of trafc movements, odour or noise.
Some sites hold open retention of employees is not a significant issue for most of days to foster relationships with their local communities.
the Groups operations but the situation varies depending The Group supports charitable fund-raising activities through upon the alternative employment opportunities in any cash contributions and in the form of products and services particular location and the skills required.
The majority of the modest amount of money with many other employers, a number of our businesses donated by the Group is given by individual operating experience difficulty in recruiting high-calibre engineers units, principally to good causes in their local communities.
and engineering managers: we have started addressing Donations by the Group headquarters are principally this through the increased provision of apprenticeships and focused on helping young disadvantaged people become graduate sponsorships.
A number of sponsored engineering involved in business and working life.
and information technology students are now working within the Group.
Our divisions and businesses communicate with, and consult, their people through newsletters, intranets, brieng meetings, local works councils, national employee forums and a European Works Council.
Employee surveys have been carried out in certain parts of the Group.
Generally the results of these have been positive: where particular issues have been highlighted action has been taken to address these.
Regrettably, following a detailed strategic review of our European liquid packaging and dispensing operation, we proposed, during 2007, the closure of our Dren factory in Germany.
Following consultation with the employees and their representatives it has been agreed that the Dren site will close in April 2009 and its operations will be transferred to other Group sites in Germany and the UK.
In accordance with our usual approach to such situations, we are endeavouring to minimise the number of compulsory redundancies and are offering employees the opportunity to transfer to the other Group sites.
In the case of those employees who decide not to transfer we are making every effort to assist them in nding alternative positions with other employers, including offering training and support.
Training and development programmes are carried out by the Groups businesses to meet their specic needs for raising operational performance and career development.
The individual training needs of employees are met through a variety of schemes including: management development programmes, which in some cases involve external accreditation: support for study for external vocational and professional qualications: and e-learning programmes.
A number of senior managers are participating in coaching and mentoring programmes using both internal and external resources.
4 Source: Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 37
