x71226 Rhouse front p1 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p1 cg 4 9 08 10:24 Page 30 30 eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Social Responsibility Social Responsibility SR is an integral part of who we are and how we develop as an organisation.
An integrated approach, one that successfully embraces SR into our individual contributions.
Over the year, we have taken a crossoverall business strategy, culture and operations, is a crucial factor section of more than 50 of our Partners across the UK through in eagas fundamental commitment to stand for something an intensive training schedule and empowered them to identify different, and to deliver something more.
opportunities to implement a range of new initiatives, raise awareness and improve our environmental performance.
As a co-owned company with clear underlying social and environmental principles, we are always looking for ways in which Achievements of the Environment Champions programme to we can capitalise on our enormous potential to demonstrate how date include: core business success can fit alongside a clear commitment to social full audits of waste, recycling and energy use across all main sites and environmental responsibility.
a complete transport audit for field-based Partners including Our commitment to SR is driven by eagas central mission, which is vehicles fuel use, mileage, tyre pressures and load values to care for our Partners, customers and communities with integrity, respect and enthusiasm.
This approach over the last twelve months high profile Environment Champions launch events across all has seen engagement in the following areas: main sites Partners engaging our Partners in our SR work through a range Resulting in: of social and environmental initiatives that educate and inform, audit results providing a benchmark and starting point from encouraging participation, decision making and ownership which to drive and demonstrate change throughout the business throughout the business provision of improved recycling facilities throughout the business customers working with the vulnerable customers we serve to ensure that we deliver all the extra assistance we can to energy waste reduction initiatives designed to challenge those most in need behaviour communities supporting the communities in which we live reduced consumption of paper and other goods through and work with structured and sustainable financial and human targeted campaigns resource Our network of Environment Champions are also starting to drive environment further reducing our impact on the environment other initiatives such as travel and transport developments and by achieving carbon neutral status through our business we anticipate further developing this network as the business operations during 2008 and delivering an ambitious programme continues to grow.
of continuous development to improve upon this year on year The Environment Champions initiative has proven hugely successful its given Partners the Supporting our Partners opportunity to gain a more in-depth knowledge Environment Champions and understanding of the environmental impact As a large employer, engaging our Partners in the urgency and of some of the practical improvements that can be seriousness of the environmental challenges that face us is critical for our ongoing growth and development.
To be able to assess the quickly implemented.
The Champions have made environmental impact that our business has and create a network quite an impression across the entire business, and of our Partners to drive operational and behavioural change were already seeing the real difference that some throughout the business, we established the Environment of our changes have made.
Sarah Europe-Finner, Our Environment Champions are the heartbeat of this Environment Champion, eaga House environmental engagement - educating, supporting and rallying other eaga Partners to engage and make those all important x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:47 Page 31 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 eaga Supporting our Customers We have built our business on doing everything Warm Front we can to recognise, understand and wherever possible support the needs of the vulnerable As part of our commitment to supporting the vulnerable customers with which we work, we wanted to find a solution to help address, customer group that we serve.
Helping out where where possible, the cost of customer contributions under the we can with the cost of customer contributions hugely popular Warm Front Scheme.
has meant that an increased number of homes have While the independent review commissioned by Defra confirmed been able to benefit from Warm Front which would that the Scheme was excellent value for money, rising costs in the otherwise have missed out on the assistance they market and finite Government grant funding meant that more badly need.
customers were being asked to contribute towards the cost of Paul Varley, Managing Director, their work than in previous years.
eaga Managed Services Division As a result, eaga made over 1m worth of further funding available to these customers from April 2007 to March 2008, all of which has allowed work to proceed under Warm Front that would not otherwise have gone ahead, due to the inability of those customers to fund the contributions required.
Support of this magnitude has made a profound difference to the many thousands of customers that we were able to help, and has allowed many jobs under Warm Front to proceed that would have otherwise stalled.
x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:48 Page 32 32 eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Social Responsibility Supporting our Communities Flood Victims By creating a unique multi-agency partnership of regional Fire & Rescue teams, the Environment Agency, Local Authorities, Parish Councils and local Flood Action Groups, we were able to bring much needed practical support to hundreds of previously flooded households and community buildings.
We identified ares in Morpeth, Northumberland and Catcliffe, South Yorkshire as amongst the worst hit areas by the severe floods during the summer of 2007.
Over one year on many families and homeowners remain displaced as a result, some still living in Supporting our Communities caravans and temporary accommodation, many having lost the eaga Community Fund practically all their possessions along the way.
We established the eaga Community Fund during 2007 to support Having identified the need and designed an appropriate programme community organisations as they seek to tackle, at a local level, of distribution, including community demonstrations and supporting the social and environmental issues that are aligned with our flood awareness information, we distributed over 5,000 FloodSax own business interests.
The fund supports projects that educate, to the most at risk communities.
raise awareness and demonstrate engagement in addressing environmental issues at a grass roots level.
Applications that also FloodSax are a high-absorbency, super-lightweight alternative to offer opportunities for participation and direct involvement for sand bags, have a five year shelf life and are fully biodegradable.
eaga staff are particularly welcome, as we feel we have a role This product is particularly beneficial for elderly and disabled hometo play in encouraging our employees to become engaged owners, two groups that are often most at risk during flooding.
and contribute positively to their local communities.
FloodSax were distributed to areas identified as at severe risk of further flooding, including a school, church and other community The fund is currently active in regions where eaga has substantial buildings.
areas of operations: namely, North East England: South Yorkshire: Wales: Scotland: and Northern Ireland.
Looking forward our I welcome this joint initiative to provide all previously objective is to significantly increase the size of this fund and flooded households in the Catcliffe area of Rotherham number and range of projects funded and develop a volunteering with added protection against flooding.
Last summer's scheme running alongside it to provide practical help and support.
floods caused misery for thousands of people with The most recent round of funding has seen us support a total widespread damage across large parts of the country.
of 33 local projects across the five funding regions, representing a huge array of activity from renewables demonstration kits and Thousands of homes and businesses were affected Historic Woodland management to supporting Community with further damage to schools, roads and leisure Farms and community clean-ups.
Agriculture and the tourist industry were also hit.
Kids Kabin - an example of the eaga Community Fund in action John Healey MP, Minister of State, Communities & Local Government As part of a local environmental scheme to demonstrate how much energy is used to feed electrical appliances, children at Newcastles Byker-based community project - Kids Kabin - use their pent-up energy to power household gadgets.
The centre, which provides activities for children aged between 8 and 16, was successful in applying to the eaga Community Fund and awarded 4,000 to further develop their scheme.
This is a very simple and practical yet highly educational local scheme that demonstrates the importance of energy efficiency and teaches children about the wider issues such as climate change.
The clever use of bikes and a certain amount of creativity and practicality injects all important fun into this project, which in turn provides these children with a desire to learn and creates discussion and debate around these crucial issues.
Nicola Andrews, eaga Community Fund Committee Member x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:48 Page 33 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 eaga Corporate Social Responsibility Our last consignment during the year went to Todo Chilenter in Supporting the Environment Chile - a partner organisation that Computer Aid work closely Computer Aid International with.
Todo Chilenter then distribute the computers to schools Every year at eaga we turn over high volumes of ICT equipment throughout Chile, including some of the most disadvantaged and as it becomes obsolete, or simply worn out.
We saw this as an rural schools in the extreme north and south of the country that opportunity to turn a potentially hazardous waste into a useful would otherwise have no access to digital information.
Todo resource, whilst operating under a zero-landfill policy and within Chilenter also works with the organisation La Junta Nacional fide the Waste, Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE Directive.
Jardines Infantiles and Foundation Integra in setting up computer Having researched the options we decided to partner up with labs in nurseries to introduce ICT to single mothers from the Computer Aid International, who would be able to refurbish our economically deprived neighbourhoods of Santiago and its region.
equipment and ship it to developing countries for use in schools, Our portfolio of Social Responsibility programmes and initiatives is hospitals and community organisations.
varied and wide-reaching: indeed we have only scratched the All data is securely wiped using Government-approved techniques surface here.
Through even stronger engagement, clear thought that guarantee to destroy and make 100% of hard disk data leadership and tangible results, we are focused on using our SR unrecoverable.
Due to the amount of data that we process and activity as a key vehicle in underlining our core commitment to the vulnerable communities that we work with, this had to be very making a positive difference for our Partners, customers and clearly demonstrated before we were able to donate equipment.
communities as we move forward.
Where items are not able to be refurbished they are shipped to The diversity and depth of our Social Responsibility licenced waste management companies in Belgium and Holland, work is hugely important, and were already looking where they are disposed of in an environmentally friendly way.
at ways to further expand our reach and double our To date we have donated over 500 laptops, PCs and monitors, impact.
We want to drive our efforts on, putting all of which have been refurbished and are now in use in sustainability at the core of what we do to improve developing countries.
In addition we have supplied Computer communities and change lives, every day.
Aid with printers, scanners, cables and telephony equipment.
Sam Robinson, Social Responsibility Manager
