business review Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 15 Corporate social responsibility report Business conduct and ethics The Group General Counsel is responsible for the Code, Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations Anti-corruption Policy and all matters related to business including health, safety and environmental HSE laws conduct and ethics, and legal and regulatory compliance.
and regulations, and effective management of HSE and other ethical issues, are viewed by the Board as critical HSE leadership to the successful long term performance of Elementis.
The Group Chief Executive takes leadership of HSE matters at Board level with direct lines of reporting from the operational It is the policy of Elementis to promote honest, ethical and facilities.
This includes formal monthly reports on HSE lawful conduct by all employees, officers and directors of performance and rapid notification of HSE incidents wherever the Group, and the Board has adopted and disseminated they occur throughout the world.
A manufacturing council, throughout the Group the Elementis Code of Business comprising senior manufacturing and HSE managers, reviews Conduct and Ethics the Code and an Anti-corruption performance monthly, sets standards and Policy the Anti-corruption Policy, to help employees initiates improvements.
understand the Groups standards of ethical business practices and to stimulate awareness of ethical and legal The Board of Elementis reviews HSE performance issues that may be encountered in carrying out their at its meetings.
In addition, Group businesses are expected to require independent contractors, consultants, agents Elementis policy on HSE and sales representatives who represent the Group to Elementis plc conducts business globally with the highest agree to the same high standards as the Groups employees concern for the health and safety of our employees, while working on Group business.
contractors, customers, neighbours and general public and for the environment in which we operate.
The Code requires all employees to comply with applicable laws, governmental rules and regulations, including making Elementis plc seeks to identify and eliminate occupational full, accurate and timely disclosures in the periodic reports health hazards, is committed to providing a safe work place required to be filed by the Group with regulators and in other for all employees and strives for zero injuries as part of our public communications made by the Group.
The Anti-corruption continual improvement process.
Policy prohibits the giving of anything of value to any person in government or state-owned companies, a political party Elementis plc operates facilities to minimise impact on the or persons holding public office, including candidates, or environment.
We view compliance with all applicable legal performing public duties in order to obtain or retain business requirements and other codes of practice as our minimum or secure an improper advantage with respect to any aspect standard.
Our sustainable development strategy requires of the Groups business.
that we work proactively to reduce emissions, minimise waste from our processes, conserve valuable natural Employees are required to adhere strictly to the Code and resources and ensure responsible product stewardship to promptly report to a responsible supervisor, the Group up and down the supply chain.
General Counsel or other appropriate internal authority any violations of the Code or the Anti-corruption Policy.
In order Elementis plc recognises the importance of communication to help employees comply with the Code and Anti-corruption with all interested parties and is committed to open dialogue Policy, clear guidance is given on matters such as competition with our neighbours, contractors, customers and the general law, bribery, political donations, the giving and receiving of public about our operations.
gifts, conflicts of interests and Group whistleblowing procedures.
The Board and senior management of Elementis plc are As well as policies and guidance, the Group recognises committed to this policy and continually monitor performance the importance of providing training.
Web-based, modular to ensure its implementation.
training courses, designed in conjunction with the Integrity Interactive Corporation, are offered to employees across HSE commitment the Group.
Some of these courses are mandatory for all Elementis is committed to preventing harm to people and employees, such as training on the Code, and others are the environment in a sustainable way.
Good performance in only mandatory depending on the job role or position.
protecting the health and safety of our employees, contractors, These courses include topics such as Mutual respect in the customers, neighbours and the general public, and for the workplace, Human rights, Environmental stewardship, environment in which we operate, allows the Group to focus Anti-trust, Privacy and data protection and Financial on developing, manufacturing and selling its products integrity.
About 770 employees were enrolled onto courses without the cost, in both human and financial terms, during 2008.
On-site training, for example on health and of accidents and incidents.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 16 Corporate social responsibility report Free cash flow and gearing Operating margin m Per cent 4 40 3.0 14 Working towards an injury-free work environment Using the UK Health & Safety Executives definition of LTA, Our principal measur 12 e of performance is recordable incidents.
two of the recordable incidents were classed as LTAs in 2008 30 2.5 Recordable incidents are workplace injuries and illnesses 2007: two.
Over the years the rate has reduced to 0.24 LTAs 10 20 2.0 that require medical treatment beyond first aid.
An important per 100,000 hours worked.
8 10 1.5 sub-set of these is lost time accidents LTAs, which forms 6 another performance measure.
Given the low frequency of Safety goal 0 1.0 4 LTAs we use recordable incidents as our standard measure.
Our goal remains zero recordable incidents, with continual -10 0.5 improvement in the health and safety of our employees 2 In 2008, as a result of effective design of working practices, leading to year on year improvement in safety performance.
-20 0.0 0 2008 2008 2005 2006 2007 strong management and saf 2005 2006 2007 e behaviours, we were able to limit recordable incidents to just nine globally.
This includes Commitment to the environment Free cash flow Net debt EBITDA from continuing operations and the performance of the two acquisitions made in July for the As stated in our HSE policy we are committed to minimising before exceptional items earnings before interest, tax, exceptional items, period in which they were under our ownership.
the impact of our facilities on the environment.
We believe depreciation and amortisation that we have made good progress in achieving a sustained The Total Recordable Incident Rate for the year was low level of environmental incidents.
Given the low number of incidents the slight increase is not considered As well as complying with environmental reporting statistically significant.
Based on American Chemistry requirements, Elementis records and categorises incidents Council statistics, our rate of less than 1.00 recordable according to the seriousness of the impact for monitoring incidents per 200,000 hours worked continues to rank with purposes, so that continual improvements can be made.
companies that are generally viewed as best in industry.
Tier 1 incidents have no impact on the environment, such as minor spills that can be confined and require no regulatory The chart below illustrates our performance and how far reporting.
Tier 2 incidents have a minor impact and Tier 3 we have come.
This clearly demonstrates that the Elementis have some impact on the environment.
culture has the right discipline and focus on safety as we continue to work towards an injury-free workplace.
In 2008 the on-going businesses in Elementis had one Tier 3 incident 2007: one which involved a financial penalty for discharging what the local sanitation board considered to be Trading performance Total recordable incident rate untreated process effluent at our Charleston facility.
There m pence Incidents per 200,000 hours worked were no Tier 2 incidents 2007: one.
We record and monitor 70 10.5 2.0 all Tier 1 incidents but do not report these as their principal 60 9.0 purpose is to allow our HSE professionals to investigate and 1.5 50 7.5 learn from them in order that improvements can be made and to reduce the likelihood of future Tier 2 and 3 incidents.
40 6.0 1.0 30 4.5 20 3.0 0.5 10 1.5 0 0.0 0.0 2008 2005 2006 2007 2008 2005 2006 2007 Group operating profit EPS from continuing operations and before exceptional items before exceptional items 4 Greater than three days lost, not including day of incident.
lost time accident rate total recordable incident rate per 200,000 hours per 100,000 hours 0.73 0.24 business review Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 17 Environmental performance Any emissions to air or discharges to water above regulatory Emissions to air, discharges to water and waste disposal are permitted levels will continue to be reported each year under regulated by external authorities and controlled carefully environmental incidents.
The table below shows our performance in some of these areas.
It should be noted that the 2008 data water consumption contains data from the Deuchem sites in China and Taiwan With the exception of the Hectorite mine in California, and the Yuhong joint venture in China acquired during 2008. the Company does not operate in areas of extreme water The table also shows our water and energy usage over the shortage.
Nevertheless, water is a valuable resource and past three years, although this excludes the two acquisitions the Company recognises the global need to conserve water.
as no comparable data was available as at the time of writing.
Water consumption is minimised where possible by treatment and recycling.
emissions to air Elementis continues to seek to reduce, wherever it can, its energy consumption emissions of carbon dioxide CO2, a greenhouse gas, which Conserving energy is important for sustainable development.
facilitates global warming and leads to other consequences Energy is an expensive resource and its efficient use also has of climate change.
CO2 emissions are, in part, a function a significant effect on the cost of production.
As the Group of production output our production output has changed uses a range of fuel sources, these have been converted into over the years both in terms of total volume and changes gigajoules GJ to provide consistent energy units.
Reduction in products or product mix.
Furthermore, as is standard in production output in the last quarter of 2008 reduced energy practice in the chemical industry, some emission and discharge consumption but adversely affected the specific consumption values may be based on samples rather than continuous per tonne.
Just under 80 per cent of consumption is monitoring.
During the year, internal audit reviewed the accounted for in the production of chromium chemicals.
data reported by a sample of sites and found that they were produced on a consistent and accurate basis.
solid waste The Company is committed to minimising the quantity of all The Groups operations also result in the emission of types of waste.
The quantity of hazardous waste resulting sulphur and nitrogen oxide, which can cause acid rain, and from operations in Elementis has reduced significantly over volatile organic compounds, which can damage soil and the last decade.
The low level that remains is highly controlled ground water or combine with nitrogen oxide to cause smog.
and subject to licensed disposal.
Non-hazardous waste is The volume of these emissions are controlled to comply with minimised and recycled as far as possible.
Non-hazardous regulatory permits and, as the volumes are not considered waste is predominantly the inert residue from the chromate to be significant, they are no longer reported here.
kiln operations, which is deposited in our own licenced landfill sites adjacent to the manufacturing facilities.
discharges to water Alternative or recycled uses have been explored but to date Maintaining the water quality of the areas in which we operate there is no technically viable commercial option to landfill.
is a regulatory issue and vital to protect the ecosystems and communities in which we operate.
The Groups production The Group encourages the re-using, reduction and recycling activity does create some by-products that are discharged of general office waste and recycling schemes are in place to water, such as chemical and biological oxygen demand, at various office locations.
The amounts of general office and these are regulated by external authorities and waste is not reported separately from non-hazardous waste carefully managed by Elementis.
The volume of these as the volumes are not considered to be significant.
discharges are not considered to be siginificant and are no longer reported here.
Environmental performance 2008 2007 2006 Per Per Per Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of 000s production 000s production 000s production CO2 emissions tonnes 408 1.06 361 1.01 337 1.03 3 Water consumed m 2,202 5.90 1,997 7.15 3,660 8.47 Energy consumed GJ 6,900 14.00 6,900 13.30 7,500 13.60 2008 2007 2006 Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of 000s production 000s production 000s production Hazardous waste disposed tonnes 1.23 3.18 1.04 2.99 5.15 11.9 Non-hazardous waste disposed tonnes 79 206 349 180 426 210 includes Deuchem and Yuhong excludes Deuchem and Yuhong Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 18 Corporate social responsibility report Environmental performance continued Continual improvement in HSE environmental target Each site has an annual plan showing HSE objectives that Our target is to comply with all environmental regulations should have a positive impact on safety.
These plans are and permits, with zero environmental incidents classed drawn up in conjunction with the manufacturing council who as Elementis Tiers 2 and 3.
Beyond that we will strive for then monitors performance and provides guidance to continual improvement in standards to reduce our impact achieve the desired results.
Additionally, the Audit Committee on the environment.
approved the inclusion of HSE reporting within the scope of internal audit work for 2008.
Eight sites were reviewed for HSE hazards and risks HSE compliance with Group policies and procedures by Elementis is committed to identifying hazards and reducing internal audit and no significant issues were raised.
risk to people and the environment.
Social responsibility New equipment and plant are subject to HSE review The Group Chief Executive has Board level responsibility for including where appropriate hazard and operability studies social and community matters, although day to day responsibility HAZOP.
A formal modification control system is employed is delegated to the business managing directors.
to ensure that changes to plant are approved with due consideration of risk as well as financial cost.
Elementis recognises the international standards for human rights and strives to ensure equality of opportunity and fair The Company has a set of policies to cover life critical rewards for expertise and knowledge at all its locations activities such as working at heights and in confined globally.
Details of our employment policies and information spaces.
Many sites are certified to external standards about employee communication are summarised in the such as ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and OSHA VPP.
A well established mandatory incident reporting system The Company undertakes regular customer satisfaction records HSE incidents including near-misses worldwide surveys and also has a customer service policy with key throughout Elementis.
A structured investigation process account management operated to ensure that the views is then adopted to establish root causes and implement of our customers can be taken on board with regard to effective corrective actions.
Learning for these incidents HSE matters.
The Group is open to collaborating with is then shared across the Company to help prevent similar customers to develop new products and is currently incidents occurring elsewhere and, in the case of repeat undertaking collaborative research to develop greener occurrences, to identify trends for further action.
alternatives for use in the products we manufacture.
This kind of research is still at a very early stage but it Behavioural safety programmes and a mandatory scheme of demonstrates our commitment to reduce the impact of routine plant inspections by management ensures that our operations on the environment.
working practices and plant conditions are maintained in good order.
Our global procurement team is primarily responsible for engaging with suppliers and an employee training Major hazards and risks including those from natural programme is in place which includes courses on Mutual perils are identified and included in the Companys risk Respect, Environmental Awareness in Manufacturing and management process referred to in the Principal risks Environmental Stewardship.
Over 500 employees have and uncertainties section of the Business review.
completed at least one of these courses in 2008. business review Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 19 Product stewardship Community involvement Elementis recognises its responsibility to ensure that its Elementis works with local communities to provide products are safe for intended use, transport and the information on its activities and be a responsible neighbour.
environment throughout the product life cycle.
Safe use The Company provides focused support for children and is guided by long experience of many of our products in disadvantaged groups, and encourages employees to be conjunction with third party studies and regulatory active in their communities through volunteer work requirements.
Information is provided via technical or fundraising.
bulletins, safety data sheets and labelling supported by discussion with our customers and suppliers, and Including donations made in the UK, which are disclosed participation in studies by industry associations.
on page 24, the Group made charitable donations worth more than 15,400 in 2008 2007: 12,500 to over 34 We continuously adopt a consistent and coordinated approach 2007: 30 different organisations supporting various to regulatory matters concerning our products at global, causes in and around the locality of our offices and plants national and regional levels which complement industry in the US and UK.
Organisations and groups supported voluntary efforts.
Where new regulations are required, we last year include local youth and sports clubs, schools, believe they should be based on established scientific risk arts groups, hospice and other welfare related groups, assessment and risk management principles.
They should and medical research and health related charities.
be predictable, flexible and capable of responsibly addressing societys economic, environmental and safety requirements.
The Company also operated a payroll giving programme in the UK and, for over ten years, the Eaglescliffe operations in The Group is fully engaged in the new European REACH Stockton-on-Tees have leased at peppercorn rent 116 acres programme and met the 2008 requirements.
We pre-registered of land to a local ecology and conservation study group more than 700 substances in order to cover products which is used by schools to conduct environmental studies manufactured in Europe, imported products and required and as a calming learning environment for children with global raw materials.
To support our global customers and emotional and behavioural difficulties.
Some of our employees markets, we implemented a structure to enable us to provide act voluntarily as officers of the Group.
The conservation Only Representative services under REACH to cover imports group has in recent years set up partnerships with two local into Europe by Group entities and key customers, and we schools who use the site as Forest School classrooms where created a framework to cover re-imports into Europe.
children can learn about ecology and the natural environment.
The Product Stewardship team is involved in many consortia coordinating the REACH registration of our most important In addition to the amounts disclosed above, our Delden product categories.
We will continue to actively support manufacturing facility in The Netherlands sponsored a consortia and organisations such as CEFIC European number of events organised by local community groups Chemical Industry Council and SIEF Substance Information to raise money or awareness for certain causes, which Exchange Forum in the future.
In addition to complying included disability groups, the emergency services and with the REACH regulatory requirements, Elementis plans welfare appeals for ex-servicemen and women.
The total to strategically maintain an efficient supply chain and amount sponsored was 1,000 which excludes time given protect our critical global businesses and customers.
In China, employees in our Changxing plant and Shanghai sales office donated more than RMB50,000 from their pay last year to the Red Cross Organization of China in response to the earthquake disaster in the Sichuan Province.
Deuchem contributed RMB100,000 to the same emergency response fund.
Elementis works with local communities to provide information on its activities and be a responsible neighbour.
The Company provides focused support for children and disadvantaged groups, and encourages employees to be active in their communities through volunteer work or fundraising.
