34 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Business Review Corporate Responsibility In response to the challenges presented by the requirements of operating in a global environment, Filtronas corporate behaviour is founded on the fundamental belief that it has a duty to act responsibly in seeking to balance the interests of internal and external stakeholders Filtrona recognises the significance of environmental, social Corporate Responsibility goals and governance matters and is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen in the workplace, marketplace, over the next five years environment and community.
The Companys global operations extend across Europe, Asia and the Americas and the Company fulfils its responsibility to record, monitor and Reduce the impact of make publicly available, the potential impact of its activities.
In pursuing its corporate strategy Filtronas aim is to always carbon emissions consider the implications of its actions on, and relationship with, the people and the environment with which it interacts Secure continuous improvement and to take active steps to act responsibly and diligently in the management of those actions and relationships.
to economic, social, safety and environmental standards In support of its business plans to drive longterm profitable growth, Filtronas corporate responsibility initiatives seek by working with employees, to maintain the support of its employees, customers and suppliers and assist in the sustainability of the environment customers, suppliers and and communities within which its international operations local communities are conducted.
The Companys risk management processes include consideration of the potential impact of corporate responsibility issues on Filtronas performance.
The Provide effective management Companys investment decisions take into account as appropriate an evaluation of the potential consequences for of corporate responsibility issues its employees, customers and suppliers and the environment.
based on accountability, training Filtrona Values, which are set out on pages 8 to 9 of this and expertise Report, help establish the corporate responsibility framework within which the Company operates.
These Values form the Ensure global compliance with core of the Companys adoption of the highest standards of business ethics and integrity that underpin its relationships Filtrona Values, policies and with both internal and external stakeholders.
Filtrona believes that the responsible winning culture developed with the standards adoption of these Values at each of its international sites adds value to the Companys reputation and performance.
Filtrona is a member of the FTSE4Good Index which is designed to measure the performance of companies striving to meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards and to facilitate investment in those companies where corporate responsibility issues are an influencing factor in an investors decisionmaking process.
The FTSE4Good Committee annually reviews the members for continual compliance with the criteria as laid down by the Committee.
35 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Workplace focus of management on all health and safety issues.
Health and safety The Filtrona Health, Safety and Environment Council the Filtronas overriding commitment in the workplace is to the FHSEC is an international group which includes senior health and safety and welfare of its employees and all those operating management from all divisions.
The FHSEC who visit the Companys operations.
The Board provides is responsible for reviewing the health, safety and health and safety leadership and the Chief Executive has environmental performance, developing appropriate primary responsibility for setting the fundamental health and standards and procedures and overseeing the Companys safety objectives within which the detailed policies operate internal health, safety and environment auditing process.
and for reviewing progress against those objectives.
The Company manages occupational health by identifying key The Company has designed procedures and developed risk activities, undertaking health assessments and, where a culture which aims for continuous improvement with the appropriate, implementing health surveillance programmes.
sharing of best practice in all areas of health and safety The Company has achieved the Occupational Health & Safety in addition to strict compliance with applicable laws and Management Systems OHSAS 18001 for the majority of its regulations.
The degree of autonomy afforded to local principal manufacturing sites, excluding the recently acquired management allows them to set the agenda best suited to sites of Duraco and Lendell, both of which have been given, in the requirements of individual businesses, but subject always accordance with Filtrona policy, a period of 24 months to reach to the proper implementation of the core health and safety the required standard.
It is anticipated that the other remaining policies and principles which Filtrona has adopted.
Health principal manufacturing sites which are not yet accredited to and safety considerations form an integral part of capital OHSAS 18001 will be reassessed during 2009. expenditure proposals, with businesses required to ensure that the risks of working with new equipment, substances The Company operates Filtrona Group Safety Awards whereby or processes are properly evaluated and mitigated prior to sites can achieve gold, silver and bronze status on the basis approval and implementation.
of annual performance assessed against stringent criteria set by the FHSEC.
There are strict criteria governing these awards, The Company aims to continuously improve its health and based upon: OHSAS standard accreditation: regular health safety record and ongoing initiatives are designed to monitor, and safety meetings: availability of suitably trained employees assess and drive performance.
Investigations are carried on site: and levels of lost time accidents.
For 2008 there were out on all accidents that may have resulted in injury or near four gold awards 2007: nil, seven silver awards 2007: four miss incidents.
Improved reporting of near miss incidents and seven bronze awards 2007: two.
The criteria are has enhanced the Companys ability to learn from potentially designed to become increasingly stringent over time such hazardous conditions and to prevent their reoccurrence.
that the level of performance required to qualify for an award Businesses undertake extensive training programmes which requires continuous improvement to an increasingly high are particularly focused on the key, or most frequent, risks in standard.
The rise in the number of the awards in 2008 their operations.
Training in risk assessment and rootcause compared to 2007 demonstrates the health and safety analysis features strongly in health and safety management.
commitment and progress being made internationally across the Filtrona businesses.
The groupwide internet based management reporting system facilitates an extensive programme of active monitoring that measures in detail exactly how successful the Company is in managing the safety of its workplaces at the individual site level.
The Company believes that the visibility on relevant performance statistics provided by the system maintains the fundamental 36 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Business Review Corporate Responsibility The Filtrona Chief Executives Health and Safety Award Filtronas commitment to the growth of its employees as recognises the achievements of the site that best meets individuals, challenging them to fulfil their potential through the following criteria: investment in training and personal development, is fundamental to the recruitment, motivation and retention of most improved accident record people with the talent and energy to drive Filtronas growth most innovative safety communication campaign as a profitable business.
Filtronas training programmes receipt of a significant safety award from a recognised are designed to secure continuous improvement, with the external body for improved or sustained performance Companys businesses benefiting from the increase in in employee safety the capabilities of its employees.
Filtrona seeks to ensure that the training opportunities are The Chief Executives Health and Safety extended beyond the simple development of skills focused on fulfilling a particular role within the current operations.
Award was won by Payne in Banbury.
During the year, the site saw 365 days without In addition to the impact of the training and development a lost time accident and a 58% reduction programmes, employee engagement is enhanced by the in minor incidents.
In support of those communication practices which have been adopted across statistics, a variety of safety campaigns the businesses.
were initiated incorporating special training Filtrona values highly the commitment of its employees and sessions for all employees, with two recognises the importance of communication to good working managers achieving relevant qualifications relationships and practices.
The Company seeks to ensure and an extension of health and safety that employees are informed on matters relating to their into occupational and personal health employment and on financial and economic factors affecting the businesses.
This is achieved through management for employees.
briefings, internal announcements, the Filtrona website and by the distribution of public announcements.
Various initiatives, Details of the Companys health and safety performance including the use of regular newsletters detailing progress for 2008 and subsequent progress throughout 2009 can and key news across the divisions focus on the dissemination be viewed at the Companys website www.
of important information and messages to employees.
Employees The Company seeks feedback and ideas from employees to Filtronas employees are a vital resource in the pursuit of improve its operations and forums appropriate to Filtronas operational excellence and the provision of quality products local businesses have been established to allow employees and service to its customers.
The skills and expertise of to voice their views on how the Company should fulfil the Filtronas employees drive the innovation which enables the demands of all its local and international stakeholders.
The Company to provide added value to its customers, enhance Companys European Information and Consultation Forum supply chain logistics with its suppliers and reduce the facilitates the discussion of issues across all of its operations environmental impact of its operations.
Filtrona is guided by its aim to deliver a competitive and fair The Company recognises the importance of, and the benefits employment environment and the opportunity to develop and to be derived from, diversity across its global operations and advance employees subject to personal performance and is committed to offering equal opportunities to all people business opportunity.
Filtrona encourages its employees to without discrimination of any form.
Filtrona remunerates develop and manage their own careers.
It facilitates this by fairly with respect to skills, performance and local market providing relevant job training and, where appropriate, conditions.
By adhering to the Filtrona Values, the Company aiming to fill vacancies with existing staff where employees conducts its business in a manner designed to ensure are suitably qualified and experienced.
individuals are treated equally and fairly and that all employment, training and career development decisions 37 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Renewable energy is used where available at competitive rates.
All locations are examining and sharing energy efficiency initiatives such as energy efficient motors for maintenance and new projects, replacing lighting with high efficiency units and installing motion sensor lights.
are made on jobbased criteria.
Recruitment procedures avoid the employment of underage staff.
Harassment in any form is not tolerated in the workplace.
The Company gives full and fair consideration to employment applications by disabled persons.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that the training, career development and promotion opportunities enjoyed by disabled persons are as far as possible identical to that of other employees.
Throughout its global activities Filtrona supports human rights as set down by the UN Declaration and its applicable International Labour Organisation conventions.
Operations based in India, Indonesia, Jordan, Thailand and Venezuela are also accredited to SA8000.
Marketplace Filtronas reputation with its customers, suppliers and communities where it operates, is based not only on the quality of its performance, but also on the integrity of its management in the workplace and the environment, and its ethical and responsible conduct in the marketplace.
The development and continuation of longterm business relationships reflects the trust placed in the Company and such commitments are an important component in the ongoing success of the Company.
Filtronas Standards of Business Conduct policy is applicable to all its businesses around the world.
The policy details the standards expected by Filtrona in the conduct of its business and its relationships with third parties, including free and fair competition, the prohibition of bribery and political donations and provides general guidance on honest and fair dealings with suppliers, customers and local and national authorities.
Filtrona is committed to working with its suppliers to ensure the welfare of workers and employment conditions, within its supply chain, meet or exceed internationally recognised standards.
Saving energy Environment The Company is committed to continuous improvement in its to make a environmental performance, reducing emissions, preventing pollution and improving efficiency in the use of resources including energy, water, packaging and other raw materials.
Filtronas challenge is to determine how, through current difference initiatives and current technology, and with further projects and future innovation, it can reduce the impact of its 38 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Business Review Corporate Responsibility environmental footprint within a realistic financial framework Supplier standards are subject to review by the Company and appropriate timeframe.
This should be in a manner employees who audit their environmental credentials.
relevant to, and meaningful in, the context of the Companys overall strategic objectives and financial performance.
Filtrona and a major supplier of tow, which is used in the manufacture of filters, held The risk management process has identified that climate change may be the single most important environmental discussions regarding the environmental constraint impacting on the future of its businesses.
Subsequently the management of the environmental impact of, the Companys cardboard packaging layers were reduced international operations are focused on methodologies to and the use of plastic banding was reduce that impact, and the development of initiatives to significantly reduced.
secure both economic and environmental benefits and sustainability.
Filtrona continues to closely monitor the environmental impact of its operations.
Significant improvement in data collection methods and increased Given the diverse range of products manufactured, sourced reporting procedures, reinforce the accountability of the and distributed by the Group, emissions intensity and businesses for the consequences of their operations on the achievements alongside targeted reductions are measured environment and drive the commitment to seek opportunities on a site by site basis, with local management taking to make improvements which: responsibility for performance.
As Filtrona seeks to further drive its environmental performance, all divisions have been reduce the use of natural resources charged with providing realistic targets based on a common reduce direct and indirect emissions of carbon dioxide metric to enable a corporate declaration of targeted emission and other pollutants reduction during the period from 2009 to 2012. reduce operating costs and improve operating margins and profitability Filtrona supports the activities of the Carbon Trust and during 2008 participated in the 6th annual Carbon Disclosure Project Filtrona seeks to ensure good environmental practice at all CDP, an environmental impact survey.
It is the Companys its locations and in its operational processes and investment intention to participate in the CDP survey during 2009. decisions.
Filtronas principal manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 accredited and all of the Companys European During 2009, Filtrona will be piloting the Carbon Reduction businesses comply with EU and domestic waste management Commitment the CRC which is a UK legal requirement and regulations.
A range of initiatives are being undertaken to aims to cut carbon emissions from large nonenergy intensive drive the efficiency of Filtronas energy consumption and the users in the private and public sectors by four million tonnes Company has developed bespoke software to monitor the of CO by 2020 through mandatory emissions trading.
CRC is 2 effect of such projects, as well as identifying potential future designed to drive energy efficiency and carbon saving by opportunities for further improvements.
Landfill is being giving organisations a financial incentive through emissions reduced as local initiatives seek to recycle waste materials trading, combined with reputational incentives through or explore alternative uses with third parties.
publishing organisations performance in a league table.
Initially the CRC will be focused on UK activity only but it is Due to the scale of Filtronas global operations, the use of targeted for expansion globally.
energy has both environmental and commercial importance.
Where possible, and financially viable, energy from renewable resources is utilised to limit environmental impact and Filtrona plc operates a small head office commercial risk and costs.
team and, during 2008, a renewed focus was promoted to increase recycling.
As a result Filtrona actively engages with its employees, customers, and Filtrona saved the equivalent of 848 kg of suppliers to exploit opportunities offered by new technologies, CO annualised.
improved process operations and new material to further 2 reduce environmental impact and improve profitability.
39 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Given the diversity of Filtronas global operations, local Regardless of regional or national boundaries the Company management drive environmental performance based aims to support the creation of prosperous, educated, on divisional objectives set in accordance with Filtronas sustainable and healthy communities in the countries and environmental policy.
Copies of the policy can be found cultures within which it operates.
In its attempts to bring on the Companys website www.
benefits back to those communities whose support provides a basis for Filtronas success, the Company has focused on The FHSEC provides an opportunity to share best environmental education and enterprise, health and welfare and the practices and waste minimisation initiatives across all the environment.
In pursuit of its aims within the community, the Group sites and has established a Group award to recognise Company has developed targeted programmes for local the best divisional project initiated in each calendar year which communities, often involving commercial sponsorship and in its opinion delivered the most successful and innovative significant employee engagement through direct involvement environmental improvement or initiative on a site that meets or secondment.
one or several of the following criteria: reductions in emissions For 2008 and, beyond, Filtrona Indonesia based recycling of waste product in Surabaya, introduced a Get Involved waste reduction community development day.
40 employees energy efficiency participated in the main activities of: painting efficient use of raw material and finishing a local school building: planting use of biodegradable materials trees in the immediate area of the school: and practising first aid with the students.
The Group Environmental award was won The objectives were to create awareness and by the Filter Products facility in Indonesia.
A number of general energy efficiencies introduced during the year resulted in substantial reductions of energy Applying Filtronas principles consumption, particular initiatives saw: the The Chief Executive is the Director with primary responsibility recycling of approximately 1 tonne of for the implementation and integration of Filtronas Corporate Responsibility across the Company.
waste per day to produce steam used in the manufacturing process to eliminate The Director of Group Human Resources, supported by the the need for purchasing 565,000 kWh of Company Secretary and General Counsel, is responsible for electricity per year: and the elimination of coordinating the operation of the detailed policies on human waste to landfill, thereby reducing traffic resources, health and safety, ethics and the environment which support Filtronas commitment to its Corporate emissions and transport costs.
Further details of those policies can be viewed via the Community Corporate Responsibility page on the Companys website Filtronas commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen at www.
extends through to the support for appropriate nonpolitical and nonsectarian projects across a range of organisations and charities.
As an example, during the year, Filtrona plc part sponsored the purchase of a vehicle for use by Save the Children.
It is hoped the vehicle will help the charity reach vulnerable children particularly for projects such as education and child protection.
