Corporate Responsibility Report Fenner is aware of and takes seriously its responsibilities towards customers, employees, suppliers and the local communities in which it works.
The Group has identified that health and safety, its people, how it does business, reducing environmental impact and involvement within the community are all important to contributing to its overall business performance.
As such, these issues are embedded into the business decision making process and the Group believes that this proactive attitude and approach enhances its reputation, profitability and shareholder return.
The risks associated with the non-financial aspects of the Groups business are managed within the Groups risk management framework and are continuously monitored and assessed, with necessary controls put in place in order to reduce the potential impact.
The Chief Executive Officer has overall responsibility for the development and monitoring of the Groups policies relating to Corporate Responsibility.
The task of ensuring these policies are communicated and applied at a divisional and operational unit level is delegated through the divisional managing directors to each units senior management.
The policies and associated management systems are reviewed at least annually and at any time when significant changes in the business, legislation or industry standard demand.
The Groups Health & Safety Policy and Environmental Policy are available to view on the Companys website at www.
com or by contacting the Company Secretary.
The Company is proud to continue to be a member of the FTSE4Good UK Index which measures the performance of companies that meet globally recognised Corporate Responsibility standards and facilitates investment into those companies.
Health and safety The Group acknowledges the absolute necessity of providing a safe and secure working environment for all people involved in or impacted by the activities associated with its business.
"Health and safety ""H&S"" also remains a critical component to the solutions provided to customers."
H&S and its management is therefore an integral part of the Groups business strategy.
The Group endeavours to set the highest practical standards.
As a minimum, each operational unit will always comply fully with its local statutory obligations and all employees are trained to recognise that the health and safety of themselves and others is their first priority.
All operational units have a H&S committee which meets regularly to discuss H&S topics and concerns, make recommendations and implement and monitor any improvements or initiatives.
H&S issues and key measurements are also routinely reviewed and discussed at management meetings, with accidents, serious incidents and near misses reported and escalated to the Executive Committee and Board where appropriate.
The dissemination of information on a Group-wide basis is also important to ensure continual improvement in all H&S matters.
The findings of H&S investigations are communicated across locations and a general exchange of information and resources between operations is actively encouraged.
"During the year, the inaugural Fenner North America Health, Safety and Environment ""HSE"" Network Meeting took place in Anaheim, California which provided a forum for all Group HSE managers in the region to share knowledge, experience and form collective approaches and initiatives."
"Group Health and Safety Management System Framework A significant development in the year occurred with a set of Group Expectations being established within a newly created Group Health and Safety Management System Framework ""HSMSF""."
The HSMSF covers those areas key to ensuring a robust, all encompassing and continually improving H&S culture within the Group: - Accountability & Leadership: - Risk Assessment & Management: - Training & Behaviours: - Operations and Maintenance: - Information & Documentation: - Customers & Products: - Incident Analysis & Prevention: - Monitoring, Assurance and Improvement: - Crisis Management and Business Continuity Planning: - Management of Change: - Working with Third Parties: - Design and Construction of Facilities: and - Community & Stakeholder Awareness.
Fenner PLC 23 Corporate Responsibility Report continued It is intended that the HSMSF will be embedded into existing divisional and operational unit level management systems over the next year.
During this period, a review of the measurements recorded and used to analyse H&S across the Group will also take place.
A Group HSE Coordinator was appointed during the year to assist in the continued development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups H&S management systems.
Health and safety awards A number of the Groups operations have received external recognition and awards during the year for their performance in H&S.
These included: - the US operations at Port Clinton were presented with a Bureau of Workers Compensation award in recognition of the 25% reduction to their injury rate during 2007 - the FAST manufacturing site in Hampton secured the prestigious RoSPA Gold Award for the second successive year, highlighting the sites continued excellence in the management and control of H&S - the US plant at Toledo received two awards from the Safety Council of North West Ohio recognising their achievement of one year with no Lost Time Incidents and also for the 25% decrease to the incident rate at the plant.
2008 also saw the inaugural Group Health and Safety Improvement Award presented to Drachten.
Our people The Groups success in consistently delivering reliable and superior solutions to customers is founded upon a stable, technically skilled, innovative and committed workforce around the globe.
On average the Group employed 3,924 people during the financial year, up from 3,663 in 2006 07.
31% of employees are in Europe, 42% in the Americas, 4% in Africa and 23% in Asia Pacific.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer in terms of recruitment, training and promotion regardless of sex, race, religion, sexual orientation, age or disability.
Harassment is not tolerated in any form.
As a global employer, the Group is aware of and complies with local labour rights and employment practices.
The Fenner Focus magazine is distributed to all employees and is an effective route to communicate matters of Group and operational significance.
The magazine informs employees of any major Group developments and provides an opportunity to highlight and congratulate units and individuals on their work in the community, health and safety initiatives and long service awards.
The annual results are also summarised in the publication enabling all employees to be kept informed of the Groups progress.
Recruitment and retention The recruitment and retention of a skilled workforce is essential to the Group.
Each operational unit employs recruitment practices which identify the best available candidate for each position.
All employees are actively encouraged to apply for roles, including cross divisional opportunities where applicable.
Generally, the businesses within the Group have positive histories of high employee retention and the majority of operations have a long service recognition programme in place.
Training and development Health and safety training is an integral part of all employee induction programmes.
All operations continuously monitor and plan training to meet both the business and employees' development needs.
In 2008, Fenner Dunlop Australia was presented with the Leading Training Processes and Practices of the Year Award Registered Training Organisation by the Mining Industry Skills Centre, acknowledging Fenners achievements and ongoing commitment to the development and delivery of training within the Australian Industry.
What began as an internally generated training course focusing on health and safety covering aspects such as risk management, safe storage, the handling of dangerous goods, understanding and identifying heat stress and incident reporting has become an externally recognised certification course and ensures that splicers from both Fenner and other third parties carry out their work in a consistent, professional and safe manner and promotes safety in the workplace.
Annual employee appraisal processes have been locally developed in the majority of the Groups operations.
Employees take part in a formal annual appraisal to discuss performance, achievements and potential areas for development and progression.
The process also ensures that a continuing communication between management and employees takes place.
The risks associated with inadequate succession planning are recognised at Group level.
These risks are continuously monitored and, where possible, the Group aims to identify high potential employees and, through a process of training and development, prepare them for potential senior management.
24 Fenner PLC How we do business The Group recognises that both its corporate conduct and relationship building are key elements to its business strategy succeeding.
By having a high standard of ethical conduct, partnerships can be formed with third parties throughout the Groups supply chain which create value on both sides of the relationship.
Business conduct The Groups culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
These are enshrined within the Groups Ethics Policy, which is applied to all business activities and relationships and sets out the behavioural standards expected from all employees fairness, honesty and integrity.
The Group operates a confidential whistleblowing procedure which enables all employees to raise any concerns they have.
Competition and anti-trust procedures are co-ordinated at Group level and training is provided to all relevant employees.
Third party partnerships The Group seeks to identify and develop appropriate and long term strategic partnerships with suppliers and customers to create mutual value, access to new markets and to mitigate resource and commercial risks.
These strategic partnerships are especially relevant to the number of highly technical niche markets where joint development agreements can expedite research whilst protecting intellectual property rights.
All operational units have or are working towards ISO 9001 or equivalent status and each undertakes rigorous customer satisfaction assessments, including senior face to face meetings and customer surveys.
Performance and the timing and handling of any complaints are routinely discussed at management meetings and are used as key measurements in determining the success of the operational unit.
The environment Concern for the Groups impact on the environment is a fundamental part of the Groups corporate business strategy as it endeavours to contribute towards a sustainable future.
The Group is committed to identifying and assessing the risks of pollution and other forms of environmental impairment arising out of its activities and actively seeks to reduce its impact on the environment to the lowest practical level by ensuring that all operations and activities of the Group exemplify best contemporary practice in respect of the environment.
During the year, the Groups Environmental Policy was reviewed and a new enhanced version was published.
The policy encourages Group-wide communication and support to assist in reducing the Groups overall environmental impact.
This includes, where possible, the use of video conferencing technology to mitigate the impact caused through inter-continental and domestic air travel.
In line with the HSMSF, a set of Group Environmental Expectations were agreed during 2008 and the alignment of existing divisional and operational unit level policies and management systems to them will occur over the next year.
The establishment of a formal process of identification and management of environmental risks has also taken place.
Waste minimisation and energy efficiency The minimisation of manufacturing waste and the maximisation of energy efficiency are both recognised as beneficial to the Group from an environmental and commercial viewpoint.
Waste minimisation is driven and managed at the operational unit level.
All major manufacturing operations monitor their waste emissions and all units comply with local environment legislation.
General waste management programmes and initiatives are encouraged and the recycling of materials takes place where practical, either internally or through external programmes with suppliers or other third parties.
Examples include: - water waste minimisation in China, South Africa, Australia and UK - recycled product usage in China, UK and US - recycled process oil in China and US - minimising packaging and paper waste to landfill in US, Australia, China and Europe.
Fenner PLC 25 Corporate Responsibility Report continued During the year, the Groups global energy sources were analysed and are shown on the chart below.
With this and other information provided by the operational units, the Group is undertaking a review of the measurements used to monitor its environmental impact across the Group as a whole.
Community The Group continues to actively support local communities and charities.
The Groups community agenda is driven at a local rather than corporate level with the aim to utilise the Groups resources to enable the enhancement of employee efforts.
In addition to the time given to community projects and for charitable purposes by all the Groups employees, the Company made donations to UK charities of 10,000 during the year.
Donations included 4,000 to employee run sports clubs and a total of 2,000 split between local cancer, homeless, disabled and hospice charities.
Employees and operational units give their time and help raise funds for a variety of charities and projects.
Examples include: - during the year, a new scholarship fund was created in the US with the intention of presenting up to three $3,000 scholarships annually to students who wish to pursue a degree in Mechanical, Mining, Chemical or Textile Engineering - the Prodesco and Secant Medical operations continue to be involved with their local MS Society and for the last nine years took part and raised funds in the annual MS Walk - employees and their families at the Manheim facility continue to support Earth Day by volunteering their time to clean up local parkland areas and plant trees over 400 in 2008 with the aim of reducing soil erosion - the operation in India continued its annual celebration of World Environment Day in 2008 with a mix of activities including tree planting, poster competitions, recycling and clean up campaigns.
The aim of World Environment Day is to promote understanding and encourage people and communities to change their attitude towards environmental issues and Fenner is keen to work in partnership with local communities and government to focus attention on this issue.
