Corporate Social Responsibility The group is very clear as to the continuing importance of all areas of Corporate Social Responsibility in the conduct of the company, its employees and its suppliers.
Investor interest is increasingly concerned with our stance in this area and the group is determined to remain both fully compliant with all relevant legislation and increasingly involved in such matters.
We have continued to be involved with the Carbon Disclosure Project Secretariat in expressing our views and involvement in greenhouse gas emissions, although it is recognised that, as a predominantly non-manufacturing company, our emissions in this area are not significant.
The Findel company secretary, Dr I J Bolton, has overall responsibility for all corporate social responsibility affairs and he devolves day to day responsibility to the Group Finance Executive.
The latter chairs a review body which meets to assess legislative or other directives in order to set strategy and targets, and review the groups progress against these.
This review body comprises senior facilities and purchasing managers from the groups major operating companies.
We have been compiling gures for several years against which we set and monitor our targets.
Environmental policy With the rapidly increasing importance across the world and the UK of energy consumption and global warming, we have identied that, as a predominantly distribution company with minimal manufacturing involvement, our environmental policy concentrates on energy consumption, waste disposal and, increasingly, product sourcing.
Our overall aim within this is to reduce our effect on the environment year on year as measured against our sales growth.
In particular, we are: Working with key suppliers to improve both their compliance and performance especially with suppliers of the groups recent acquisitions.
We are piloting a range of carbon neutral furniture to assess consumer demand as well as increasing our range of natural cleaning products: Actively considering and, where relevant, implementing recommendations to improve our environmental performance in both energy usage and waste generation: Monitoring and seeking to achieve our set targets on best practice in these areas: Ensuring that we comply with environmental legislation in all areas.
As a mail order distribution company, one of our key areas of focus has been the consumption of materials, especially paper and packaging.
Over recent years we have used lighter paper in the production of our catalogues leading to a significant reduction in our paper tonnage consumption.
Waste reduction and re-cycling has also been rolled out across the group with increasing success and both purchased packaging and waste volumes have been reduced as measured against turnover.
Energy Our major use of energy is in heating, lighting and powered conveying equipment, and in the internal vehicle eet.
Consolidation of both ofce and warehouse operations has led to a reduction in energy usage as a proportion of sales.
The proportion of our electricity usage acquired from renewable sources is more than double the UK average.
A comprehensive assessment of Energy Saving opportunities has been undertaken by the Carbon Trust.
The result was a number of practical energy saving opportunities which are being implemented at Operating level.
Our vehicle eets CO emissions are calculated and measured monthly.
The majority of our vehicle eet now runs on 2 Euro 4 compliant diesel engines.
Material consumption and waste management With ever increasing volumes of product emanating from the Far East and India, our well-established Ethical Trading Policy documents remain key to our selection and ongoing trading with suppliers in those regions.
Again, consolidation and integration of purchasing in some areas has brought more of our purchasing under this Ethical umbrella.
This policy document clearly lays out our contractual standards in order to meet both United Nations and local laws on working conditions, employment, pay rates, holidays, etc.
Resident staff in both India and Hong Kong enable us to ensure that these standards are met on an ongoing basis.
Regular and surprise visits to suppliers are a vital part in ensuring compliance.
Human resources With the exception of some 25 staff based in India and Hong Kong, the group is a UK based employer.
Many of our sites are located in multi-cultural areas and we work hard to create and run a fair, equal opportunities employment culture that embraces this multi-culturalism.
We are also committed to promotion on merit and lling job opportunities in-house wherever possible.
Community Support Both the company and its employees work to support local communities, predominantly in the areas where we have group facilities.
Our Home Shopping and Educational Supplies products are also much in demand for donating to less privileged schools, good causes and establishments, both in the UK and abroad.
