Group Personal Injury Accident Statistics Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous We aim to provide excellent service to our customers, Occurrence Regulations 1995 RIDDOR to provide a safe working environment for our employees and to create sustainable communities 2008 versus 2007 Performance through long term investment.
Includes the Nordic Group data for 2007-2008 The Company has been a member of the Kempen 2008 2007 All All SNS Smaller Europe Index since October 2003, RIDDOR RIDDOR membership being available only to companies with Reportable Reportable % of Accidents Accidents change the very highest standards and practice in the three Forth Ports PLC Group 26 39 33% areas of business ethics, human resources and the environment.
The Company is also a constituent 2008 2007 member of the FTSE 4 Good Index.
All All % of Accidents Accidents change Health And Safety Forth Ports PLC Group 119 155 23% The health and safety of our employees and also visitors, contractors and members of the public who Five Year Trend Analysis visit our places of business is of the utmost 2004-2008 Includes the Nordic Group data for importance to us.
Our safety culture is underpinned 2007-2008 2008 2004 by the application of five strategic safety drivers: RIDDOR RIDDOR Simplification, Education, Engineering, Engagement Reportable Reportable % of Accidents Accidents change and Enforcement.
A Group Strategic Health and Safety Plan for 2008-2010 was originally presented to Forth Ports PLC Group 26 49 47% the Board in October 2007 and a further presentation was made to the Board in October 2008 showing 2008 2004 All All % of progress against the plan and targets achieved to Accidents Accidents change date.
This plan is available to all involved in the Forth Ports PLC Group 119 187 36% Groups business and is regularly reviewed.
35 The Board set a target of overall reduction in personal injury accidents of 10% in 2008.
This target was met and indeed exceeded.
Personnel The Group health and safety team was expanded in 2008 by the appointment of a Safety, Health, Environment and Quality Advisor to the Nordic business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review continued Scottish Port Operations long-term effects of his accident on himself, his family As part of the continuing behavioural safety and his work colleagues.
programme the strapline Safety First for Forth was selected by the workforce at the annual health and Port of Tilbury safety forum as the banner for all safety initiatives and Last year we reported that Port of Tilbury and UNITE campaigns throughout Scottish Ports.
The Director, had signed a Safety Partnership Agreement for Scottish Operations formally launched the campaign 2008-2009.
This document committed both parties at road-shows during October 2008. to further improving safety standards and reducing accident rates by delivery of a series of objectives We also introduced a Safety Charter aimed at further and initiatives including the objectives of industry enhancing the safety culture within Scottish Ports.
All of the targets and This Charter was developed in consultation with the objectives set for 2008 were met.
Port Behavioural Safety Forums which include representatives from the workforce, management and The Port of Tilbury UNITE Partnership health and the health and safety team.
safety awareness training programme continued in 2008 with Port of Tilbury employees attending a one Scottish Operations has published a workplace day workshop led by a tutor from the London transport safety DVD from a concept developed by all Metropolitan University.
This programme was of our safety committees working in conjunction with extended to include the employees of agency labour the road transport industry and produced by the Port providers to ensure consistent standards and of Dundee Safety Committee.
The DVD contains understanding of safety requirements within the port.
information on safety rules to be adhered to by hauliers entering the ports and provides an overview The third annual safety, health and environment in several languages recognising that many hauliers forum took place in March 2008 and was attended by entering our ports are from outside the UK.
The over 70 staff and safety representatives from the port.
Director, Scottish Operations, and an invited The event focused on accident reduction, audience from haulage companies, the Road implementation of Safer Ports Initiative 2 and Haulage Association, Health and Safety Executive, sustainable improvement in health and safety trade unions and Forth Ports Safety Committees performance and monitoring in partnership with the 36 formally launched the DVD in October 2008.
The DVD trade union health and safety representatives.
Staff has been made available to all of those who operate gave presentations on the progress being made in within the Scottish Ports including our tenants.
delivering safety and environmental objectives and a keynote address was made by the Managing The annual health and safety forum took place in Director, Port of Tilbury.
Over 80 people attended including staff and health and safety representatives from across The Ports Skills and Safety National First Aid Scottish Ports and representatives from the Health Competition, the only national first aid event and Safety Executive.
Staff from each of the Scottish designed solely for those working in the ports and Ports delivered presentations on a number of port port related industries, was held in Llandudno in May safety improvement projects including slips, trips and and the Port of Tilbury entered two teams.
The Tilbury fall hazards, working safely near water and workplace teams did extremely well with Team A achieving 1st transport management.
A motivational speaker who place in their event and Team C achieving 3rd place had suffered a serious industrial injury delivered an in their event out of a total of 19 teams.
extremely moving presentation on the short and Nordic Group Industry Engagement Following the acquisition of the Nordic Group in June Forth Ports PLC is involved in all of the core activities 2007 its integration into Forth Ports safety of Port Skills and Safety, the industry body charged management system continues with the with promoting high standards of health and safety implementation of worker involvement in safety and skills competence.
The Managing Director of the committees, audit and inspection programmes, fire Port of Tilbury is a member of the PSS management management training, accident investigation training Board and Forth Ports is represented at the Port and engineering modifications to equipment to Safety Steering Group meetings where Health and enhance safety.
Safety Managers from across the Ports Industry meet and share best practice.
Property During 2008 there were no Health and Safety The Group continues to progress the safety and incidents reportable by our principal contractor to the training objectives detailed in the industry wide Safer HSE under the RIDDOR 1995 Regulations on any of Ports Initiative 2 and fully supports the regional our property development sites.
events organised to promote the initiative throughout the industry.
The health and safety statistics for the property development sites during 2006 to 2008 are: In November the Group hosted a ports industry first aid conference, a forum designed to share best Total man hours worked 519,214 practice in first aid provision.
Total number of reportable Lost Time Incidents 4 Audit 2008 Accident Frequency Rate per 100,000hrs As reported last year Scottish Port Operations 0.77 AFR achieved a 5 star audit from the British Safety Council for the first time.
Tilbury achieved this for the second The latest available construction industry statistics time in 2007 and the target is for Tilbury to maintain published by the Health and Safety Executive show its 5 star rating at its next audit in 2009.
The British a three year average AFR of 1.67.
Safety Council carried out a review audit of the Nordic Group in 2008 as a baseline for preparation 37 Throughout 2008 the property group continued to for a 5 star audit in 2010. promote Continuing Professional Development CPD for all staff by hosting a series of presentations and The Group continues to use a hierarchical system workshops.
This years topics included risk of internal and external process safety audits to assessments.
measure, monitor and demonstrate compliance with all relevant health and safety legislation and internal safety management procedures.
It is the intention to obtain certification to the OHSAS 18000 international occupational health and safety management system specification by 2010.
