Business Review continued Employees 2008 saw the introduction of the new corporate Industrial Relations and Manpower manslaughter legislation: training on the new The Group headcount decreased during 2008 by regulations was delivered across the Group to seventy-eight.
At the year end the employee directors and senior and middle managers by headcount figures were as follows: external legal advisers and the Group solicitor.
The seminars were attended by a total of 54 employees.
Scottish Operation 504 Tilbury 547 The training departments within the Scottish Nordic Group 117 Operation and Tilbury have active external relationships with local colleges, universities and Total 1,168 government agencies, particularly those who have a responsibility for skills development.
2008 culminated A significant factor in the reduction was the TUPE in confirmation by the Sector Skills Council Skills transfer at Tilbury of fifty-eight employees within the for Logistics, that the consortium of which Port of Finnish Terminal to one of our customers, Stanton Tilbury forms part had won the bid to manage and Grove.
Aside from this we have a stable workforce run the East of England Academy for Logistics.
More than forty per cent of the Groups employees have more than ten years Environment And Sustainability of service.
Our Commitment to the Environment and Sustainability Good industrial relations are important to our The Group recognises that our activities have an business and there have been no days lost due to impact on the environment and we strive to minimise industrial disputes since 1989. this where it is practical to do so.
The main potential environmental impacts associated from our activities Employee Involvement fall under the following broad categories: The sixth group-wide information and consultation forum took place during 2008.
The employee Noise representatives take an active interest in health Dust air quality and safety and environmental matters and are Water pollution 38 encouraged to contribute ideas which would benefit Waste the business.
The forum is augmented by local Conservation communication forums and regular meetings with Climate change the recognised trade unions to discuss matters of common interest.
All business areas in the Group have an important role to play in engaging with the Governments of the Training and Development UK and Scotland on issues such as climate change, The Company remains committed to training for recycling, sustainable development and the employees at all levels.
During 2008 182 employees production of renewable energy.
Where appropriate achieved certificates or qualifications.
These include we aim to work with politicians and civil servants to NVQ Level II, NVQ Level III IV, IOSH Health and Safety assist in the development of new legislation in these Certificates, Higher National Certificates and Logistics areas, either directly or through trade groups such degrees.
as the UK Major Ports Group.
In the coming year the focus of our discussions is likely to be the forthcoming Carbon Reduction Commitment, the final guidance as to the current changes in relative sea versions of the Water Framework Directive River level in this area of east central Scotland.
Basin Management Plans, energy and building efficiency legislation and policy and the new UK and Inland Movement of Goods Scottish marine and climate change legislation.
We continue to facilitate the movement of goods to and from our ports using rail where this is Each port liaises with its tenants, customers, appropriate.
In 2008 approximately 1.2 million tonnes regulators and other key stakeholders to of coal were transported to Cockenzie Power Station communicate and share information on from the Port of Leith, saving more than three quarter environmental and associated topics.
Environmental of a million lorry miles.
Containers continue to be issues and performance against targets are reported delivered to and transported from the Ports of Tilbury on and discussed at the Environmental Management and Grangemouth via rail.
Committee Meetings in Tilbury and in Scotland at operational management meetings.
We were delighted that Sir Steve Redgrave agreed to open the new barge terminal at the Port of Tilbury.
In 2007 we reported that we had undertaken a The terminal, operated by Green Barge Company Climate Change Impact Assessment CCIA for the Ltd, moves materials to Stratford and the Olympic Groups activities.
In 2008 we approached the Park via the River Thames rather than via the road Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management to assist network.
us with a CCIA of three of the shipping routes to and from our ports: the Rosyth to Zeebrugge route, Renewable Energy and Resource Efficiency Grangemouth to Felixstowe container line and the Forth Energy, our joint venture with SSE, gives us Tilbury to Bilbao container line.
Each of these routes the ability to explore various renewable energy was compared with the same loads or passengers opportunities including windpower and multi-fuel travelling via an alternative land based route.
The generation at a number of locations across the results showed that these sea routes can be more Group.
In Edinburgh the property team is working than ten times more carbon efficient than the land closely with SSE and CEC to devise a sustainable based alternative.
The announcement made in 2008 energy solution for The Harbour, Leith Docks.
that Norfolk Line will take over the Rosyth to Options being looked at include district heating and 39 Zeebrugge route will further enhance this contribution combined heat and power.
as their vessels are expected to be 40 per cent more efficient than the previous Superfast vessels, and Planning approval was granted in 2008 for the have greater freight capacity.
erection of four wind turbines at Tilbury and Express Energy have also applied to convert the site leased to Much of the concern associated with climate change Cargill plc at Tilbury to an energy from waste facility.
is focussed on changes in relative sea level however the Forth and Tay are relatively unstudied in this We have also been examining resource efficiency regard.
As part of developing a better understanding across the Group, with a particular focus on energy of the potential geoenvironmental changes that may usage.
Port of Tilbury set itself a target to reduce face our assets in the Forth and Tay, we have funded energy usage relative to the tonnage handled in 2008 a Ph.
D. student at the University of Dundee.
The port actually student has already commenced work analysing achieved an overall reduction in excess of 6% with a Annual Report historical information from our tidal data and records number of asset areas achieving savings of around and Accounts from other locations with the aim of producing 20%.
Last year we reported that the Forth and Tay 2008 Business Review continued Navigation Service building was being used as Pollution Avoidance and Control an energy efficiency trial.
This proved extremely All of our ports have emergency and spill response successful with a reduction in the energy usage of plans.
These are continually monitored, tested and the building during 2008 of over 16%.
During 2008 Scottish Ports undertook a the Carbon Trust supported an energy efficiency major review of its emergency plans and a new survey of all buildings at the Port of Grangemouth generic emergency plan was created that covers all with a view to expansion of the energy efficiency of our Scottish Ports in consultation with emergency campaign in 2009.
A similar exercise is underway services, local authorities and employees.
The plans throughout the Group in relation to water usage dovetail with the estuary-wide, Emergency Forth Plan and fuel.
and the Clearwater Forth Plan, which operate across our harbour authority waters.
Natural Environment Dredging, port and property development continue to The annual testing of the Clearwater Forth Plan took receive high levels of scrutiny through environmental place via a live-play tier 2 exercise during October regulators, NGOs, media and local communities.
This year CEC was the local authority that We are particularly aware of the environmental participated with onlookers from a number of other sensitivities that surround our ports, particularly those authorities around the Forth.
Exercise Black sites designated under the European Directives for Barnacle started in the early morning and tested the the conservation of birds and habitats.
During 2008 callout procedure to mobilise Forth Ports staff and many of the islands in the Firth of Forth that were relevant members of the various governmental already designated as Special Protection Areas for bodies, NGOs and local authorities.
The exercise their bird interests had the designated areas was also designed to exercise our spill responder extended into the marine environment.
and the Environment Group, a committee of experts that provides environmental advice during such We continue to engage regularly and to be actively an incident.
involved in the Forth Estuary Forum, Tay Estuary Forum and Thames Estuary Partnership.
One Waste Management example of our engagement with environmental The MRF at the Port of Tilbury, owned and operated regulators has been our discussions with Scottish by our recycling division, Nordic Recycling, 40 Natural Heritage regarding the planning consent for processed a total of 100,004 tonnes of commingled Leith Docks and its relationship with the colony of recyclables from local authorities in 2008.
Mixed common terns within the docks.
The Company is recyclates are deposited in the facility and the MRF also funding a Ph.
D. student to study the colony and then splits the recyclate into the individual the activities of its inhabitants.
component parts paper, plastic, glass etc.. Inevitably there is an element of material that is Dredging continues to be an essential part of our delivered with the recyclate that is not recycleable.
statutory responsibility to maintain the safety of Where possible this material is sent for energy navigation in our waters.
In the MRF in Chatham Docks, also in the dredging figures when compared to operated by Nordic Recycling, a further 180,000 recent years.
tonnes of clean paper waste was processed in 2008 and shipped to Sweden on vessels that bring newsprint back to Chatham for distribution throughout the UK.
Nordic Recycling operate waste management services for many PLCs across the UK, advising on recycling everything from fluorescent As reported last year, we await final confirmation of tubes through to plastic cups.
the impact of the EU Port Security Directive 2005 65 on our ports.
During 2008 the Department for In Scotland the recycling scheme operating across Transport consulted on their proposals for the Scottish ports offices continues to be successful, implementation of the Directive.
Both the Scottish with greater volumes being recycled this year than Ports and Port of Tilbury responded, in particular last.
Excluding confidential waste paper which is highlighting concerns over bureaucracy, practical shredded and recycled the Scottish offices recycling benefits and costs.
Tilbury will be part of a trial initiative diverted over 59 tonnes of paper, card, regarding the implementation of the Directive for plastic and metal from landfill.
all ports along the River Thames.
Environmental Management Community Responsibility and Involvement The Port of Tilbury remains fully compliant to the ISO Education 14001:2004 Environmental Management Standard Forth Ports PLC is a founder signatory of the EMS.
As reported in the section on health and Waterfront Partnership Accord.
The Accord is a safety, an electronic integrated environmental and partnership between the Edinburgh waterfront quality management system was launched at the developers, CEC, Skills Development Scotland and Port of Tilbury in early November 2008 enabling the Construction Academy, the aim of which is to integration of key safety and environmental ensure that the developments on the waterfront processes.
The system was successfully audited by provide skills, training and employment for the local LRQA in November 2008 to ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. communities.
Since 2005 over 700 people have been placed into work both at the waterfront and across During 2008 Nordic Recycling achieved certification Edinburgh.
The Accord was signed in October at the to the ISO 14001: 2004 Standard for its facilities at official opening of the Forthside Construction Centre the Port of Chatham and in November of 2008, the of Excellence based at Telford College which will Marine Division in Scotland which includes Forth provide facilities for up to 700 apprentices and 200 and Tay Navigation Services, pilotage, conservancy adult learners each year.
and towage achieved its certification.
A key focus element of the Marine EMS is ensuring integration The property division continued its work with final 41 with the Port Marine Safety Code, a voluntary year students at Heriot Watt University on their management system for Harbour Authorities.
The external site projects, this year investigating the Forth Ports Port Marine Safety Code can be found on opportunity for a hotel and special event building the company website: www.
within The Harbour, Leith Docks.
Presentations were given by the student groups at both Heriot Watt and Security Edinburgh School of Art and members of the The Port of Tilbury and Scottish Ports remain fully property team assisted in judging the quality of compliant with the ISPS code and all UK and EU the work.
An inspection team from the European Commission has recently tested compliance at Tilbury.
The team of five inspectors found no deficiencies in any aspect of the security requirements during their three day inspection.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review continued The Port of Grangemouth has sponsored the The Edinburgh Mela relocated its festival to the introduction of the Young International Trader waterfront with Forth Ports as one of the main programme at Grangemouth High School in sponsors.
The Edinburgh Mela is one of the twelve academic years 2008 9 and 2009 10.
The Edinburgh festivals and is Scotlands largest sponsorship given by the port will allow access to inter-cultural event bringing together an eclectic and teaching materials from which the staff will now innovative mix of diverse arts from a variety of cultural develop a course.
Established in 1995, it now supports more than four hundred performers, and over seventy acts In 2008 a consortium of which Port of Tilbury is a and in 2008 attracted over 25,000 people.
Earlier in member was appointed by the Sector Skills Council the year, Forth Ports supported the Scottish Firework Skills for Logistics, to manage and run the East of Championships at Western Harbour and was the title England Academy for Logistics.
sponsor of the increasingly popular Leith Festival.
Performing Arts in the Community Community Engagement and Charitable Activities Port of Tilbury continued its commitment to Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre has supported involvement in the performing arts.
In July the Royal many charities, community groups and schools Opera House, Covent Garden transferred its during 2008.
Many have been provided with space in production workshop from London to the Cruise the Mall for fundraising and awareness raising Terminal at Tilbury to create a peoples opera.
More activities, for example, Guide Dogs for the Blind, the than 600 people from primary school children to Poppy Appeal and Bethany Christian Trust.
There young offenders and pensioners came together for have also been gifts of vouchers and support week long rehearsals and set-building culminating in provided through work placements and mock the performance of Sun and Heir over five days at the interviews for local school children.
Ocean Terminal provided all the materials for a charity gift wrap, where charities ran the stall and The Cruise Terminal again hosted the successful kept the money collected for wrapping the Twelve Days of Christmas show.
The show had over customers gifts.
This raised over 4,000 for the 1,500 community performers and an audience of charities involved.
3,300 attended the event over its nine day run.
42 Tilburys continued commitment to this project was Forth Ports berthed the Spirit of Fairbridge over a five recognised when the port in conjunction with day period at Prince of Wales Dock, Leith.
The visit Thurrock Council won the national JTI Arts & was used to highlight the work that Fairbridge Business Community Award in November.
undertakes within the community and in particular with under privileged children.
The event was well attended by local politicians, dignitaries and sponsors with former trainees giving accounts of their lives and experiences.
During 2008, Forth and Tay Navigation Service was Management Involvement visited by a number of local groups, politicians and Members of the Management Team hold a variety of civil servants to learn about statutory requirements of posts in organisations whose aim is to improve the a competent harbour authority and in particular how community, environmental and economic health of the Forth and Tay are managed by Forth Ports.
the areas in which our business operates: The annual Tilbury Scotland football match continues Charles Hammond sits on the Waterfront to raise money for local charities, along with a host of Development Partnership Board.
smaller departmental events and continued its Perry Glading, the Managing Director, Port of support of various groups including St. Lukes Tilbury, is the Chairman of the Academy of Hospital, Thurrock Rugby U13s team, Tilbury FC and Transport and Logistics for Thurrock and a number of other local causes and charities.
Tilbury Thames Gateway, represents the Group on the is also a Gold member of Essex Wildlife Trust.
Tilbury management board of Port Skills and Safety also took part in the 60th anniversary celebrations of Limited, the organisation which promotes safety the arrival of the Empire Windrush at the Cruise in the port industry, and is Chair of its Ports Terminal.
The Windrush brought the first large group Partnership Project Steering Group.
of West Indian immigrants to the UK after the Second Morag McNeill, the Group Company Secretary, World War and a plaque commemorating the event is a member of the Waterfront Recruitment was unveiled at the terminal.
Nathan Thompson, the Managing Director of The property division entered a team of three in the the Property Division, sits on the Waterfront King Sturge Property Triathlon.
was raised for the Sick Childrens Hospital in Derek McGlashan, the Environment Manager, Edinburgh.
The triathlon took place in and around the is a Director of the Forth Estuary Forum and Olympic rowing lake at Dorney in Berkshire, where represents the United Kingdom Major Ports over 2,000 people competed.
The team came 35th in Group on the Scottish Governments Sustainable the mixed relay class, out of around 200 teams.
Michaela Sullivan, the Head of Planning, is an Port of Dundee has again made an in-kind external examiner on the Master of Urban and 43 contribution to both the North Carr and Unicorn Regional Planning course at Heriot Watt historic vessels berthed in Victoria Dock and the University.
Port of Leith continues to support the historic vessel Mark Tonge, Operations and Resource Director, SS Explorer.
Port of Tilbury is a member of Cranfield Agile Supply Chain Research Group.
Bob Cowan, the Group Financial Accountant, is a member of the Audit Committee of Mercy Corps Scotland, an International Aid and Development Charity that exists to alleviate suffering, poverty and oppression by helping people build secure, productive and just communities.
