Business Review continued Employees 2008 saw the introduction of the new corporate Industrial Relations and Manpower manslaughter legislation: training on the new The Group headcount decreased during 2008 by regulations was delivered across the Group to seventy-eight.
At the year end the employee directors and senior and middle managers by headcount figures were as follows: external legal advisers and the Group solicitor.
The seminars were attended by a total of 54 employees.
Scottish Operation 504 Tilbury 547 The training departments within the Scottish Nordic Group 117 Operation and Tilbury have active external relationships with local colleges, universities and Total 1,168 government agencies, particularly those who have a responsibility for skills development.
2008 culminated A significant factor in the reduction was the TUPE in confirmation by the Sector Skills Council Skills transfer at Tilbury of fifty-eight employees within the for Logistics, that the consortium of which Port of Finnish Terminal to one of our customers, Stanton Tilbury forms part had won the bid to manage and Grove.
Aside from this we have a stable workforce run the East of England Academy for Logistics.
More than forty per cent of the Groups employees have more than ten years Environment And Sustainability of service.
Our Commitment to the Environment and Sustainability Good industrial relations are important to our The Group recognises that our activities have an business and there have been no days lost due to impact on the environment and we strive to minimise industrial disputes since 1989. this where it is practical to do so.
The main potential environmental impacts associated from our activities Employee Involvement fall under the following broad categories: The sixth group-wide information and consultation forum took place during 2008.
The employee Noise representatives take an active interest in health Dust air quality and safety and environmental matters and are Water pollution 38 encouraged to contribute ideas which would benefit Waste the business.
The forum is augmented by local Conservation communication forums and regular meetings with Climate change the recognised trade unions to discuss matters of common interest.
All business areas in the Group have an important role to play in engaging with the Governments of the Training and Development UK and Scotland on issues such as climate change, The Company remains committed to training for recycling, sustainable development and the employees at all levels.
During 2008 182 employees production of renewable energy.
Where appropriate achieved certificates or qualifications.
These include we aim to work with politicians and civil servants to NVQ Level II, NVQ Level III IV, IOSH Health and Safety assist in the development of new legislation in these Certificates, Higher National Certificates and Logistics areas, either directly or through trade groups such degrees.
as the UK Major Ports Group.
In the coming year the focus of our discussions is likely to be the
