01 OUR PERFORMANCE 3 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 4 1 2 3 4 SCANDINAVIA The operational performance 5 in Sweden, Denmark and Norway continues to improve, and we are very pleased with 1 trading in all three markets.
UK & IRELAND We now have 44 stores in We are the market leader Sweden, 8 in Denmark and in the UK, with two popular 2 10 in Norway covering all specialist brands GAME FRANCE the major retail hubs.
We are the number two GAME stores appeal to specialist pc and video Head Ofce: Stockholm mass market customers, and games retailer in the market.
Number of stores: 62 are sited in prime shopping France is traditionally a very Distribution centre: 12,500 sq ft centre and high-street strong market for Nintendo, locations, out-of-town retail which has been reected in 5 parks, and department store its sales of the Wii and DS Lite.
AUSTRALIA concessions in Hamleys, Since we entered the Selfridges, Debenhams Head Ofce: Paris Australian market in 2006, and Fenwicks.
Number of stores: 177 we have run a rapid store Gamestation appeals Distribution centre: 16,000 sq ft opening programme to build more to the core gamers.
GAME The majority of Gamestation now has stores in every state 3 stores are located in popular IBERIA in Australia, and we have secondary retail sites.
GAME has been the leading seen revenues increase retailer of pc and video game GAME by over 400 per cent.
Head Ofce: Basingstoke GAME has benefited from Number of stores: 414 Head Ofce: Sydney the rapid growth of shopping Distribution centre: 196,000 sq ft Number of stores: 55 centres and is represented in Distribution centre: 16,700 sq ft every new retail development GAMESTATION in the country.
We entered the Head Ofce: York Portuguese market in 2006, Number of stores: 235 where we aim to replicate Distribution centre: Outsourced the success of our Spanish operation.
Head Ofce: Madrid Number of stores: 218 Distribution centre: 31,200 sq ft 4 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 MARKET OVERVIEW The world of video games took great strides during 2007.
Nick Parker provides an insiders view.
The interactive gaming industry is entering grew by over 15 per cent, to reach annual the most dynamic growth period in its history.
This compares to a at It is one of the few media sectors still increasing compound annual growth rate CAGR sales and the industry is undergoing rapid between 2000 and 2006. consolidation.
With all three new generation The primary drivers were: the DS Lite consoles now launched and online gaming hand-held device and the Wii console, both starting to capture the imagination of the from Nintendo: the Microsoft Xbox 360 after masses, this market has nally achieved a slow start to the year: and the most recent acceptability as a mainstream medium.
arrival, the Sony PlayStation 3 PS3, which launched in Europe in March 2007 though GAMES SOFTWARE, THE INDUSTRY elsewhere at the end of 2006.
POWERHOUSE The Sony PS2, now seven years old, The market for games software is the most generated software sales of `3.6 billion of important measure of the total games the global total software market value.
This market, as it is the largest product group equates to 20 per cent of the market, putting and demonstrates the desire for gaming it in second place behind the Nintendo DS Lite the most clearly.
In 2007, its worldwide value due to its significant hardware installed base.
Not forgetting the pc software performance, and Wii will reach that gure.
Because, the bread and butter of the market which in this generation, each device is competing keeps many publishers aoat during transition against the other and household saturation periods with consoles, which generated point is a factor.
But the three together are `2.3 billion 12 per cent of total software sure to create a combined market greater sales.
PC was a top four best-performing than those of previous generations.
platform in value terms and generated a Simple, casual online games such as considerable volume of software, a growing Bejeweled or Tetris and MMOGs like World share of which was for massive multiplayer of Warcraft are the dominant gaming games MMOGS.
experience in most of the Far East but account for less than 10 per cent of gaming GLOBAL TRENDS revenues in the West.
However, these internetThe chart below demonstrates the potential driven games are growing signicantly, sales which consoles can achieve, with the introducing new payment models and PS2 selling over 100 million units on a global attracting a less hardcore market.
It is unlikely that any one console out of the three newer releases PS3, Xbox 360 TABLE TWO: LIFETIME HARDWARE SALES FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 2007 USA Western Europe Japan Millions units 50.0 41.1 40.0 36.6 30.0 21.1 21.2 20.0 17.6 20.0 10.5 9.2 9.2 7.4 7.5 10.0 6.2 4.4 4.6 3.2 3.2 1.7 0.6 0 PS2 PS3 Xbox 360 Wii DS PSP Source: Screen Digest 6 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 X MARKET OVERVIEW CONTINUED EUROPEAN FOCUS Western Europe is now the largest games market in the world, with software revenues TABLE THREE: of more than `7.5 billion in 2007.
Within Europe, SOFTWARE MARKET SHARES 2007 the UK leads and is the third strongest market on a global basis after the US and Japan.
Europe has the most evenly-divided share of platform sales in the world, as gaming on pcs remains a viable option.
In 2007, pc sales AUSA 42% of`1.4 billion accounted for 18 per cent of F BJapan 12% total European software sales, much higher CUnited Kingdom 11% than in the US or Japan.
DFrance 6% It was also the first year when all three of EGermany 7% VOLUME E A FOther 22% the next generation consoles were available on the European market, following the PS3 D launch at the end of March.
Hand-held C software, led by Nintendo, is on a par B with Japan in terms of software revenues.
DIVERSE EUROPEAN MARKET CULTURES The unusual aspects of gaming preferences in Europe are the difference in consumer cultures and retail structures across the continent.
For example, in the UK, children behave in a more independent, irreverent AUSA 37% way than children of the same age group F BJapan 13% CUnited Kingdom 13% in Germany, where parental inuence is A DFrance 7% stronger and pc gaming is more popular.
VALUE EGermany 7% These differences mean that local software EUROS E FOther 23% genres and styles have to be respected and games which work well in one country are D not necessarily successful in another.
Indeed, some console devices, due to their gamer C B demographic, work better in some countries and not in others.
Take the Xbox 360, which appeals more to the adult male player and sells well in certain markets like the UK, Australia and the US.
But the more casual, family markets in southern Europe present it with a challenge to gain market share.
Nintendo has always performed well in France, for example, where AConsoles 51% C the gamer demographic is more female, BHand-held 31% family-based and casual than in other parts C PC 18% A of the world.
In general value terms, Germany, France, EUROPE Spain and Italy are next in Europe after the UK, but they have different strengths.
Germany B is the biggest pc gaming market in Europe.
Spain sells more Sony PSP hand-held devices than any other European market except the UK and France is second to the UK Source: Screen Digest on all other consoles.
01 OUR PERFORMANCE GERMANY ITALY SPAIN FRANCE NETHERLANDS SCANDINAVIA UNITED KINGDOM 7 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 Future expansion of the industry will not be LOOKING AHEAD as dramatic as 2007, when the new consoles Consolidation in the ofine, traditional publishing sector will drive market share made such a significant impact.
But the market will continue to grow to new, record and margin expansion.
Video games remain levels in each of the next few years.
In the first a scale-driven industry.
Vendors must increase quarter of 2008, sales are already revealing market share to boost margins, particularly a record performance for this time of the year.
in vibrant markets like MMOGs and casual Games will sit side by side with other media gaming, and by acquiring key franchises and on exciting portable devices and feature new intellectual property in traditional markets.
in leisure environments as the most fun, There are two outstanding deals EAs interactive form of entertainment.
Finally, bid for Take-Two and Vivendis Activision more mainstream media companies will deal along with a host of potential buyout enter the games market.
candidates such as SCi in the UK.
Warner Brothers has started to invest in new gaming divisions to exploit the games market potential for its movie licences and Paramount Studios has just announced a similar strategy.
TABLE FOUR: CULTURAL DIFFERENCES IN KEY EUROPEAN MARKETS IRREVERENT CUTE URBAN CULTURAL TRAITS COMIC CORE FAMILY VALUES Source: GameVision Europe Game Group
