Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Genus plays a key part in the worlds The Environment agricultural economy and delivers Genus recognises that concern for the environment is an essential part of its business operations and seeks to minimise many benefits to global society.
risk to the environment by effective management of the Genus unique position in the supply of superior natural Groups activities.
The Groups environmental policy is to animal genetics enables the worlds farmers and food conduct its business, as a minimum, in compliance with the producers, particularly those in the emerging markets, to laws and regulations applicable to its business in each of the ensure the supply of quality products with increasing output countries in which it operates.
The monitoring and reporting at improved production efficiencies.
In the context of an on environmental performance is an integral part of the ever increasing world population and decreasing resources Companys operations and a key part of the Companys risk being made available for food production, Genus plays management programme.
an increasingly important social and economic role in the efficient production of quality foods.
Genus is committed to the highest standards of corporate and individual behaviour and actively considers the economic, social and environmental impacts of the Companys activities, wherever they operate in the world.
In acting with the highest standards of business conduct, Genus earns the trust of its customers, shareholders, colleagues, suppliers, regulators and the communities in which Genus operates.
Maintaining these standards is vital to the continued success and development of the Company.
Genus Group companies devise procedures which are, as a minimum, compliant with local laws and operating Our Employees conditions.
The Genus Board has overall responsibility for Genus places considerable value on the involvement of its corporate responsibility, assessing the needs of Genus employees and has continued to keep its employees informed stakeholders regularly, and delegates day to day management on matters affecting them as employees and on the various of corporate responsibility issues to the Companys Operating factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is Board in conjunction with regional management.
achieved through formal and informal meetings, internal The Genus approach to corporate responsibility applies to the communications, the Companys magazine and the Groups following key areas: the environment, our employees, health intranet.
& safety, our stakeholder relationships and our community.
Genus employment policies respect the individual regardless The Genus principles of corporate responsibility apply to of sex, age, race or religion.
Full and fair consideration is all our employees and are a minimum standard for their given to applications for employment from disabled people.
The services of employees who become disabled are retained wherever possible and training, career development and promotion opportunities are provided where appropriate.
The Group has a well established structure to communicate with employees at every level and to encourage their involvement regarding the Groups performance and future activities.
We require all employees to act in an ethical manner both within the Company and in dealings with other organisations, and to comply with all applicable laws and Company policies.
22 I Annual Report 2008 Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Social Responsibility Business Review 02 - 05 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Health & Safety Genus is committed to providing safe systems of work for its employees in all countries in which it operates and pro-actively monitors compliance with local regulations.
This commitment is supported by a comprehensive training regime for the Groups employees.
The monitoring and reporting on the Companys health & safety performance is an integral part of the Companys operations and a key part of the Companys risk management programme.
06 - 23 Genus recognises that concern for the environment is an essential part of its business operations 24 - 40 Our Stakeholder Relationships Customers Our Community Genus aims to provide products and services of the highest Genus recognises its responsibilities as a member of the quality and technical standards appropriate to our customers communities in which it operates and, at a local level, own requirements.
At all times Genus takes all reasonable encourages its operating companies to engage with the local steps to ensure the safety and quality of the goods and community in their areas of operation.
At a Group level the services that Genus provides, including compliance with all Company has contributed to the Sichuan earthquake disaster applicable regulatory requirements.
fund in China and sponsors the Farm Business Awards and the John Beckett Foundation, which provides business Suppliers scholarships to young farmers.
Genus is committed to working with suppliers in mutually beneficial ways, and, so far as is practicable, requires that 41 - 104 suppliers and contractors act in accordance with its values and policies.
Annual Report 2008 I 23 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Board of Genus plc  John Hawkins 55 Chairman John Hawkins joined the Board in June 2000 and was appointed Chairman of the Board and the Nomination Committee in August 2004.
He is Chief Executive of Atex Group Limited, non-executive Chairman of The Salamander Organisation Limited, and a non-executive director of Psion plc.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Anite Group plc and before that he was with Philips Electronics for 19 years, latterly as European President of Philips Media.
Richard Wood 63 Chief Executive Richard Wood is a graduate chartered chemical engineer.
He worked for ICI for 23 years and is a former Managing Director of ICI Seeds UK.
He then worked for 7 years in the pharmaceutical industry, firstly as Chief Executive of Daniels Pharmaceutical Limited until it was acquired by Lloyds Chemists plc and then as Managing Director of a division of Lloyds.
He joined Genus as Chief Executive in December 1996.
Martin Boden 49 Group Finance Director Martin Boden is a graduate chartered accountant with considerable experience of large and diverse FTSE100 companies.
Prior to joining Genus as Group Finance Director in April 2007 he was Group Financial Controller of GUS plc, a FTSE100 retail and business services Group.
After qualifying with Robson Rhodes, he worked for the WHSmith Group, NatWest UK and Zurich Financial Services before joining GUS plc.
Nigel Turner 59 Senior Non-Executive Director Nigel Turner joined the Board in January 2008 and chairs the Remuneration Committee.
He was the Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from December 2005 to November 2007.
Previously he was Vice Chairman of ABN AMROs Wholesale and Investment Bank in which he had specific responsibility for the Global Corporate Finance and Equity businesses.
He joined the Dutch bank in 2000 from Lazard, where he was a partner for 15 years and sat on its Supervisory Board.
John Worby 58 Non-Executive Director John Worby joined the Board in September 2004 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a non executive director of Cranswick plc, Smiths News plc and Heatherwood & Wexham Park Hospitals NHS Trust, and was previously Deputy Chairman and Finance Director of Uniq plc formerly Unigate plc.
Previously he was Group Treasurer of Unigate plc and Finance Director of Wincanton Ltd.
Professor Barry Furr 64 Non-Executive Director Professor Furr recently retired as Chief Scientist and Head of Project Evaluation for AstraZeneca plc after 34 years of service.
He is a non-executive director of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and was awarded an OBE in 2000 for his services to cancer drug discovery.
He joined the Board in December 2006 and is the author of more than 160 papers on reproductive endocrinology and antihormones.
Ian Farrelly 40 Group Company Secretary & General Counsel Ian Farrelly is a solicitor with substantial experience of legal and Company secretarial affairs affecting international and public companies in a variety of sectors.
He joined Genus in June 2006 from Microgen plc where he was Group General Counsel, and was previously Group Solicitor & Company Secretary of Diagonal plc and Solicitor to Hays plc.
24 I Annual Report 2008 Director Genu s s Report Board Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Board of Genus plc Chief Operating Officers of Genus plc Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 02 - 05 Advisors  Chief Operating Officers of Genus plc SECRETARY & REGISTERED OFFICE Ian Biggs 50 I B Farrelly Chief Operating Officer - The Americas Belvedere House Ian Biggs is a graduate chartered accountant having Basing View qualified with KPMG.
He joined Genus in 2000 and was Basingstoke Chief Operating Officer for bovine genetics until December Hampshire 2005 when, with the acquisition of Sygen International plc, RG21 4HG he became Chief Operating Officer of the Americas of the Registered Number 2972325 enlarged Group.
Prior to joining Genus he was with Roslin Bio Med, a Company formed by the Roslin Institute and AUDITORS before that he was with PIC, which became Sygen, first as Deloitte & Touche LLP Group Finance Director and later as Managing Director of Hill House the European business followed by being head of North 1 Little New Street American operations.
London EC4A 3TR 06 - 23 REGISTRARS Equiniti Limited Aspect House Philip Acton 50 Spencer Road Chief Operating Officer Europe, Asia, Lancing Australia & Africa West Sussex Philip Acton is a graduate chartered accountant having BN99 6DA qualified with Deloitte.
He joined Genus in 1995 and was its Finance Director until March 2003 when he became STOCKBROKERS the Chief Operating Officer of Genus Animal Health.
JPMorgan Cazenove Following the acquisition of Sygen in December 2005 he 20 Moorgate became Chief Operating Officer of Europe, Asia, Australia London & Asia.
Prior to joining Genus he worked for 10 years in EC2R 6DA the electrical engineering sector and was Group Finance Panmure Gordon & Co. Director of Scholes Group plc.
Moorgate Hall 155 Moorgate 24 - 40 London EC2M 6XB Landsbanki Securities UK Ltd Beaufort House 15 St. Botolph Street Steve Amies 57 London Chief Operating Officer EC3A 7QR Global Research & Product Development Steve Amies is an agriculture graduate from Reading SOLICITORS University.
He joined Genus at its inception in 1994.
Berwin Leighton Paisner Thereafter he held a range of posts across product Adelaide House development and operations, culminating in the post of London Bridge Managing Director of the Companys UK and European London bovine breeding business.
Following completion of EC4R 9HA the Sygen acquisition in December 2005 he became Chief Operating Officer of Global Research & Product FINANCIAL ADVISERS Development.
JPMorgan Cazenove 41 - 104 20 Moorgate London EC2R 6DA Landsbanki Securities UK Ltd Beaufort House 15 St. Botolph Street London EC3A 7QR BANKERS Barclays plc 1 Marsden Street Manchester M2 1HW Annual Report 2008 I 25
