Right place... Local identity is key to running a successful bus operation: Go North East operates 50 locally branded routes.
With around 20% of the London bus market 3.
5. we are one of the capitals biggest operators.
Oxford Bus Company has the lowest emissions of any bus operator in the UK.
Revenue m 267.0 76.4 66.8 64.8 45.4 30.1 Managing Director JohnTrayner Peter Huntley Alex Carter Alan Eatwell Roger French Philip Kirk Nature of business Regulated Deregulated Deregulated Regulated deregulated Deregulated Deregulated Geographical area Central London Tyne &Wear Dorset South East London Brighton Oxfordshire South London County Durham Wiltshire Kent Hove Routes to: East London Hampshire Surrey Eastbourne London, Isle ofWight East Sussex TunbridgeWells Heathrow and Southampton West Sussex Steyning Shoreham Gatwick Approx passenger journeys 360 million 70 million 35 million 55 million 45 million 20 million Number of employees 4,611 2,076 1,569 1,261 1,052 574 Fleet size 1,466 buses 664 buses 519 buses 389 buses 263 buses 148 buses Rounded to the nearest 5 million.
qxp:Layout 3 12 9 08 13:02 Page 9 We have started the new year with a stronger base than last year, following the disposal of GoWest Midlands, the bolt-on acquisitions and the hedging of all of next years fuel requirements.
Despite these increases, fuel remains a relatively small part Deregulated bus operations of our cost base at around 10%.
We have hedged all of our Revenue, operating profit and margin improved in each expected fuel consumption for the year to June 2009 at an of our five deregulated operations.
average cost of 43p per litre and around half of the following Demand for our deregulated bus services was strong in the years requirement at 52p per litre.
Our hedging policy is to year.
Excluding Go West Midlands, growth in revenue was 8.2% maintain this level of cover, rolling forward on a quarterly basis.
and passenger numbers increased by 2.9% with a fourth quarter We remain confident that we can recover these increases over increase in passengers of 4.9%.
This was led by an increase in time through a combination of fuel efficiency programmes and concessionary passenger journeys.
were extended nationally on 1 April 2008 and now represent Two thirds of our operating costs consist of labour and our some 30% of our passenger numbers and around 20% of operating companies continue to progress productivity initiatives revenue.
We have agreed satisfactory reimbursement rates during annual wage negotiations.
In addition, the division benefited with local authorities for around two thirds of these schemes from a net reduction in pension costs of 3.0m.
and are looking to agree the remainder at rates which give us a fair return for the services provided.
Total depreciation for the division was 30.9m 2007: 29.0m, and capital expenditure was 36.3m 2007: 36.1m.
We have The overall number of fare paying passengers remained the youngest deregulated bus eet in the sector with an average similar to last year, with the expected reduction from passengers age of 6.4 years.
switching to concessionary fares being offset by new fare paying passengers.
The recent changes in the concessionary schemes Regulated bus operations have clouded visibility on these underlying trends, but we Our London bus business achieved a significant increase in the believe that the new passengers are due in part to modal scale of its operations during the year and delivered another shift, with customers switching from car to bus in response strong performance.
to recent increases in fuel prices.
Revenue increased by 12.4% and mileage operated increased by 12.7%.
Around half of this increase was due to acquisitions, Outlook with the balance due to net contract wins and existing We have started the new year with a stronger base than contract extensions.
last year, following the disposal of Go West Midlands, the bolt-on acquisitions and the hedging of all of next years Quality incentive bonuses totalled 13.7m 2007: 13.0m.
This included a particularly strong performance from the regulated operations of Metrobus.
We continue to frequently We are pleased with the progress we have made to date top theTfL quality league tables and operated 99.6% of our to recover fuel price rises through a combination of fare target mileage before losses due to trafc congestion.
We are maintaining tight control over all of our costs, although our net pension costs We own around 90% of our depot capacity on a freehold for next year are likely to be around 3m higher than this year.
basis, which provides a strong base for contract renewals.
We have a number of cost saving initiatives planned, supported Nevertheless, the competitive nature ofTfL route tendering by targeted capital investment.
In London, we currently expect means that there is usually some turnover of route operations the negative impact of contract changes on operating profit and at this time we expect our peak vehicle requirements to be limited to around 1m and we will continue to be to reduce by around 4% during the course of next year as competitive in tenders and maximise our quality incentive a result of recent tenders awards.
In our deregulated operations, we will look to Overall, in our regulated operations, we increased operating maximise the opportunity from modal shift by continuing profit and held margins at similar levels to last year despite to provide high quality services, supported by initiatives to the higher fuel costs.
encourage motorists to leave their cars and use our services.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9
