Business review Corporate social responsibility report We believe that over the last few years The beauty of the shellsh served at Loch environmental impacts with a view to Fyne is the simplicity and purity of the farming establishing environmental key performance we have made good progress in taking process.
There is minimal human intervention indicators, measuring our emissions and use our corporate responsibilities seriously.
or articial input until harvesting so the of resources and to enable us to publicly In the current environment in which mussels, oysters, langoustine and scallops report on our progress in minimising our we are operating it is fundamental feed and grow at their own pace in the fertile environmental burden.
When they reach the that we are recognised as a good optimum size, they are harvested and sent It is our aim to fully understand the nature and corporate citizen.
We continue to daily to the restaurants to be enjoyed by source of our environmental impacts both investigate further ways in which customers across the country.
through our direct operations and our supply we can ensure that all our business chain.
By undertaking this programme we will Environment be able to both minimise our impact on society activities are conducted in a socially Our business impacts on the environment and the environmental risks to our business.
in a variety of ways, including our use of raw materials, agricultural products, energy and Next year we intend to publish our Loch Fyne Restaurants water, the distribution of our products, the environmental KPIs in accordance with both Loch Fyne has always taken seriously the emission of greenhouse gases, odours and the international Greenhouse Gas Protocol promotion of sustainability, traceability and noise, the generation of packaging which and the UK DEFRA guidelines.
This framework care for the marine landscape.
The company needs to be disposed of and the production, will enable us to demonstrate to our investors does not serve sh from endangered stocks processing, collection and disposal of waste.
and our stakeholders our goals and progress and ensures that the products used in the We continue to investigate ways in which towards making continuous and meaningful restaurants derive from a sustainable resource, our environmental impact can be reduced environmental improvement.
either wild or farmed responsibly.
Its excellent across all areas of the business, including ethical approach to sh purchasing was our pubs, breweries, distribution activities A responsible attitude to alcohol and recognised by the Ethical Consumer magazine and in our head ofce, and to implement visiting pubs in a report written in the spring of 2008. environmental improvements.
The group strives to ensure that alcohol produced by us or sold in our pubs is White sh come mainly from carefully selected An example of this has been in relation to our consumed responsibly.
Our promotional farms or from small day boats shing around use of patio heaters.
With the introduction of materials carry clear and concise messages the coast of Britain.
The company does not the smoking ban, the heating of external areas encouraging the responsible consumption source sh from deep-sea trawlers due to the has inevitably increased.
To minimise the of alcohol, and all bottles, cans and consumer damage their vast nets have on by-catch and on impact thereof, our managed pubs estate has outer packaging for our beers specify the the overall health of the marine environment.
sourced infra-red patio heaters which have number of units of alcohol.
From September, signicantly higher energy efficiency levels than this will be extended so that they all also advise Loch Fyne serves farmed salmon a decision their gas equivalents.
These are also more female drinkers not to drink during pregnancy.
based on the urgent need to allow wild stocks cost effective and only work when there are We continue to comply with both the to replenish in the UK waters.
The decision on people using the external areas.
We continue Portman Groups code of practice on the which farmed salmon to use was based on as far as possible to avoid the use of naming, packaging and promotion of alcoholic quality, avour and animal welfare criteria and inefficient heating appliances.
drinks, and the British Beer and Pub the companys main suppliers were the first in Associations code on drinks promotions.
the UK to receive the RSPCAs Freedom Food As part of our commitment to environmental None of our adverts are designed to appeal accreditation for their pioneering approach to management and excellence, we are to under 18s, to focus on the alcoholic strength rearing, feeding and managing their stocks.
undertaking a review of all our operations of the beer, to suggest any association with GREENE KING PLC 21 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Business review Corporate social responsibility report bravado or aggressive behaviour, nor to We encourage our tenanted and leased pubs and receive information about the company imply that consumption can lead to social to follow our lead in this area.
All such pubs on a regular basis.
We have good consultative or sexual success.
have received Challenge 21 posters, check ID and collective bargaining relationships with our stickers and training guidance for staff, as well trade unions.
We remain a key supporter of the Publican as information on responsible gaming.
trade magazines Proud of Pubs campaign, All our employees are offered access to a in which pubs pledge not to serve underage Smoking  dened contribution drinkers or anyone who is drunk, to support All our pubs are now smoke-free.
Many of our employees our local communities and respect local pubs have been smoke-free since 2005, and have benefited from the range of employee residents and businesses.
In our managed in England and Wales the ban was introduced share schemes on offer, including a sharesave pubs we support the Challenge 21 last summer.
We implemented a bespoke scheme open to all and a profit-sharing initiative, which requires our staff to ask for programme of capital investment to fidescheme open to employees with the requisite identication if a customer appears to be seasonalise our extensive external trading qualifying service, provided the relevant under 21, so as to prove that they are at least areas, and provided a comprehensive staff and performance criteria have been met.
We track attempts by under-age customer education programme, as a result drinkers to order alcoholic drinks and operate of which there has been total compliance with Tenants a proof-of-age scheme: all you can drink the new legislation in all our managed and Pub Partners is committed to providing the promotions and heavily discounted prices tenanted houses, with the exception of one best possible support to tenants to help are not a feature of our managed pubs.
them succeed with their businesses, and was proud to win the NITA award for the Best Security training is provided for all our new Employees Development Programme for Non-managed managers and we train our retail staff on how We have a clear understanding of the need Estates in 2007, as well as the NITA supreme to determine when it would be inappropriate to recruit and retain talented staff if we are award for its overall high standard of training.
to serve a customer and how to manage to meet our aim of being the best pub and Over 1800 licensees were trained during difficult situations in a calm, safe and considered beer company in the UK.
With best quality the year, on courses covering subjects manner.
Security systems, including CCTV, are customer service being a key priority, we focus ranging from finance, marketing and cellar in place in all our English managed pubs, backed closely on the training of all customer-facing management to health and safety and security.
up by central monitoring systems in 290 of employees.
In a new initiative, all senior Our Go for Growth training programme is them.
90% of our managed pubs participate employees will be participating in a mystery specically designed to help our new licensees in the local Pub Watch scheme, an initiative guest programme for our pubs, giving feedback develop a profitable and sustainable business, designed to promote a safer environment on a regular basis to help improve our with an initial induction day being followed for people to work and socialise in.
standards of service and cleanliness.
up six months later to ensure that the momentum is continued.
Independent We also recognise that many of our A set of common values applies to all our research has revealed that over 75% of those community pubs need to operate responsibly employees, from senior managers to bar staff, attending the course during 2007 08 had in relation to gaming in pubs.
All our fruit and we have policies on a range of issues from increased their profits since attending the machines carry the GamCare helpline number equal opportunities to exible working, given course.
Our share and save programme, with on them.
that a large proportion of our employees are 45 approved suppliers, provides real benets female, and or work part time.
Employees to our tenants in areas such as electricity, have the opportunity to express their views food, credit card machines and furniture.
GREENE KING PLC 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 We aim to optimise rather than maximise Charities and community our rent, as we believe there should be a fair Our pubs are at the heart of the community division of the economic profit in our tenanted they serve and we are committed to being houses, and, in order to help support our new an active and positive contributor to local tenants, we encourage open book accounting, communities.
We encourage all of our pub so that we can help them recognise early on managers and licensees to build up good if there are issues.
We are particularly pleased when their efforts are In Scotland our focus this year has been on recognised, as happened in April when the assisting tenants in their preparations for the West End Inn in Melksham won the Wiltshire significant and challenging requirements of Police and County Councils Responsible the Licensing Scotland Act 2005.
Organisation in the Community Award.
Health and safety Many of our employees, licensees and We are committed to providing a safe and customers, not just in our pubs but throughout secure environment for both our employees the business, get involved in charitable and our customers.
Jonathan Lawson has been activities, ranging from sports events, quizzes, appointed as the main board director with rafes, auctions and all manner of other responsibility for championing health and things to help either good local, national or safety improvements across the business and international causes.
We often offer help by best practice is shared across all business units.
donating prizes or additional funds.
significant Following an external strategic review of safety amounts of money can be raised for many management undertaken during the year, different charitable causes in this way.
further improvements were made to our safe ways of working and the support provided to our operators.
The safety performance across our managed estate has been strengthened through the innovative use of available technology, and we have embarked upon a capital programme of risk reduction measures to further protect our pubs from re and ooding.
Our Brewing Company once again won two gold awards at the prestigious RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety Awards this year, for occupational health and safety and managing occupational road risk.
GREENE KING PLC 23 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08
