Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Significant accounting policies continued f Intangible assets k Impairment The Groups only intangible asset is accounting software which is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The carrying amounts of the Group and Companys assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Impairment reviews are Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other carried out on an individual shop basis unless there are a number of shops in the same location, in which case the impairment review is based on the location.
expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date that they are income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in prior years are assessed at each reporting date and reversed if there has been a change in the available for use.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed Software 5 years the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
g Property, plant and equipment l Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held for sale.
Immediately i Owned assets before classification as held for sale, the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Group and Companys accounting policies.
Thereafter generally Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see the assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
accounting policy k. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
m Share capital ii Subsequent costs i Repurchase of share capital When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a The Group and Company recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares that are held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan are classified as treasury shares and are presented when the cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to the Group and its cost can be as a deduction from total equity.
All other costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
iii Depreciation ii Dividends Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each part of an item of property, Dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
Freehold and long leasehold properties are depreciated by equal instalments over a period of 40 years.
n Employee share ownership plan The depreciation rates are as follows: The Group and Parent Company accounts include the assets and related liabilities of the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
In both the Group and Short leasehold properties 10% Parent Company accounts the shares held by the EBT are stated at cost and deducted from total equity.
Plant: o Employee benefits General 10% Computers 20% - 33 1 3% i Defined contribution plans Motor vehicles 20% - 25% Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when they are due.
Delivery trays 33 1 3% ii Defined benefit plans Shop fixtures and fittings: The Group and Companys obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated by estimating the amount of the future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years.
That benefit is discounted to General 10% determine its present value and any unrecognised past service costs, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield Electronic equipment 20% at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values if not insignificant are reassessed annually.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest iv Assets in the course of construction immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Depreciation on these assets commences when the assets are available for use.
The Group and Company recognise actuarial gains and losses in full in the year in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expense.
h Investments iii Share-based payment transactions Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date, using an appropriate model, taking into account i Inventories the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted, and is spread over the period during which the employees become Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the weighted average cost formula.
where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
j Cash and cash equivalents For options granted before 7 November 2002 the recognition and measurement principles of IFRS 2 have not been applied in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1.
In addition deferred taxation has not been recognised on these options but is accounted for as current tax when it arises.
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 44 45
