Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 CSR Governance: Our product range has recently 2009 Targets: GREGGS CARES GREGGS CARES... about giving undergone a number of changes, our customers GREAT FOOD In 2008, we established a new Social By the end of June 2009, we will have At Greggs, we care that our customers including: THEY CAN TRUST: Responsibility Steering Committee, removed all added trans fats, are getting great quality food they can chaired by Ken McMeikan, Chief Executive Removal of all hydrogenated fats from hydrogenated fats and oils from ALL trust: that our people are looked after At Greggs, we care passionately about the and comprising five members of the our savoury products: the products that we make ourselves.
and treated well: that we help to make food we make and sell.
Our customers Greggs Operating Board and the Social a positive difference in the communities are loyal to Greggs because we offer them reducing the level of trans and saturated We will roll out our national product Responsibility Director.
The Committee where we operate: and minimise our great tasting, fresh, quality bakery food.
fats: range so that, by the end of 2009, meets every six weeks, with individual impact on the environment around us.
We recognise our responsibility to help nutritional information will be available using reduced salt hams within our members fully accountable for progress We take our corporate social our customers to make choices about the to all our customers in our shops for product range: and delivery of actions.
We are now able responsibilities CSR very seriously.
food they eat and have been proactively our savoury, sandwich and drinks to set specific targets and commitments Over the years, we have been particularly working on our approach to healthier reducing the fat content of our range.
in our key CSR areas, which we will report active in our local communities and in food for several years.
We are making mayonnaise by 10 per cent: By the end of 2009 we will have on annually.
looking after and rewarding our people significant progress in extending and offering a range of fruit juice and fruit removed ALL artificial colours from the who work at Greggs.
More recently, creating a balanced range of healthier smoothies to complement the choice products we make.
we have broadened our CSR agenda to choices and treats, vegetarian and meat of healthier products available: include our commitments to reducing sandwiches and savouries, mayo and We will make significant progress our impact on the environment.
In 2008 no mayonnaise sandwiches and a wide trialling salads and fruit salad pots: towards removal of ALL artificial flavours we made good progress.
choice of drinks to suit all tastes.
Greggs plc Main Board from the products we make and achieve switching to lower fat vegetable spreads this completely by the middle of 2010.
We know that many of our customers in all our sandwiches: would welcome clearer nutritional reducing the salt content of our bread information about our products.
By the CSR Steering Group 2009 Commitments: by at least 10 per cent and in some end of 2009, 80 per cent of our range will Chair: Ken McMeikan cases 20 per cent: We will continue to assess the recipes be harmonised across the country and Chief Executive for all our products, working towards this will make it easier for us to provide making significant progress on the the Food Standards Agencys nutritional information for our customers.
removal of artificial colours from our recommended salt and fat targets for products.
We continually work hard to ensure our each type of food.
Food & Nutrition Great Place to Work Community Group Environmental Carbon Group customers can enjoy good food with a Group Group Impacts Group Richard Hutton Nigel Oldham taste they love as part of a healthy, Scott Jefferson Nicola Bailey Group Finance Director Raymond Reynolds Group Production & balanced diet.
Distribution Director Customer & Marketing Group People Director Group Retail Director Greggs Trust Director Breakfast clubs Electricity Health & Wellbeing Landfill Food provenance Skills & development Fun Runs Packaging Gas Diesel Food Standards Agency Feeling valued BBC Children in Need Carrier bags Water Nutritional info Litter Refrigerant gas Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 18 In 2008 we reduced the salt content of our bread by at least 10 per cent Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 We encourage our people to share in and area managers were internal GREGGS CARES... about being a the ownership of the business through promotions.
We are very proud of this GREAT PLACE TO WORK our Save As You Earn scheme which high figure, as it demonstrates that we With over 19,000 people working at offers the opportunity to buy shares in are able to offer our people the Greggs, our goal is to make sure that the company.
In 2008, we had over opportunity to progress within the every individual feels valued, looked after 3,500 people participating in our SAYE company.
and well rewarded for their contribution scheme.
We have a bakery apprentice scheme.
to the success of the business.
We want We offer a range of family friendly In 2008, we had 25 bakery apprentices our people to enjoy the work they do policies, which recognise family rights across the UK.
and feel proud to be part of Greggs.
and help our people to achieve a The health and wellbeing of our people 2009 Targets: sensible work-life balance.
We promote is of paramount importance to us: equal opportunities and encourage By the end of 2009, 100 per cent of diversity and inclusion via policies that We have robust Health & Safety controls employees will have access to private ensure we do not discriminate on the in place, designed to protect our medical treatment for any accidents grounds of age, gender, ethnic origin people at work and our customers when that may occur in the workplace.
From January 2010, we will undertake We actively encourage people to talk We support our people with private an Annual Employee Opinion Survey.
about how they feel about working for medical treatment where accidents have In the 2010 survey, our target is that 75 Greggs, via our employee opinion occurred at work, meaning treatment per cent of employees will participate survey EOS.
Currently our EOS is is much quicker for the individual.
in the survey and we seek to improve undertaken every two years.
In 2008, This service is currently available to our 2008 score of 72 per cent of 70 per cent of employees participated in approximately 80 per cent of employees feeling engaged with the survey and employee engagement employees.
how our people feel about working for All our people have free access to 2009 Commitments: Greggs scored 72 per cent.
confidential assistance 24 hours a day, We are committed to continuing our We want to train and develop our people 365 days a year for expert support and Employee Assistance Programme for to ensure they are successful in their advice on legal, financial, work, everyone who works at Greggs.
roles and progress at Greggs: personal and other difficulties they may be experiencing.
We are committed to maintaining at Our core skills training programmes least 75 per cent of all new shop and provide extensive additional skills We want our people to feel rewarded, area management appointments from beyond First Day Induction, to help our valued and engaged in the business: internal promotion.
people to be successful in their roles.
We want our people to be rewarded We are committed to maintaining 25 The majority of our people are employed when our business is doing well and for bakery apprenticeships through 2009. in our shops and in 2008, 75 per cent many years 100 per cent of employees of all newly appointed shop managers have been eligible for profit share.
TERRY GALLAGHER, BAKERY TEAM LEADER, 22 YEARS SERVICE In 2008 10 per cent of company profits were shared with our People Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 staggering 360,000 for BBC Children 2009 Targets: GREGGS CARES... about in Need, more than double the amount MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO In 2009, we will continue to invest raised in 2007, thanks to the great COMMUNITIES in which we trade 225,000 in our 124 Breakfast Clubs efforts of our people and the generosity and will work to develop partnerships We are committed to making a positive of our customers.
with other organisations to expand the difference to local communities.
In 2008, the annual North East tremendously proud of the Greggs Trust, Childrens Cancer Run and similar fun a registered charity founded by Ian Gregg In 2009, we will maintain our commitment runs in other regions raised 310,000 in 1987, and of our staff volunteers who to community grant-making through for childrens cancer charities.
raise and distribute funds in their local the Greggs Trust, providing support areas.
The Trust continues to thrive, In total, in 2008 we helped to raise and from our people and donating 300,000. receiving sizeable donations from Greggs distribute over 1.8m to help make a In 2009, we will aim to exceed the plc: employees through our Give As You difference to peoples lives.
360,000 we raised in 2008 and develop Earn scheme : staff fundraising activities: our relationship with BBC Children in Our North East, Scotland and Midlands donations from major shareholders: and Need to continue to engage our staff divisions donate some of their unsold investment income.
food from our shops to local charities, by Each day, our award-winning Greggs working in partnership with Fareshare In 2009, we will continue to sponsor Breakfast Clubs provide over 6,000 and other local organisations.
the North East Childrens Cancer Run primary school children with a free, healthy and hold runs in five other divisions for breakfast.
Our model is unique in that our local childrens cancer charities.
people work with teachers to encourage parents, grandparents and other 2009 Commitments: volunteers to run the clubs and serve the We will develop our work with Fareshare breakfasts.
In doing so they help others and other organisations to donate more in their communities to impact positively of our unsold food to local charities.
on these childrens lives and contribute to the nations healthy living agenda.
In 2009 is the third year of our sponsorship of The Sage Gatesheads Childrens 2009, we invested 225,000 in our 124 Room, established as a tribute to the Breakfast Clubs across the UK.
contribution to the business over many Our people undertake a tremendous years of Ian Gregg and former Finance range of additional fundraising to help Director Malcolm Simpson.
support local and national causes.
Examples include: 2009 is the third year of our investment in a five year North East Enterprise Participation in BBC Children in Need.
Bond, encouraging new business start This is becoming a regular event in the ups across the North East.
In 2008, we raised a TAMMY, BREAKFAST CLUB VOLUNTEER In 2008 we helped to raise and distribute 1.8 million to help local communities Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 Reducing landfill - we are striving to We have changed the materials used in Reducing our carbon footprint: 2009 Commitments: Progress against our CSR targets and GREGGS CARESabout reduce the amount of waste we generate our carrier bags to be more commitments will be reported REDUCING OUR IMPACT ON In 2008, we have, for the first time, been and, where waste does occur, to find environmentally friendly so that, once We will aim to divert more of our waste annually.
In line with Our Values, THE WORLD AROUND US able properly to measure the Companys alternatives for its disposal.
disposed of, they are broken down away from landfill.
Greggs is committed to operating our carbon footprint, and have this figure In line with Our Values, we wish to operate naturally more quickly.
business responsibly and to make a In 2008, we put in place arrangements independently verified.
This will form the We will aim to reduce our total energy our business responsibly and to protect positive difference in the communities to donate some of our unsold food to Our paper bags and carrier bags have baseline for our commitment to reduce consumption.
the environment for future generations to where we operate.
We will seek to local charities in our North East, clear messages on them asking our carbon footprint each year.
In 2008, we made good progress We will aim to increase the amount of strengthen further our CSR targets Scotland and Midlands divisions, by customers to Please use a bin and keep we made pledges to the Prince of Wales in our environmental work and have our packaging that is made from and commitments in the year ahead working in partnership with Fareshare Britain tidy.
MayDay Network a Business in the achieved regional recognition for some sustainable sources.
Community Programme : of our activities.
We won the silver award The Keep Britain Tidy logo is displayed We will seek to make reductions in our in the Cumbria Business Environment In 2008, we continued to review our in all of our shops.
PLEDGE 1: To measure our carbon overall carbon footprint against our Networks environmental awards and retail and bakery procedures to find emissions In the last couple of years we have 2008 baseline.
Manchester City Councils Environmental more ways to reduce the amount of worked in partnership with over 50 PLEDGE 2: To report our carbon Business Pledge Gold Award for our food waste generated, whilst at the We will help to tackle litter by further Local Authorities to tackle any litter emissions to Business in the Community approach to environmental good practice.
same time ensuring continued encouraging our customers to dispose issues that they have brought to our availability of food for our customers.
We also participated in the Carbon of their packaging responsibly, and by attention.
Disclosure Project, widely regarded as the working closely with the relevant bodies Litter - we recognise that we have a role Minimising the impact of our business gold standard for carbon disclosure where issues are identified.
in helping to tackle the issue of litter.
methodology and process, providing Packaging - we strive to follow the reduce, We will continue to work towards Serving over 5 million customers per week primary climate change data to the global re-use, recycle principles to ensure that increasing the proportion of cardboard, from over 1,400 shops nationwide, market place.
we are not using unnecessary packaging: paper and plastic that we recycle from Greggs, along with other food-on-the-go that we derive our packaging from In 2008, our bakery energy consumption our shops, bakeries and offices.
retailers, share the responsibility of helping sustainable sources: and that we provide reduced by 7.5 per cent from 2007, to ensure that our local environments packaging that can be re-used.
As a food despite an increase in production levels.
remain clean and pleasant places to live business, there are strict rules governing We installed a new electricity monitoring and work.
Litter is an on-going challenge.
the amount of recycling content that food system for trial in 85 shops in Yorkshire So far, we have taken the following packaging can contain, as ensuring food to help reduce shop energy consumption.
However, within This trial will continue during 2009.
We no longer automatically issue carrier these rules, we seek to do all we can.
Instead, our In 2008, we achieved a 17 per cent customers request a carrier bag if they reduction in the total number of carrier need one.
This has contributed bags used compared with 2007. significantly to the 17 per cent reduction in the number of carrier bags we issued In 2008, 78 per cent of our total in 2008. packaging was produced from sustainable sources.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 24 In 2008 we gave out 17 per cent less carrier bags
