14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMERS Halfords is committed to managing its business in a socially responsible manner.
Our corporate social Overview responsibility CSR programme is designed to We market high quality products that meet or exceed address the important CSR issues that we face, to the requirements of appropriate legislation, facilitate appropriate management behaviour and be international conventions and codes of practice.
Where aligned with the Groups business strategy.
Our aim is external guidance does not exist, we apply our own to continually improve our management of the social, exacting standards.
With a complex product range of environmental and economic issues within our control over 10,000 items, we talk with our customers every or influence throughout the business and our supply day to ensure that our range meets their requirements network.
and that they understand how to use our products safely.
We believe management of our CSR is not only the right thing to do, it also makes good business sense, The quality of our products is fundamental to the and we see it as a core business consideration as it continued growth and success of the Halfords brand.
gives us strategic, commercial and reputational Our aim is to ensure that our product offer exceeds benefits.
We aim to achieve standards of responsible customer expectations in terms of safety, performance care across a number of key areas, including: and value for money.
Through fresh insights and customers, trading, health & safety, the environment, innovation driven by our customer focus we also seek employee welfare and the community.
to offer customers new products that are stylish, imaginative and which provide effective solutions.
Our customers are more likely to enter our stores because they trust our advice and our offer.
They are Our products are manufactured to consistently high more likely to buy from us because they trust us to standards, meeting our own internal standards and provide products of the highest quality that are safe complying with local regulatory standards.
We also aim and easy to use and that have been sourced in an to develop a programme: to manage materials used in ethical manner ensuring that no community associated own-brand products, and to influence, where possible, with such sourcing has been abused or destroyed, and the same for proprietary products.
We will identify that the effect of our products on the environment has products containing ingredients, which whilst not been minimised as far as possible.
Prospective and illegal, are designated as chemicals of concern by noncurrent employees are more likely to join and stay with governmental organisations and to work with suppliers us if they feel valued, are treated fairly and equally and to develop or substitute these with lower risk feel that their contributions are recognised and alternatives.
rewarded and that they are helped to realise their potential.
Halfords strives to achieve rapid introduction of new and improved products by adopting a disciplined and The Group is currently reviewing its ongoing CSR customer focused approach to product development.
policy to ensure it meets the changing nature of the We recognise the importance of keeping abreast of markets and communities in which it operates and that new concepts and technologies within our chosen the associated Key Performance Indicators KPIs product ranges and we are keen to work with suppliers accurately reflect the Groups success or otherwise in who continually bring forward innovative and exciting implementing this policy.
The policy commitments will new concepts.
For example, in April 2008 we launched be translated into actions using quantifiable objectives the first in-dashboard satellite navigation system for and targets.
Paul McClenaghan, Director of Trading, under 400. takes the lead in ensuring that the policy supports the strategic objectives of the business.
And the Halfords Service executive will monitor performance with regard to these objectives and targets via an internal report.
It is We are committed to putting our customers first.
Our however, the Boards responsibility to ensure that the store managers are accountable for delivering Group operates in a responsible manner, and the Board consistently high service in our stores, giving our will review the policy and our performance against that customers complete peace of mind, fully supported by policy annually.
a dedicated Customer Service team based at our Head Office in Redditch where our customers are able to contact us by phone, email, letter or fax.
This year we enhanced our support by increasing our availability to seven days a week.
28 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 29 All contacts into our Customer Service team are Accessibility treated in the order in which they arrive and each Halfords treats its responsibilities under the Disability customers query is logged and allocated to an adviser Discrimination Act very seriously, in respect of both our who will personally see the query through to the end.
We have taken various actions in order to help us to fulfil our responsibilities, We aim to respond to all queries within seven days including training our store colleagues in disability unless further investigation is required, with most awareness, responding to some of the physical telephone queries being resolved the same day.
We obstacles in our stores and other access issues, and also use collated feedback data to focus are training auditing our website for ease of navigation.
We have 447 and development programmes and further improve the stores in the UK and Ireland in three different formats.
these, 231 have mezzanine floors and accessibility to these floors is dependent on the age of the stores and Lifestyle whether it has been possible to install lifts.
In total, 57% At a time when the issue surrounding health and of these stores have lifts, and wherever possible fit-outs obesity have become increasingly important, Halfords, will be made in the remaining 43%, some of which as the largest retailer and advertiser of cycling, actively opened prior to 1996 when the legislation came into encourages people to participate in this outdoor force.
We currently stock 160 different bikes, of which move than 60 are aimed at children between three and Halfords is a member of the Employers Forum on eight years of age.
We design these bikes with the Disability, which is a not-for-profit employers customer in mind and our childrens bikes are organisation, with over 375 members, who employ specifically designed for the measurements and stature approximately 20% of the national workforce.
The of small children as the relative dimensions of the bike forum provides self-help, bringing its members are very different from those of an adult.
together to share best practice on disability.
It provides events at both a regional and national level where Through our Business Services department we members meet, share best practice and keep up to continue to market Cycle 2 Work schemes, date with disability issues.
Additionally, members arrangements that allow employers to offer to their benefit from a dedicated information line to help them employees the use of a bike for work.
The scheme understand and manage both the legislation and the offers significant savings, making use of the best practice approach to disability.
Government-backed initiative to increase more sustainable means of transport to work.
We currently Products and the environment manage 869 schemes 2007: 576 on behalf of In developing our products, packaging, procedures and employers, allowing their employees the opportunity to services we continue to make assessments of embrace a keep-fit lifestyle.
environmental impacts at appropriate stages, e. g. design, procurement, supply, sale, use and disposal.
In 2005 we introduced our Halfords branded range of As our business is strongly influenced by consumer camping and outdoor equipment and in 2006 we choice we will promote good practice in the provision complemented these, with the launch of the premium of environmental communication to customers and brand URBAN Escape range.
We aim to treble this colleagues.
range through product innovation and development by the end of summer 2008.
We are in the process of developing a full range of environmental friendly car cleaning products, and in January 2008 launched our Naturals range which includes: shampoo, polish, and cleaners for alloy wheels, glass, carpets, cloth and leather upholstery and dashboards, bug and tar remover and trim revitaliser.
Naturals products are water based and do not contain phosphates, solvents or petroleum distillates and will biodegrade to water, CO 2 and mineral salts.
Naturals contain coconut, corn, potato and wheat.
Naturals are not tested on animals and do not contain ingredients with animal origins.
They are packaged in bottles manufactured from 30% recycled High Density Polyethylene HDPE and 70% virgin HDPE which may cause the outer bottle to vary slightly in colour, but allows recycling at local recycling banks.
The label is also fully recyclable and features the recycling logo.
com Halfords Group plc 29 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 CSR 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 30 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Also under the Naturals range we have introduced a Product quality & safety range of cleaning cloths manufactured from bamboo We have always treated safety and quality as absolute which is one of the fastest growing plants in the world.
priorities in the products we sell.
It reaches maximum height in around three months making it truly sustainable and reducing the need for Halfords operates a rigorous product introduction pesticides and fertilisers used to grow similar materials.
procedure to ensure that all products are safe, legal, fit Bamboo is 100% biodegradable, 100% natural, for purpose and meet the requirements of our exacting untreated and free from dyes.
It is also more absorbent technical specifications.
We take into account all than cotton and can hold up to 10 times its own appropriate British, European and International weight in water.
It is naturally antibacterial, antifungal standards and ensure compliance with all relevant and antistatic, characteristics which are retained in its legislation and codes of practice.
Our product testing fabric form.
Bamboo fibre is not only extremely strong methodologies vary by product type and are primarily and durable, it is silky soft and comfortable to use.
The driven by the requirement to ensure safety.
For bamboo we use is not a source of food for pandas and example, our roof bars and cycle carriers are subjected therefore does not impact on their food supply.
to rigorous testing on automotive test tracks, cycle clothing is assessed to ensure that materials give the From July 2007 all UK Retailers had obligations under desired performance colour fastness, breathability, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment waterproofness, etc.
and hand tools are analysed to WEEE Regulations to provide recycling facilities for verify materials are sufficiently robust.
their customers free of charge.
In April 2007, Halfords joined the UK WEEE Distributor Take-back Scheme Our Apollo childrens bikes are designed to the new DTS because we felt that joining was the most European Standard for bikes Comit Europen fide responsible decision for the environment: making it Normalisation, CEN and are subject to very rigorous easier for our customers to recycle, aiming to increase fatigue testing, particularly the frame, cranks, and the overall amounts of waste electrical items recycled, pedals.
These tests aim to replicate the use that a and ensuring a secure route for re-use of materials.
Additionally, customers returning any old car batteries to our stores are now offered a 2 voucher to be spent A key element of the new standards is safety, and all in the store.
This promotes recycling and assures the bikes are designed or sourced with this in mind.
To correct disposal of hazardous waste as well as allowing ensure safe use we demand a minimum content proper recycling of a batterys component parts.
requirement for the owners manual, which ensures Further customer awareness of this recycling route is that it is as comprehensive a document for the planned for next year, in preparation for the Hazardous customer as possible.
Waste Special Waste Regulations that is likely to come into force during 2008. are?
Most of our products are subjected to user trials in real life situations, so that we can verify that instructions are We also offer customers a 20 money-back correct and easy to understand and, most importantly, that the products actually work.
replacement service for alternators and starter-motors.
These are then returned to our distribution centre for Halfords is committed to not only supplying safe refurbishment.
products, but also to ensuring that they are used safely.
As one of the UKs leading retailers of child seats, we Our stores in Ireland have also implemented the WEEE have invested in the training of more than 2,000 store Regulations, which became law this year.
This assures colleagues in the demonstration and free fitting of child in-store like-for-like take back of products, and seats.
We also run roadshows at Halfords stores contributions to the Producer Recycling Fund, to across the UK, working with road safety officers to give ensure responsible recycling of this electrical waste.
free advice and fitting services to parents and guardians, and we also promote our own national child seat safety week at all superstores to raise awareness of the issue.
We continuously review concerns reported by our customers and where improvements are identified, we endeavour to instigate speedy product enhancements.
30 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 31 In 2007, audits were performed on suppliers providing SUPPLY CHAIN 77% of our Far East purchases.
Of these audits, three required corrective action plans to be formulated due to Overview minor shortcomings in one of health and safety or We place great importance on the selection of our employment conditions.
During 2007, the Group set up suppliers and, where appropriate, will visit a further 45 new suppliers which, in line with our Code of manufacturing sources to verify that effective quality Conduct, will be fully audited a maximum of six months procedures are in place and that supply chain costs are after supply, with the intention of auditing prior to supply.
We are always striving for improvement and we believe it is important that our suppliers are The Code of Conduct assessment results and progress responsive to feedback from our customers and store on any corrective action plans are issued in a monthly colleagues.
Halfords recognises that the development report and reviewed between Halfords Asia and UK of close supplier partnerships is essential for the Head Office senior management.
ongoing provision of an innovative and value-formoney product offer.
Ethical trading The Code states our policy on legislation, child labour, Suppliers conditions of employment, wages and benefits, health Halfords Asia has a Sourcing Code of Conduct the and safety and environmental policy.
Code, which can be viewed on the Companys website halfordscompany.
This is sent to We undertake all reasonable and practical steps, potential new suppliers within the Far East, as part of including factory, warehouse and tied accommodation the Supplier Questionnaire, before orders are placed inspections and audits, to ensure that our standards with the supplier.
Compliance to the Code is are being implemented throughout the businesses of independently audited.
The response to the our suppliers and that local legislation and regulations questionnaire is reviewed and, if the supplier does not are complied with.
We will assess any instances of provide an acceptable alternative assessment report, non-compliance on a case-by-case basis and will then an audit by an independent Auditor such as Bureau tailor remedial action appropriately.
We will only trade Veritas is arranged at the suppliers expense.
with those who fully comply with this policy or those who are taking verifiable steps towards compliance.
We recognise that this Code must be developed to reflect practical experience and changing We oppose the exploitation of children and young circumstances.
We will continue to develop and share people and, in addition to national employment laws, best practice with our suppliers, other retailers, nonwe require of our suppliers that children under the age government organisations and Government.
of 14 years, or those below the age for completion of compulsory schooling, must not be employed full-time.
Halfords will only trade with those companies who fully comply with our policy or those taking verifiable steps We oppose the exploitation of workers and we will not towards complying with the policy.
In the event of any tolerate forced labour, or labour which involves failure to comply, we reserve the right to end the physical, verbal or psychological harassment, or business relationship and cancel outstanding orders.
We will not permit the We do, however, recognise that withdrawal of our exploitation of, or discrimination against, any business in the event of non-compliance may cause vulnerable group.
Workers must have the right to form severe hardship to those employed.
We aim, therefore, and join organisations to facilitate freedom of to work with our suppliers, to achieve compliance and association and collective bargaining and all workers carefully review progress made before considering must have written employment details, which must pay severing the relationship.
due regard to the welfare of individuals.
We support fair Following the independent audit of the Code any and reasonable rewards for workers.
Wages should supplier that receives a score of D or lower is required reflect local norms and should meet or exceed any to issue a corrective action plan.
The corrective action legal minimum wage levels.
Wages must be paid in plan is reviewed by Halfords Asia Quality Department, cash, or by cheque or bank transfers.
Workers must and if approved, a date is set for follow-up with the receive full written details of their pay.
Depending on the type of non-compliance this cultural differences will be observed, workers must not follow-up may include a specific factory visit, or be be expected to work in excess of 60 hours per week on included at the next planned visit.
The timescales will, a regular basis, including overtime.
Any overtime must again, depend on the nature of the non-compliance.
Workers will be entitled to at least one day off in seven.
Individual workers have the right to choose not to take their days off should they so wish.
com Halfords Group plc 31 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 CSR 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 32 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Opportunity & diversity We require that appropriate health and safety training, We recruit, train, promote and retain skilled and including training in fire safety, be provided for all motivated people irrespective of sex, age, marital status, people in all working areas.
All activities must be disability, sexual orientation, race, religion, or ethnic or carried out under conditions that have proper and national origin.
In line with this commitment we also adequate regard for the health and safety of those promote a culture of openness and responsibility within involved.
Management arrangements must be in place our business.
The Group has in place specific to detect, avoid and respond to potential threats to disciplinary and grievance procedures, and welcomes health and safety.
the reporting of genuine and serious grievances or alleged breaches of policy.
No colleague will suffer as a We promote our own business objectives with those in consequence of notifying such alleged breaches in our supply chain to minimise the environmental impact accordance with the Fraud & Whistle-blowing Policy.
of our operations and also encourage the consideration of social issues in business.
In accordance with our core values, we believe that every colleague should be treated with the same Supply chain transportation respect and dignity and we are committed to providing Many of the products delivered into our national a working environment that is free from bullying and distribution centres NDCs are imported in harassment.
We will not tolerate bullying or harassment containers via sea deliveries for onward road in the workplace either as a management style or transportation, although some are delivered via air between work colleagues, and will take disciplinary freight.
We have worked hard during the year to reduce action against any colleague who is proven to have the number of containers transferred from ports via bullied or harassed others.
road and in 2007 08 40.7% of all containers delivered were moved by rail to a hub in the Midlands.
Development In order to promote career development, the Group The air freighting of products from suppliers is only provides all colleagues with access to relevant training used in cases of extreme urgency, and in 2008, through and development schemes.
With a complex product improved supply planning and forecasting volumes range of over 10,000 items alongside portfolio shipped in this way reduced from 187,043 kg in 2007 reformatting, colleague training and development is to 67,641 kg in 2008, a reduction of 64%.
seen as crucial to the success of our business.
Sales advisers at Halfords need to be experts in many EMPLOYEE WELFARE product fields and be able to meet a wide variety of customers needs.
Specialists need to be able provide Overview their specialist services and also demonstrate an Our growth in stores and turnover would not have been ability to sell other products.
possible without the unfailing support and commitment of our 10,000 colleagues employed across stores, Training is key to encouraging our store teams to distribution centres and Redditch head office.
Thus we embrace new initiatives that are critical in delivering our recognise that our colleagues are our single most targets.
The Halfords point of difference is excellent valuable asset and we are committed to a fair but product knowledge, fitting capability and enthusiasm of robust approach to equal opportunities in all areas of our teams to serve and assist the customer.
A good our business, with people gaining promotion on merit.
example of this is in-house certification for all those We have high expectations of all colleagues and who successfully completed the training to fit everyone is required to perform and deliver value.
This electronic products for our customers in their cars and creates an environment that is both challenging and in 2008 we introduced Cytech training for all our rewarding, thus enabling colleagues to develop quickly Boardman specialists.
We are committed to being seen as an employer of choice within the communities in which we operate, and as well as providing training and development to colleagues, in 2007 08 we were finalists in the National Council for Work Experience Awards for Best Work Experience Provider.
We also offer a range of benefits and incentive schemes.
32 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 33 In addition, a career pathway has been created, with Incentives several development programmes to develop our Our range of bonus schemes include, within stores, a people internally to maximise their opportunities, sales adviser quarterly bonus scheme and store examples of which are: specialist, manager and deputy manager annual bonus schemes.
We also operate office and management A Deputy Manager Development programme, annual bonus schemes and there is also a bonus enabling us to source and develop store-based scheme in the distribution centre.
Bonus payments are deputy managers, thus providing opportunity and dependent on an achievement of a variety of Group, incentive for our Sales Advisory teams.
A Store Manager Development programme to create All colleagues are eligible to join, after a qualifying opportunities for deputy managers to further employment period, the Groups money purchase progress their careers.
pension scheme where contributions are made jointly In our offices, Management Development from both employer and colleague.
Currently, the pension programmes provide a balance between pragmatic scheme has approximately 1,400 members in the UK and business skills and core people skills for junior and Republic of Ireland.
As well as providing retirement senior managers.
benefits, the plan provides colleagues with life assurance.
Graduate trainees follow a structured development The Group actively encourages its colleagues to own programme, which gives them: its shares and more closely align an element of an all-round appreciation of the business, taking employee reward to business value enhancement.
The in experience in both stores and head office: Halfords Sharesave scheme has operated each year since 2004, open to all colleagues with three months an in-depth focus in the areas of buying, supply service or more.
Colleagues were granted a share and marketing: and option and invited to save between 5 and 250 per a variety of off-job supporting workshops and month for three years.
These savings could then be seminars.
used to purchase shares at a price of up to 20% discount to the market value at the date of the grant.
These programmes are part of Halfords continued ambition to develop its own senior managers of the The 2004 scheme matured in 2007 and over 1,500 future and are supported by active talent and colleagues were able to share in Halfords success.
The average colleague had saved 75 per month since 2004.
They received an average of 3,950 in 2007, a Through our talent management process, the senior tax-free gain of 1,250. management teams in Head Office have undergone an extensive, objective review of the performance and In 2007, all colleagues were, again, invited to capability of their teams.
This has resulted in some participate in the scheme: 1,058 colleagues in the UK, explicit succession planning, an identification of Republic of Ireland and Hong Kong chose to development needs, and will lead to personal participate.
Over 2,000 Halfords colleagues currently development plans in the coming year.
This process participate in at least one of these annual schemes.
will feed participants into the Management Development programmes.
We also operate a Company Share Option Scheme CSOP.
This scheme was first launched in 2004 to all There is a performance management process, whereby colleagues with at least three years service in performance objectives for the year are agreed and recognition of their hard work and dedication leading reviewed between line manager and colleague.
To up to the Companys flotation.
These colleagues had support this process we run a series of workshops the opportunity to exercise their options in June 2007. aimed at ensuring that both line managers and A typical colleague, with 750 share options made an colleagues are fully equipped with all of the skills average tax-free gain of 1,000. required to make the process effective.
com Halfords Group plc 33 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 CSR 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 34 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Awards have also been granted in 2005, 2006 and HEALTH & SAFETY again in 2007 when they were granted to approximately 640 colleagues to the store manager level and Overview managerial grades in the UK Head Office, Republic of Halfords is committed to operating high standards of Ireland, Hong Kong and Czech Republic.
Health & Safety, designed to minimise the risk of injuries and ill health to employees, contractors, visitors We also mirror to our own colleagues the cycle to work and others who come into contact with the business.
schemes that we provide to other employers see page The Group believes that Health & Safety is a.
The scheme offers significant savings, making use fundamental ingredient to a successful business and of the Government-backed initiative to increase more we constantly review our standards for effectiveness, sustainable means of transport to work.
This means driving through and embedding a Health & Safety that by sacrificing a proportion of their salary our culture throughout the organisation.
Regular audits are colleagues can save income tax and National undertaken as part of the Groups improvement strategy to help benchmark against both legal Insurance that would otherwise have been payable.
requirements and the Groups procedures.
Colleagues can also make use of their 15% discount to make it an outstanding scheme.
This scheme was first Risk reduction made available in 2004 and has been relaunched Our philosophy is to enable confident proportionate annually.
Each year we see approximately 300 occupational Health & Safety management and actively colleagues acquire bikes through the scheme at overall pursue targeted risk reduction measures.
We are encouraged by the successes from our riskFeedback focused agenda throughout the year: Every year we run a colleague engagement survey to measure how successful our engagement improvement action plans have been.
All responses are analysed and A comprehensive site transport safety strategy has follow-up action will be taken forward, as necessary.
In been applied and shared with our main haulage 2007, the overall engagement score was 63%, which partner, waste collection company, third party compares favourably with the UK benchmark, which is carriers and direct delivery suppliers.
Action planning, at Group and local level is Storage and handling at height has been made safer implemented, following detailed analysis of these through supply chain initiatives, clearer storage results, to help drive colleague engagement.
The 2008 disciplines, improved means of access and survey will take place in October and November.
additional handholds on bicycle packaging.
Fire detection, warning and evacuation measures in our older high street stores have been upgraded.
Evacuation chairs have been retrofitted into super mezzanine stores to provide an additional means for prompt, safe evacuation of persons with limited mobility from the mezzanine area.
A programme to upgrade water systems in stores with calorifiers and storage tanks was commenced to remove environments where legionella could proliferate.
A new wefit canopy has been introduced incorporating safe construction and use principles.
34 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 35 Achievements IN THE ENVIRONMENT We have put great emphasis on producing occupational safety documentation information for Overview distribution and retail operational colleagues that is Our stores, offices, and fleet of delivery vehicles have tailored for them to use effectively.
Our first priority is direct impacts on the environment.
We also know that for safety procedures to be suitable for the user rather there are indirect impacts caused by the production than compliance with the textbook requirements.
Over and use of our products.
the past twelve months the following actions have been taken: Our commitment is to understand and to continually improve the performance and management of our The occupational safety and fire monitoring environmental impact throughout the Halfords supply processes were combined into a one stop safety chain.
Good environmental performance demonstrates high Risk specific training guides were issued for stores standards of corporate responsibility and generates e. g. for working safely around large goods vehicles cost saving opportunities.
We believe that every and with roll cages.
individual has an important role to perform in ensuring A new induction process and DVD were produced that environmental standards are properly applied.
The for stores with extensive occupational fire and Group has in place emergency procedures to minimise safety coverage.
the environmental impact of potential incidents.
Occupational safety elements were integrated into new guides and DVDs and supplier training for An Environmental Steering Group has been formed, stores colleagues for wefit activities such as air consisting of senior managers from all operational conditioning checking and recharging, battery and activities of the business.
The Group monitors bulb fitting.
performance in regard to our objectives, targets and indicators and provides advice and guidance ensuring Occupational and risk assessment workshops have compliance with relevant environmental legislation.
been held for store and deputy managers, store safety coordinators and DC team leaders.
The workshops We aim to create a culture of awareness of the cost have all included emphasis on analysis of corporate and impact of environmental issues across the safety culture and individual safety behaviour to build business, including assessing the environmental the confidence to shift behaviour and challenge impact of capital projects.
The Group considers the accepted practices.
environmental impact of the products that we sell, taking care to minimise the use of materials that We introduced our occupational safety risk deplete our natural resources, and recognises its management model to our store operational colleagues responsibility with regards to the use of chemicals in in the Czech Republic, which their safety consultancy our supply chain.
We have developed an energy wove into the Czech store safety management strategy and this involves evaluating alternative energy procedures.
sources that we consider to be appropriate to our business needs.
We operate a utility reduction We have continued to build on our relationships with programme, the results of which are tracked on a our lead authority partners.
We have liaised closely with Carbon Trust funded database.
our occupational safety lead authority partners at Stoke City Council on our risk reduction strategy.
This In managing our environmental responsibilities our has assisted us to ensure that our actions and overall objectives relate to the following key areas: timescales are appropriate.
We have a unique tripartite lead authority partnership with Stoke City Council Natural resources and pollution prevention Building Control and North Staffordshire Fire and We place emphasis on resource use, in order to Rescue Service.
This has enabled us to consistently understand and improve the efficiency of our use of and effectively improve fire safety management.
raw materials, energy and water throughout Halfords operations, as well as our products and our packaging.
Our annual injury incident rate for colleagues remains Our goal is to minimise our potential for causing below the industry benchmark.
pollution to air, water and land.
com Halfords Group plc 35 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 CSR 100 100 g g l l l l n n i i i i f f l l c c d d y y c c n n e e a a R R 80 80 L L 60 60 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 36 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Water To reduce our overall usage of water in the Landfill V Recycling % business Independent assessments of usage have continued to be carried out in our stores, head office and distribution centres.
A water specialist is surveying all of our sites to establish if correct charging is taking place, but also to identify leaks and wastage.
Landfill Recycling Ratio 2008 A list of sites with no or defective washroom controls has been compiled in 2007, and Aqualogic Hydrocell Landfill V Recycling % controls have been fitted.
This resulted in substantial 3 savings on volumes, totalling 12,000m.
This site surveying programme continued into 2008 and an 3 additional 1,226m was saved.
The annual billed consumption of water for our stores 3 from 1 April 2007 to 28 March 2008 was 83,397m 3 2007: 80,451m.
When aligned with the increase in the Landfill Recycling Ratio 2002 number of stores from 426 to 450 represents a reduction per store of 2% year on year.
This excludes stores where water billing is to the landlord direct.
Further improvements in this area are anticipated in 2008 from the small number of stores where recycling In order to improve water usage with our head office is significantly below the Group average and through and distribution centres we have installed an electronic increased product refurbishment which is subsequently smart water meter to the sites water infeed pipe.
This sold from the distribution centre will allow accurate monitoring of water usage patterns throughout the day and identify water leaks at an early Offices stage.
The Group continues to use paper recycling and shredding initiatives and in 2008 all desk waste bins were removed and recycling bins were introduced for Waste management the segregation of aluminium cans, plastics and We aim to prevent waste generation in our activities, general waste.
This has increased the amount of waste including product and packaging design, warehousing, recycled by circa 60%.
distribution and sale and reuse of materials, and to maximise recovery and recycling of wastes prior to During the last 12 months all A4 paper usage has been disposal through our management of waste recycling transferred to recycled paper, including stationery and and reduction in the amount of packaging we use in high production paper.
Paper shredded and recycled our products.
under our confidential waste scheme saved 135 Trees independently verified by Shred-it Ltd.
The Landfill and recycling To increase the quantity of introduction of highly efficient airblade hand dryers cardboard, paper, and plastic waste we recycle in the has led to the removal of all paper towels and saved business and reduce landfill.
Stores and Distribution Centres Product packaging To achieve an overall reduction in the weight of packaging used year-on-year In order to prevent inefficient transportation of waste material the majority of recycling activity is through We have a proactive Packaging Cost Reduction Project localised collection from individual stores.
Where, and Halfords complies with the Producer Responsibility however, greater levels of recycling can be achieved Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations 1997, cardboard and other materials are backhauled for which requires UK companies to recover and recycle central recycling at our Redditch distribution centre.
Halfords meets this This is an addition to recycling 100% of the cardboard obligation through membership of an industry produced in both our Redditch-based distribution compliance scheme.
The Group has been audited by centres.
the Environment Agency to ensure full understanding and compliance with the regulations and we passed As a result of this strategy the volumes of waste this audit successfully.
material recycled versus that sent to landfill increased from 56.5% to 64.1% during 2007.
36 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 40 40 20 20 0 0 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 37 Greenhouse gases and CO2 emissions This improvement has been achieved from a series of Greenhouse gases GHGs are so called because activities across the transport operation and will they contribute towards the greenhouse effect.
There continue into the forthcoming year.
Key initiatives are six main GHGs, mainly emitted by burning fossil include: fuels.
CO2 accounts for some 80% of UK emissions.
The contributing role of man-made GHGs to climate Continued improvements by operating vehicles with change is accepted by most countries.
The most more efficient engines and gearboxes, including significant contributor to GHG production is the leasing of additional tractor units, that have higher combustion of fossil fuels, and like any business that fuel efficiency, used for moving trailers at our burns fuel, Halfords in our transport fleet diesel fuel distribution centres.
and heating gas will have direct GHG emissions.
Completing a comprehensive driver training Halfords also has indirect GHG emissions incurred in programme carried out with our logistics partner, the generation of electricity consumed.
This emphasises responsible driving and safe vehicle checking, in addition to fuel efficiency and To begin to understand and achieve CO2 emissions smooth driving and braking.
reduction objectives, Halfords has estimated our CO2 Reductions in the number of empty-running emissions.
This is based on DEFRA reporting vehicles, by collecting back-hauling loads from our guidelines for UK business, using conversion factors suppliers following delivery to our stores.
This, for energy and fuel usage and these are referred to in clearly, reduces the number of vehicles on the the sections below.
For future years the turnover roads, but does not directly contribute to Halfords conversion factor will also be used to enable the fuel reduction or CO emissions.
We currently have 2 setting of targets and make year-on-year comparisons.
10 suppliers where we backhaul regularly, returning to one or more of our distribution centres.
Fuel and transport fleet efficiency Evaluation of Euro 4 and Euro 5 tractor units and In line with European Emissions Directives, Euro 4 rigid vehicles.
emission standards for commercial vehicles were introduced in October 2006.
This will mean Evaluation of tyre pressures checks, adjustments improvements in Carbon Monoxide, Hydrocarbon, and idling time for their impact on fleet fuel Nitrogen Oxide and particulate emissions that cause economy and efficiency.
All of Halfords fleet complies Continual evaluation of our fleet requirements with with Euro 3 emissions standard introduced in October DHL.
This will ensure the optimum design of 2003, and new vehicles delivered from September transport to maximise capacity, improve 2006 conform to the new Euro 4 standards.
aerodynamics, and will consider increased doubledecker options.
To more fully understand our impact on GHG emissions, we have converted the transport fleet fuel All Company essential user cars must be diesels.
The CO2 equivalent Where colleagues can choose a Company car as part usage, calculated based on DEFRA reporting of their benefits package, CO2 emissions for the list of guidelines, shows a five per cent improvement year cars they can choose from are published and whether on year.
those cars are Euro 4 compliant greener, more tax efficient.
The majority of colleagues who can choose a FY 2008 FY 2007 FY 2006 Company car continue to choose diesel.
Kilometres driven 9,651,775 9,491,422 8,725,957 The Group currently provides approximately 200 CO2 equivalent kgs 9,201,762 9,048,884 8,319,108 colleagues with either a Company car or car allowance CO2kg revenue m 11,545 12,162 12,216 and the average emissions per Company car is 160g km.
We aim to continually reduce this, through a variety of measures, including driver training, enforcing an engine efficiency ceiling or car choice and greater control of mileages driven.
com Halfords Group plc 37 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 CSR 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 38 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Energy b To reduce CO2 emissions For our stores, we are setting a challenging reduction a To reduce energy use target of 15% to 20% over three years 5% to 7% per We are moving into the second year of a three-year year against the baseline year of 2007.
Individual store bespoke action plan with the Carbon Trust for targets will be set once the scope for savings has been implementing energy saving identified and an action plan and a method of measures both in the Redditch monitoring performance agreed store by store.
This head office and in stores.
target represents a potential 7,000 tonnes of CO2 savings.
The first year of this three-year programme has focused on improving measurement of all utilities so that comparisons can be made between stores, thereby leading to understanding of good and bad practice.
In lo res positional only order to achieve this we have installed SMART metering into the majority of our stores.
This metering Actions in progress, working in partnership with allows us to remotely analyse energy used every half ENERG, to deliver this reduction include: hour in every store.
The data is loaded into a central database and provided to suppliers as well as feeding a Web-based reporting tool to enable us to monitor Developing specific action plans for our 50 highest and target store energy consumption.
Implementing energy management systems and Sub metering has been installed into head office to voltage reduction plans.
enable separate monitoring of facilities in the Installing improved photo-cell and tamper proof distribution centre and offices.
The data from these timers for store signage.
meters will feed into the online system to provide information that can be used to understand and reduce This year we have reduced energy consumption by energy consumption at head office.
3.04% in total, which translates to a decrease of 8.14% per square metre.
Carbon equivalent of energy used We have completely revised the lighting and heating has reduced by 1.68% in total, or 6,85% per square that we install into new stores.
Individual store targets will be set for 2009 once from inefficient Hi bay lighting and halogen spotlights store colleagues have been trained to monitor their to modern efficient T5 tubes with electronic ballast progress.
linked to dimming systems and occupancy sensors.
This has been seen on a sample of stores to produce a The following graph represents the energy use by our 2 15% reduction in energy used per m. We are using stores and our Redditch office and distribution centre.
ECA approved HVAC and Heat Pump systems in order to heat these stores with the highest efficiency.
Energy Usage Millions KWh Actions planned for the remainder of the programme 120 include: 100 Benchmark and implement online energy 80 management and Monitor & Target system.
60 Develop and implement energy conscious design 40 guide for store development.
20 Engage and empower facilities contractors to participate in the above plan.
0 Provide training for store managers: 2008 2007 2006 Develop and dissemination of Energy Use guides for Total Electric store managers.
Total Gas Develop plan to incorporate renewable energy sources in stores.
38 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 39 We are also entering into its eighth year as a sponsor of IN THE COMMUNITY the British Touring Car Championships with its two distinctive orange and black Hondas.
The Overview Championship runs from March until the end of Our policy on charitable giving is to concentrate on one September and is shown live on ITV and also on the main charity.
However, we are also committed to Setanta Sports channel.
supporting the communities we serve and individual stores also to support local initiatives.
Industry Forums Halfords values opportunities to work closely with trade Charity partnerships associations, research institutes, standards authorities, In 2007, Halfords centenary year, the business partnered universities and government organisations to improve its first ever Charity Of The Year, the Meningitis Trust.
Representatives Colleagues reached the fundraising target of 100,000 from the quality department are members of British and for the Trust with stores selling special pin badges, International standards technical committees holding events and individual colleagues undertaking all associated with automotive accessories and cycles.
sorts of challenges ranging from running marathons to charity auctions.
This has helped to not only raise the profile of the Meningitis Trust but has also highlighted the causes and symptoms of the disease to both colleagues and customers.
We have chosen to work with the Meningitis Trust for a further 12 months in 2008.
We are also supporting the high profile Help For Heroes charity to raise money for wounded servicemen and women returning from Afghanistan and Iraq by becoming the title sponsor of the Halfords Help For Heroes Bike Ride.
The ride took place at the end of May, covering all the key First World War and Second World War battle sites in France before returning to London when thousands of bike riders joined the sponsored team of 300 to ride to the Cenotaph.
Sponsorship We have made history by signing the first ever commercial sponsorship deal with British Cycling.
In this Olympic year, the entire GB cycling squad, encompassing road, track, BMX and mountain bike riders, are now sporting the Halfords Bikehut brand on their racing kit.
The Halfords Bikehut brand received its first national TV exposure on the BBC during the World Championships in March when the British squad won an impressive nine gold medals.
The partnership is further evidence of our continuing to cement its brand credibility with higher spending enthusiast cyclists.
Many of the GB cycling team are also members of the newly formed Team Halfords Bikehut race team who exclusively ride the Boardman Pro road bike, launched in partnership with Halfords in 2007.
The sponsorship is being fully supported with marketing and PR plans and in all stores with high profile branding and imagery of the GB team.
com Halfords Group plc 39 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 CSR
