Directors Report Business Review procedure: and our managers and client-facing staff are now trained in competition law compliance to ensure that staff are aware of the possible causes and consequences of Seven principles guide our a breach.
dealings with our diverse Managing the environmental impact of Hays and its suppliers customer base, demanding Whilst our business has a low environmental impact, we seek to minimise what impact that Hays staff: we have by reducing our use of energy, water and raw materials, using them efficiently and re-using, rather than disposing, whenever possible.
We promote recycling and the use Are responsive of recycled materials and we design energy efficiency into new services and ofces and Give honest advice manage energy efficiently in all operations.
We use relatively little space, with high ofce and guidance density and hot-desking the norm.
Agree expectations We are always looking at initiatives which reduce costs and minimise our environmental Put forward the right impact, such as the worldwide rollout of online timesheets following their success in our Australian operations.
Wherever possible, we will seek new ways to reduce our candidates for the right job environmental impact and nancially strengthen the business.
Keep the customer Ensuring health and safety informed We take all reasonably practicable steps to protect the health, safety and welfare of our Follow up employees and ensure the protection of others not in our employment.
And we recognise Keep our promises our obligation to members of the public, contractors and visitors.
Managers ensure that they provide and maintain safe and healthy working conditions, carry out suitable risk assessments of all premises and tasks carried out within them and monitor The corporate responsibility safety procedures.
They involve employees, who are required to co-operate fully in the programme at Hays focuses operation of the health and safety policy by working safely and efficiently: complying with on activities which help us any instruction, information and training in accordance with all Group procedures and to build a sustainable statutory obligations: and immediately reporting incidents.
The policy is reviewed annually and will, if necessary, be revised in the light of legislative or organisational changes.
position as the global leader in specialist recruitment.
Hays in the community Hays plays an active role in the community by providing an essential recruitment service Bob Lawson for local people.
Some smaller Hays ofces act as an important focal point for job seekers.
Chairman Hays has a strong record of contributing to these communities through charitable causes.
Over recent years, our fundraising has been linked with one major UK charity, Marie Curie Cancer Care, which was chosen by UK employees.
The charity looks after 25,000 terminally ill patients in the United Kingdom.
Our annual fundraising target for 2007 8 was 70,000, to be matched by a Group donation.
Hays staff raised 120,000, and the Group donated a matching sum of 120,000, which will be paid in the year ending 30 June 2009.
Similar plans are in place across our International businesses.
Our Australian business has partnered with Camp Quality, an organisation focused on bringing fun and laughter to children living with cancer and their families.
Through running a range of activities involving clients and candidates, our Australian business aims to raise AUD$120,000 with the Group donating a matching sum.
Over the two-year partnership with Marie Curie, Hays and our employees have donated over 380,000, a sum of money of which we are extremely proud.
Our focus will shift in 2008 9 to a wider range of employment-related charities in the communities that we work.
Monitoring progress We are reviewing the metrics we use to assess the success of our Corporate Responsibility programme with the aim of identifying robust Key Performance Indicators which will prove suitable for disclosure.
When we are satisfied that such KPIs provide an appropriate measure of our Corporate Responsibility programme, then we will include them within this report.
A full description of how the Combined Code is applied is described on pages 38.
