Corporate responsibility HMV Group recognises that its businesses have social and Listening and responding environmental impacts and that we have a responsibility to We are interested in the views of our employees, customers and manage these impacts effectively at a strategic and operational other stakeholders and, where possible and when relevant, try to level.
In some areas we are in direct control of these impacts, make changes in response to feedback we receive.
We believe in while in others we can only attempt to influence the actions communicating openly and transparently, including feedback we of others.
have received and our response.
This statement contains our approach towards our social and environmental behaviour and management at Group and Product accessibility operational level.
The Group encourages its businesses to We are proud of the wide range of products we are able to implement, where practicable, CSR programmes and initiatives, provide our customers: products that reflect the broad interests and to manage their social and environmental impacts in ways of diverse people and cultures, around the world.
We believe in that are relevant to their business, location and stakeholders.
making these products available to all people who wish to have Our CSR approach pays particular regard to the following areas: access to them, providing we comply with legal, health and safety requirements.
Our policy regarding accessibility is reflected in our health and safety marketing practices and store configurations.
environmental management Accountability and good governance human resources We recognise that we have responsibilities in all areas of our community affairs business, to many different stakeholders, not least our investors.
We act with integrity at all times, comply with the law and are product responsibility truthful in all our communication.
We have sound systems to marketing.
identify and rectify instances that could potentially damage the Group and or its reputation.
Rewarding ability The Group recognises the commitment and passion its Progress in 2007 08 employees have towards our products and serving our customers.
We encourage continual learning and development, recognise Health and safety ability and reward effort.
We work hard to provide opportunities HMV UK & Ireland complies with all legislation regarding health for empowerment and fulfilment.
We are proud of the individual and safety, and takes all possible steps to ensure that the service that our employees are able to provide through their working environment is free from risks as far as is reasonable.
We aim to minimise incidences of accident or incident while in our locations, and we are committed to preventing a Celebrating difference reoccurrence of an accident or incident, should it happen.
We value the different skills that our employees can bring to their We are committed to a system of monitoring and recording our work: product knowledge and customer service, and celebrate the health and safety performance in order to enable us to continually difference in individuals.
The Group does not discriminate on any improve.
HMV UK & Ireland uses an intranet-based, Health and grounds: respects individual preference, providing it is within the Environmental SHE management system to report all accidents law: and encourages a widening of knowledge about people with and near misses.
2007 08 was the third year that accurate different abilities, cultures, needs and personalities.
accident reporting figures were recorded.
The number of total accidents reported during the year under review increased by 13%, which had been anticipated due to employees being encouraged to report all violence-related incidents, both physical and verbal.
However, reportable RIDDOR accidents fell by 58%.
HMV UK & Ireland Reporting year Number of accidents total Number of RIDDOR reportable accidents 2004 05 134 accidents in total 12 RIDDOR reportable 2005 06 224 accidents in total 9 RIDDOR reportable 2006 07 125 accidents in total 7 RIDDOR reportable 2007 08 142 accidents in total 3 RIDDOR reportable 32 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 56 Local Authorities conducted inspections of HMV stores, a Objectives for HMV UK & Ireland for 2008 09 include: slight decrease on the previous year.
Three formal notices were 10% reduction in all accidents served, all at the Guernsey distribution site.
All were resolved within the notice periods served.
Continued reduction in staff RIDDOR reportable accidents Twelve Chartered Institute of Environmental Health one-day High-risk company car drivers to receive bespoke training courses were conducted with 100 store managers, assistant managers and loss prevention staff attending, and all attained Delivery to all remaining store-based loss prevention officers the required standard.
Two in-store health and safety briefs of Conflict Management training were produced and delivered to stores, with subjects covered The re-writing of the Republic of Ireland safety manual including slips, trips and falls and fire prevention awareness.
Sixteen conflict management courses were carried out for Translation of warehouse induction training to cater store Loss Prevention Officers who are permitted by means for the needs of migrant workers to comply with new of the risk assessment process to make arrests within stores.
safety legislation This process will be repeated for all remaining Loss Prevention Further improvement in accident reporting in order to enable staff during the next financial year who are not currently permitted unjustified liability claims to be refuted.
to makes arrests but may in future as their careers progress.
A company car drivers policy was introduced to ensure In Waterstones an annual compliance audit is carried out each risks to individuals are reduced, as far as is reasonable.
year to assess the companys progress on health and safety To complement this, a system of driver licence checks directly issues and to set the target and action plan for future years.
via the DVLA and an individual specific risk assessment were Significant progress has been made since 2002, reaching a conducted by each driver and is reviewed by the risk and compliance score in 2006 of 89%.
This score reduced following safety manager.
the acquisition of Ottakars in 2006, but an 80% compliance The Groups UK distribution centres received two health and target was met this year and the company is on target to return safety audits over the course of the year conducted by the Risk to standards prior to the acquisition of Ottakars by 2010. and Safety Manager.
An average audit mark of 96% was achieved, Key achievements included improved training, internal liaison the pass mark being 80%.
To date, Store Health and Safety Audits and consistency and a reduction in the number of accidents have been carried out in 132 stores, with 61% achieving the reported in branches, down from 191 in 2006 2007 to 129 in required pass mark.
The increase in violence-related accident reporting meant that the targeted 20% reduction was not achieved in 2007 08, Environmental management but all other objectives were met, including a 10% reduction in We are committed to continually improving our environmental RIDDOR accidents: the introduction of a company car drivers performance and, where practicable, to having measurement and policy: the assessment of all security offices and shoplifting reporting systems in place to help us do this.
The Group ensures detention areas: introduction of a violence at work policy: training that all of its subsidiaries comply with all relevant environmental for LPOs in defusing aggression and dealing with violence: and laws and standards, including those particular to their operations.
improved reporting of violent incidents.
We are committed to continuously improving our environmental We continue to comply with DDA legislation in new and impact, particularly in the areas of energy, waste and water.
existing stores and proactively react to any concerns or issues Wherever possible and practicable, we look to increase our raised by customers or enforcing bodies.
practice of recycling and re-use.
The Groups businesses work Support for local CSR initiatives continued, with sponsorship with our suppliers to try, as a team, to reduce our environmental of the Police Community Clubs anti-bullying and vandalism impact and find solutions.
Where we are able to, we encourage campaign and the Wandsworth Borough anti-shoplifting DVD our suppliers to be environmentally responsible in their programme for senior schools.
33 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate responsibility continued Towards the end of the year, Carbon Trust commenced an Human resources environmental audit of HMV and Waterstones stores, head The Group does not discriminate on any grounds, including: offices and distribution centres, which will result in a new gender, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, non-job related disability, Energy Action Plan to be implemented from 2008 09. sexual orientation or marital status.
We encourage learning and In Waterstones, in October 2007 British Safety Council development and are committed to providing opportunities for carried out a 5-Star Environmental Audit of the business to all colleagues.
We also understand that work is one aspect of an provide an action plan for the future.
Waterstones achieved three employees responsibilities in life and that there may at times be a stars, with an overall score of 81%, compared to an average conflict regarding time availability between work and family needs.
of 65% for companies that have so far taken the BSC audit.
Wherever possible, we work with colleagues to provide flexibility Waterstones now has an action plan to achieve four stars by and appropriate leave arrangements.
We believe in open 2010, and five stars by 2012. communication and provide a range of opportunities for our Waterstones carrier bags are 75% recycled material content, colleagues to provide feedback, directly to their manager, or and to complement this and to incentivise customers to reduce through confidential means.
their use of plastic bags customers are offered points on the In 2007 08 HMV UK & Ireland focused on a set of initiatives Waterstones loyalty card each time they decline or reuse a to enhance colleague benefits, further develop open plastic carrier bag.
In January 2008, a new cloth bag for life communication between employees and a number of new was introduced.
initiatives support vision and values.
Through the work of energy champions in its stores and head In 2007 08 HMV UK & Ireland head office, stores and office support, Waterstones reduced annual energy usage by warehouse colleagues completed the Your Shout survey, 4.4% over the previous year, and aims to reduce it by a further 5% deigned to measure engagement across the company.
All areas of the W a t e r s t o n e s business operate a The survey provides an opportunity for all colleagues to put lights out policy at the close of business, and energy contracts forward views on working life and to openly comment on their are under review.
Energy from renewable sources is also personal motivation and engagement.
Further improvements increasing, including in Waterstones Drogheda branch, which were made in communicating and involving colleagues from is now powered exclusively by energy sourced from wind farms.
all areas of the business with the introduction of open forums 206 High Street stores have waste collected and managed by through which 150 stores, head office and warehouse employees Greenstar, with shopping centre store recycling managed locally.
meet on a quarterly basis to discuss business developments Waterstones also works with the Booksellers and Publishers and offer suggestions to senior management on how to Associations environmental group to consider industry-wide improve performance.
Developing colleagues continues to be a focus for HMV UK & Ireland and to support the launch of vision and values this year a series of road shows took place across the UK for store management teams, head office and warehouses.
In addition, a new and comprehensive induction programme was introduced for all new employees.
Fast Track programmes continued for all colleagues who wish to develop to manager level, and this was enhanced to reflect the changing roles of management teams in HMV & Ireland and to reflect new vision and values for the business.
34 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Colleague benefits and terms and conditions were reviewed.
HMV maintained its support for Comic Relief by stocking copies Significant changes to the benefits included improvements of Sport Reliefs Football Managers: Uncut.
In addition, HMV to current flexible working policies, a result of which was the renewed its relationship with War Child, which raises awareness introduction of career breaks, enhanced paternity leave and and funds for children affected by military conflicts around the the award of additional holiday for long service.
In addition, World, by selling approximately 100,000 of dog tags, and using giving and green benefits were introduced to encourage stores to promote awareness of the charity.
HMVs Guernsey support for the companys environmental aims.
store also helped to raise 1,000 in funds for BBCs Children In order to support flexible working and improve the In Need.
efficiency of store teams, five out of seven day working was HMV is committed to supporting the promotion and introduced for store employees.
appreciation of music, particularly by new and emerging artists, Waterstones Fast Track scheme, Booksellers into and in 2007 08 continued its sponsorship of the NME Awards, Management, progressed well, with 95 booksellers taking part NME New Music Tours and the Mojo Honours List Awards, while in the programme.
More than 4,000 booksellers benefited from also giving marketing support to the BRITs and Mercury Music the Get Selling training programme which was introduced Prize.
HMV also supported numerous events promoting live during the year, and Waterstones Buying Team participated in a music, including the Reading, Leeds, Wireless, Download and Development Programme designed to equip them with improved T In The Park festivals.
In Ireland HMV sponsored the Choice negotiation skills, as well as commercial and financial awareness Music Prize, which recognises outstanding achievement by training.
Waterstones also reviewed its existing employee benefits predominantly new artists: The Meteors: and The Irish Film and package with the aim of providing new and diverse benefits during Television Awards.
HMV receives numerous requests for fundraising support Many established authors began their careers as and sponsorship from local charities, non-profit groups and Waterstones booksellers and so this year Waterstones individuals each year, covering such areas as health, wellbeing launched the Booksellers Bursary, a scheme aimed at and medical research: education and the arts: community encouraging and developing budding authors within the social responsibility and initiatives: and the environment.
Booksellers were invited to submit examples of their The value of these fundraising donations is estimated at work and a panel made up of publishers and agents was approximately 50,000 per annum.
asked to select two winners from hundreds of entries received.
Waterstones continued to support its partner charity, Dyslexia Action through fundraising and awareness-raising Community affairs activities.
This year 90,000 was raised for Dyslexia Action, The Group recognises the importance of Community whilst stores worked with local media to support Dyslexia Action Engagement, and supports this through a number of activities.
HMV UK & Ireland continued to work with a number of Support was provided to further charities and organisations nominated charities, including Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy.
to promote writing and reading in all its forms, including One of the key channels of this support is the annual HMV The London Library, acquiring on its behalf 20,000 of books.
Football Extravaganza, which raised approximately 500,000 Sponsorship of the Childrens Laureate and laureate-led initiatives during the year, contributing to an overall total raised since continued, including the distribution of the Rough Guide to inception of 3.9m.
HMV also continued its 10,000 sponsorship Picture Books free to Waterstones customers.
Sixteen literary of the Best New Music Award at the annual NRMT Silver Clef festivals across the UK were supported, including the Bath Luncheon, while a further 55,000 was raised for the charity Festival of Childrens Literature, Glasgows Aye Write and the through sales of Nipper key-ring merchandise and branded Cheltenham Festival.
Waterstones stores were incentivised by a regional award to further improve links with their local communities, resulting in over 6,300 events, including 1,700 childrens events, author visits to schools, reading groups, links with local libraries and activity days.
Waterstones Oban out and about delivery van serves communities in the Hebrides with no access to a local bookshop, and during the year the van made visits to more than 100 different locations.
35 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
