Overview Business review Corporate social Governance Financial statements responsibility Further information Hochschild Mining has been a long-standing proponent of good working practices and is acknowledged as a champion of values demonstrating its commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR.
Since the Groups listing in London in During the year, the CSR Committee 2006, it has endeavoured to maintain its considered: corporate culture of fostering respect for the outcome of the investigation into the well being of its employees and the fatality that occurred during the contractors, the environment and the year at Arcata communities in which it operates.
the implementation of recommendations made by external To achieve this objective, the Group is consultants on completion of health committed to: and safety, and environmental audits taking all necessary steps to ensure: at the Groups operations a safe and healthy workplace progress on the implementation of the the prevention of environmental safety-driven management information contamination system designed in conjunction with respect for, and commitment to, the Det Norske Veritas DNV detailed communities in which it operates further in the Safety section of this complying with all relevant legislation report on page 32 promoting continuous improvement in a briefing on the Safety Leadership its management systems incorporating workshop held at the Head Office in best practice Lima to raise awareness of safe working adopting a proactive approach in practices and reinforcing the culture of preventing and, where this is not safety-first throughout the possible, managing, the risks that organisation.
may hinder achievement of its CSR objectives To support the CSR Committee, a working encouraging its employees to adopt group of relevant personnel meets on a the Groups values through the use of monthly basis to consider, at an training and internal communications.
operational level, local health and safety policies and environmental protection Management and accountability programmes.
These meetings are Roberto Daino, Deputy Chairman and attended by the CEO and COO.
Executive Director has Board-level responsibility for CSR issues.
The Board Monitoring performance has ultimate responsibility for establishing In acknowledgment of its reporting Group policies relating to CSR and responsibilities, the Company has taken ensuring that national and international a number of steps during the year to standards are met.
enable management to measure the Companys progress against its CSR The Board established a Corporate Social objectives.
After each section of this Responsibility Committee in 2006 as a Report, performance indicators have formal committee of the Board with been disclosed with their prior year delegated responsibility for various CSR equivalents, where available.
issues, focusing on compliance with In instances where Group-wide figures national and international standards and are not available, performance in ensuring that appropriate systems and respect of the wholly-owned Peruvian practices are in place Group-wide to operations only has been disclosed ensure the effective management of which represent almost 70% of the CSR-related risks.
30 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate social Governance Financial statements responsibility continued Further information 1.
Workplace handling of heavy wooden supports a Safety the launch of a Group-wide initiative to The Hochschild approach reward safe behaviour with prizes 83% Our people and their safety remain of awarded every two months at each reduction in accident severity index.
paramount importance for the Group mine to those employees who exemplify and is reflected in everything that we do.
the Groups approach to safety The safety of the Groups employees is implementation of all safety-related considered a vital element in the recommendations made in the successful achievement of the corporate performance of safety audits by strategy to which the Board and independent consultants.
b Health The Group has continued to invest, during The Hochschild approach 2008, in operating controls and processes In the first instance, the Group strives to to ensure that the highest standards of avoid occupational illnesses by taking all safety are met.
As a testament to the necessary steps to provide a working Groups commitment to achieving an environment that does not pose any risk to internationally recognised level of health the health of its workers.
Given the risks and safety management, OHSAS18001 inherent in mining activities however, the accreditation at the wholly-owned Group has a Health team charged with the Peruvian operations was independently provision of medical services and audited and re-certified during the year.
occupational health to assure the well being of those employed by the Group as However, it is with deep regret that one the need arises, and on an on-going basis.
The Group has conducted an investigation and taken On joining the Group, all employees in steps to address the underlying safety Peru and Argentina are subject to deficiencies that led to this tragic event.
occupational health examinations which are subsequently scheduled on an Developments during the year annual basis.
Routine examinations at Notable developments during the year the end of employment with the Group include: were introduced during the year.
These significant improvements in safety processes will be implemented in Mexico indices with frequency rates, severity during 2009. index and accidentability index reduced by 24%, 83% and 86% Developments during the year respectively Notable developments during the year the attainment of Level 3 in the include: implementation of the DNV implementation at the Peruvian management information system operations of Sisalud software which provides a framework to improve developed by the Groups medical occupational health and safety staff to support the provision of performance, including risk and medical services.
The system is used to opportunity identification, analysis, manage, amongst other things, target setting, and measurement patient medical history, appointments a Group-wide competition with prizes and pharmacy management worth a total of $30,000 on offer, for in partnership with local insurance practical suggestions on how safety companies, Hochschild developed a can be improved.
Over 200 entries process that significantly reduces the were received and finalists invited to time taken to i process results of present their ideas to a panel including occupational health examinations the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
and ii obtain the approval of the The first prize of $15,000 was awarded to relevant insurance company, upon an employee from the Ares mine for commencement of a workers the design of a tool to aid the safe employment with the Group.
32 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate social responsibility continued This system has earned local recognition Safety indicators and is being replicated by other mining Indicator 2008 2007 and insurance companies in Peru.
Fatalities 1 5 c Corporate HR Accidents resulting in absence of one day or more 92 105 The Hochschild approach 1 The Corporate Human Resource Vice LTIFR 5.75 7.59 Presidency supports the execution of the 2 Accident Severity Index 543 2,883 Groups strategy by the recruitment and 3 Accidentability Index 3.13 21.8 retention of employees through the use of innovation and best practice.
The 1 Calculated as total number of accidents per million labour hours.
2 Calculated as total number of days lost per million labour hours.
Group seeks to differentiate itself from its 3 Calculated as LTIFR x severity divided by 1000. peers by emerging as an employer of choice.
By taking this approach, the Health indicators Group seeks to enhance its ability to attract and retain the necessary skills.
Indicator 2008 2007 Developments during the year Average number of medical attendances at Peruvian Notable developments during the year 1 2 operations and at San Jos per month 2,851 2,505 include: Average number of medical emergencies at Peruvian the development of a Talent Inventory 2 2 operations and at San Jos per month 53.42 89.58 Review, which enables the Group to Average number of occupational health examinations identify i those positions within the 3 at the Groups wholly-owned Peruvian operations per month 238 224 organisation that are considered critical in order to achieve its strategic objectives, 1 These figures do not include attendances and emergencies at the Moris mine which have been monitored and ii the positions comprising critical since August 2008.
2 These figures include attendances and emergencies at the Pallancata mine between May 2007 and and key employees.
The results were December 2007 only.
used as the basis for developing 3 This figure does not include the number of occupational health examinations at Pallancata which have been succession and retention plans.
monitored since June 2008 and which will be monitored in respect of Moris in 2009.
The Company intends to Furthermore, the exercise gives report on performance in these areas in respect of its entire operations in future CSR reports.
management visibility of key post holders and the means by which skills considered General HR indicators essential for the business can be monitored and developed further 2008 2007 initiatives to increase its profile locally General and internationally through a the sponsorship of facilities at the Ponitifica Average number of Group employees 5,012 4,132 Universidad Catlica del Per and b Training the offer of a scholarship at the 1 Number of hours of training undertaken by each employee 19.62 13.59 Colorado School of Mines 1 Percentage of workforce trained during the year 83% 68% the launch of a formal graduate trainee programme in which 16 of the Labour relations best performing graduates from five Number of production days lost as a result of industrial unrest 0 1 Peruvian universities with relevant 1 In respect of Peruvian operations only.
Management will disclose performance in these areas in respect of the degrees such as mine engineering, entire operations in future CSR reports.
geology and chemistry were trained and recruited by the Group.
33 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate social Governance Financial statements responsibility continued Further information 2.
Community relations CR agriculture, fish farming, alpaca the participating families.
In one such breeding and textile handcrafting.
programme, part of the production is The Hochschild approach The Group strives to go beyond keeping a allocated to feed school children in Local government and community Arequipa communities.
conflict-free relationship with surrounding authorities are also trained in mining communities by supporting community legislation and topics relating to the New crops have been introduced in based organisations and interest groups in operations in their territories.
community areas of low altitude, along their many efforts ranging from improving with new irrigation technologies leading the lives of people to the local provision of TECSUP to increases in yields and income per training and education.
Sustainability of The Groups involvement in TECSUP has hectare.
Community groups are activities within the communities is also continued during the year.
organising themselves to sell their continuously improved by promoting the products at the local market and to the participation of additional development This establishment, founded and mines food services.
Families have also agencies in the implementation of local substantially funded by the Hochschild started to manage vegetable gardens to development plans.
Group is a leading non-profit technical reduce child malnourishment.
The Groups CR policy ensures the TECSUP offers careers in nine areas, 3.
The environment creation of new jobs at the local level, including metallurgical and chemical The Hochschild approach including the establishment of processes, electronics and industrial The Group endeavours to minimise the appropriate training programmes with automation, maintenance of heavy and impact of its business on the environment priority to community members.
In industrial equipment, and agricultural and to facilitate the on-going addition, the Group keeps permanent technology.
In 2008, TECSUP received sustainability of the land where it communication and dialogue with accreditations from the German Agency develops operations and activities.
surrounding communities to encourage for Accreditation of Engineering trust and integration.
Education and from the European Environmental management is facilitated Network for Accreditation of Engineering through a reporting structure at mine A sustainable development approach is Education, which will allow its graduates level with accountability to the Corporate undertaken by CR personnel so that to pursue additional studies abroad.
Environmental Manager forming part of communities are assisted in their efforts to the Operational Excellence group.
reach better life-quality standards based b Health and nutrition on their Community Development Plan.
In Child malnutrition is of the highest In addition to its primary responsibilities, this sense, the Group provides overall concern for the Group given its the Environmental Department works support and technical assistance in the prevalence in the communities around together with the operational teams, areas of health, child nutrition, education our Peruvian operations.
The Group has community relations and the Legal and income generation activities.
started a five-year programme to deal Department on the application for, and with this issue in partnership with various on-going compliance with, mining Developments during the year organisations.
With the technical help of permits, thereby assuring the continuity a Education and training Caritas del Peru an established NGO of operations.
Local communities we are providing, amongst other things, Education and training for community The Group is committed to complying training for community health promoters, members are key parts of the Groups with the highest standards of mother-child health campaigns, training approach to strengthening local environmental management systems at on production of supplementary food capacity and ensuring continuous its three original operations in Peru Ares, and hygiene.
development beyond the end of the Arcata and Selene, which have been Groups operations in the area.
recertified ISO14001 compliant during the c Income generation activities year.
The same standards are applied to Hochschild supports primary and Alpaca breeding is the most important the Groups operations elsewhere with secondary schools established in the non-mining activity for communities in the intention that official certification will areas adjacent to the Groups the highlands of Peru at altitudes over be achieved at San Jos, Pallancata and operations.
The Groups alpaca Moris during 2010. students are supported in different ways.
breeding programme focuses on producing quality fibre of higher value for The focus of the Groups environmental Examples of such support include: hundreds of breeder families.
Activities teams is on the following areas: the provision of scholarships, materials range from facilitating sanitary tailings management and supplies campaigns and building animal sheds to waste rock management summer school activities the development of alpaca selection safe disposal of domestic and access to and special training on the groups and training on collection, industrial waste use of IT classification and commercialisation of water treatment mine, industrial, networking support for teachers and fibre.
Management of natural resources, domestic water school directors.
such as water and pastures, is important storage and handling of hazardous to ensure sustainability of this programme materials, principally cyanide In addition, a wide variety of training that has already reported income gains hydrocarbons management courses are offered to community of over 10% in breeder families.
management of new projects members to encourage economic closure and rehabilitation works independence on a sustainable basis.
In Fish farming activities are also being consumption of resources, this sense, vocational training is provided promoted given its nutritional benefits principally water in carpentry, food production, and the ability to generate income for 34 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate social responsibility continued Developments during the year Community relations indicators Developments during the year include: Indicator 2008 2007 2006 2005 implementation of 95% of recommendations arising from Community investment $4.6m $4.3m $2.3m $1.2m environmental audits conducted by Production days lost as a third-party consultants result of community conflicts 0 0 0 0 group-wide implementation of various key environmental procedures relating to, amongst others, waste Environmental indicators management, management of drilling 1 1 1 Indicator 2008 2007 2006 fluids, sediment control, Hydrocarbon management, Hydrocarbon spills Average monthly fresh water consumption management, and containment per metric tonne of treated ore systems for chemicals cubic metres 0.55 2.72 1.58 environmental impact studies Average monthly electricity consumption performed in connection with per metric tonne of treated ore kWh 90.30 102.01 134.28 proposed expansion programmes and Average monthly diesel consumption in the planning of new infrastructure projects, such as plant capacity per metric tonne of treated ore gallons 3.14 1.62 1.36 increases and a new tailings dam Average monthly wood consumption processes adopted to measure more per metric tonne of treated ore kg 18.33 17.13 14.36 broadly, environmental performance Number of material environmental at each mining unit incidents across entire operations 0 0 0 group-wide initiatives to raise the general awareness of environmental 1 Figures relate to the Groups mines in Ares, Arcata and Selene only, unless otherwise stated.
Future reporting Case study Perito Moreno Since June 2008, the Group has been monitoring the additional indicators The Groups Argentinian operating company, Minera Santa Cruz MSC, has specified below and intends to report on undertaken a number of projects during the year which illustrate how Hochschilds them in future CSR Reports: local operations implement the Groups CSR strategy.
Such initiatives have included: Proportion of materials used in the operations that has been recycled Total water withdrawal by source the establishment of a development a programme of talks and organised Proportion of recycled water used agency managed by representatives visits to the Groups operations aimed Total water discharge by quality and of local government, business and at fostering a culture of openness destination.
The agency is with the inhabitants of Perito Moreno tasked with overseeing the development and sustainability of the provision of funding for student Perito Moreno, a town located housing at the university most closely nearest to the Groups jointly-owned located to Perito Moreno.
MSC contributed $120,000 during the year and is committed to contributing the same amount in each of the coming two years 35 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
