Corporate and social responsibility We recognise that part of Homeserves Homelife, our internal magazine is future success will depend on taking produced quarterly and sent to all into account the interests of all of the employees across the Group.
It contains stakeholders in our business including news from all of our businesses and employees, customers, shareholders helps our employees to learn more and the wider community.
A new Group intranet is committed to developing its activities was launched during the year, ensuring in engaging with its stakeholders and that employees are kept up to date will continue to report on its progress with daily developments, and are able in implementing its key initiatives.
to access day to day information that supports the smooth running of the Employees business.
Our annual employee survey Our employees and the service they continues to be an important mechanism provide to our customers are critical to gain employee feedback and inform to our success.
Our aim is to achieve our people plans.
a high level of employee engagement so that we can attract, retain, develop We recognise that the provision of and motivate the best people in order to Training and Development and career deliver our business objectives.
progression are important factors in generating employee commitment.
Communication and employee Our performance management review involvement play an increasingly process allows us to identify training important role as Homeserve needs and provide training solutions in continues to grow around the world.
The Elected employee forums are now a delivery of many of these programmes regular feature across the business, is carried out by our own training providing an excellent mechanism to specialists.
For all of our employees share information about the Groups it is important that they not only have performance and plans, and to the practical skills necessary for their discuss and gain feedback on these role, but also the skills they need to plans and initiatives: ensuring more enable them to deliver exceptional effective implementation and employee customer service.
our apprenticeship training is also an important part of our future plans.
Access to over 9,000 skilled tradesmen worldwide 24 Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 78658 Front.
indd 24 5 6 08 14:53:38 A new performance development review The past year has seen a continuation process has recently been launched of the Groups improved corporate for our management population.
approach to health and safety.
Better This facilitates clear objective setting integration of the Groups businesses has for all managers, consistent with our improved co-operation, and the Health business goals and the identification and Safety Forum, attended by health of development needs.
The Leadership and safety representatives of each Group Excellence Framework continues to play company, is a valuable mechanism an important part in meeting our training for sharing best practice across the needs along with a range of other businesses.
Particularly good progress development activities such as coaching.
has been made in raising the profile of In addition the recently established talent health and safety across Homeserve review process enables us to review as a serious operational driver of the our overall management capability business.
Investors, liability insurers and and ensures that we have sufficient major clients now quite properly expect management resource to support our high standards of performance in health growth plans.
and safety, and we continue to engage actively with them to demonstrate the We believe in recognising the strength of our practices and policies.
contribution of our people and providing ways in which they can share in Homeserve's strategy for health and business success.
Our 'Homeserve safety promotes compliance at least Heroes' recognition programme is now with minimum standards to achieve being rolled out following a successful its corporate objectives.
Each business pilot in recent months.
A 'Save as you has appointed a Board member to earn' share option scheme is operated act as champion for health and safety across the UK businesses and continues at subsidiary Board level, overseeing to provide an important mechanism for arrangements for the effective employees to participate in the success implementation of working practices of the business.
which meet or exceed statutory requirements.
Compliance is monitored The majority of our employees are against minimum corporate standards offered membership of a pension through routine internal health and scheme and are encouraged to fully safety audits.
Jonathan Simpson-Dent is consider this important issue.
A range of the nominated Homeserve plc director other benefits are also offered.
responsible for reporting on health and safety but the Board as a whole remains Health and safety responsible for health and safety issues Health and safety continues to be a across the Group.
highly regulated area of Homeserves business.
The competitive business All Homeserve businesses employ health climate demands a careful balance to be and safety specialists with appropriate maintained between safety management qualifications and experience to deal ideals and minimal legal compliance, with practical issues and to oversee and Homeserve remains committed to the implementation of safe working sustaining its high standards.
In some areas, the rapid has achieved a consistently good safety growth of the business through organic record through strong leadership at expansion and acquisition has generated Board level, robust health and safety a need for the better integration of management systems, the active our systems and procedures, and the involvement of employees, and the harmonisation of written policies.
This is routine monitoring and audit of safety being treated as a matter of priority, and performance.
extensive work is under way to improve the quality and consistency of written health and safety policies and guidelines across the businesses.
Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 25 78658 Front.
indd 25 5 6 08 14:53:39 Corporate and social responsibility Homeserve's overall exposure to health During 2007 8, 96 recorded incidents and safety risk has been reduced as required hospital treatment or a result of greater attention at Board substantial time lost from work, most and senior management level to health involving cuts, bruises or muscular and safety systems and procedures.
Of these, 41 were sufficiently The current programme of training all serious to require formal statutory subsidiary company directors through reporting to HSE, although none resulted the IOSH 'Safety for Senior Executives' in life-threatening injuries.
Most of the course is proving to be effective in raising more serious incidents involved cuts the profile of health and safety at a predominantly in the glazing business, senior level.
The training of operational and muscular strains from manual managers in safety management handling injuries.
These areas are being principles and techniques through the targeted through local campaigns IOSH 'Managing Safely' course promotes and 'toolbox talks' to help reduce such the commitment and competence of injuries in future.
Homeserves managers in health and 451 working days were lost through safety.
health and safety-related absence, Homeserve has continued to maintain appreciably down on the previous a good standard of health and safety year 498 and also down as a rate performance throughout the year.
per employee now 0.09 days lost per Accident and injury performance across employee per year compared with 0.1 the Group as a whole remains stable last year.
The Reportable Incident Rate in line with a longer term improving remains consistent with the recent trend, trend which is generally better than continuing to compare favourably with the average for a comparable mix of an aggregated average from relevant industry sectors.
Reportable incident rate 12 12 10 10 8 8 6 6 Industry Sector Average 4 4 Homeserve 2 2 Industry Sector Average based on statistical data from the service and construction sectors 0 0 aggregated in proportions similar 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 2006 7 2007 8 to those represented within the 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 2006 7 2007 8 Homeserve businesses.
26 Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 78658 Front.
indd 26 5 6 08 14:53:39 During the year, several Homeserve The year also saw the development of a workplaces and sites were visited by new comprehensive health and safety HSE and Local Authority Inspectors, handbook in a simple pocket-sized who were generally complimentary of format to supplement specific safety the health and safety standards found training.
This covers the key messages there, and the procedures in place to for safe working relevant to field-based ensure safe working.
Recommendations employees, where communication of made by the inspectors were mainly health and safety messages is the most of a minor or procedural nature, and difficult to achieve.
Another handbook they were all addressed as required.
has been developed for office-based Particular commendation was made employees, covering the main health for documented evidence of regular and safety issues affecting call centre internal monitoring and audit.
statutory enforcement notice was National smoking restrictions came in issued by the Fire Service requiring fire to force during 2007, effectively banning safety improvements at one depot, and smoking in all enclosed and indoor the remedial work was satisfactorily areas used as places of work.
Due to the completed within the prescribed previous implementation of policies to timescale.
There were no other statutory restrict smoking in Homeserve premises, notices, and no cases were referred for the transition went smoothly, and all prosecution against any Homeserve businesses are fully compliant with the business during the year.
A major project during the year has The Group Health and Safety Forum been the integration of the safety continues as a catalyst for improvement, management systems across all the forging effective working relationships businesses in UK Emergency Services.
and progression to common health and This has involved the development of safety standards and procedures.
Local consistent procedures to reflect best employee forums are now in place in all practice.
Most of the project work is businesses, and the practical benefits complete, and the remaining documents from involving employee representatives will be put in place during the coming are already self-evident, particularly in year.
The Groups intranet is now being improved communication and promoting used to disseminate relevant information ownership of health and safety.
widely so that it is freely accessible to all employees.
Homeserves priority areas for health and safety in 2008 9 include: A new Driver Handbook has been produced for employees who drive Vehicle and driver safety - Initiatives on business.
Much of this covers the are being put in place to improve health and safety aspects of vehicle the management of fleet vehicles use, and the handbook includes and checks on drivers licences and recommendations on the maximum competence, and to review working time spent driving, and the use of mobile methods.
Control and management of contractors - Initiatives are being put in place to improve procedures for the selection and assessment of contractors, and to develop a standard approach to monitoring contractors health, safety and quality practices.
For our latest financial information, go to www.
com Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27 78658 Front.
indd 27 5 6 08 14:53:39 Corporate and social responsibility Audit of site practices - Improvements Last year, we made a commitment to are being made to the provision of bring together the different practices health and safety training, employee of our businesses in the UK into an briefings, and auditing of working integrated company wide environmental practices on site.
We have made is developing safety priorities in good progress this year on meeting this local business KPIs, and there is an commitment.
improved regime of routine site audits During the year, we adopted our first to monitor working practices more Group-wide environment policy and closely.
published an Environmental Impact Occupational health arrangements Review, which can be viewed on our will continue to be improved to ensure website.
This work is being guided by more consistent pre-employment our newly established Environmental medical checks, better protection for Responsibility Working Group under the employees potentially exposed to chairmanship of Brian Whitty as the Board infectious material, and more effective member responsible for environmental long term sickness monitoring.
We have also recruited our first Group Environment Manager who has Reporting of near-miss incidents - the remit to lead our work in this area, to The collection of information on near help further define our objectives, and to misses and other minor or non-injury develop our action plans.
incidents which could have potential implications will be strengthened to In 2007, for the first time, we measured help highlight important trends and our 'carbon footprint' for those aspects provide a valuable input to the safety of our UK operations under our direct management strategy.
This includes the carbon related to the energy we use electricity, gas, fuel Homeserves continuing expansion oil : refrigerants used in systems such as through acquisition, and growing air conditioning and business travel air, competitive pressures on operating rail and company cars.
costs constantly threaten Homeserve's 2 exposure to risk.
The concerns are being At 12,750 tonnes of Carbon Dioxide CO addressed positively through pre and for 2006 7, our direct environmental post-acquisition reviews and an ongoing impact is relatively low.
This is in keeping programme of health and safety audits.
with our expectation as a service company.
Our most significant impact Homeserve companies continue to is the fleet of vehicles that we operate develop health and safety competence which accounts for around 70% of our and expertise, which is fundamental to overall carbon footprint.
The This information has helped us identify nature of health and safety is that there is always scope for improvement, and scope for improvement in a number of areas, and we have already begun to the development and promotion of good working practices and cost-effective take steps to reduce our environmental impact as a result, leading in some measures to ensure compliance with statutory requirements remains our key cases to cost efficiencies, as well as environmental improvements.
For example, we have invested in Environment and climate change a sophisticated scheduling system Being environmentally responsible is for emergency call-outs that gets an integral part of what being a good an engineer to our customers in the corporate citizen means to Homeserve.
This is both environmentally responsible and helps us to improve our standards of customer service.
28 Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 78658 Front.
indd 28 5 6 08 14:53:39 Being environmentally responsible is We are currently developing new links part of good management.
Climate with the Learning and Skills Council to change continues to be the most support skills development in the West pressing environmental issue and has Midlands area.
been linked to an increased frequency We are also committed to supporting of extreme weather events.
Many of national charity campaigns and on our businesses help households to the night of 14 March 2008 our contact respond to extreme weather events and centre was opened to help take some our first priority is to respond to their of the thousands of pledges generated needs quickly and efficiently.
We will also for Sport Relief.
Over 150 volunteers took continue to play our part in reducing huge donations over the night.
our own environmental impact and to reduce the resources we use.
We are very active across all of our sites, and offer a local sponsorship Environmental management will programme across the business continue to be a priority for us this year.
enabling our employees to sponsor local Homeserve in the community groups that they have an affiliation with.
Many communities suffered greatly We have community committees set over the course of 2007, hit hard by up in Preston and Weston-super-Mare, the flooding which forced a number who focus on building links with the of families to leave their homes.
Our Preston Homeserves UK Emergency Services site has bi-monthly fundraising events, fleet of workers were on hand to help, supporting the Charity of the Year, which setting up temporary centres to offer a is voted by employees.
We support local little welcome respite for those families schools and clubs, including training for worst hit, as we set about repairing the Broughton High School, contributions to damage.
During the floods, our teams community events and sponsorship of recorded a huge increase on normal local youth teams.
flood claim levels, handling some 20,000 We have also launched a partnership incidents.
This was a test for our repair this year with the Lancashire Evening network and call handling centres but Post, the local paper in Preston, whereby the tremendous response and efforts we are giving 5,000 away to local of our employees ensured that our high community groups.
We are planning level of customer service was upheld, to run similar schemes in Walsall and even in such testing times.
We have also been actively involved in At our Weston-Super-Mare site we a number of community initiatives in provide financial support to a number and around our office locations over the of local schools and clubs, as well as last year.
As a member of Business in donating IT equipment.
We have also the Community we have undertaken supported a number of charities this year a number of employee volunteering including the local Red Cross for floods, projects, completing over 20 challenges Local Miscarriage Association and the across the UK this year.
Homeserve has a dedicated resource Being a responsible business within for developing community programmes our communities is valued by both our at its head office in Walsall.
We support existing employees and potential recruits local schools and clubs in this area, and we remain focused on continually including sponsoring Walsall FC and building on our community activity.
We continue to support Old Hall Special School in the building of their sensory garden and the Company has matched pound for pound on all fundraising.
Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29 78658 Front.
