RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:20 Page 28 WE ACKNOWLEDGE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AS A GOOD CORPORATE CITIZEN We believe that responsibility impacts The IMI Way Advancements in IMIs responsible positively on profitability, returns to Building on the work of previous years, business practice also led to the during 2008 significant work was Company being selected as a member shareholders, reputation and growth.
carried out to develop a new IMI Code of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
We demand sound management of Responsible Business entitled The Index admits only those businesses of these issues and we call this The IMI Way.
This draws together that achieve top 20% scores on responsible business.
It is our aim existing and new aspects of our work demanding sustainability criteria.
to integrate this thinking within all into a concise framework.
This project aspects of our business.
We align our As a further public statement of our was coordinated by external experts business stewardship with the social, intentions, IMI is a signatory to the in this field and based on extensive environmental and economic issues United Nations Global Compact UNGC consultation with representatives at potentially affecting our operations and communicates progress in all levels within the Group.
The IMI Way through a management system of this context annually using this was launched in February 2009 and is priorities, policies and measures.
report and via our website.
being circulated to every employee in To ensure that this is part of The UNGC encompasses ten individual 25 different languages.
The launch everyday business, all of our commitments within four core areas will be supported by a wide ranging operational companies and functions of human rights, labour standards, training programme across the whole are required to deliver the elements environmental and anti-corruption Group.
of this system for which they are which we also encourage our suppliers In 2008, IMI plc was once again responsible and these activities to subscribe to.
In 2007, Indoor Climate selected for inclusion in the are coordinated and supported and the US arm of our Beverage FTSE4Good index.
Dispense business, Cornelius, became the first major parts of IMI to require and receive statements from all key suppliers that they too adhere to these principles.
In May 2008 IMI again held a responsible business seminar, which brought together our responsible business leaders from across the Group along with external advisors.
This year the seminar concentrated on the implementation of IMIs responsible business priorities and developing processes to further embed the disciplines of responsible business into the Companys activities.
One key development is that an executive director now chairs the IMI Responsible Business Steering Group.
28 Responsible business 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 25 3 09 12:14 Page 29 IMI Values Code of Responsible Business B.
The principal corporate policies on responsible business To achieve its goals IMI has a guiding Our Code of Responsible Business set of values that exemplify how is a guide to help all employees This section provides an overview of employees behave.
Wherever anyone consistently demonstrate their IMIs responsible business policies works in IMI and whenever an IMI commitment to the IMI Way that apply across the enterprise employee is encountered, you can throughout our worldwide operations.
including all platform and operating expect to see these values at work.
It can help determine the right companies.
It covers our interaction The values that make up the IMI Way course of action, for instance, in and dealings with a number of are: a feedback conversation with a stakeholders including: colleague, in negotiations with a IMI people pursue excellence and 1.
Customers major customer or supplier, in an deliver results 2.
Colleagues assessment of our health and safety IMI people innovate and provide 3.
Shareholders performance or in a review of value to our customers product innovations.
4. Business partners IMI people act with integrity 5.
Communities The Code has two sections: The IMI Way, together with more detailed information on all of IMIs A.
The Codes purpose and how our responsible business activities can values underpin it be viewed on the Companys website This section covers a number of www.
areas including: How the Code works and how it is applied The four IMI Responsible Business Initiatives The IMI hotline - a totally anonymous reporting tool that can be used by any employee to report anything which is contrary to the spirit and letter of the Code.
Fidelis Hynam accepts a cheque on behalf of Birmingham Childrens Hospital from Martin Lamb, IMIs CEO.
In the second half of 2008 we engaged the same external advisors to carry out a full review of our responsible Legal compliance business activities.
This included remains the bedrock for interviews with a wide range of internal any responsible business and external stakeholders including including IMI.
Unlawful activity of any major investors, selected customers, kind is completely unacceptable to directors and management.
The breach of these standards The results and recommendations, identified during the Severe Service were presented to the Executive investigation in 2007 prompted a Committee and, subject to further Our businesses should continue to review of all aspects of control across consultation with the businesses, benefit from ever more stringent the whole of IMI, particularly with will be implemented progressively government energy policies and regard to anti-corruption.
As a result, during 2009 and 2010. environmental legislation around the a comprehensive programme of new world, particularly in the context of The planning process in 2008 processes, procedures and training energy use in buildings, maximising the has been implemented across the highlighted responsible business efficiency of electricity generating objectives for each IMI business.
This programme will continue plant, emissions legislation impacting and will be led by the recently These included identification of future commercial vehicles and energy risks, opportunities and measures to appointed IMI Chief Compliance Officer consumption in bars and restaurants.
with direct sponsorship from ensure full alignment of each business Legislation will continue to impact with the corporate priorities, as well as the Executive Committee.
These responsible business management in procedures are also encapsulated in specific local objectives.
Typical local all territories, affecting the majority actions include measures to improve the IMI Way.
More routinely, we identify, of policy areas eg, health, safety and monitor, and forecast legislative health and safety, energy efficiency environmental regulations.
targets and steps to gain relevant developments in order to maximise opportunities and minimise risks.
HS&E or quality accreditation in particular facilities.
IMI plc Annual Report 2008 29 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:20 Page 30 FOUR KEY PRIORITIES GUIDE OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AGENDA Responsible Business Priorities businesses a number of successful 2.
Supporting our customers priorities initiatives commenced in 2008.
We place significant emphasis on Mindful of current legislative helping our customers to meet their requirements and change, we have Cannon Equipment delivered a responsible business commitments identified four key priorities within our significant reduction in lost time from diversity targets to carbon overall approach to responsible accident rates through the initiatives emissions recognising the business.
These priorities, further and hands on control of the leadership opportunities for them and ourselves details of which are set out below, team.
Visible local business leader to protect the planet and develop will be reviewed at least annually to passion is vital for continued our respective businesses.
ensure that they remain relevant and improvement in this area.
Global concerns relating to energy appropriate.
CCI in California held its first June issues and climate change, whether 1.
Health and Safety Safety Month.
This event required driven by legislation or not, have a We promote a strong culture of health employees to submit a safety slogan positive impact on customer demand and safety and of environmental for the month.
A review of all for our products and services many protection HS&E to minimise risk the safety slogans submitted was of which are clearly dedicated to for our people, the environment, performed by the safety committee energy efficient operation.
adjacent communities and other and the winning slogan chosen was To help customers make significant stakeholders.
During 2008 we carried included on the sites safety posters.
reductions in energy consumption our out a detailed review of our health and At Tour & Andersson, Sweden, part of Beverage Dispense business, Cornelius, safety management systems and will the Indoor Climate group, the human launched Energize last year.
This new be implementing an enhanced set of resources department ran a step soft drink cooling system has been corporate requirements during 2009 counting competition to encourage measured to use between 40% and supported by the further development employees to take more exercise.
60% less energy than traditional and implementation of a range of Each department had a team, and with beverage systems and is therefore an best practice documents.
We are the aid of pedometers, they measured extremely attractive proposition to committed to effective communication which team walked the furthest over our customer base.
and consultation on HS&E matters a seven week period.
317 employees with all relevant stakeholders, In our Merchandising division, retailers participated and the combined particularly with employees.
have been demanding new innovative distance walked would have taken the IMI requires those working for ways to provide lighting in retail spaces teams three times around the world.
us directly, or on our behalf as to meet increasingly stringent energy These and other initiatives have contractors, to comply with our HS&E codes throughout North America.
resulted in the continued improvement standards and procedures.
Our Merchandising businesses have in our overall lost time accident rates, developed significantly improved LED In support of these general as shown on page 7. lighting systems for our customers to commitments, IMI and each subsidiary replace traditional, but higher energy In 2009 we are introducing a CEO manages its activities to ensure award for health and safety excellence consuming, fluorescent lighting that improvement in these areas fixtures.
which will consider significant is cumulative and constant.
achievements across all of IMIs Business-wide HS&E forums were The scale of the plants operated by operations.
In addition health and held in Mexico as well as the UK and our Severe Service customers is safety targets will be used as one of the USA and the first European such that achieving even just a small the main benchmarks for determining wide forum is planned for 2009 percentage improvement in efficiency the responsible business element with delegates registered from can mean substantial benefits to of annual bonuses which is being 15 countries.
Within the individual the customer and the environment.
introduced for the first time in 2009.
30 Responsible business 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:20 Page 31 The Environmental Protection Agency offered thanks to employees of CCI in Mexico for their donation of 150 trees.
The technologies of CCI as well as A major supplier conference, Orton and Truflo Rona, customised held in China in 2008, focused on precisely for each application, deliver ensuring that regional suppliers fully performance improvement as well understood and could meet IMIs as risk reduction that conventional demanding legal compliance, quality HS&E performance report that will be products cannot match.
assurance and responsible business posted to the IMI plc website in due requirements including adherence to course.
Norgrens proprietary technologies the UN Global Compact.
improve efficiencies in a wide variety All of our major factories have local of applications.
Amongst other As part of the supplier evaluation energy savings targets and initiatives examples, bespoke solutions help process, suppliers are subject to in place and regular teleconferences leading companies in conventional rigorous and ongoing audits by our help to ensure that ideas and best and renewable energy markets, whilst procurement teams, including a practice are shared around IMIs innovative valve and fluid control substantial team based in China.
In our Fluid solutions address the growing global This process follows a risk-based Power business, our Buschjost site market for efficient water quality and methodology for assessment and audit in Germany installed a light sensor water management devices.
A good against our global responsible business to switch off lights in the new example is Norgrens positioning measures.
This process was further manufacturing hall when there is cylinder with integrated positioning reviewed and enhanced during 2008. sufficient natural light coming in from measurement system, which reduces In addition, IMIs Risk Control team outside.
Not only does this reduce energy consumption in blast furnaces conducts regular supplier visits and the sites energy consumption it also manufacturing steel due to better training of our procurement personnel.
In Indoor temperature and pressure control Climate, our TA manufacturing site 4.
Energy efficiency within the furnace.
Global pressures on energy prices in Ljung, Sweden, reduced its energy consumption by 984 MWh in 2008 The efficient use of energy in buildings eased towards the end of 2008. is a fundamental part of our Indoor However, earlier in the year significant through a range of energy saving initiatives across the site.
Climate proposition with many of rises had an adverse impact on IMIs the worlds most high profile and energy costs.
The overall impact of The performance of our business units prestigious construction projects the 2008 cost increases has again on the four key priorities is assessed relying on TA, Heimeier and Pneumatex been mitigated somewhat by our during an annual responsible business to help deliver significant energy on-going energy efficiency and audit, and throughout the year savings and so achieve global warming procurement initiatives.
The positive through other processes such as reduction targets.
trend in our overall CO emissions is 2 our risk control surveys and financial shown on page 7.
In light of the assurance audits.
Supply chain and manufacturing extreme volatility in exchange rates introducing a web-based data system in low cost economies during 2008, and potentially going for the collection and collation of The manufacturing plants established forward, it was considered appropriate the annual audit to further improve by IMI in emerging economies have all to revise the key performance the quality and dissemination of this been developed with full attention to indicator from being relative to sales information.
The results of the minimise employment and HS&E risks.
to relative to working hours.
If this responsible business audit are Risk control surveys are conducted change had not been made there reviewed by the Board.
Statistics on a regular basis, typically annually, would have been a risk of the KPI trend from the annual audit are published and these identify improvement being artificially distorted.
Further on our website www.
information will be provided in the IMI plc Annual Report 2008 31 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 25 3 09 11:28 Page 32 Representatives from our Norgren facility at Brno in the Czech Republic visited the Kicinka Centre following a donation to the organisation, which provides care and support to physically and mentally handicapped children.
Community engagement scheme run by Volunteers of America Health-related causes have again in the run up to Christmas.
Employees received good support from IMI.
We seek and encourage good donated money and gifts to ensure Blood donation drives are held around relationships with the local that the low-income families being the world and matching funds are communities in which our facilities helped had a much more enjoyable normally made available for employee operate.
Across all our businesses, Christmas than would otherwise have team fund-raising efforts.
Employees we actively encourage positive been the case.
from the Groups head office in contributions to local communities Birmingham and local operating sites and environments, whilst still delivering In our DCI merchandising business, successfully raised 20,000 for the the necessary business performance.
employees joined with the Miller Birmingham Children Hospitals Red For IMI people, responsibility and Brewing Company to raise money Balloon Appeal.
Our staff showed business performance are directly for the United Performing Arts Fund great imagination in coming up with a and intimately connected.
of Milwaukee, which supports 36 number of fun initiatives to raise the performing arts groups in Wisconsin.
In May 2008 the IMI team in China money, including a very successful quiz 40 employees participated with their showed a fantastic response to the night which involved over 20 teams families in a sponsored bicycle ride.
major earthquake in Sichuan province.
from IMI and affiliated companies.
Having quickly accounted for the safety IMI graduate trainees are encouraged The charity devoted to countering the of all employees and their families, to undertake community placements debilitating skin disease Epidermolysis attention was then turned during their training period, with Bullosa, DebRA, also receives to helping the victims of the initiatives such as the Engineering substantial support from IMI and terrible disaster.
Employees in China Education Scheme, which encourages remains, along with CIDA, which and around the world raised and schoolchildren to consider engineering supports educational opportunities donated 57,000 in three days with careers.
In 2008 the graduates for disadvantaged students in South funds matched by the Group on a also participated in a community Africa, and Care for Children, which one-for-one basis.
challenge to clean up the Plantsbrook relieves hardship, distress and sickness Nature Reserve near the head office In Mexico, Norgren supported the local in abandoned and orphaned children in Birmingham in cooperation association for the blind and visually in China, one of the three principal with Business in the Community.
impaired by using tickets for fund beneficiaries of IMIs charity budget.
The graduates cut back trees and raising events as prizes for quality Talent development vegetation, rebuilt a pond dipping related quizzes to reinforce expected platform, constructed a floating island The geographical distribution of our behaviours.
The Norgren workforce for birds and built picnic benches and operations and activities across the is kept informed on blind awareness bird boxes.
world enables us to draw upon a broad matters and on how funds raised spectrum of talented people from are used to expand the associations IMI China was one of a number of a diversity of ethnic, cultural and facilities.
This is one of three local sponsors of the Prime Minister's business backgrounds.
In recent years charities that Norgren Mexico has Global Fellowship trip to China.
we have accelerated the development chosen to support as part of a wider This programme, launched in 2008, of programmes and disciplines that will IMI Group initiative.
is designed to take young people deliver the human resources necessary from the UK through a series of new At our Beverage Dispense offices to maintain and grow our business.
inter-cultural experiences in one of in Osseo Minnesota employees Ensuring that the Company has the the three fastest and most important participated in the Adopt-A-Family appropriate expertise and skills at emerging economies in the World.
all levels is a fundamental management responsibility.
32 Responsible business 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:20 Page 33 WE RESPECT AND VALUE OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH ALL STAKEHOLDERS IMIs internal high potential International volunteers from the IMI graduate programme programmes, Aspire and Aspire Plus, spent three days cleaning up are designed to develop the most Plantsbrook Nature Reserve talented individuals, particularly those in conjunction with Business willing to take on new challenges in in the Community.
This intensive, personalised programme prepares capable people for early movement into senior positions.
Each year IMI actively recruits high calibre graduates from a variety of disciplines and diverse backgrounds, from universities across the world, for its prestigious graduate programme.
The programme consists of a series of six month assignments over a two-year period in different IMI locations around the world.
At the operational level each IMI facility ensures that employees receive suitable and continuing on-the-job training and support, with health and safety and environmental matters being a particularly important focus.
IMI encourages its operating units to train and develop employees at all levels through a wide range of business-related education and training.
Certain types of training, such as compliance and risk management are also undertaken by senior level employees annually.
