Corporate Responsibility We remain committed to building a sustainable and profitable business while behaving responsibly.
The principles of corporate responsibility are integrated within the Groups management practices and processes.
Responsibly managing our business Conducting our business responsibly Consultation has commenced with key Highlights is fundamental to our future success stakeholders to consider the potential and the sustainability of our business, impact on our business and assist in Lost time accident rates reduction from managing social and environmental the denition of appropriate energy and 1 in 2007 and economic risks and opportunities, carbon dioxide emission reduction targets.
to responding to external developments We are participating in the Carbon and stakeholder issues.
20% Disclosure Projects Supply Chain Our Strategy Leadership Study, to assess climate The way we approach Corporate change risks and to assist our suppliers Energy consumption reduction Responsibility CR and how it supports in managing carbon.
Our 2008 submission 2 in 2007 our commercial strategy has developed to the project resulted in a score of 87 over the years.
Following a strategic review per cent for our climate change strategy of international trends in CR, we identied sector average 67 per cent.
18% five key areas of focus with the purpose Portfolio Balance: we are committed of enhancing our performance over a five to further improvements in how we 2 year horizon, supported by increasing local CO emissions reduction in 2007 2 manage our product portfolio to achieve participation in managing these issues.
an appropriate balance between product Our Performance stewardship, regulatory demand and the 26% Progress has been made for each of our needs and preferences of our consumers.
Five-for-Five priorities and across a range 1 Progress Report: we completed the first 2007 compared with 2006 excluding Altadis.
of financial and non-financial performance 2 Absolute values for financial year 2007 compared with phase of this work by identifying a crossmetrics.
functional decision-making mechanism to Five-For-Five Priorities optimise our product portfolio.
As a result, Carbon Management: we are committed information system projects are underway to further improvements in carbon to enable us to better understand how management through energy conservation, ingredients link to products, their market the application of lower carbon destinations and regulatory requirements technologies and carbon offsetting.
Progress Report: we have identied the Supplier Standards: we will most significant risks and opportunities continue to work with our suppliers for improvement in our business to improve their economic, social operations relating to climate change.
com 35 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW Corporate Responsibility continued Progress Report: the aim of our a high priority.
The Board has reiterated its Benchmarks supplier engagement and assessment commitment to continuous improvement programmes is to safeguard future by leading an initiative to reinvigorate Ranking in Business in the supplies by managing the social, OHS to coincide with organisational Community CR Index 2007 environmental and economic aspects of changes within the enlarged Group.
Preliminary analysis has Environmental Management: we remain been undertaken to deepen understanding Gold committed to minimising the adverse of reputational risk and the appropriate impact of our activities on the natural standards which need to be promoted environment.
Our environmental in the supply chain.
Class distinction in Sustainability performance shows a downward We continue to use the Social Asset Management Sustainability movement in energy consumption and Responsibility in Tobacco Production Yearbook 2008 carbon dioxide emissions.
Since 2004, programme, in conjunction with our we have reduced waste from our factories suppliers.
An improvement in overall and main ofces by 9 per cent and we Bronze performance and a good level of risk send 62 per cent less waste to landlls.
Water use by our factories and main ofces has decreased by 8 per cent We continue to engage with our leaf SAM Research for Dow Jones since 2001. suppliers, and have underlined our Sustainability Index 2008 commitment to nding solutions to sector average 69% Community Investment: we have invested child labour by increasing our funding 2.4 million in our community activities, to the Elimination of Child Labour through international and local partnership in Tobacco Foundation.
74% projects, charitable giving and matching We continue to include CR-related employee fundraising.
We were delighted factors in the qualication of non-tobacco to receive the Charity Aid Foundation Product Stewardship: we have material suppliers engaged in business Community Investment Award 2007 with the Group.
invested further in better understanding in recognition of our commitment our products, assessing materials to sustainable funding of charities.
Local Accountability: we will aim for for suitability, evaluating scientific accountability through the provision of Integration developments in tobacco and health, training and expertise to ensure a more Imperial Tobacco and Altadis have taken and complying with all voluntary effective local response to CR issues.
This close agreements, legal and regulatory alignment has enabled us to swiftly and Progress Report: a suite of educational requirements.
effectively plan implementation of our materials is being developed to raise Sales and Marketing: we remain systems across the enlarged Group, awareness of accountability for CR committed to promoting and selling including various social and environmental throughout the enlarged Group and our tobacco and paper products due diligence activities, our non-financial at all levels.
This year we have been able responsibly, applying our International to link CR and Group policies to different reporting system, the Social Responsibility Marketing Standards IMS as the elements of job roles within the business in Tobacco Production programme, and minimum and directing our products to enhance this understanding.
The IMS has Policy Evidence: we are aiming Following the announcement of proposed undergone extensive review to ensure to increase transparency that our integration projects in June 2008, we it continues to be t for purpose for policies and standards are routinely have been actively consulting with our the enlarged Group.
employees, trade unions, work councils Employment Practices: our Business and other organisations.
We remain Progress Report: we have created a single Principles and employment policies set focused on providing those affected reference point on our corporate intranet out a framework of practices to ensure by integration with a comprehensive to communicate the requirements of our our people are treated with fairness, range of support measures.
We have also taken dignity and respect, in line with universally steps to support the alignment of policies Further detailed information on our accepted standards for human rights.
We with working practice, and completed performance can be found in our continue to invest in our people through a project to help improve the clarity of Corporate Responsibility Review which our international career management, purpose of our corporate documents is published in December and which leadership and development programmes, and how they are interconnected.
includes an independent veriers as well as through ongoing local training statement provided by SGS United Non-Financial Objectives and development initiatives within our Kingdom Limited on the accuracy and In the phased implementation of projects markets and factories.
related to our key strategic objectives reliability of our corporate responsibility we continue our work in the social Occupational Health and Safety OHS : performance reporting.
the safety and well-being of our employees and environmental areas important to our business.
and those who work with us remain 36 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 In this section: Board of Directors 38 Chief Executives Committee 40 Report of the Directors 41 Corporate Governance Report 44 Directors Remuneration Report 55 Governance
