30 Business review Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility CR is very important to the Inchcape Group and we continue to be committed to integrating socially responsible behaviour into every aspect of how we operate and define ourselves.
Our CR journey The past 160 years 2006 2007 2008 Inchcape has a New strengthen and Core purpose defined, CR strategy heritage of integrity expand corporate values refreshed implemented and and a history of caring strategy defined KPIs listed New people strategy for its local markets, Focus on encouraging announced Focus on CO2 emissions its people and its community support tracking for the Group customers 2008 has built on the foundations of a Governance and management Business conduct Group approach to CR that is making The Board is responsible for the strategic In 2008, we reviewed our business and ethics responsible economic, environmental and direction of all CR initiatives and the policy and will roll out the updated policy social behaviour intrinsic to the way we programme as a whole.
The Board is during the first half of 2009.
The Groups approach to CR has been ultimately accountable to our shareholders providing a framework for managing our recognised by its inclusion again in 2008 in for our CR Programme.
Day to day operations in line with a consistent set of the FTSE 4 Good index.
The company has management of the CR Programme has standards of behaviour, we have introduced also taken part again in the Carbon been delegated to the CR Committee a specic CR element to the design to Disclosure Projects review.
comprising of the Groups General Council ensure that CR remains at the forefront of and Group Company Secretary, Director of our activities.
Our responsibilities Strategy, Assistant Company Secretary and This section of the Annual Report sets out Group Communications Manager.
Above the key principles of our CR Programme.
all, the CR Committees role is to ensure that It provides insight into the developments our day to day business operations respond in respect of our people, our emphasis to the opportunities and avoid the risks, on and approach to creating the ultimate posed by CR-related issues.
customer experience for our brand partners, highlights the achievements in respect of the A network of locally based CR Champions employees with Group and local Groups impact on the communities in which we operate and outlines a new development responsibilities support the work of the CR in 2008 with the measurement of the Groups Committee across three areas of strategic CO2 footprint.
focus: our people, our communities and our environment.
Our activities are focused At Inchcape we take responsibility for the through our internal CR Aware campaign.
impact our activities have on: As part of the risk management processes Our people embedded throughout the Group, environmental, social and governance risks Our customers are identied and mitigated appropriately.
Our communities Our environment Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 31 Progress against Driven by our values People power our responsible culture our goals in 2008 We believe it is the enthusiasm and understanding of our people that will shape and In the context of the early stage of power Inchcapes CR culture.
We combine the local knowledge, enthusiasm and expertise our CR journey, we chose the following of our employees worldwide with our clearly dened values, standards and policies to strategically important targets for 2008: enable us to contribute responsibly and sustainably to society.
Objective Raising employee engagement through the various initiatives from our people Respect for People are at the heart of who we are, how we think and how strategy including significant reward and each other we act: Inchcape is successful because ofus.
We celebrate development plans diversity, we value and learn from each other and feel proud to Goal attainment Attained be working with the best.
We have faith in each other and show each other real loyalty.
Objective Extending our employee survey to our global employee base Winning We are strong as individuals, but we are even stronger as a together team.
We are part of a rich global network and together we Goal attainment Attained achieve great things.
We enjoy working with each other and always achieve more when we do.
Objective Extending best practice in health and safety to our operations worldwide Goal attainment Attained Treating every This is our company and we feel proud to be part of it.
We see as our own cost as a good thing, as long as it creates value.
What we hate is waste, so we think before we spend.
Objective Supporting the communities in which we operate through focused initiatives Goal attainment Attained Integrity without We have nohidden agendas.
We have an uncompromising Objective Identifying and dening compromise commitment to transparency and ethical principles.
We believe environmental initiatives for 2008 and beyond in a straight-talking, human approach.
We take personal Goal attainment Attained responsibility for what we say and do.
In an industry not famed for trust, customers choose us for our clarity, honesty and realism.
Pioneering An intrepid sprit is the essence of Inchcape.
We lead our industry new ideas by example.
We liberate talent and prize initiative.
We are prepared to take risks, drawing on our powerful global resources of creativity and insight.
Passionate We are committed to putting the customer first every day, every about time, everywhere.
We are energised by making our customers customers feel special, which we do by delivering brilliant basics and creating magic moments.
Caring for our Each one of us plays our part in addressing global concerns environment through our local, everyday actions.
We integrate an awareness of our environmental impact with responsible business decisionmaking and we advance opportunities to reduce our industrys bearing upon our planet.
com 32 Business review Corporate responsibility continued management process.
Additionally, Training was given to help teams understand Our people feedback is sought from a representative their Heartbeat scorecard and prepare for group of employees on specic issues.
These action At Inchcape we plans are regularly followed up and Employee recognition discussed at team meetings.
recognise that it Recognition of outstanding performance is core to employee engagement and Talent and performance management is our people who high on our people agenda.
We believe Talent and performance management is at make the difference.
tremendous value can be gained from the heart of our people strategy as we look an investment in strategic recognition for to ensure we have the right people in each performance, personal achievement and role.
In 2008, we have been through the It is through our people that we are able team successes, especially in these second wave of talent review and action to consistently bring alive our core purpose challenging times.
planning sessions in each of our markets.
and thus our people strategy has been The process is now being cascaded We have several programmes in place to defined asengaged people in winning through the whole organisation.
During the recognise people on both a Group, regional teams creating the ultimate customer year, we also ran several development and and local level.
experience for our brand partners.
assessment centres and programmes for In January 2008 we launched a 12-month our managers, focusing on our leadership Our people strategy aims at ensuring skills.
We have also conducted an annual Group-wide programme designed to we have: recognise and reward retail centres and review of our leadership population, with a The right people: by becoming a magnet distribution sales teams based on view to continuously upgrading the quality for talented people who live our values and embedding the concept ofgood profit and depth of our talent pool.
Our analysis enjoy working in winning teams delivering continues to show us that talented people how both outstanding customer service outstanding results: and strong operational profit are key drivers yield much higher levels of customer for winning teams.
Progress was monitored satisfaction and profit.
The right learning: equipping our people via a dedicated website and winners to excel today and provide exciting Attracting and retaining talented individuals received personal notes of congratulations development opportunities for the future, through attractive performance-based from the Group Chief Executive on a aligned to our business ambition: rewards and interesting and diverse career monthly basis.
opportunities remains a key area of focus The right reward: by recognising, celebrating Since 2006, the Executive Committee has for us.
As a global business, we are also able and rewarding the contribution our people to provide international secondments and identied exceptional individuals and teams and teams make to deliver our challenging from across the business for the Inchcape promotions, enabling us to give our best business ambitions: Gold Standardawards for performance people constantly stimulating career paths The right culture: by creating a great place and contribution.
These are made annually and growth.
We will seek to build on this to work where people choose to make a in 2009. and each case is fully discussed and real difference and deliver the ultimate considered by the Executive team as a Employee safety customer experience.
whole and a suitable reward is given.
The safety of our employees is of paramount Our employee base is diverse and reects Outstanding performance is celebrated importance.
Many of our employees handle the different cultures and markets within hazardous substances and work with heavy and publicised via our Group-wide which we operate.
This diversity creates a employee e-zine, Inchcape Inside, a machinery.
We regularly review our policies range of perspectives that allows us to monthly communication that features news and procedures for our employees and constantly challenge and improve the way about the business, our exceptional people, have appropriate training programmes we do things, as we work towards our goal in place.
teams and business performance all of putting the customer at the centre of components that we believe set us apart Employees with disabilities our business.
We are an equal opportunities employer.
Employee communications Employee engagement We are committed to the employment of This year, much effort has been applied in This year we have launched Heartbeat, people with disabilities and will interview all engaging our people with our customerour long-term programme to increase those candidates who meet the minimum centric agenda.
Employees around the engagement throughout the Company.
We provide training and Group have attended a unique and This incorporated our first Group-wide career development for our employees, innovative Customer 1st experience, employee survey conducted in partnership tailored where appropriate to their specic designed to reinforce the understanding of with Gallup and individual team action needs, to ensure they achieve their potential.
our core purpose and its meaning to each plans to address key issues raised.
If an individual becomes disabled while in and every role within the whole organisation.
our employment, we will do our best to Gallups leading research has identied ensure continued employment in their The vision and strategy for the Group is 12 questions that measure employee role, including consulting them about regularly communicated through market engagement and powerfully link to relevant their requirements, making appropriate visits, employee events and informal meetings business outcomes.
To these we added a adjustments and providing alternative with Inchcape employees across the Group.
further six questions specic to Inchcape.
Objectives in support of the strategy are We achieved a response rate of 87% across supported through the performance the Group.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 33 Our customers Every day, every time and everywhere we aim to deliver a world-class retail experience giving our customers better service, better choice and better value.
We place strong emphasis on the quality basis, each retail centre submits feedback We talked to over 16,000 service of our customer service and in 2007 we from 20 buyers and a further 20 visitors customers for our aftersales NPS.
about their experience at the centre.
launched the Customer 1st initiative as part Supporting our customers of the Inchcape Advantage programme Guidance on best practice and detailed We are committed to providing clear to deliver outstanding customer service recommendations on opportunities to information to our customers to help support every time, every day, everywhere.
Following improve customer service are accessible them in their vehicle purchase choices.
extensive consumer research, we developed to all retail centre employees via our portal.
This is provided in our showrooms and on and implemented Customer 1st processes, our websites.
training and systems throughout our retail We use the Customer 1st programme to centres.
In particular, this has allowed local monitor both our own performance as As part of providing a customer focused the retailer for our brand partners and the management to set targets for each centre aftersales service, we offer our customers based on customer satisfaction measured performance of third-party retailers where we an environmental Vehicle Health Check through Net Promoter Score NPS and sales manage the retail network as the distributor.
which includes: funnel management analysis.
We believe that this focus on customer Tyre pressure test service and sales technology will help us We have introduced a system for tracking CO2 test and emissions test daily customer information including retail deliver a superior retail experience to our centre trafc, sales leads, test drives and customers.
Further, an improved customer Air condition check orders.
Results are collected and monitored experience sets us apart from our Engine lubricant test competitors and builds loyalty, resulting daily through a dedicated award-winning portal on the Groups intranet.
This information in stronger relationships with our brand Emissions test is aggregated overnight, providing reports partners and leaving the Group better In some of our retail centres, customers are positioned to grow market share.
and comparisons against brand, country, offered a free Green Test Drive when they region and across time periods.
This allows Customer 1st in 2008 visit us for a vehicle service.
The Green Test us to measure, for example, the number We carried out approximately 2,650 Drive shares tips with the customer on how of orders taken as a percentage of leads mystery shop exercises in 240 retail to drive more efficiently, how to improve their and to set targets accordingly and gives centre showrooms across the Group.
environmental impact and ultimately how management a strong knowledge of the to reduce their vehicle running costs.
automotive industry and detailed insight We carried out approximately 1,700 into particular markets.
mystery shop exercises in 230 service We also have accessories available centres across the Group.
that help our customers manage their Our customer understanding is facilitated environmental footprint, including low rolling both by the monthly mystery shop of each We talked to 37,800 vehicle buyers and resistance tyres, which can reduce CO2 of our retail centres and by quantitative 39,500 showroom visitors for our vehicle emission by around 2% and lower engine analysis of NPS results.
Here, on a monthly sales NPS programme.
friction lubricants which can reduce CO2 emission by around 1%.
Our core purpose To create the ultimate customer experience for our brand partners.
com 34 Business review Corporate responsibility continued Our communities With our extensive international interests, 1.
Hong Kong Inchcape firmly believes in supporting the Opening of Crown Motors Elementary many different communities and cultures within School Cuihua Central Primary School, Kunming which we operate, often through sponsorship and support of local charities for local people.
We have highlighted some of the work that we have been undertaking in our communities.
Donations by Lexus owners, matched by Crown Motors Limited, have contributed towards the construction of the Cuihua Central Primary School of Lu Quan in Kunming, in the mountainous southwest province ofYunnan in China.
The school began operation in January 2008, 2 benefiting around 600 students from 6 poor backgrounds.
5 Lexus owners in Hong Kong have enthusiastically embraced the opportunity to reach out to these 1 children, who might otherwise be unable to have any formal education.
Greece Toyota Hellas donates to the Pammakaristos Institution In support of the Pammakaristos Institution, Toyota Hellas purchased equipment to help build a centre dedicated to childrens health and wellbeing.
The Pammakaristos Institution is a non-profit charitable organisation that provides protection as well as education for children.
It is subsidised by the Hellenic Ministry of Health & Welfare.
Toyota Hellas has supported the Pammakaristos Institution in a variety of ways over the year.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 35 2.
Brunei Inchcape receives award Borneo Motors Singapore: NBT sponsor Corollas for for payroll giving Lexus Charity Golf Day supports defensive driving course the Dover Park Hospice In recognition of Inchcape Retails The highly anticipated Lexus Charity Golf Our Brunei business NBT, the largest commitment to good causes and bettering Day was held in July 2008 at the prestigious local car retailer, was pleased to the local community, Inchcape Retail in the Tanah Merah Country Club, Garden Course.
support Megamas and Brunei UK received aPayroll Giving Quality Mark 288 participants attended for a day of golf, Shell Petroleum BSP in promoting Goldaward for making Payroll Giving networking and charity.
greater road safety awareness in available to colleagues.
Brunei Darussalam through providing In the evening after the event, the Dover Park cars for defensive driving courses.
Monies donated through Inchcapes scheme Hospice was presented with a donation are given to BEN, the automotive charity.
This record-breaking NBT ofcially handed over two This charity supports people from across the amount is the highest ever raised by the Toyota Corollas to Megamas Training automotive and related industries who face Lexus Charity Golf Day and it will certainly Company Sdn Bhd at the NBT Kuala hardship or distress and offers financial, go a long way in helping the hospice Belait Toyota showroom in June 2008. emotional and practical help and support to provide palliative care for patients.
more than 15,000 men, women and children who have a connection with the sector.
Ethiopia Toyota Romanian Inchcape in the Ethiopian community International Marathon Toyota Romania was proud to sponsor the Inchcape supports a childrens project no chairs, desks or other supplies.
Today Toyota Romanian International Marathon, in Ethiopia called Missionaries of Charity the school is ourishing and will soon the first major athletic event to take place Rehabilitation Centre MCRC run by move to a larger compound with in Bucharest, on 12 October 2008.
The project focuses classrooms, a separate dining room on children with emotional or physical and a computer room.
This momentous event was organised by disabilities, HIV, while helping single the Bucharest Running Club in partnership In October 2008, Inchcape donated mothers in need.
Jutta also provides with Bucharest City Hall, the Saatchi & 12,500.
This is being used to support training for young teachers in the region.
Saatchi advertisement agency and the MCRCs work by providing children with Romanian Athletics Federation.
When the school first opened, it was food, medical and emotional care as a privately funded initiative called the well as education.
Children were 2 cramped into a four m mud hut: it had www.
com 36 Business review Corporate responsibility continued Our environment A suite of CO KPIs has been developed in support 2 of our corporate values, our objectives in the area of customer strategy, and our CR commitments.
We will align Inchcape with best corporate practice from a broad range of companies, not restricted to motor retailers.
We have collated six months of data from the majority of businesses worldwide, excluding our joint ventures in Russia, where, in particular, the Musa Motors group is in the integration phase.
When we have collated at least 18 months worth of data, we will be able to make seasonal adjustments to it.
We recognise that the international nature of our business as well as our range of operations across Retail, Distribution and VIR mean that there is not an obvious benchmark against which we can compare our CO2 footprint to other companies.
However, our approach to date is as follows: For energy, we are analysing the CO 2 usage data to establish a benchmark for CO target Description 2 our own operations with a view to setting Energy This KPI measures our global electricity and gas usage.
For the best practice targets for our Retail and Distribution businesses.
This will allow us last six months of 2008, data has been collated on the basis of to apply a standard, notwithstanding the megawatt hours for electricity and cubic metres for gas.
international nature and differing scale of our operations.
Transport This KPI measures the movement of cars and parts from the point of ownership legal or contractual to the point we cease For transport, the CO usage is largely 2 to have legal ownership.
We calculate xed due to the inherent requirements our CO2 footprint by car or parts kilometres, depending on the of repeated shipping of cars and parts mode of transport, with a CO multiplier.
2 between dened points of supply.
For ights, the initial measurement Flights This KPI measures the impact of the movement of our people.
period coincided with the introduction We have recorded the number of ights each ight leg counts of a Group-wide priority on cutting costs as one unit and calculate our ight CO2 emissions with a and reducing air travel.
Our working multiplier by ight kilometre.
assumption is that therefore this data will set a benchmark point against which future travel can be measured.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 37 Our goals for 2009 During 2009, we will be collecting and analysing consistent data to establish our Group carbon footprint and to determine specific policies.
Objectives Target Build a solid database Collate a minimum of 18 months data.
from which to determine Validate the data collected by market.
Collate Inchcape Top six mature markets UK, Belgium, Australia, CR policies Hong Kong, Singapore and Greece to develop local policies which will be reviewed to establish Group-wide policies.
Launch CR section of Publish Group-wide policies on website.
Inchcape website to Publish information on community projects.
raise awareness across Share best practice from CR champions.
