2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements Corporate social responsibility The Company recognises the growing awareness of social, sub-contractors.
Regular health and safety audits are environmental and ethical matters and it endeavours to take into undertaken at the main operating sites of the Inmarsat 1 account the interests of the Groups stakeholders, including its Core operations and a health and safety annual review investors, employees, suppliers and business partners, when document is made available to staff to show what operating the business.
Through the embedded risk improvements have been made to their working environment.
1 management process within the Inmarsat Core operations, any significant social, environmental and ethical matters are The well-being of staff is important to the Company and this is brought to the attention of the Board.
As the Directors of the reected in the range of activities that the Company arranges Group have no control over the business of CIP, they do not for staff from social activities to improving health awareness.
1 have access to provide information relating to corporate social Inmarsat Core runs annual corporate health promotion days responsibility within CIP.
providing employees with the opportunity to speak to visiting health companies and practitioners.
Code of Conduct 1 Inmarsat Core maintains and requires the highest ethical UK-based staff are encouraged to support individual standards in carrying out its business activities and has specic charities of their choice through the HM Revenue & Customs guidelines for dealing with gifts, hospitality, corruption, fraud, approved Give As You Earn scheme.
The payroll-based the use of inside information and whistleblowing.
scheme enables employees to gain tax relief on their charitable donations.
The Company has complied with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 to adopt a Code of Ethics which Environment 1 states that the Group expects its Directors, ofcers and By their nature, the activities of Inmarsat Core are judged to employees to conduct business in accordance with the highest have a low environmental impact and are not expected to standards of personal and professional integrity.
The Code of give rise to any significant, inherent environmental risks over Ethics is published on the Companys website.
Employment The Company does not manufacture satellite user 1 Inmarsat Core has established policies which address key terminals.
The terminals are developed by manufacturers corporate objectives in the management of employee relations, who provide health and safety guidance as to how terminals communications and employee involvement, training and should be utilised.
Controls are in place to ensure that personal development and equal opportunities.
antennae do not radiate any power at low elevation angles.
1 On 1 January 2009, Inmarsat Core made important The Group currently operates a number of Satellite Access organisational changes, promoting internal personnel to Stations where there are satellite dishes which generate radiation.
ensure that the right skills continue in key areas of focus Access to these sites is restricted and there are regular health over the next few years.
This was due in part, to the departure and safety checks to ensure that they are in protected areas away of an Executive Director, the upcoming potential Stratos from access by the general public.
Personnel who work at these transaction, and other senior management moves due to sites are provided with relevant training as to the health and expected future retirements.
1 The Company operates a Staff Forum made up of members Inmarsat Core has adopted the highest industry standards of the Executive Management Board and elected employee in terms of space debris mitigation, including end-of-life representatives.
It meets frequently during the year to brief graveyard manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites staff on business performance and to discuss the corporate when they reach the end of their commercial life.
It also meets when the input of staff is required Core operates its satellites in geosynchronous orbits.
These on business issues, which includes statutory consultation under position the satellites at approximately 36,000km 22,500 miles prevailing legislation when appropriate.
This orbit has signicantly less debris than the low earth orbit of approximately 700km above the earth, the During the year, the first Sharesave Schemes for UK and scene of a recent publicised collision of another satellite International employees matured and new three year schemes operator.
This lower orbit has dramatically more debris: Inmarsat were put in place attracting contributions from over 80% of has no satellites in this orbit.
The first disposal of one of the employees across the business.
The Group was very pleased with Inmarsat-2 satellites was completed during 2006.
We were in this take-up which included a significant percentage of full compliance with the relevant ITU standards for its disposal.
employees from the ofce in Batam, Indonesia.
There are no near-term plans for decommissioning any of the remaining satellites.
The President has been identied as the member of senior 1 management having responsibility for health and safety issues Of its 468 global workforce, Inmarsat Core has over 370 staff 1 within the Inmarsat Core operations.
Following the departure within its headquarters in London with the remainder located in of Mr Butler from the business, Mr Melton, the Chief regional ofces around the world.
Due to the size and nature of Operating officer, will assume this responsibility.
The Group these activities, the Company has a degree of environmental recognises its legal responsibilities to ensure the well-being, impact on the local and global environment.
However, it should safety and welfare of its employees and to maintain a safe and be noted that the satellite industry and Inmarsat are extremely healthy working environment for them and for its visitors and low on the scale of carbon generators.
1 23 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
pdf 23 27 3 09 17:08:42 27 3 09 17:08:42 Corporate social responsibility continued Some of the environmental impacts facing the business include 57,000 kg of waste was recycled in 2008, being the Companys the use of natural resources, the consumption of energy and first full year of its recycling scheme.
This volume was equivalent 3 water, the production of a variety of waste, in addition to staff to planting 878 trees and more importantly, saved 234m of and visitors travelling for business purposes around the globe.
For 2009, all non-recyclable waste will be Inmarsats objective is to ensure that the Group does not have transported to the South East London Combined Heat and any detrimental effect on the environment through our Power plant where it will be incinerated to produce heat and business operations.
Inmarsats mission is to adopt and adhere to power for the local community.
the following principles: Energy and the environment continues to be a major focus in to provide first class energy and environmental management 2009 and has the full backing of management with the aim of practices: continuing to reduce the carbon footprint of the business.
to comply with all relevant global environmental legislation and regulatory controls: Community 1 to identify significant environmental and social impacts and Safety at sea remains a primary commitment for Inmarsat Core.
establish objectives and targets for improvement: Inmarsat remains the only approved provider of satellite to recycle a minimum of 90% of generated waste and communications services for the Global Maritime Distress and constantly to review the opportunity to use recycled products: Safety System GMDSS.
This service is trusted throughout the actively to encourage the conservation of energy, water and world by mariners and by the rescue co-ordination centres that natural resources through the increased efficiency and are integral to ensuring that a safety alert is actioned.
The introduction of new and modern technology: and GMDSS gives maritime users complete confidence that if they to encourage all employees to be proactive in their daily send a distress call, it will be received by a rescue authority.
activities by: Examples of when this service has been used to save lives during separating their waste into dry and wet waste receptacles: 2008 are: ensuring that printer cartridges are recycled: switching off lights, computers, phone chargers and any other the rescue of more than 20 crew on board a burning vessel on electrical items when not in use: and the River Amazon: reducing business travel and using more site-based the rescue of 89 tourists from a cruise liner when it ran aground technology such as video and audio conferencing.
in the Antarctic: and the rescue of a crew forced to abandon their sailing yacht in Electricity continued to be the focus of attention during 2008: rough seas in Canada.
The base load has now In addition, during 2008, Inmarsat cemented its agreement to been stabilised after the introduction of robust energy co-operate with the United Nations Educational, scientific strategies.
During 2009, the buildings five main inefficient and Cultural Organisation UNESCO on the use of BGAN passenger lift motors and control gear are scheduled to be to enhance a tsunami early warning system in the Indian Ocean.
The new high efficiency gearless machines and Following the December 2004 tsunami, more than 50 sea-level improved destination controls are expected to deliver power stations have been providing data as part of a network of consumption savings of up to 50% by operating more effectively seismometers, sea-level gauges and deep-pressure sensors.
and reducing the number of wasted journeys between oors.
The sensors monitor changes in sea level, transmitting tidal information every 15 minutes to tsunami warning centres.
1 24 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
pdf 24 27 3 09 17:08:42 27 3 09 17:08:42 2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements Incorporating BGAN services into the system will make it Partnerships possible to transmit this data every minute, giving people With the continued development of Inmarsat services, the close to shore vital extra time to move inland.
Group has seen how they can be used in ways which bring social and environmental benets.
Inmarsats partners work closely The Group continues its commitment to the support of with local companies and charities which are active in how they Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, the telecommunications relief approach environmental and community matters.
The Group is aid organisation.
Inmarsat has supported the charity for more delighted that through the use of its services, its partners and than six years through direct funding and the provision of free customers can make a difference in these areas and examples of satellite terminals and has confirmed its ongoing support in this during 2008 are detailed below: 2010.
TSF is able to reach disaster areas quickly and to help other aid charities with their communications needs whilst also The Saudi Ministry of Agriculture created a network of providing the opportunity for those affected to call relatives.
locust early warning centres to protect the livelihoods of 2008 was a very busy year with TSF sending response teams to domestic farmers.
Swarming in their millions, desert locusts deal with crises in many different countries including Nicaragua, inict devastating damage on arable farmland, affecting local Georgia and China.
markets and national economies and international trade.
Should an early warning centre detect a swarm, its TSF also supports ongoing work in various countries working operators can use BGAN to relay information, concerning with Unicef, the United Nations Department of Safety and Security the distance and position of the swarm, back to the Ministry and the United Nations Development Programme.
The Ministry can then take measures to deal in conjunction with TSF, Inmarsats BGAN service is being with the locusts before the insects get the opportunity to deployed to support frontline disaster prevention in Nicaragua lay waste to the croplands.
This information also enables the on a permanent basis so that rather than just reacting to United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization to establish emergencies as and when they happen, the Nicaraguan a globalised picture of the problem and therefore aid it in Government and aid agencies can prepare for the next devising new strategies to protect the food stocks of equally emergency in the danger areas.
TSF is supplying BGAN or more vulnerable regions and countries.
equipment and training to the Nicaraguan authorities as part of an initiative funded by the European Union.
BGAN terminals The launch of Kids of Nature to encourage children and have been strategically positioned in the three main hubs used their parents and teachers to become closer to nature via by Nicaraguas National Disaster Response Agency, ready to be website updates from remote areas.
This initiative started used in the event of an emergency.
in South Africa with the intention of expanding its geographic reach.
The Companys Universal Service Obligations USO seek to support the use of Inmarsat services in rural and remote The support of a veteran malaria-prevention campaigner in regions of the world, where terrestrial voice services are poor his journey through 33 countries around the coast of Africa or non-existent.
These services take the form generally of to raise awareness of the dangers of malaria, using BGAN to payphones in rural villages, for example in India and Australia keep in touch during his travels and to raise the prole of his and some services in China.
Education Healthcare providers in Mozambique have been able to During the year, the Company funded the Inmarsat Chair of co-ordinate a programme to assist locals living with HIV Maritime Education and Training at the World Maritime and AIDS using Inmarsat services.
These services provide University to support the education of maritime specialists.
reliable hand-held satellite connectivity in remote areas where Inmarsat encourages internships with universities to provide approximately 40% of the population have to walk more students with the opportunity to experience first hand the than 20km to reach a primary care facility.
engineering and technical aspects of satellite operations.
During the year, Inmarsat also supported the International Space The use of BGAN services for telemedicine applications University by funding two half scholarships for students in its where seriously ill people can have their ailments closely Masters Program.
examined by experts hundreds of miles away.
A recent, successful trial was undertaken by the University of Bogot in During 2008, Inmarsat sponsored the UK Aerospace Youth Columbia to enable doctors to make fast diagnoses without Rocketry Challenge UKAYRoC, an annual challenge for either patient or medical expert needing to make a lengthy secondary school students to build a safe and stable model journey.
Telemedicine applications using Inmarsats broadband rocket, and to use it to lift a fragile payload of two raw hens services are also used by airlines and the maritime industry.
eggs to an altitude of more than 225m and also for a total ight duration of exactly 45 seconds before returning the payload A European Union-backed emergency response initiative to safely and in good condition.
The event is organised by Tri Polus, set up temporary GSM disaster zones.
The Wireless the UK Rocketry Association UKRA, Space Connections and the Infrastructure over Satellite for Emergency Communications Royal Aeronautical Society RAeS and 2008 saw over 50 teams Wisecom initiative recently used BGAN in its disaster from schools across the UK taking part.
recovery exercise to ensure that contact with the wider world could be maintained.
25 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
