s 20 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Business review continued Our people IHG directly employed an average of 8,334 people worldwide Our employment offer during 2008 whose costs are borne by the Group.
When the whole One of our key challenges is to attract, retain and inspire people to IHG estate is taken into account including staff working in the deliver our core purpose, Great Hotels Guests Love.
Over the past managed and franchised hotels approximately 330,000 people are two years, the Group has also developed a very clear articulation employed globally across IHGs brands.
Unless otherwise stated of our values, the behaviours expected from all employees and a any data in this section relates to the people directly employed set of standards that characterise what employees can expect from by IHG and those who work in managed hotels or as part of our IHG.
These are described below and form the deal between IHG joint venture with AII Nippon Airways ANA in Japan in total and everyone who works with the Group.
Winning Ways Room to be yourself What we ask: Live our Winning Ways What we offer: Room to be yourself Winning Ways, a set of behaviours that defines how IHG interacts While Winning Ways define what is expected from all employees with guests, colleagues and hotel owners was developed in at IHG, the Group has also developed standards that characterise 2006 and integrated into the business in 2007.
IHGs people what employees can expect from IHG.
Four promises encompass have embraced these behaviours with enthusiasm and the IHG commitment, internally called Room to be yourself and creativity worldwide.
describe the work environment that employees can rely on at IHG.
Do the right thing We always do what we believe is right and have the courage and conviction to put it into practice, even when it might be easier Room to have a great start not to.
We are honest and straightforward You will be treated with respect and we will and see our decisions through.
make sure you have everything you need to have a great start.
Show we care We want to be the company that understands Room to be involved peoples needs better than anyone else in You will have the opportunity to work with our industry.
This means being sensitive to great teams, know what is going on and others, noticing the things that matter and make a real difference in your workplace.
taking responsibility for getting things right.
Aim higher What are we Room to grow We aim to be acknowledged leaders in our going to do You will be supported and given industry, so we have built a team of talented for you?
opportunities to develop yourself people who have a real will to win.
We strive and pursue a rewarding career.
for success and value individuals who are always looking for a better way to do things.
Room for you Celebrate difference You will be rewarded and recognised for We believe that its the knowledge of our your contributions and we will value the people that really brings our brands to life.
significance of your life beyond work.
While other companies may want to impose a rigid, uniform view of the world, we do not.
Our global strength comes from celebrating local differences whilst understanding that some things should be kept the same.
Work better together When we work together we are stronger.
Were at our best when we collaborate to form a powerful, winning team.
We listen to each other and combine our expertise to create a strong, focused and trusted group of people.
R y o a o W m t g o n b i e n y n o i u W r s e l f BUSINESS REVIEW Business review 21 IHGs commitment to its people: Room to be yourself Room to grow In 2008, IHG focused on delivering Room to be yourself to employees.
To meet the demands of growth and to deliver IHGs core purpose, People processes have been aligned to ensure that we can meet Great Hotels Guests Love, IHG continues to focus on attracting, the required set of standards and the key achievements over the developing and retaining talent.
past year are outlined below.
During 2008, a review of the Groups 1,100 corporate managers Room to have a great start and hotel general managers was conducted to identify skills IHG has developed and rolled out an online recruitment system required for the future and how to develop individuals.
The outcome to attract and match candidates to job vacancies.
Over 380,000 CVs was increased clarity around our talented individuals, their key were posted to the site during the last year and nearly 8,000 people development needs and the ability to move these individuals into were appointed as a result of their online applications.
The site the positions which will enable them to enhance their skills and has recently been developed to highlight a number of key roles, meet IHGs key objectives.
including hotel general manager, to help us to recruit where In China, we have established a number of initiatives as part we have a particular need.
of our focus on recruiting talented individuals to support the As a way of increasing recruitment from a variety of sources, anticipated number of openings over the next few years.
We have IHG has a number of employee referral schemes which encourage introduced a number of fast-track programmes aimed at bringing employees to refer a contact as a potential employee.
In the in professionals from human resources and finance backgrounds Americas region, 42% of our vacant positions are filled through to support our growth plans.
We have also developed the IHG referrals which is 10% greater than benchmark organisations Academies in partnership with a number of educational bodies to source: Recruiting Roundtable Corporate Executive Board.
provide training to students to equip them with skills required by Future plans to introduce a global scheme are under way and the hotel industry.
These Academies operate in 10 locations, are will be launched during 2009. supported by 24 partners in the region and, in October 2008, had 4,200 students enrolled on one of these programmes.
Room to be involved Great emphasis is placed on employee communication, particularly We have also developed plans for Academies in parts of Europe on matters relating to the Groups business and its performance.
In conjunction with our franchisee in Panama, Communication channels include global management conferences, we have opened a school to teach our employees the skills team meetings, informal briefings, in-house publications and required in all aspects of hotel management, particularly in areas intranets.
The Group has expanded the capability of the corporate of skills shortage such as food and beverage management.
We also intranet site, Merlin, which now provides continuous access to continue to provide an extensive range of training to our employees information about people, policies and news across all hotels, including e-learning curricula from respected business schools corporate offices and reservations centres.
such as Cornell University in the US.
Regular employee feedback is obtained to ensure that IHG meets During the year, IHG continued to place importance on the growth expectations and delivers on its commitments.
The Group conducts and development of its people in the owned and managed hotels, a twice-yearly survey that measures employee opinion and and within its corporate and reservations offices, and ensured attitudes.
This survey covers employees in owned and managed training programmes were available to all of its employees.
The hotels, corporate offices and reservations centres.
We have not Groups internal survey indicates that 82% of employees agree reported the survey data on our joint venture partners.
that IHG delivers training to assist with their current roles.
Since the first survey in 2007 we have continued to achieve very In support of the Holiday Inn refresh programme, IHG embarked high response rates with over 90,000 employees participating in upon an intensive and comprehensive training programme entitled the November 2008 survey.
Stay Real to ensure that all employees working in a Holiday Inn or Holiday Inn Express hotel receive training to help them deliver the 2008 response rates 2007 response rates service experience expected by guests.
The programme of training Division region % % will last until December 2009 and, by the end of 2008, 74% of all Americas hotels 89 81 Holiday Inn hotels had received the training which continues to EMEA hotels 86 83 receive excellent reviews from those attending.
Asia Pacific hotels 93 90 We have leveraged technology by introducing a learning Corporate offices 88 77 management system to help employees find and book the training Reservation centres 87 81 and development they require.
A number of online programmes have IHGs key measure from the survey is the engagement index, been introduced to help people learn flexibly and develop their skills constructed from a set of questions which measure employee in the workplace rather than attend courses in classrooms.
During 2008, IHGs engagement index IHG has a number of development programmes in place to support improved by 3 percentage points to 68%.
The survey also reported that its managers in hotels and corporate offices to deliver Great Hotels nine out of 10 people are proud to work for IHG and 87% of employees Guests Love.
These include the assessment of individual potential would recommend IHG as a good place to work.
This is 27 percentage and capability, together with clarity on expectations and businesspoints higher than the external benchmark data source: TNS.
During 2008, 209 senior managers attended the The survey highlights that initiatives undertaken during the year latest stage of IHGs senior leadership programme, concentrating on Winning Ways and Room to be yourself are strongly correlated on the role that leaders play in driving performance and results to employee engagement.
22 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Business review continued In December 2008, an online leadership development system self-confidence, and pre-work training and job trials matched was launched providing cost-effective and high-quality people to jobs that would suit them, resulting in filling 21 vacancies development and communication to all of our senior leaders.
The and providing another 19 work placements.
Leaders Lounge, as the site is known, provides input from the The Holiday Inn Coventry received the award for the Best Initiative Chief Executive and the Executive Committee on key issues and to Attract Chefs, for working with ex-offenders to tap into a new challenges for the business as well as inputs from external pool of talent.
A comprehensive 16-week chef development business thinkers.
programme was implemented in prisons in the Midlands, resulting The succession planning process for senior leadership roles has in employment within our hotels and by other local employers.
continued in 2008, enabling IHG to manage changes in leadership.
This has made a positive difference to the individuals concerned In addition to a number of planned internal senior appointments, and their families, and to the industry and the wider community IHG has also recruited externally for several key positions to ensure by reducing re-offending and related costs, as well as helping that the Group brings in the best people to contribute to our with IHGs own recruitment programme.
development in the longer term.
External recognition Room for you During the year, IHG won a number of prestigious awards in IHGs compensation and benefits programmes are designed to be recognition of its people management and HR practices.
The competitive and to recognise and reward achievement.
The benefits Company won the Employer Branding award, sponsored by Peer offered to employees vary according to region.
IHG contributes to Group Communications, at the Personnel Today Awards 2008. both mandatory and company-sponsored retirement plans to ensure IHG was declared Britains Most Admired leisure and hospitality benefits are competitive within each local market.
IHGs employee company for the second year running.
The award is from Britains survey indicates that the majority of employees believe they are fairly longest running and most respected business awards programme, paid for the work they do.
Management Todays Britains Most Admired Companies Awards 2008.
The Group offers a range of benefits that are aimed at helping IHG was also the 14th Most Admired Company overall, up from employees to achieve a better work life balance.
is provided to some staff groups and, in our Americas region, In addition, one of our employees was recognised for her programmes are in place to help employees maintain a healthy contribution to the HR profession.
Ghadir Zohny, Assistant lifestyle and also reduce the cost of health insurance claims.
Personnel Manager & Training Co-ordinator from Crowne Plaza In some regions employee assistance programmes offer a Resort Sharm El Sheikh in Egypt, was awarded HR Person of the confidential counselling service to help employees deal with Year at the Hotelier Middle East Awards 2008. financial and legal matters, relationship problems and stress.
Economic conditions An online performance management system was launched for The trading environment changed in October 2008 and regretfully selected groups of employees which enables them to align their a limited redundancy programme was put in place, affecting objectives to IHGs strategy and review their performance.
The corporate teams in the UK, Atlanta and Singapore, to ensure the Group also encourages managers to acknowledge employee business operates cost effectively during the economic downturn.
achievements or contributions as part of our Winning Ways culture.
As these were largely structural changes, voluntary redundancies Celebrating diversity were not sought and all opportunities to mitigate job losses IHG benefits from the diversity of its employees, owners, business were explored.
Outplacement services were offered to those partners and guests.
The Group regards diversity as a fundamental affected to provide support to the individuals and access to factor in its success in operating as a global organisation and this external job opportunities.
principle is embedded in IHGs Winning Ways.
In addition to the redundancy programme, in December 2008 the The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity Board determined that there would be a pay freeze for all grades to all employees without discrimination and continues to be during 2009 except in areas of the world where inflation rates supportive of the employment of disabled persons.
Where existing would make this difficult to sustain.
employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide Ensuring health and safety continuing employment wherever practical in the same or a IHG applies high standards of health and safety for the benefit suitable alternative position.
of all employees and guests.
The Group strives to provide and IHG won two of the 16 awards at the UKs Springboard Awards maintain a safe environment for all employees, customers and for Excellence 2008 in Hospitality, Leisure, Travel and Tourism: other visitors to its premises and requires all parties to comply The Holiday Inn Kensington Forum picked up the award for with relevant health and safety legislation.
Further information Diversity in Employment, recognising our highly integrated can be found on page 25 of this Business Review, the Corporate approach to recruiting disabled people.
Working in partnership Reputation section of the Annual Review and Summary Financial with Jobcentre Plus, Remploy, RNIB Royal National Institute Statement 2008 and in the online Corporate Responsibility Report of Blind People and the Shaw Trust, IHG conducted targeted at www.
com responsibility recruitment drives specifically designed to encourage diversity in employment and attract people with disabilities into the hospitality industry.
Disability Open Days helped to build awareness and
