BUSINESS REVIEW Business review 23 Corporate responsibility Corporate Responsibility CR is a key issue for IHG and deserves An important element of our CR strategy was the launch of our the same level of attention and business acumen as other areas of innovative online programme entitled Green Engage.
Acting in a responsible manner and doing good goes industry-leading educational and measurement system which beyond our legal obligations.
It helps us to create value for the enables owners, operators and managers to make environmentally business and build competitive advantage.
It is key to attracting friendly and sustainable improvements to the design, construction people to work for us and it helps us to define our business and operation of their hotels.
There were several important strategy.
reasons behind the development of Green Engage.
One is the principle that IHG should innovate in order to reduce its carbon Our approach footprint rather than just offset it.
Over time, having reduced as Following consideration by the Board in 2008, IHG has established much of our carbon impact as practicable through innovation, a new CR Committee to review and advise on matters relating to: we shall seek the most effective means to offset any remaining the environment: carbon.
This system is also designed to guide our hotels on what community and social investment: and a green hotel is and what they can do to save energy costs.
policies relating to Corporate Responsibility.
The changes recommended through Green Engage are designed to please customers, who we know care about our approach to We endeavour to make responsible choices, considering the social, corporate responsibility issues, as well as hotel owners who can economic, ethical and environmental impact of our operations reduce energy costs through more efficient operating methods.
whilst ensuring delivery of our core purpose, Great Hotels Guests Love.
Green Engage will continue to be supported by our dedicated Green Aware training, which offers managers and staff practical This approach shapes IHGs response to challenges such as global advice on green changes that they can make immediately.
Integrating corporate responsibility objectives into our business has also provided opportunities to be more innovative We will continue to test our learning about greener hotels through in how we manage our challenges.
our award-winning online Innovation Hotel which allows visitors online to provide us with their feedback and challenge our learning IHGs CR strategy focuses on two key areas: in this area.
the environment, including reducing our carbon footprint.
We are aiming to make a nights stay with IHG more IHG recognises that to be successful we must invest in people, carbon efficient: and treat them fairly and create local economic opportunity for our employees and business partners as well as the communities in our communities, including concentrating on the creation which we operate around the world.
This is all the more important of local economic opportunity and charitable work.
The IHG Academies programme, Review of 2008 started in China, demonstrates successful investment in our Over the past year we have measured our environmental impacts, communities.
The programme works by IHG forming partnerships surveyed general managers about what they do to help their with a number of educational bodies to equip students with communities, innovated new and better ways to design, construct hotel-specific skills.
and operate our hotels IHGs CR progress over the last 12 months was recognised by the To help us align our CR agenda with Great Hotels Guests Love, we Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators in October carried out consumer research to understand what really makes 2008, when the Group won the award for Most Innovative Approach a difference to our guests.
Additionally, our general managers to Corporate Social Responsibility.
The award commended IHGs were surveyed to establish the activities undertaken to support overall stakeholder engagement programme, including its first their local communities.
comprehensive online CR Report and the Innovation Hotel website tool, as well as its progress in corporate reporting.
We asked our hotel owners about the issues of responsible tourism and respecting local communities.
We also worked with Code of Ethics them and partner organisations such as Harvard University, Among the Groups core values is the concept that all employees Cornell University and National Geographic to develop a rounded should have the courage and conviction to do what is right.
The view of how we should approach CR in a meaningful way.
We are Groups global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct consolidates implementing policies to cover the environment, communities and clarifies expected standards of behaviour and communicates and human rights.
To reinforce these policies, we are helped by the ethical values of the Group.
It states clearly that IHGs reputation a steering group of senior executives and we have communicated is built upon the trust and confidence of our stakeholders and our CR work generally through our online CR Report.
is fundamental to our operations worldwide.
A Confidential Disclosure Channel also provides employees with a means to report any ethical concerns they may have.
The Code is applicable to all employees and is available on the Companys website at www.
com investors under corporate governance.
24 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Business review continued The following table outlines IHGs overall CR priorities, developments and achievements during the year and priorities for 2009.
2008 developments CR priorities and achievements 2009 priorities Building the base Decided to establish a CR Committee of the Board Improve internal and external CR communication through to advise on CR: and our CR communications plan.
Our communications for delivery strategy includes maintaining and extending the Updated our online CR Report for 2008, following CR Report and Innovation Hotel websites: the Global Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines.
Continue to update our CR strategy and ensure that it is integrated with IHGs corporate objectives: Implement the Board CR Committee arrangements: Update key policies as and when necessary: and Continue to build on our stakeholder partnerships.
Engaging hotels Continued the integration of CR considerations Further integrate CR strategy in the brand planning into brand strategies, including the design of an process and commercialise innovations: and brands  prototype hotel which Ensure that owners and general managers are aware requires less construction material: of best practice systems available to them: specifically, Developed our CR guidance for our hotels and owners the Green Engage online sustainability system and the with the introduction of our online sustainability system Green Aware training programme: Green Engage: and Continue to update our online sustainable hotel Completed our major consumer insight market guidelines Green Engage: and research project we now have an in-depth Refresh our general managers community involvement understanding of our guest attitudes and behaviour survey and use the findings to refine our approach regarding CR actions.
Aligning global Rolled out our online system to 74% of our owned and Use the globally comparable data from our 2008 managed hotels, enabling IHG to measure the use of measurement to enable IHG to set benchmarks for our environmental energy, water and waste in our hotels across the globe: hotels for their energy, waste and water reduction efforts: initiatives Evaluated and communicated the results of our Carbon Roll out our new online sustainability system, Green Footprint research and set a target based on our Engage, across the globe to integrate green objectives findings we are aiming to make a nights stay with IHG at corporate and hotel level: more carbon efficient: Progress our CR target to make a nights stay with IHG Implemented a range of environmental initiatives at more carbon efficient: IHGs corporate offices, including energy-efficient lighting Build on our corporate office sustainability innovations, and window tinting, sustainable furniture and materials with the development of the on-site Green Room to test as well as solar panels and improved recycling: and concepts and better communicate what IHG is doing: and In conjunction with IHGs Americas franchise team, IHG Continue our research on hotel energy efficiency with the was the first hotel group to be selected to participate in US Department of Energy.
the US Department of Energy initiative, which aims to build hotels that are up to 50% more energy efficient than current buildings.
Supporting local IHG has a long tradition of community support which is Develop a more globally integrated approach to our local continuing to evolve.
In 2008, hotel general managers economic development initiatives across all our operating communities were surveyed for details of activities undertaken to regions: and support their local communities.
It is estimated that Based on our general managers survey results, develop all IHG hotels provided as much as $34m in community guidance for our corporate, regional and hotel community support in 2008: and activities.
IHG developed plans for Academies in parts of Europe and the Middle East, to equip local students with skills required by the hotel industry.
For more information please visit our corporate responsibility website at www.
com responsibility and the Innovation Hotel at www.
