Board of Directors 62 International Power Annual Report 2008 Board of Directors Chairman Bruce Levy 53 Executive Director, North America Sir Neville Simms FREng 64 Bruce was appointed to the Board in June 2005, Sir Neville became a Non-Executive Director of and is responsible for all aspects of performance in National Power in August 1998 and was appointed North America including plant operations, finance, Chairman of International Power in October 2000. energy trading and business development.
Prior to He has been a member of the Presidents Committee joining the Company, he was senior vice president of the CBI since 1998, is Deputy Chairman of and Chief Financial Officer at GPU, Inc. a diversified Ashridge Management College and Chairman of the energy production and distribution corporation.
Sir Neville was a Non-Executive Director Bruce is Chair of the Electric Power Supply of the Bank of England from 1995 to 2002 and Association, the national association of competitive Chairman of the governments Sustainable power suppliers in the US.
Procurement Task Force from 2005 to 2007.
Steve Riley 47 Executive Directors Executive Director, Europe Steve was appointed to the Board in January 2004 Philip Cox 57 and is responsible for managing all aspects of Chief Executive Officer performance in the European region including plant Philip joined the Company on 1 May 2000 as Chief operations, finance, energy trading and business Financial Officer and was appointed Chief Executive development.
Steve joined the Company in 1985 Officer of International Power in December 2003. holding senior positions in two UK power stations He is responsible for the overall management of the before being appointed managing director, Australia Company, and leading the executive and operational in January 2000.
Steve is currently Chairman of teams in implementing the strategies approved by the Association of Electricity Producers in the UK.
Philip is a Chartered Accountant and prior He is a Non-Executive Director of Shanks Group plc.
to joining the Company he was a senior vice president at Invensys.
He is a Non-Executive Director Tony Concannon 45 of Wincanton plc and will become a Non-Executive Executive Director, Australia Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC with Tony was appointed to the Board in January 2004 effect from 1 April 2009. and is responsible for managing all aspects of performance in the Australian region including plant Mark Williamson 51 operations, finance, energy trading and business Chief Financial Officer development.
Tony is a Chartered Engineer and Mark was appointed Chief Financial Officer joined the industry in 1982.
He has previously of International Power in December 2003.
His worked in a number of business areas including responsibilities include financial control and reporting, power station operations, trading and international tax and risk management.
Mark joined the Company business development.
as Group financial controller, with responsibility for the Groups financial reporting, in September 2000.
Prior to this Mark was at Simon Group plc, where he was the Group financial controller.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Imperial Tobacco plc and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
The Board of Directors from left to right: Bruce Levy, Philip Cox, Alan Murray, Steve Riley, Struan Robertson, Sir Neville Simms, John Roberts, Ranald Spiers, Tony Isaac, Mark Williamson and Tony Concannon.
Business overview 63 Struan Robertson 59 Ranald Spiers 53 Non-Executive Director Executive Director, Middle East & Asia Struan became a Non-Executive Director of the Ranald was appointed to the Board in May 2008, as Company on 1 October 2004.
He is Chairman of Executive Director, Middle East and Asia, based in the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Prior to this appointment, He was Group Chief Executive of Wates Group Ltd he was Regional Director for the Middle East, where until January 2004.
Before that he was Executive he was responsible for leading the development, Chairman of BP Asia Pacific.
He is currently financing, construction and operation of power and a Non-Executive Director at Forth Ports plc, water desalination assets throughout the region.
Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc, Ranald joined National Power in 1993, having Tomkins plc, and is the Senior Independent Director previously spent 12 years with the BP Group.
Previously he was the Ranald is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry FRSC and a Chartered Chemist.
Senior Independent Director at WS Atkins plc.
John Roberts 63 Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director Anthony Tony Isaac 67 John became a Non-Executive Director of the Non-Executive Director Company on 18 May 2006.
He is Chairman of the Tony became a Non-Executive Director of the Remuneration Committee.
He was previously Chief Company in October 2000.
He is the Senior Executive of United Utilities PLC, a position he held Independent Director and was Chairman of the for over six years.
Before that, he was Chief Executive Audit Committee until 1 April 2008.
He was of Hyder Utilities and of Manweb.
He is a Fellow previously the Chief Executive of The BOC Group plc of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Institution and is a Non-Executive Director of Schlumberger of Engineering and Technology and the Association Limited and Hogg Robinson Group plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Royal Bank of Canada Alan Murray 55 Europe Limited, Merrill Lynch New Energy Non-Executive Director Technology Trust and Remote Energy Monitoring Alan became a Non-Executive Director of the Holdings Limited.
Company on 1 July 2007 and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2008.
He was a member of the Managing Board of Heidelberg Cement AG until the end of 2008 and was previously the Chief Executive of Hanson PLC, from April 2002 to October 2007.
He joined Hanson in 1988 and held various positions prior to his appointment as Chief Executive, including Finance Director of Hanson PLC and Chief Executive of Hanson Building Materials America.
