Business overview 65 Our people We work in a complex business environment and recruiting and retaining highly skilled employees is essential.
Therefore we focus on attracting, developing and retaining talented people throughout our organisation.
International Power is a diverse Group both in terms In addition, at Hub Power station in Pakistan, of our locations and employee backgrounds.
At the our apprenticeship scheme is in its twelfth year end of 2008, we employed some 4,000 people of operation.
Approximately 130 apprentices have either directly or through our subsidiaries.
passed through the programme, which gives local people access to professional training.
We work in a complex business environment and recruiting and retaining highly skilled employees In the US, the Armstrong and Pleasants power is essential.
We therefore focus on attracting, stations run a training programme for combustion developing and retaining talented people turbine technicians.
This is a three-year programme throughout our organisation.
Due to the nature that successfully trains technicians to operate in a of our growth strategy, we also employ new groups multidisciplinary environment and enables them of skilled people through acquiring power stations to become specialists.
from other companies, from whom we learn, We are also continuing to run apprentice and share best practice and experience new cultures.
graduate schemes in Australia and the UK.
In the In light of our strategy to balance risk through UK, our Rugeley, First Hydro and Saltend plants operating a global portfolio, our business have all been successful in attracting good quality ownership structures often lead to the sharing apprentices.
Additionally, both First Hydro and our of influence over people policies.
Our senior London corporate office have recruited graduates, management team establishes the important who embark on further professional training with values, principles, guidelines and standards of good International Power.
governance by which employees at our businesses are employed.
Even in joint ventures or associates, Developing and retaining employees International Power is committed to providing input We operate in a competitive international market into employment practices to ensure our general for key skills and talent.
We recognise that the principles are followed.
skills and dedication of our employees makes us competitive as we work to achieve our strategy, so Our regional senior management teams are we invest in developing their skill base to meet the responsible for managing our power plants to needs of the individual and the Group.
Developing ensure we respect national cultures and comply employees not only helps retain them for the with local employment regimes and embed business, but is also critical in assisting the Company our FIRST core values set out on pages 8 and 9. in its succession planning, to ensure we are growing our talent for the future.
Attracting employees In our organisation, like many others, getting the We are committed to providing employees with right people to join our business is critical for the interesting and challenging roles, and opportunities future success of the Group.
We seek to attract and to learn, develop and advance their careers.
Where retain high calibre employees, including those with possible, we encourage internal applicants from specialist qualifications, skills and experience.
We within the Group for all new roles, in order to give also seek to recruit people who have the potential our staff a broad range of experience.
to develop within the Group to fit the needs of the organisation.
The energy industry globally faces challenges as the number of engineers retiring exceeds the number graduating with engineering degrees.
This resource shortage affects International Power, its partners and its competitors.
This is an issue International Power is keen to address so, for example, in Australia, we are one of the founding members of the Power Academy, an engineering scholarship fund for students who would like to study electrical power engineering.
Bursaries are available to high calibre students, who can also undertake undergraduate placements with the seven sponsoring power companies.
Our people 66 International Power Annual Report 2008 Hidd, Bahrain In the Middle East, a number of countries operate Team briefings are undertaken on a regular basis a form of localisation whereby employers are at our power stations to ensure key messages required to increase the number of local staff in the are rolled out to all staff in a timely manner.
This requires detailed training Additionally, in 2008, the Chief Executive Officer programmes to be in place and co-operation with CEO launched a new initiative the Connect Live external training institutes and government bodies.
This all-employee conference call allows every employee in the Group, from all parts We develop staff through local programmes of the world, to hear directly from Philip Cox the and global initiatives.
In Europe, a management issues impacting upon the Group.
Employees are development programme was created and also given the opportunity to ask him questions.
delivered for first time managers from a wide range of countries and assets.
In Australia, we are working We continue to invest in the latest technology to aid with the Australian Institute of Management to rapid communication with all of our staff around the develop a similar programme.
At First Hydro, a world and this year launched IPR Connect.
This modular management programme was offered is an intranet-based knowledge platform which to senior staff so that they could focus on those is gradually being rolled out to employees in our topics of most benefit to themselves, to ensure the regional offices and subsidiary companies and business continues to be well placed for the future.
will allow and encourage information sharing Rugeley, UK and collaborative working.
In the US, we implemented a training programme for new managers in co-ordination with a local We offer competitive pay and benefits to attract college that brings academic staff into our plants and retain talented people in our organisation and to teach management principles and techniques.
we also operate a number of incentive plans for employees.
For senior staff, we continue to operate A further global leadership programme for high a number of share-based long-term incentive plans potential managers took place this year at Ashridge and see these as an integral part of our strategy Business School.
The participants were drawn from to align the interests of staff with the Groups every region and a variety of disciplines, providing performance based on clear financial criteria.
an excellent opportunity for knowledge sharing.
The provision of technical training is also essential Equal opportunities and diversity for the growth of our business and continues in the workplace throughout the Group.
The majority of Group In line with our FIRST core values which are companies encourage people to study for national outlined on pages 8 and 9, we endeavour qualifications or accredited skills.
A number of to ensure that our employees conduct themselves safety training initiatives have also continued this with the highest integrity at all times, irrespective of year, with the Fresh Eyes programme being their position within the Group.
To help employees introduced to all plants where we have some understand and follow consistent standards of management control.
This initiative concentrates conduct throughout our international operations, on improving safe behaviour at our power stations a Code of Conduct has also been developed for use through colleagues observing their peers at work by employees and managers and this is regularly and then providing feedback.
reviewed and discussed around our business.
Health, safety and effective communications are Recognising the very wide diversity of our essential for our employees wellbeing, and health employees and business partners across the globe, talks and educational sessions are offered at many International Power is fully committed to the of our power stations, reflecting our commitment provision of equal opportunities and the elimination to employee welfare.
Employee assistance of discrimination of any type in our Group.
We programmes are offered at a number of locations, believe wholeheartedly that it makes sound supported by local providers.
business sense to benefit from the wide ranging knowledge and experience of individuals in all The sharing of knowledge and skills has been sectors of the societies in which we have a presence.
another priority and a number of forums have been A number of our plants are active participants in introduced to enhance this area.
An Operations and diversity programmes.
For example, in the UK, Engineering forum took place in 2008, with 60 Rugeley power station is accredited with the attendees, to discuss common challenges affecting Positive about Disability standard and Rugeley, our plants.
This initiative will continue in 2009 to First Hydro and Saltend are all accredited to facilitate co-ordination and knowledge sharing Investors in People.
