C Co or rp po or ra at te e r re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y 68 68 IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 C Cor orp por ora at te e r re es sp pon ons siibi billiit ty y E Elle ec ct tr riic ciit ty y iis s a a u un niiq qu ue e a an nd d v viit ta al l c co om mm mo od diit ty y t th ha at t h ha as s t th he e p po ow we er r t to o e en nh ha an nc ce e q qu ua alliit ty y o of f lliiffe e.. A As s a an n iin nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l c co om mp pa an ny y w we e m mu us st t d fide em mo on ns st tr ra at te e r re es sp po on ns siib blle e a an nd d e et th hiic ca al l w wo or rki kin ng g p pr ra ac ct tiic ce es s.. R Re en ne ew wa ab blle e p po or rt tf fo olliio o iin nc cr re ea as se ed d to to 1 1, 22, 225 5MW MW F Fr ro om m 2 20 00 05 5 to to 2 20 00 08 8, t th he e a av five er ra ag ge e c ca arb rbo on n in int te en ns siit ty y o off o our ur g gllo ob ba all p po or rt tf fo olliio o f fe elll l by by 14 14% % U Ut th hm ma an niiy ya ah h p po ow we er r s st ta at tiio on n iis s o on ne e o of f ffo ou ur r a as ss se et ts s c co on nt tr riib bu ut tiin ng g t to o T Tiih ha am ma as s 1 1, 0 07 76 6M MW W o of f c ca ap pa ac ciit ty y iin n S Sa au ud di i A Ar ra ab biia a iin n o ou ur r M Miid dd dlle e E Ea as st t r re eg giio on n C Co or rp po or ra at te e r re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y 6 69 9 T Th he e m me ea as su ur re es s n ne ece ces ss sa ar ry y t to o c co om mb ba at t g gllo ob ba al l c clliim ma at te e B Bu us sin ine es ss s im impa pac ct t c ch ha an ng ge e r re ep pr re es se en nt t o on ne e o of f t th he e b bi ig gg ge es st t c ch ha al ll le en ng ge es s t to o O Ou ur r a ai im m i is s t to o e en ns su ur re e t th ha at t I In nt te er rn na at ti io on na al l P Po ow we er r i is s o ou ur r b bu us siin ne es ss s.. G Go ov five er rn nm me en nt t a ac ct tiio on ns s a ac cr ro os ss s t th he e w wo or rlld d k kn no ow wn n t th hr ro ou ug gh ho ou ut t t th he e w wo or rlld d a as s a a r re es sp po on ns siib blle e, t to o m me ee et t t th he e K Ky yo ot to o P Pr ro ot to oc co ol l a an nd d o ot th he er r c clliim ma at te e e efffi fic ciie en nt t a an nd d s su ucce cces ss sffu ul l c co om mp pa an ny y.. O Ou ur r s st ta ak ke eh ho olld fide er rs s c ch hang ange e iini nit tiia at tiiv five es s t to o r red edu uc ce e C Car arb bo on n D Diio ox xiide fide C CO O o our ur s sh ha ar reh ehol old fide er rs s, em emp plo loy ye ee es s, c cu us st tom ome er rs s, s su up pp pllie ier rs s, 2 2 e em miis ss siio on ns s w wiillll, o ov ver er t tiim me e, iin nc cr re ea as se e t th he e c co os st t o of f r re eg gu ulla at to or rs s a an nd d h ho os st t c co om mm mu un niit tiie es s e ex xp pe ec ct t n no ot th hiin ng g e em miit tt tiin ng g c ca ar rb bo on n.. T Th he es se e m me ea as su ur re es s w wiilll l a allt te er r t th he e l le es ss s o of f u us s, a an nd d w we e a ai im m t to o d fide el li iv five er r o on n t th hi is s c co om mm mi it tm me en nt t.. e ec co on no om miic c b ba alla an nce ce b be et tw we ee en n d diiffffe er re en nt t ffu ue ells s, E Elle ec ct tr riic ciit ty y iis s a a u un niiq qu ue e a an nd d v viit ta al l c co om mm mo od diit ty y t th ha at t ffa av vo ou ur riin ng g llo ow w c ca ar rb bo on n a an nd d r re en ne ew wa ab blle e t te ec ch hn no ollo og giie es s.. h ha as s t th he e p po ow we er r t to o e en nh ha an nce ce q qu ua alliit ty y o of f lliiffe e.. A As s a an n N Ne ew w b bu us siin ne es ss s o op pp po or rt tu un niit tiie es s m ma ay y b be e c cr re ea at te ed d t to o iin nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l c co om mp pa an ny y w we e m mu us st t d fide em mo on ns st tr ra at te e e ex xp pllo oiit t r re en ne ew wa ab blle e e en ne er rg gy y t te ec ch hn no ollo og giie es s a an nd d, r re es sp po on ns siib blle e a an nd d e et th hiic ca al l w wo or rk kiin ng g p pr ra ac ct tiice ces s.. F Fo or r p po ot ten ent tiial allly y, c ca ar rb bon on c ca ap pt tur ure e a an nd d s st to or ra ag ge e t te ec chn hnolo olog gie ies s.. a a g gllo ob ba al l w wh ho olle es sa alle e g ge en ne er ra at tiin ng g c co om mp pa an ny y lliik ke e O Ou ur r s st tr ra at te eg gy y i is s t to o g ge en ne er ra at te e e en ne er rg gy y i in n a an n e ef ffi fic ci ie en nt t w wa ay y, IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r, t th hiis s e eq qu ua at te es s t to o ffo ollllo ow wiin ng g ffa aiir r t to o d fide ev five ello op p llo ow w c ca ar rb bo on n t te ec ch hn no ollo og gy y a an nd d t to o e ex xp pa an nd d a an nd d e et th hiic ca all p pr riin nc ciip plle es s t to o g go ov five er rn n t th he e w wa ay y we we m ma an na ag ge e o ou ur r r ren ene ew wa ab ble les s p po or rt tffol olio io.. a an nd d c co on nd du uc ct t o ou ur r b bu us siin ne es ss s.. IIt t m me ea an ns s w wo or rk kiin ng g iin n a a s sm ma ar rt t a an nd d iin nt te eg gr ra at te ed d w wa ay y b by y e en ns su ur riin ng g o ou ur r T To o t tr ra ac ck k o ou ur r p pe er rffo or rm ma an nce ce iin n iim mp plle em me en nt tiin ng g t th hiis s k ke ey y c co om mp pe et te en nc ciie es s, t te ec ch hn niic ca al l e ex xp pe er rt tiis se e a an nd d b be es st t s st tr ra at te eg gy y w we e m me ea as su ur re e t th he e c ca ar rb bo on n iin nt te en ns siit ty y o of f e ea ac ch h p pr ra ac ct tiice ces s a ar re e p pr ro op pe er rlly y iim mp plle em me en nt te ed d o ov five er r a a w wiid fide elly y u un niit t o of f e elle ec ct tr riic ciit ty y g ge en ne er ra at te ed d a ac cr ro os ss s o ou ur r p po or rt tffo olliio o.. d diis sp pe er rs se ed d a an nd d d diiv five er rs se e r ra an ng ge e o of f a as ss se et ts s t to o p pr ro od du uce ce T Th he e a av five er ra ag ge e c ca ar rb bon on iin nt ten ens siit ty y o off In Int te er rn na at tion ional al P Po ow we er rs s p po ow we er r, w wa at te er r a an nd d p pr ro oce ces ss s h he ea at t s sa affe elly y a an nd d c clle ea an nlly y.. g gllo ob ba all p por ort tffo olliio o h ha as s ffa alllle en n c co on ns siider derab ablly y iin n r rec ece en nt t y ye ear ars s I It t a al ls so o m me ea an ns s t th ha at t c co or rp po or ra at te e r re es sp po on ns si ib bi il li it ty y C CR R f fo or rm ms s ffr ro om m 0 0.. 7 73 36 6 k kg g k kW Wh h iin n 2 20 00 05 5 t to o 0 0.. 6 63 36 6 k kg g k kW Wh h a an n iin nt te eg gr ra al l p pa ar rt t o of f o ou ur r b bu us siin ne es ss s d fide ec ciis siio on n p pr ro oce ces ss s iin n 2 20 00 08 8.. W We e u us se e n ne et t r re ep po or rt tiin ng g ffo or r C CO O, , w wh hiic ch h 2 2 a an nd d c co on nt tr riib bu ut te es s t to o o ou ur r g gllo ob ba al l c co om mp pe et tiit tiiv five en ne es ss s r re efl fle ec ct ts s o ou ur r o ow wn ne er rs sh hiip p iin nt te er re es st t iin n a a p po ow we er r p plla an nt t, a an nd d r re ep pu ut ta at tiio on n.. and and t ther here effor ore e iinc ncllu ude des s t the he ne net t M MW W o off jjo oiin nt t v five en nt tu ur re es s a an nd d a as ss so oc ciia at te es s.. O Ou ur r C CR R p pe er rffo or rm ma an nce ce iin nc cllu ud fide es s o ou ur r m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t o of f t th he e iim mp pa ac ct t o of f e em miis ss siio on ns s t to o a aiir r a an nd d w wa at te er r, o ot th he er r e en nv viir ro on nm me en nt ta al l iim mp pa ac ct ts s, h he ea allt th h a an nd d s sa affe et ty y, e em mp pllo oy ym me en nt t, h hu um ma an n r riig gh ht ts s a an nd d c co om mm mu un niit ty y d fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t.. A A r re ep pu ut ta at tiio on n ffo or r g go oo od d C CR R p pe er rffo or rm ma an nc ce e iis s e es ss se en nt tiia al l t to o o ou ur r b bu us siin ne es ss s s siin nce ce iit t iin nfl flu ue en nce ces s o ou ur r r re ella at tiio on ns s a an nd d s st ta an nd diin ng g w wiit th h a alll l o ou ur r s st ta ak ke eh ho olld fide er rs s, t to og ge et th he er r w wiit th h o ou ur r a ab biilliit ty y t to o r re ec cr ru uiit t t th he e b be es st t p pe eo op plle e.. Corporate responsibility 70 International Power Annual Report 2008 Regional CO2 emissions intensity, compared to fuel type by regional net MW 1.198 7,282 6,618 0.730 3,221 0.513 0.490 0.396 2,454 net MW 1,767 Renewables Pumped storage Oil kg kWh equivalent Coal Gas North Europe Middle Australia AsiaNorth Europe Middle Australia Asia America East America East CO2 by region plant.
In Europe there is a variety of fuels and technologies in the portfolio, however our pumped 2008 2008 storage plant, First Hydro, and the European Total CO2 kg kWh renewables portfolio, with 1,179MW of wind 000 tonnes equivalent generation in operation, contribute to the low North America 11,747 0.513 emissions intensity for the region.
The Middle East Europe 13,436 0.490 portfolio comprises largely modern and efficient Middle East 8,354 0.396 gas-fired plants, and the majority of our assets in Australia 23,379 1.198 the region make effective use of fuel by using waste Asia 6,960 0.730 heat from generation to produce desalinated water, Based on net MW which further reduces the emissions intensity.
Our Asian power stations burn a range of fuels including gas, coal and oil and the emissions intensities in Asia The figures above show how CO2 emissions reflect this fuel mix.
intensity varies across our five core regions.
Emissions from thermal power stations depend Australia relies heavily on coal-fired power stations, on the fuel they burn, the thermal efficiency of the which account for some 85% of the national units and the operating regime they work under.
Our Hazelwood and Hydrocarbon fuels, such as natural gas, inherently Loy Yang B assets in Victoria were built to burn produce less CO2 per unit of energy compared to the abundant local brown coal, which produces coal.
Modern plants tend to be more efficient due higher CO 2 emissions due to its higher moisture to improvements in technology.
content and results in a relatively high emission The independent think tank, Centre for Global intensity.
However, emission intensities from these Development, has sourced a figure of 0.6 kg kWh plants are similar to those of the other major for the intensity of worldwide power station power generators in Victoria.
Initiatives that CO2 emissions from its Carbon Monitoring for we are taking to reduce these emissions are Action CARMA database http: carma.
The described on page 73. figure has been calculated from a global database Whilst we measure the carbon intensity of our of over 50,000 power plants, including nuclear and output, and seek to reduce it, we do not have renewable plants, and provides a useful benchmark a specific target for reducing total CO2 emissions.
although it should be noted that International There are three principal reasons for this.
Firstly, Power has no nuclear assets in its portfolio.
we are a growing business and any fossil fuel stations The CARMA database also shows that emission we add to our fleet will add to our aggregate CO2 intensities vary significantly across the regions of emissions level.
Secondly, we are a demand-led the world, often reflecting the use of indigenous industry.
We are obligated to generate electricity local fuel.
For example, the data shows that to meet customer demand and we are committed Australia has a much higher carbon intensity due to keeping the lights on.
Finally, the choice of fuel to the high proportion of coal-fired power stations is often dependent upon client specifications which compared to Europe, which has a large nuclear for new-build plants are specified during the bidding fleet, or the Middle East, which has predominantly process and the most economic and secure fuel gas-fired generation.
available in the local market.
We are fully committed In general our portfolio mirrors the global trends to running our business in a responsible manner, shown by the CARMA data.
Our emissions intensity complying with all relevant legislation and taking in North America is particularly low because our into account our obligations to our shareholders US fleet consists of mostly modern, highly efficient and other stakeholders.
gas-fired plants and this helps offset the higher emissions intensity of the Coleto Creek coal-fired Corporate responsibility 71 At the federal level, the new administration Developments in climate change legislation is expected to introduce emissions legislation in European Union EU member states are 2009 that will become effective in 2012 or later.
committed to meeting existing EU-wide legislation We expect the legislation to include a combination designed to tackle climate change.
Under the Kyoto of carbon allocations and auctions.
The overall Protocol, the EU is planning an 8% reduction from efficiency of our US power stations means that the 1990 levels in greenhouse gas emissions by 2012, US business should be well positioned to meet the and is seeking to achieve this through a number of requirements of this new legislation.
Firstly, the EU Emissions Trading Scheme Power will be actively engaged in advocating the EUETS cap and trade mechanism is designed to In 2008 we continued to expand Companys position during the legislative process.
promote the reduction of CO2 emissions across our renewables portfolio European industry.
In addition, the EU Renewables There is no imminent legislation expected in either Directive sets individual national targets for the the Middle East or Asia.
Our projects in these amount of electricity to be obtained through regions operate under long-term Power Purchase renewable sources.
In December 2008, EU member Agreements PPAs, and these generally have states proposed new, longer-term binding targets: change of law protection, which would enable a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by us to pass on any carbon costs to the offtaker.
2020 again from 1990 levels and 20% of energy use to come from renewable sources by 2020.
Significant corporate responsibility issues These targets are apportioned between member Our senior management team regularly reviews states and implemented through new directives.
the significant CR issues, and the associated policies, From 2013 full auctioning of CO2 allowances is relevant to our business.
to be implemented for the power sector across the These are: EU, although certain central and eastern European countries will retain some free allowances declining management of the health, safety and welfare to zero by 2020, in recognition of their high of our employees and contractors dependency on fossil fuels and low GDPs.
the consequences of climate change leading In December 2007, under a new federal to national and international regulation of government, Australia ratified the Kyoto Protocol.
CO emissions 2 Carbon dioxide measurement and reporting measures to control our environmental legislation was passed in July 2008 and the impacts, especially emissions to air such as government is planning to introduce an emissions oxides of sulphur and nitrogen SOx, NOx trading scheme across most industrial sectors, and particulates including the power sector, by mid 2010. International Power Australia is engaged with both maintaining high standards of business ethics the federal and state governments on the design local community programmes and implementation of the scheme.
The current proposals are for a minimum 5% reduction in CO 2 Corporate responsibility governance emissions against 2000 levels by 2020, with the Management of corporate responsibility issues potential for this target to rise to 15% pending the CR matters relating to International Powers UN meeting in Copenhagen planned to be held at activities are governed by the senior management the end of 2009.
Under the proposals, there is team, and the Chief Executive Officer CEO has currently a period of five years where, in effect, no overall responsibility.
The CEO is assisted by the charge will be applied for a portion of emissions company secretary, the head of operations and from coal-fired power plants, and our Hazelwood engineering, the corporate environmental manager and Loy Yang B assets would be eligible for this and the health and safety manager.
The details of the proposals are yet to be CR briefings to the Board at every Board meeting, finalised, with the government aiming to introduce and the Board also receives a summary of Groupthe legislation into Parliament in May 2009.
The wide CR issues in the annual risk report.
impact of the legislation upon our assets in Australia will remain uncertain until some time after Day-to-day management of CR is performed by our legislation is finalised.
Regional Directors, plant managers and employees.
Their work is overseen by the global and regional In the US, the newly elected government is Health, Safety and Environment HS&E progressing fast in developing its carbon emissions management committees and the Human reduction plans.
There are currently state and Resources group, the latter being responsible federal programmes in development which would for employee matters and compliance with human establish incentives for low carbon emissions.
All employees are expected state level, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative to play a role in maintaining International Powers programme is now in effect in the north eastern status as a responsible business.
and mid Atlantic states, and aims to reduce CO 2 emissions by 10% by 2018.
The first auction of emission allowances was held in September 2008 and the scheme commenced on 1 January 2009.
Corporate responsibility 72 International Power Annual Report 2008 In addition to our BITC ratings, we are a member of Health, Safety and Environmental management the FTSE4GOOD index, which identifies companies The global HS&E management committee reviews that meet globally recognised corporate the overall performance of businesses across the responsibility standards.
The selection criteria for Group and defines global environmental standards this index includes environmental sustainability, and targets.
The global management committee stakeholder relationships and upholding and is supported by regional HS&E management supporting universal human rights.
committees, which include representation from each plant.
Human rights and Code of Business Conduct In 2008, we strengthened our CR governance by We endorse the United Nations Universal establishing a new Board-level HS&E Committee Declaration on Human Rights.
This is supported by to oversee HS&E policy and the performance of the our own Code of Business Conduct the Code and HS&E management committee.
It reviews HS&E human resources policies.
We apply human rights reports as well as any major incidents and issues principles rigorously for our own employees, and of public concern.
It meets at least twice a year at we seek to influence our partners, contractors different power stations, where the Committee also and suppliers to apply the same standards.
discusses HS&E issues with the plant manager and relevant on-site staff.
During 2008 the Board HS&E The Code, which applies to all International Power Committee met twice, once at Deeside power employees, includes clauses on complying with our station and the other at Rugeley power station.
At ethical, environment and health and safety policies.
these meetings the Committee toured the power It also covers competitive practices, conduct in the station, reviewed HS&E matters, and met with community and charitable donations.
The station manager and Regional copies of the Code to all employees, and make it Director were also invited to the meeting.
publicly available on our website.
All plant managers are responsible for overseeing implementation of Auditing corporate responsibility the Code.
Our internal audit team reviews all International Power subsidiaries and this includes an audit of key Corporate responsibility communication CR performance.
These power stations receive a and training full internal audit every three years, with an interim Effective internal communication is essential to audit mid-way through the cycle.
The internal audit ensure employees receive accurate information department includes a HS&E specialist, and technical on International Powers strategic agenda, major support is externally sourced where necessary.
We initiatives, corporate developments and position also work with partners to try to ensure that joint on industrial issues.
ventures and associates receive an equally rigorous Being well informed is a key driver in ensuring that audit regime.
The Audit Committee and CEO receive employees feel respected, valued and become all audit reports.
engaged in any Group initiatives.
To communicate Third party auditors assess our plants against the key issues effectively, a variety of communication certification criteria required for ISO 14001 and channels have been developed.
In 2008 briefings and functional forums are good examples Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA of these.
were engaged to carry out an initial verification We produce an internal International Power assessment of our corporate HS&E data.
Following magazine interconnect that is distributed globally this review, we are preparing for formal external to all International Power sites and offices.
The verification of our HS&E data by LRQA for 2009. publication contains details on major Group news, industry developments that directly affect the Group, Standards updates on regional progress and features on CR.
All our power stations, where we have operational Information on International Powers CR initiatives control, have ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 is also available on the Companys website.
certification, except those that have recently been acquired constructed and are in the process of In 2008, International Power launched IPR We have invested in our first solar power project at Juneda PV in Spain applying for certification.
At businesses where Connect, an intranet-based knowledge platform International Power is not the majority shareholder, which provides corporate employees with access we seek to agree with our partners that we will to key information, services and policies, including jointly obtain the above standards.
information on the Groups CR aims and achievements.
We continue to be listed amongst the top 100 companies for CR performance in the Business All Executive Directors of International Power and in the Community BITC CR Index.
In May 2008 the directors of our subsidiaries receive training we were awarded silver ranking overall, with gold in corporate governance and CR.
We give all new in the Environment Index and a bronze in the employees basic HS&E inductions and comprehensive Community Index.
safety training relevant to their work area.
Corporate responsibility 73 Investing in low carbon fossil fuel generation Progress in corporate responsibility In 2008, we continued to invest in the development Environment and climate change of low carbon initiatives, including carbon capture As a global power company, we recognise the and storage.
Hazelwood, in Australia, burns brown importance of developing and implementing coal which is low in SOx emissions, but produces a low carbon strategy over both the medium higher CO and long-term.
emissions due to its high moisture 2 content.
As a result, there are a number of initiatives It is incumbent on us to operate our business in a underway at Hazelwood aimed at reducing the manner which is sustainable.
This means we need plants CO emissions.
In association with the 2 to both retain our competitiveness today and ensure Using CO2 from flue gas to grow algae for biofuel Co-operative Research Centre for Greenhouse production at Hazelwood in Australia we are taking steps now, so that our business is well Gas Technologies CO CRC, International Power 2 positioned for the future.
In this regard, the control is building a pilot carbon capture and storage and limitation of CO2 emissions is a critical issue and scheme which will be one of the worlds foremost one which has a high priority within our business.
demonstrations of post-combustion capture of The Board has endorsed a low carbon strategy CO.
The first phase of the project has been 2 with three key strands: to generate electricity designed to capture 25 tonnes of CO per day.
2 more efficiently, to invest in low carbon fossil In addition, we are working on projects with the fuel generation, and to expand our renewables potential to decrease CO emissions at Hazelwood 2 portfolio.
The process extracts combustion gases from the flue stacks and uses the We have dedicated resources within our Operations CO rich gases to enhance the photosynthesis and 2 and Engineering teams to review technology trends growth rates of microalgae.
Trials have successfully and advances to ensure we are best positioned to processed these microalgae into biodiesel which participate in the drive towards a lower carbon can then be used for vehicle fuel.
Expanding renewables Generating electricity efficiently Our expansion strategy focuses on countries where We use high efficiency turbines with proven wind energy operates within favourable regulatory environmental technology at our newly built plants.
regimes, many of which are in Europe.
In 2008 we For example, at Fujairah F2 in Abu Dhabi, we are continued to expand our renewables portfolio, constructing a new 2,000MW, 130MIGD power which now has an aggregate capacity of 1,225MW.
The desalination process is We are seeking to further expand our renewables able to make use of waste heat from the power portfolio by acquisition and organically through station and the combined process is very efficient.
We are using Alstom gas turbine GT26B technology with a combination of condensing extraction and Our first investment in solar power was completed back pressure steam turbines.
When taking into in July 2008 with three projects comprising 90kW, account the power it produces and the heat 200kW and 1MW peak output installations of generated for the desalination process, this process photovoltaic panels.
Located in northern Spain, has a very high thermal efficiency of over 65%.
close to our existing Spanish Hydro assets, the Juneda PV project was developed through our We are reviewing the thermal efficiency at our Spanish Hydro business, which is part of our power stations and implementing improvement partnership with Mitsui.
These range from steam turbine Spanish renewables framework, the plants have upgrades to reducing works power and improving secured a long-term, index-linked, feed-in tariff combustion conditions.
For example, in Australia for their output.
at the Kwinana plant, we have invested in new technology to increase the efficiency of the plant We are also making good progress in our work with by cooling the air drawn into the power station.
Tidal Generation Ltd and Rolls-Royce plc to develop The process results in a cost-effective power boost a tidal generation business.
The grid connection which, in hot weather, can increase output by required to develop a 10MW tidal farm in the approximately 7% and improve efficiency by up Pentland Firth, Scotland, was secured in 2008. to 1.5%.
Similar technology has also been installed at our Bellingham plant in the US.
In addition, at Deeside in the UK, we upgraded gas turbine GT2 with new design vanes and blades in 2007.
This has resulted in increased output of 4MW and an improvement in efficiency of up to 0.4%.
Following a post-implementation review in 2008, similar upgrades will be made to gas turbine GT1 in 2009 and the compressor of this turbine will also be upgraded.
We expect the compressor upgrades to generate an additional 6MW of output and produce further improvements in efficiency.
Corporate responsibility 74 International Power Annual Report 2008 Social investment Reducing sulphur dioxide emissions Electricity, fresh water and heating, the core We are investing significant capital in Flue Gas elements of our business, are fundamental Desulphurisation FGD, a process that is fitted to requirements of modern life this gives us coal-fired power stations to remove sulphur from considerable reach and a global impact on peoples emissions.
FGD is already fitted at our coal plant in lives.
We therefore have a responsibility to conduct the Czech Republic, at the Paiton plant in Indonesia our business with a genuine concern for the world and at Pego in Portugal, and we are installing it at around us, and in particular where our business Rugeley in the UK.
At Rugeley we expect the FGD has a direct impact.
plant to commence operating in the second quarter of 2009.
The use of FGD at Rugeley and Pego will Community investment enable these two power stations to comply with We support the communities in which we operate the revised EU Large Combustion Plant Directives by acting as a responsible employer and neighbour, restrictions on Sulphur Dioxide SO2 emissions.
and contributing towards the improvement of local We have chosen the limestone gypsum FGD amenities such as health and education services.
process for Rugeley and Pego, in line with all Employees also give their time freely within their other existing or planned FGD retrofits to communities, offering support for many activities.
power stations in England and Portugal.
We encourage our staff to participate wherever possible and support them fully in their endeavours.
Health and safety The following are just some examples of the We are committed to the best possible health and community investment projects in which we safety performance.
2008 was the third successive participate.
More information about our year in which the Accident Frequency Rate AFR community investments can be found on was reduced.
The majority of the reported incidents our website.
were minor slips, trips, falls, or manual handling injuries, with the individual returning to work within In Thailand, Thai National Power TNP has a day or two.
A major review of the global safety continued to support the Baan Sapan Si School, management system was carried out involving by building an extension for the kindergarten external benchmarking to ensure the best possible and primary school, together with a canteen and systems are in place for managing safety globally, computer centre and also by making donations and that the systems are appropriate for the level to student lunches.
of identified risks and to ensure legal compliance.
During 2008 International Power sponsored two In 2007 OHSAS 18001 was adopted as the schools in Wales and three in the Czech Republic Groups global standard for health and safety to participate in a carbon footprint project.
management systems, giving a common Children held after-school clubs to learn about framework for continuously improving health and carbon emissions, calculate their individual safety performance.
All power stations at which carbon footprint and discover ways to offset International Power has operational control are their emissions.
These children were then given expected to achieve accreditation to this standard.
the opportunity to take part in an exchange visit, The majority have already met this standard, during which they enjoyed tours of the local power whilst the remaining few are working towards plants, Deeside and International Power Opatovice.
Those that are working towards OHSAS 18001 will have accreditation as a target Donations are also made by our businesses to in their 2009 business plans.
alleviate hardship and support relief efforts in response to natural disasters.
In October 2008 The behavioural safety programme Fresh Eyes, a strong earthquake struck Pakistan, killing over which applies to all of our operating plants, 250 people and injuring around 500 others.
Our is delivering good results in identifying and Uch power station, which was only 250 km from changing at risk behaviours.
This is reflected the epicentre, contributed to the relief effort in the headline Key Performance Indicator KPI.
by dispatching goods in the form of life-saving A review of the programme was carried out in medicines, 100 tents, 500 blankets, and 1,000 2008 to share learning experience across the standard food packs each containing enough regions and to identify global best practice.
supplies to provide for one family for one week.
Additionally, in early 2009 the state of Victoria, Australia, suffered a severe heatwave resulting in fierce bushfires, which caused many deaths and widespread devastation.
Our Australian business contributed to the relief efforts, donating monies to the emergency relief fund and providing capital to assist with the rebuilding of infrastructure in the region.
Corporate responsibility 75 The village of Fannin is two miles from our Coleto Charitable giving Creek plant, making the FVFD the closest fire The Companys charities and donations committee department and the first responder to any fire at oversees the award of charitable and other the site.
Coleto Creek is proud to have two of their donations.
In addition to assessing requests and employees as members of the FVFD.
Coleto Creek making awards in response to applications for is a member of the Goliad County community in assistance from a variety of charities and good Texas which is a rural area with less than 10,000 causes, the committee is also responsible for residents.
The FVFD has responsibility to respond selecting the Companys community-based to calls from residents in an area covering 200 nominated charities and annual Flagship projects.
square miles, and without this facility it would International Power supports four major charities take an additional 30 critical minutes for another from our corporate centre.
During 2008, these fire department to arrive at the scene.
were Crisis, The Queen Elizabeth Foundation, The second award was made for the construction Sight Savers and Wellchild.
At the end of 2008 our of a fire station and the provision of one fire engine Wellchild sponsorship of a childrens nurse in a local London borough came to an end.
The sponsorship in the township of Kot Addu, close to our KAPCO International Power provided has guaranteed plant, in Pakistan.
There are currently no fire government funding for the nurse going forward, fighting facilities in Kot Addu.
In the event of a fire, and so it was felt that our funds should be the nearest facility is some 45-50 minutes away.
Following a review by the charities recent years there have been 15 major fire incidents and donations committee it was decided that our in and around the township: the most recent being new corporate charity will be the Koru Foundation, at a shopping centre which was completely a relatively new charity dedicated to developing destroyed.
It took around seven hours to bring community-managed, small-scale renewable this fire under control and fortunately there were energy projects to tackle energy poverty and no casualties.
The importance of this project is climate change in developing countries.
reinforced by the fact that government land has already been made available for it, and the district Each of our corporate charities is supported on a government will be responsible for operating three-year rolling programme with an annual sum costs and training going forward.
of 20,000, allowing us to build a longer-term relationship at the same time as giving the charity the security of funding for a defined timeframe.
Further information about our relationship with these charities is available on our website.
The Company operates a Give As You Earn scheme to facilitate personal charity donations by our staff.
We also match monies that our employees raise for charity.
In 2008 International Power and its subsidiaries contributed 1,031,000 to charitable causes and other community projects.
Companies in which we have a minority shareholding joint ventures and associates contributed a further 879,000.
Flagship projects Our Flagship project programme has been running for five years.
These are community projects, Uch power station provided relief to the victims of the Pakistani earthquake in 2008 selected each year from staff nominations, corporately funded annually by International Power.
Flagship projects can range in size and scope, but they all have a common goal: to improve the quality of life in the community.
Each year our regional businesses propose projects of special note for corporate Flagship status.
This entitles the chosen charity to around 100,000 of funding.
In 2008 the Flagship award was divided between two fire station projects, each receiving 57,500.
One award was made to The Fannin Volunteer Fire Department FVFD in North America.
The FVFD had already secured the necessary land and raised sufficient funds to lay the foundations for the new fire station.
Our award allowed them to complete their building programme and the new fire house was officially opened in January 2009.
The Fannin Volunteer Fire Department in the US was one of our 2008 Flagship projects Corporate responsibility 76 International Power Annual Report 2008 Corporate responsibility performance indicators Our CR performance indicators can be found in the table below.
Global data 2008 2007 2006 2005 Total electricity output GWh 89,065 89,628 80,653 67,581 Environment 1 CO2 emissions Total 000 tonnes 63,876 65,695 61,206 52,294 kg kWh equivalent 0.636 0.694 0.715 0.736 1 SO2 emissions Total 000 tonnes 87 93 87 77 kg kWh equivalent 0.00087 0.00098 0.00101 0.00109 1 NOx emissions Total 000 tonnes 68 73 75 74 kg kWh equivalent 0.00068 0.00077 0.00088 0.00104 1 Particulate emissions Total 000 tonnes 7 7 7 6 kg kWh equivalent 0.00007 0.00007 0.00008 0.00009 2 Number of reportable environmental incidents KPI 6 13 16 16 2 Number of environmental prosecutions 1 Health and safety 2 AFR for employees and contractors KPI 0.09 0.12 0.16 0.23 2 Fatalities 1 1 Social investment Community investment from International Power and its subsidiaries 1,031,000 1,196,000 1,050,000 1,174,000 Community investment from our joint ventures and associates 879,000 251,000 346,000 662,000 Notes: 1 The emissions intensity figures shown above take into account the significant quantities of energy used to produce desalinated water, steam, and district heating at various assets.
Figures for equivalent electricity output at these assets have been calculated to take this into account and provide a more accurate representation of our emissions intensity.
This adjustment has the overall effect of reducing the emissions intensity figures for CO2, SO2, NOx and particulates by approximately 11%.
2 Includes results from all subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, irrespective of our ownership percentage.
