59 Directors Report Governance Annual Report 2008 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer During the year we have continued to invest in our Expansion of our I n my review on pages 06 to 08 I have highlighted people and world-class equipment and infrastructure facilities for testing how our focus on service to customers is our main in our laboratories to meet the worlds need for more photovoltaic business driver.
By helping our customers improve environmentally friendly products and appliances.
the safety and quality of their products and modules in Intertek provides inspection, auditing, surveying and processes and ensuring compliance, we help them California, New York other technical services to the worlds on-shore and to operate in a more sustainable way which benefits off-shore wind turbine installations.
We help ensure and Shanghai will society as a whole.
wind power generation facilities meet specifications enable photovoltaic We are committed to operating in a socially and perform at optimal conditions.
manufacturers responsible way and have set out our key policies Our work includes testing compliance and around the world to in a framework which is communicated to all our effectiveness targets in the production of bio fuels employees on our corporate intranet site.
design and deploy and ethanol, assisting customers to comply with the next generation Our integrity and the reliability of our work is ultra low sulphur diesel legislation, and helping to fundamental to our business and we operate a assess low energy and low emission equipment.
of new solar energy strict code of ethics and compliance code.
is provided to all our employees through a variety of In Pakistan we have collaborated with Karachis means including an on-line e-learning module and Capital City Traffic Police to create awareness of compliance is closely monitored.
Rather than the conventional seminar approach we decided on an interactive This report describes how our principles are applied 15-day road show taking a truck into the streets in practice to all aspects of our business.
to test vehicles for their emission content and to Wolfhart Hauser give advice.
Chief Executive Officer At 80 major traffic intersections some 200 vehicles from public buses to rickshaws were Our business tested to identify gases in their exhaust fumes.
Interteks services improve quality and safety in the Analysis of the data led to a number of products and processes that impact peoples lives recommendations for improvements in Karachi, around the world.
We guide many of the worlds including public education and mandatory testing.
largest multinational corporations and best-known brands to improve the social, ethical and We guide organisations on how to reduce the use environmental consequences of their products, of hazardous materials in their products and services and supply chains.
We also partner with governments and The skills and experience of our people, who include regulatory bodies to help enforce and monitor some of the worlds leading scientific analysts and adherence to environmental protocols.
Our work experts, bring scientific solutions or analytical brings greater protection to consumers and the advances that will reduce the adverse impact on environment.
Our laboratories provide melamine the environment now and into the future.
chemical testing services and we carry out supply chain verification for a wide range of food ingredients, agricultural products and raw materials.
We were chosen to collaborate with the Pakistan Standards and Quality Control Authority to help set new guidelines for use by that authority in its accreditation programme for registering inspection companies in Pakistan.
com Directors Report Governance Corporate Social Responsibility Report During 2008 we acquired the fixed assets of Contract Our values We offered free Manufacturing Services, based in New Jersey, USA, We believe that the highest standard of integrity audit training places which is a leader in implementing environmental is essential in business.
to certain charities, compliance for product manufacturers, including such as Oxfam and the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, Our Mission Statement Environmental Compliance Process assurance, non-governmental We will Greenhouse Gas emission and Carbon Credit value trust and personal responsibility: organisations during programmes.
act with integrity, honesty and respect: 2008.
We see it as value each employees contribution toward We provide audit and consultancy services to a useful exchange achieving our business objectives: corporations, non-governmental and regulatory of information on promote a culture where motivated  to improve the social and ethical orientated employees can flourish, experience impact of their operations.
professional fulfilment and reach their highest around the world want peace of mind that products potential: and they have purchased have not been created through respect diverse perspectives, experiences and social or ethical abuses of workers or unfair trade.
We audit factory conditions and work practices to ensure that they are legal, ethical and humane.
We work with corporations to develop bespoke In all our activities we aim to: global CSR standards and programmes to ensure be both commercial and fair: that they exceed minimum social and ethical recognise the importance to all stakeholders thresholds across all of their sourcing.
We have of ensuring the health and safety of all our successfully initiated partnerships and collaborations employees: with non-governmental and not-for-profit maintain our integrity and professionalism: and organisations to pursue and improve standards.
strive for continual improvement and innovation.
Importantly, we do not forget our principal aim, During 2008 we have introduced programmes which means that our resources are used to add to assist retailers in gaining assurance that their value to our customers products and processes.
supply chains meet the standards they require.
Our Mill Qualification Program, Think Green The following systems help us ensure that our values Initiative and Global Security Verification are maintained: programme address different aspects of supply All staff are required to sign the Groups Code of chain assurance and facilitate trade by linking Ethics, which sets out our robust stance on retailers with providers via a standardised portal.
Our central compliance team ensures that our policies and procedures are properly applied in Some Intertek laboratories are registered with the practice.
US Consumer Product Safety Commission which is All employees have access to whistle blowing responsible for protecting the US public from injury hotlines.
Employees and external parties also have through fire, electrical, chemical or mechanical access to a hotline through the Group website.
hazards from more than 15,000 types of consumer products.
Our corporate social responsibility structure Intertek has businesses in many locations around the Intertek is a world leader in the design of safe world.
Our activities are organised to permit local or products, with particular expertise in childrens toys.
functional managers to manage operations within Our centres of excellence in Chicago and London the framework established by the Board of Intertek provide counsel to some of the worlds largest Group plc.
We consider local managers are best product brands to advance the design of safe placed to understand and react to their local business products in the market place.
They have the knowledge to apply industry and health bodies, we collect and analyse policies with due regard to their relationships with safety data in connection with child accidents.
This local stakeholders such as employees, customers data is used to help our clients improve the safety of and communities.
Our risk management team has been involved in The corporate social responsibility framework within active promotion of the need for comprehensive which these activities are to be managed was injury and fatality databases and the design of injury formally adopted by the Board of Intertek Group plc prevention strategy in Europe.
indd 60 5 3 09 23:50:41 61 Annual Report 2008 61 General policy Interteks core businesses provide services that are ultimately of benefit to US$15K consumers and other stakeholders.
We test substances for purity and performance.
We test products for safety and quality.
We measure air and noise Our OCA operation emissions.
We review imports to assess their content accurately.
We provide advice that can lead to greater efficiency of production or operation.
We carry in Texas made a out audits to help ensure that factory conditions and work practices are legal, US$15k donation humane and ethical.
Intertek takes seriously the benefits that our businesses confer and will continue to endeavour in all its dealings to improve quality, to Valero Energy safety and to bring about environmental benefits through improved efficiency Corporations Open of products.
Benefit for Children Environmental policy Intertek will strive to prevent its operations causing adverse impact on the Golf Day, and in the environment.
We will comply with national environmental legislation and will UK OCA supported endeavour to identify, monitor and control our environmental risks.
We will seek to reduce emissions, effluents, waste and adverse effect on biodiversity.
the Wear it Pink We will commit to recycling schemes and energy efficiency.
We will provide and Jeans for benefits in respect of environmental impacts through our testing of environmental standards and will operate safely.
Ethical policy Intertek prohibits the offer, giving or acceptance of bribes in any form.
Intertek prohibits the provision of improper benefits.
No reward, gift or favour dependent on the outcome of any work will be accepted by employees.
Employees shall operate free from any conflict of interest.
Employee policy Intertek will strive to provide a safe and healthy environment for its employees to work in.
It will comply with national employee legislation.
In the absence of any local prescription, employees will be assessed solely on the basis of their ability irrespective of their race, religion, colour, age, disabilities, gender or sexual orientation or their participation in legitimate union activities.
Employees diverse perspectives, experiences and traditions will be respected.
Wherever possible, employees personal growth will be fostered through the provision of training.
Community and stakeholder policy Intertek will take into account, when making decisions, its impact on all relevant stakeholders.
Business practices policy Intertek will carry out its work in an honest, professional, independent and impartial manner.
Marketing will be conducted in a manner that is not misleading.
Procurement from suppliers whose corporate responsibility policies align with Interteks will be encouraged.
We have cascaded these policies through the We aim to increase our participation and management structure and added them to our membership of such bodies in the future to show corporate intranet to disseminate them.
our commitment to being a significant player in Employees are encouraged to supply ideas and the corporate social responsibility arena.
information concerning our CSR performance Our employees by contacting us through the intranet.
Our principal strength is the talent of our staff.
Overall and ultimate responsibility for the Groups Our intention is to unlock the potential of every CSR policies, issues and their implementation lies employee to perform to the best of his or her with the Chief Executive Officer.
This enables us to achieve maximum value for them, our customers and shareholders.
We take a responsible and active role in the business communities in which we operate.
Staff numbers continued to expand in 2008, and Intertek is a member of a number of CSR related we have continued to develop the reach of our associations such as CSR Europe, the Ethos framework employee policies, to ensure a fair and Institute of Business and Social Responsibility and consistent approach to employee matters around Canadian Business for Social Responsibility.
com Directors Report Governance Corporate Social Responsibility Report Objectives regularly monitored by our compliance team to ensure An Employee Awards We have a number of objectives which include: that they are being properly applied in practice.
and recognition continuing to adopt and roll out framework Information about employees programme was HR policies: It is important to monitor progress in matters such rolled out in North improving communications with employees: and as diversity, employment of disabled staff, training, retaining and motivating employees.
America and staff retention and safety to attain the best results manager training for the Group.
The more information we have, the Our policies better we will be able to make changes when they We have framework policies in place that enable us and communication are necessary.
to treat employees fairly across the Group, whilst still was completed.
giving local managers the authority and flexibility to Group-wide human resource meetings and It is a three part adopt what is right for their local area.
As we grow, intranet-based sharing of information are used to award structure whether organically or by acquisition, we continue communicate objectives and share knowledge, since to promote and monitor these policies, which are comprising the the decentralised and global nature of the Group concerned with matters such as fair recruitment, means that we do not currently have a single data Service, the Star and internal communications and remuneration.
platform appropriate for the purpose of measuring the Edison Award.
the success of all our employee targets.
The chart below shows how our workforce is distributed geographically and why it is important Information for employees for us to respect regional and cultural differences.
Good communication is the basis of every successful relationship and we are always looking for ways to As part of our equal opportunities policy, people increase communication opportunities with our with disabilities are given the same consideration as employees, especially with regard to two-way others when they apply for jobs.
We particularly need to ensure skills and aptitudes, they enjoy the same career that our employees are aware of our ethical, risk prospects as other employees.
If employees become and safety procedures.
We continue to extend disabled every effort will be made to retain them in the use of our intranet to encourage Group-wide their current role or to look at possibilities for communication and knowledge.
In time our intranet retraining or redeployment within the Group.
will become an online encyclopaedia of the Group, Where necessary the Group aims to provide these a home to internal communities, a reference for employees with facilities, equipment and training policies and information and an e-learning forum.
to assist them in doing their jobs.
We use face-to-face review meetings, regular management meetings and newsletters to give and The health and safety of our employees is of receive information.
Employees are also able to use paramount importance to the Group.
We aim to our telephone and email hotlines if there is anything provide a safe working environment and ensure that they feel should be communicated.
our employees have the information and knowledge to safely perform their duties.
We are committed to An online on-boarding programme, is being maintaining high standards and complying with introduced to help new employees familiarise relevant local legislation and guidelines in any area in themselves with the Group and its operations.
We continually seek to minimise harm to our employees and our procedures are Number of employees We have introduced many programmes of business training for junior managers, 12,846 5,412 5,583 2008 beginning with those in our Asia region.
11,030 4,763 5,510 2007 By developing the careers of these 8,638 4,267 4,995 2006 employees we are laying the foundations for our next senior executive structure.
indd 62 6 3 09 15:28:17 63 Annual Report 2008 63 Our Intertek as One programme of cross-divisional Because of the decentralised structure of our Intertek is one liaison has contributed to increased knowledge of Group and the nature of our activities, community of the 44.4% of the Group and to better opportunities for staff involvement is organised at local level by local companies in the through regional and country-based meetings, managers.
We recognise the importance of our communications and workshops.
relationship with the communities in which we FTSE 250 with operate, and encourage our businesses and one or more Share interests employees to undertake community service and We are committed to encouraging our key female directors charitable giving.
executives to align themselves with the interests of on the Board.
shareholders and the Groups performance through During May 2008 the Sichuan province of China the ownership of the Companys shares.
The was devastated by earthquakes.
In many countries Company operates a long-term incentive share plan Intertek employees contributed to disaster relief for senior executives and requires the most senior funds to help those affected by events.
executives to retain some of the shares they obtain through this plan.
More information about the plan Where employees made donations to recognised is contained in the Remuneration Report on page international relief funds such as Unicef, Red Cross 54.
We are pleased to note that a number of our or Red Crescent the local Intertek business unit employees have chosen to invest in the Group and matched contributions made by employees.
that some 6.8m of our shares were held by Donations totalled more than RMB 1 million.
employees and Directors at the end of 2008.
One of our CSR auditors, who had just completed his assignment in the area at the time, joined the Our communities relief team as a humanitarian aid worker.
In South Africa, our OCA business donates time and money to a number of projects, mostly in Our environment support of local children.
In 2008 this included We have measured our carbon emissions at 10 donations of money, computers and other goods key sites over the last two years to gain a better to schools, and hands-on assistance with the understanding of our energy use.
The nature and painting of a school for AIDS-affected children, hence the emissions of the operations at each of with which the business has a close link.
these sites varies considerably and we are Together with the South African Institute of considering how best to use this data to develop Chartered Accountants we donated money to a strategy for reducing our carbon emissions.
a project for the development of small business Our compliance team carried out 22 environmental entrepreneurs in South Africa.
audits at major sites during the year.
These reviews Initiatives like these help us to meet our consistently showed our environmental controls to obligations under the South African Broad Based be strong.
No major issues were identified and Black Economic Codes, which are important to minor issues were corrected as part of the process.
the business in the country.
Operational staff reviews environmental controls on an ongoing basis.
Our expertise helps identify the energy efficiency of electrical and electronic equipment in programmes such as the China Energy Label registration, Singapore Green Label Scheme and our own one-stop Energy Saving Verification Service.
com Directors Report Governance Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our Reduce, Reuse, Recycle campaign in China Our Commercial & Electrical division announced encourages employees to reduce the use of paper, the global launch of a paper-free environmental switch off air-conditioning 20 minutes prior to programme for customers product testing and closing their office and recycling all paper.
The Companys proprietary MyTestCentralTM web portal will be the electronic clearing-house for customer In common with many areas of Interteks business, certificates, reports and documentation, reducing the implementation of our framework policy on the environmental waste as well as adding efficiencies environment is operated by local management in to our processes.
accordance with relevant local legislation and guidelines.
A number of projects have been carried The programme will begin in North America, out at the local level during the year.
followed by Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific areas.
Specific initiatives we are working on include: reducing paper usage by introducing paper-free delivery to clients, using electronic document Interteks compliance team takes an active role in management systems, using electronic identifying areas where the Group and employees communication with shareholders and increasing can have a positive effect on reducing our the use of the internet and intranet for environmental impact.
These include energy and communications including telephone calls: water consumption, use of fuel by Group vehicles, increasing investment in low-energy equipment: reduced use of ozone-depleting substances and increasing recycling schemes throughout the waste and by-product production.
Group: We aim to educate our employees so that we can all reducing carbon-fuel travel by holding meetings work towards a better future for the environment.
by conference call or Webinar and amending The circulation of information concerning, for travel policies to include  elements: example, energy consumption, is one of the ways green office initiatives have reduced paper we use to identify and enlist the help of all usage, saved energy, and of course, cut costs: employees in minimising specific and overall usage.
our new multi-divisional site in Mexico is being designed with a number of  features, including use of recycled products, special lighting and water saving.
indd 64 5 3 09 23:50:44 65 Annual Report 2008 65 Our customers, suppliers and shareholders Our investor programme includes: Our OCA business At Intertek we: regular individual meetings with shareholders participated in the maintain quality management systems in our and investment managers during the year: Louisiana Clean divisions and continually monitor the service road shows in many countries: we provide: regular analyst briefings: and Fuels Partnerships value and serve our customers, as embodied investor days where analysts and investors are Designation as in our customer focused mission statement: invited to visit some of our laboratories to meet a Clean City offer an integrated and unified service on a staff and observe work being performed.
by explaining global basis: In addition, Intertek has an experienced investor welcome feedback from all stakeholders: inspection and relations team to handle enquiries and report hold regular feedback meetings with customers testings role in investor-related matters to the Board.
Feedback on and welcome their inspection of our premises: the Groups investor programme has been positive the supply chain provide an accessible feedback service to assess and Intertek has a good relationship with investors at the Coalition the quality of service provided: and and their representatives.
Conference held During the course of the year, shareholders are in March 2008.
As a Group, we do not have any individual suppliers kept informed on the progress of the Group on whom we are overly reliant and we aim to treat through reports on our financial results, and other all suppliers with fairness and integrity.
We strive announcements of significant developments that to create relationships based on mutual trust and are released through regulatory outlets and our ensure payment of all invoices on a timely basis.
We have introduced the option of Our Compliance Code sets out our business electronic communications with shareholders principles including their application in business as a way of reducing paper-based reporting.
The Code is available in the Compliance section of our website at www.
Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and a number of means are used to promote greater understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
In November 2008 the Group held its annual budget and strategy meetings by Webinar, with over 70 employees participating from their own offices, saving some 125,000lbs of CO emissions 2 through reduced travel.
