corPorAte sociAl resPoNsiBility code of conduct safety of employees working off-site at customer or project The Invensys Code of Conduct the Code remains a key element locations.
The CoEs will focus on delivering valued solutions that of our commitment to ensuring that our employees and suppliers are aligned with our EHS&S and business strategies.
act with integrity and in accordance both with local law and our own legal and ethical standards.
The Code, which is available We have also continued to encourage our operating locations on our website, sets out our ethical practice as a business.
The to achieve third-party certifications for their EHS management Code is the first and core part of a broader Invensys Compliance systems.
A total of eight Invensys locations are now certified Programme, in which specific issues relevant to our conduct as ISO 14001 and four additional locations are currently working a business and as individuals are being highlighted.
In March 2008, the Environmental, Health and Safety EHS Additionally, during the past year we have continued to drive compliance training module was launched with the intent of our internal EHS management systems through the deployment assisting all employees in understanding and complying with of EHS standards across all the businesses.
These standards the guidelines on EHS contained in the Code and other relevant define and establish expectations, and provide a common base Invensys policies especially the Invensys EHS Policy itself.
The for implementation and planning at all our global locations.
module stresses that health, safety and environmental stewardship are the responsibility of every Invensys employee, and that all In 2007, we completed the second year of our Compliance employees must actively contribute to the EHS performance of the Assurance Verification Process for our major locations.
Further modules will be developed and launched as part independent and external organisation performed 18 EHS of an ongoing commitment by Invensys to inform and educate our compliance audits to evaluate our performance against legal employees.
requirements during this past year, and we intend to complete another 18 EHS compliance audits this coming year.
Under this environmental, health, safety and sustainability ehs&s three-year rotational programme, we will complete a total of 51 We have an increasing commitment to our EHS philosophy with EHS compliance audits across all our major locations by next year.
regard to our responsibility to provide products, services and Senior managers at the locations provide a commitment letter ongoing support in a sustainable manner.
We continue to strive that outlines the corrective actions and timeframes for closing for EHS excellence in conjunction with our efforts to become out the findings.
All compliance findings and corrective actions a world-class organisation relative to our peers.
Therefore in are tracked until closure is achieved, and the results are integrated February 2008 we formally restructured the EHS function and into operational business reviews.
Next year, the process will integrated sustainability into the EHS&S function.
be improved to include review of compliance against our internal EHS standards.
As part of the restructuring of the function, we established EHS&S Centres of Excellence CoEs at the Group level which will lead We improved our Loss Control Survey Programme by integrating strategies, programmes and processes around key functional relevant EHS elements into the existing programme.
The CoE Compliance Assurance and Health and Safety is completed 43 external loss control surveys which evaluated the charged with ensuring that Invensys locations worldwide operate physical risks to property assets at Invensys locations and their in compliance with the law and with Invensys standards, and that a compliance with relevant codes such as life safety, fire protection consistent standard of care is instituted.
The CoE Environmental and occupancy hazards.
Again, the findings from these surveys Affairs and Sustainability is charged with coordinating are tracked until closure is achieved and are integrated into environmental remediation, managing environmental compliance the business performance reviews.
The survey programme will and driving the sustainability strategy into our businesses.
The continue next year at 37 locations.
CoE Mobile Personnel is charged with ensuring the health and Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 35 corPorAte sociAl resPoNsiBility CONTINUED Full survey Comparable sites Environmental Key Performance Indicators Units 2007 2007 2006 % change Number of sites 55 52 52 Energy use KWh 183,491,000 182,016,000 184,433,000 1.3 Energy from renewable resources % 23 23 27 4.0 CO2 emissions kg 103,816,000 102,847,000 103,338,000 0.5 3 Water consumed m 819,000 813,000 890,000 8.7 Waste generated non-hazardous kg 14,397,000 14,002,000 12,281,000 14.0 Waste recycled non-hazardous kg 10,105,000 9,967,000 7,612,000 30.9 Waste generated hazardous kg 868,000 868,000 699,000 24.2 Waste recycled hazardous kg 320,000 320,000 188,000 70.2 Note: all values rounded to the nearest 1,000 Further details regarding environmental performance can be found at www.
com Dates in this table refer to calendar year.
Finally, we have used our internal EHS&S website as a global tool a decrease in total water consumption of 8.7% due to to deliver information to all our business operations.
The website efficiencies at key locations in China and Mexico: contains our EHS&S standards, guidelines and procedures, which an increase in total non-hazardous waste generated of 14% establish the expectations for our businesses.
It also provides due to increased production at several key locations: however, a summary of our performance against key EHS&S metrics.
there was also a corresponding 30.9% increase in nonAdditionally, it serves as the portal for the EHS learning system hazardous waste recycled, driven through better segregation which makes online training in eight key EHS&S areas available and handling practices primarily by these same locations: and to all employees in a variety of languages.
an increase in total hazardous waste generated of 24.2% driven by a one-time decommissioning of a manufacturing site in environment the UK: additionally, there was a corresponding increase in In 2006, we established the following as environmental Key hazardous waste recycled of 70.2% also driven by the same site Performance Indicators KPIs for our manufacturing locations in the UK.
Excluding the one-time decommissioning of waste using the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs from the UK location, an increase in total hazardous waste DEFRA guidelines Environmental Key Performance Indicators generated of 4% was observed due to increased production Reporting Guidelines for UK Business, 2006 : at a key location in Brazil.
total energy use KWh : total CO2 emissions kg : Looking forward into next year, we plan to measure and report 3 total water consumption m : CO2 contributions associated with business-related travel and our total non-hazardous wastes kg : and major office locations.
The Board continues to be briefed on Group EHS&S performance In the calendar year 2007, we continued to collect environmental and receives monthly reports on any violations, citations KPI data from our manufacturing locations to validate baseline or environmental releases.
In the past year, no violations, performance, and we have now established a 5% reduction target citations or fines were issued by governmental bodies related to for the upcoming fiscal year for each of these five KPIs for all environmental affairs.
manufacturing locations over the prior years results.
We have continued our efforts to eliminate the use of chlorinated We extended our Environmental Performance Questionnaire solvents in our operations.
During the past year, nine locations EPQ for a sixth consecutive year and collected environmental eliminated the use of these solvents or found suitable substitute data from 55 major locations, with 52 of those locations also chemicals.
The two remaining locations in France and Brazil that reporting in the calendar year 2006. use chlorinated solvents have well-developed elimination plans and are scheduled to completely eliminate solvent use in 2008.
For these 52 major locations reporting for the calendar years 2007 and 2006, the summary table above illustrates the data: health and safety a decrease in total energy use of 1.3% and a decrease of Health and safety concerns are intrinsic to our operations and CO2 emissions of 0.5% attributed to greater conservation our value propositions.
Our objective is that we will do business awareness: without harming people or the environment.
a decrease in the percentage of energy acquired from renewable resources due to the changing composition in Over the past year, we made further progress in making Invensys energy available from the local utilities at most locations, a safer organisation.
We launched EHS Induction Training to all Invensys does not have the ability to choose the source of Invensys employees, temporary workers and contractors in order energy as it is regulated by the local utilities : to stress the importance of safety to our organisation and raise 36 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 4.5 Total recordable case incident rate 4.0 Lost workday case incident rate 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 Note: further details regarding health and safety performance can be found at www.
com safety and environmental awareness.
This training highlights the tours inspections conducted by all levels of the organisation.
philosophy that all employees are responsible for health and Performance against the SAM is measured monthly with the EHS safety, and that we aspire to prevent all incidents.
This training DSS and integrated into the overall metrics of each of the business has been integrated into the new employee induction process groups.
Starting next year, the EHS&S function will review this and must be completed within the first 10 days of employment.
data with the Board on an annual basis to ensure that the proper elements are incorporated into the business strategies.
A measurement of our progress and commitment to health and safety is reflected by our ongoing reduction in Injury Illness Our Chief Executive reviews, on a monthly basis, and presents Incident Frequency Rates.
For the period under review, the Total to the Board the EHS&S performance data, including any Recordable Case Incident Rate TRCIR fell 24% from 0.74 to 0.56 major incidents.
We are pleased to report that there were no and the Lost Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR fell 37% from major incidents or work-related fatalities during the past year.
Additionally, no violations, citations or fines were issued by governmental bodies related to health and safety.
Each of our individual businesses also compares favourably against our industry peers in terms of Injury Illness Incident Frequency Beyond the traditional safety programmes which look to prevent Rates.
For example our largest business, Invensys Controls, ended injuries and illnesses, we have also continued to promote wellness the year with a TRCIR of 0.42 as compared to a peer company programmes in an effort to improve the overall health and average of 5.1.
For the same business, the LWCIR was 0.17 well-being of our employees.
For example, in our Mexico locations compared to a peer company average of 1.0: the peer company we have focussed campaigns on early detection and management average is based on the 2006 US Bureau of Labour Statistics North of health issues such as cancer, osteoporosis, hypertension, American Industry Classification System code 335000 for electrical diabetes control, cholesterol and weight management.
We also equipment, appliance, and component manufacturing.
We are provide onsite health support, vaccinations and family planning proud of our significant accomplishments in reducing injuries support.
We have begun to see benefits from these programmes and injury rates, but recognise that we still have more progress to including improvements in overall employee health, an increase in make to keep all employees safe.
employee motivation and morale, a reduction in absenteeism and an improvement in the working environment.
In order to monitor our safety and compliance performance, we launched the EHS Decision Support System EHS DSS in early 2007.
Also in 2007, our Westinghouse Rail Systems Limited business This web-based data system is used by all global locations to gather, based in the UK won Best Achievement in Health and Safety for track and manage all EHS events that are critical to our business Manufacturing at the prestigious Safety and Health Practitioner performance.
Events such as work-related injuries and illnesses, SHP awards.
SHP is the official magazine of the Chartered environmental excursions, EHS compliance audits, loss control Institution of Occupational Safety and Health IOSH with more surveys, thermographic surveys, industrial hygiene surveys, security than 30,000 readers.
The SHP awards encourage and recognise assessments, safety tours, and government regulatory inspections genuine good safety practice and achievement above and beyond are managed within the data system.
All findings and corrective the normal practices.
actions are managed and tracked until closure is achieved.
employees We also launched the Safety Awareness Metric SAM to all our We believe that to achieve maximum value for our shareholders major locations in 2007 in order to drive and measure proactive and customers, we need to unlock the potential of every employee safety performance.
The SAM measures several leading EHS to perform to the best of their abilities.
We are working hard to activities at an operational level such as on-time closure of create an environment where this is possible.
corrective actions, completion of EHS training, and safety Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 37 Per 100 employees Mar 04 Jun 04 Sep 04 Dec 04 Mar 05 Jun 05 Sep 05 Dec 05 Mar 06 Jun 06 Sep 06 Dec 06 Mar 07 Jun 07 Sep 07 Dec 07 Mar 08 corPorAte sociAl resPoNsiBility CONTINUED We believe that by fully embracing the principles of sustainability we can make a positive impact on the future of Invensys and on the world.
This year we have focussed on creating an I want to work here leaders in line with our succession plans and also identify and culture.
In 2007 we launched our mission, vision and objectives develop future talent.
In addition, we use this process to ensure and started the creation of our company-wide values, which we that leaders who are not performing are given this feedback and launched across the organisation in March 2008. given an opportunity to improve their performance.
Also, in the last year over 400 senior leaders have gone through Leadership We continue to respect and support the principles of the European Development programmes.
Convention on Human Rights and other equivalent legislation by ensuring we comply with the labour laws of the countries in which During the year we invested in goal deployment and performance we operate and by creating an inclusive culture for our employees, management tools and processes to help our employees to including men and women from different nations, cultures, ethnic understand Invensys organisational goals and objectives and groups, generations and backgrounds.
align them with their own.
We require managers to hold annual performance reviews with all employees who report to them, Our Code of Conduct training continues to be developed and new where they can discuss their performance, set personal objectives modules released at regular intervals.
We also have in place local for the year and where appropriate create a personal development policies and procedures which set out our commitment to create plan.
an environment where our employees can work without concerns that they will not be treated appropriately as a result of their One of our values is meritocracy and we strive to offer competitive gender, marital status, sexual orientation, colour, religion, race, remuneration and benefits in each market in which we participate nationality, ethnic origin, age or disability.
through a system of differentiated base pay, cash and equity bonuses based on the individuals contributions to Invensys The Invensys European Employees Forum, with elected employee success.
representatives, promotes dialogue with management.
Globally we communicate with our employees through local We continue to strive to make Invensys a place where high communications networks, town hall meetings, skip level performing people choose to be: where they can enhance their meetings and employee newsletters, webchats and blogs.
This lives and careers, and are motivated to perform their best and year we have launched our Invensys Employee Engagement continue to better their performance.
Survey globally, increasing our cross-Invensys communication opportunities, so we can hear ideas, suggestions and feedback sustainability from as many employees as possible.
At Invensys, we believe that sustainability is part of our core business offering because we apply our technologies We are continuing our commitment from 2007 to targeting a 2% to help our customers increase productivity, reduce waste, of payroll investment in our employees learning and development improve efficiencies and reduce impact on the environment in each Invensys business.
This provides financial support for and communities.
In doing so, we enable our customers to employees seeking to gain professional qualifications, access to improve the economic success of their business.
leadership development programmes and many other learning interventions.
As we continue our journey to create a high performing, sustainable and cohesive business, we have recognised the need Top talent in the organisation is assessed and developed through to look at how we manage social and environmental performance our annual Organisational Capability Review OCR.
Through to ensure that we address economic success whilst balancing this review we manage internal global career progression for key profitability and meeting customer and market expectations.
38 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 In other words, we recognise that sustainability is a guiding impacts and restoring the properties back to beneficial use in their principle that underpins our overall business vision, mission, communities.
We have also established programmes for evaluating strategy and corporate values.
We believe that by embracing fully the environmental issues associated with the acquisition, divesture the principles of sustainability we can make a positive impact on or decommissioning of physical operations.
the future of Invensys and on the world.
Our continuing efforts in the areas of sustainability and corporate Our goal is to be a recognised leader in sustainability, achieved responsibility have resulted in Invensys being recognised again through continuous improvement in enhancing the well-being on the UK FTSE4Good Index Series.
For next year, our goal is to of people, communities and the environment.
We are focused demonstrate improvements in the Environment, Human Rights on delivering products and services to assist our customers in and Stakeholder categories.
Last year, Invensys participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project To support our effort to integrate sustainability into the business, CDP5 for the first time to report on greenhouse gas emissions, Invensys is launching Sustainability Awareness Training to all and risks and opportunities presented by climate change.
This training is intended to raise awareness intend to continue our participation this coming year in the CDP6 among employees on sustainability issues that they might face and to ensure that an effective carbon emissions reductions both at home and at work, explain Invensys commitment and strategy is made integral to our business.
encourage employees to actively participate in sustainability activities.
Additionally, we continued to make progress in evaluating the sustainability performance of our suppliers through the ongoing To support our sustainability goals, we are committed to making deployment of the Supplier Self Assessment Process.
This process improvements in the following areas in a responsible and ethical evaluates the quality of our global suppliers and also contains manner: qualifying criteria in the areas of corporate citizenship, health and reduce our environmental footprint safety and restricted substances.
Next year, the process will be engineer our products and services in a sustainable fashion updated to include criteria on sustainability and eco-efficiency.
support the well-being of our employees and communities mitigate and repair environmental impact community investment enhance the sustainability performance of our suppliers We continue to recognise the importance of our role in and communicate our sustainable performance relationship with communities in which we operate.
Community outreach is encouraged by Invensys at the local level, where our In 2007, Invensys renewed its commitment to advance the 10 businesses have ties with the communities where our employees universal principles of the United Nations Global Compact UNGC work and live, and implemented by our site managers.
Our in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and antibusinesses provide a variety of programmes such as matching corruption.
In particular, we have made progress in supporting gifts, sponsorships of activities and paid volunteer time that allow a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and our employees to actively participate in community events.
For example, we have had success with programmes that eliminate chlorinated For example, an initiative was introduced for our UK-based Rail solvents use and reduce hazardous waste generation.
For Group employees which recognises employees consistently using those properties where environmental impacts have occurred green options to travel to work car sharing, walking, cycling and historically, we have a formalised programme of remediating these public transport.
As a result of this initiative and in collaboration Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 39 corPorAte sociAl resPoNsiBility CONTINUED Invensys remains committed to acting as a good corporate citizen, in local communities and the wider environment.
with the International Tree Foundation, 400 new trees will be planted on behalf of Westinghouse.
They also continue to support local schools, providing sponsorship awards for outstanding science students.
In the US, our Process Systems employees have adopted an overall approach of combining employee volunteerism on visible community and educational projects with targeted charitable donations.
For instance, an annual Community Day of Caring took place in which teams of employees worked on community projects, where they shared their time and talents.
A Women In Technology programme was conducted with three area high schools, state workforce consortia, and a local community college as part of an overall School To Career Partnership.
An Invensys engineer led a team of college engineering bound students through a facilitated product and project development process to create an IT product.
Beyond getting hands-on experience with a real workplace project, these students became acquainted with a variety of engineering careers, and received college course credit and a scholarship.
Invensys remains committed to acting as a good corporate citizen, in local communities and the wider environment.
40 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 courage We stand up for what we believe in and are willing to accept team decisions as our own By showing the courage to take risks, we can find innovative and competitive ways to meet customer needs.
Drayton, an Invensys Controls brand, offers a wide range of heating controls, installed and serviced by installers with limited access to real-time information.
Challenging conventional communications methods and accepting the necessity for change, Invensys Controls developed the Drayton in touch solution.
Enabling installers to download, save and display the latest technical information on their mobile phones, the Drayton in touch software makes it easier than ever to install and use Drayton controls.
By committing to a bold development decision, Controls has created new options for installers.
