30 Corporate and social responsibility Overview Ethics ITE believes that corporate and social responsibility is The Company actively promotes integrity in its dealings an important part of the Groups culture and, by adopting with its employees, shareholders, customers and suppliers good practice in these areas, it will have a positive and with the authorities of the countries in which it impact on pro ts and increasing the long-term value operates and recognises that a reputation is a valuable for shareholders.
The Board gives due consideration to and fragile asset gained over a substantial period.
The risks arising from social, environmental and ethical issues leadership position of its exhibitions and the continued as part of its ongoing risk review process.
growth of its core shows is evidence of the success of its practices.
Social interaction The Board of the Company is aware of both the bene ts The Company promotes high ethical standards in carrying to its business of engaging with its various constituencies out its business activities and has clear guidelines for in a socially-responsible manner and the risks of failing to dealing with gifts, hospitality, corruption, fraud and the do so.
As an operator of  businesses use of inside information.
All ITE sta must comply with in emerging markets, the Company ensures that it is the laws and regulations of the country in which they culturally sensitive in its dealings with the local community operate.
It is the responsibility of all sta to ensure that and that its employment and development policies are they are fully aware of all relevant laws and regulations.
non-discriminatory and encourage the employment of local nationals at all levels in the Company.
Employees are The Group is a member of UFI worldwide and the AEO selected and promoted on the basis of merit and ability, UK and, through this, the attendance gures at our key regardless of age, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation exhibitions are audited by independent services.
to provide assurance to our exhibitors and visitors as to the standard of our exhibitions.
Employees are encouraged to participate in and support their respective communities.
The Company has a policy The Group aims to provide a high-quality service for all of encouraging employees, especially those from the its events in all its locations.
The Group operates to a strict locations in emerging markets, to move around the o ces minimum quality level to ensure our events are provided of the Group, thus providing development opportunities to exhibitors and visitors at international standards, for all sta.
In addition, employees are assisted in their irrespective of where they are held.
career development through an annual appraisal scheme.
All sta are eligible for issues of share options or awards The Group ensures that all advertising and public under the Employees Performance Share Plan as the Board communications avoid untruths or overstatements.
ITE feels that it is important for them to take an active part in builds a relationship with suppliers based on mutual trust the success of the Company and to share in the value they and undertakes to pay suppliers on time and in accordance help to create.
with agreed terms of business.
All information regarding the relationship between the Group and a supplier must We recognise the need to provide a safe working remain con dential.
environment for employees and exhibitors and visitors at our events.
Each o ce is responsible for ensuring that their business operates in compliance with Group policies and the relevant local health and safety legislation.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 31 Environment As a media services company, the Group acknowledges that its business has an impact on the environment, albeit relatively minor, however it understands the importance of following good environmental practice.
The Company is aware that this is an area of increasing concern to employees, shareholders and customers alike.
The Company does not manufacture or sell any tangible products and has identi ed the principal areas of environmental impact as energy use, waste recycling, paper & printing and travel.
By identifying environmental improvements, we expect to see increased e ciencies and with that, reduced costs and the management of environmental issues is part of our business strategy to create long-term value for shareholders.
The Group encourages the recycling of waste paper and o ce waste and plans to increase the recycling rates and materials recycled throughout the Group.
Computers and IT equipment are recycled where possible and redundant equipment is either sold to sta or given to charitable organisations.
The Company has been reducing its printed materials over the last few years, with a greater reliance on electronic media for its marketing materials.
However, catalogues and delegate packs are still printed and the Group is implementing a set of operating standards to be followed by suppliers to look at paper sourcing and use of materials.
The Company encourages sta to use public transport through o ering season ticket loans.
The Company is now taking advantage of recent e-communications legislation for communicating with shareholders and so will be able to reduce the volume of printed materials produced with the publication of our Annual Report and Interim Statement.
The Groups activities in staging exhibitions and conferences do impact on the environment, through waste and natural resources usage from materials used in assembling exhibition stands and participating in the exhibition and travel to exhibitions and conferences for exhibitors, delegates and ITE sta.
Presently, practice in controlling waste at di erent exhibition centres varies widely through the di erent regions in which the Group operates, however the Group follows prevailing practice in each of its markets by observing industry and country legislation.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008
