Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 27 Corporate responsibility Every evening our programmes are watched in millions of UK homes and we recognise the important and privileged position we are in as a result.
Managing corporate responsibility is critical in helping ITV maximise the trust of all our stakeholders.
ITV generates the majority of its revenues from ITV recognises in particular the damage to viewer advertising.
Advertisers rely on ITV for access to trust suffered as a result of failings with respect mass audiences on television and, increasingly, to PRS services connected with ITV programming online.
However audiences will only return to ITV if which came to light in 2007.
ITV has overhauled we can consistently deliver high-quality and trusted its compliance procedures for PRS and associated content and interactive services.
Our approach to risk management processes to seek to ensure corporate responsibility CR is very closely aligned that there is no recurrence of such problems in to our core business strategy and we are mindful of the future.
the importance of managing all the related risks and opportunities.
Stakeholders We continue to be involved in a wide range of Governance important corporate and social issues, from news In 2008 ITV reviewed its strategy and established standards to the future of PSB and even health policy, working with a wide range of stakeholders, a new CR Committee with members from key business segments and central services.
The CR including investors, employees, viewers, government and regulators.
Internal dialogue on Committee is chaired by the Director of Group Corporate Affairs, Mark Gallagher and reports to CR issues is conducted via an annual staff survey, as well as by posting regular stories on our staff the senior management team.
The CR Committee is responsible for reviewing ITVs material CR issues, intranet.
Our main external dialogue on CR issues is with our viewers, who, through our Vision Panel, formulating strategies for improved CR management and communicating them internally.
share their thoughts about a variety of relevant issues.
Increasingly we are using the panel to help The CR Committee has determined that ITV should steer us and our priorities for ongoing CR focus on the following areas: management.
Raising awareness of issues and causes Our story driven, factual and entertainment CR performance indicators content can help mass audiences understand The programmes broadcast on ITV channels more about sensitive subject matter.
continue to be scrutinised by our in house Improving viewer trust compliance team prior to broadcast.
We recognise Our relationship with viewers is integral to that our diversification from television broadcasting maintaining trust.
Ensuring this trust is not brings us into different regulatory environments jeopardised is fundamental to our success.
where different standards and expectations can apply.
These are documented more fully in our CR Delivering high quality, entertainment driven, report.
Our overall approach is to seek to apply the compliant content same standards to our non-television services that Our viewers want quality programming, which is we have for television, even where the regulatory not offensive or shocking and adheres to the Ofcom regime is less stringent.
The table overleaf provides a summary of our key Presence in our communities priorities and CR performance indicators.
For a We are at the heart of the communities we serve, fuller explanation of our CR objectives and activities bringing quality news and content to peoples please see ITVs CR report for 2008 available homes.
This should continue despite the changing in the Responsibility section of our website media landscape.
com or in hard copy from Corporate Affairs.
Other material issues that we continue to work on include: compliance with PSB quotas: charitable and community investment: people management and supporting the creative economy: environmental impact: health and safety: and sustainable supply chain management.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Corporate responsibility 28 The ITV values are: Customer focus kk Collaboration Commitment k Boldness k understanding our working together across committed to our business, encouraging improvement customers and exceeding the organisation acting as our programmes and to through creativity and their expectations one ITV each other, proud to be innovation part of ITV Protecting the Our values 1 environment 2008 2007 2006 2005 We want to develop a culture at ITV where the CO2 emissions from best quality staff are able to deliver to their best 2 business travel ability.
Our values summarised in the table above tonnes 5,867 6,580 n a n a are firmly embedded in all core management 2 Total CO2 emissions practices and are intrinsic to everything we do.
tonnes 50,471 47,991 37,330 39,665 Total waste tonnes 1,900 2,210 1,776 1,743 People Total waste recycled 36% 36% 29% 53% In the challenging year ahead engaging our 3 Total water use m 93,175 129,899 133,485 104,473 employees and nurturing talent remain high priorities for ITV.
We continue to build capability Workplace profile % within our workforce to deliver our corporate Women employees 49.0 49.0 47.6 47.6 strategy through clear personal objectives, well Ethnic minorities communicated ITV values, structured development 3 employees 9.0 8.4 9.9 6.4 opportunities, clear succession planning and aligned incentives.
Employees with 4 a disability 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Unfortunately, given the uncertain economic Employees aged outlook we are facing, we have had to make tough over 50 15.0 14.0 15.1 17.0 decisions.
ITV was unable to find a way to deliver in full the two-year pay deal intended to apply over Health and safety 2008 09.
However, a new agreement ensures that Accidents requiring everyone earning under 60,000 nearly 90% of more than three days the workforce will receive a pay rise for 2009. off work 5 97 23 In 2008, we tracked and monitored employee Major accidents 2 211 opinion through staff surveys and saw a significant Fatal accidents 0 000 improvement in our staffs pride and overall commitment to ITV see page 26.
Responsible programming Programme episodes Development 5 complained about 1,026 773 843 799 Talent management remains a core part of our Upheld complaints 16 15 10 8 strategy and we are committed to developing the Resolved complaints 7 41919 capability of ITV staff.
In 2008 we completed formal succession planning for our entire management Not upheld out population.
This forms the basis for our annual of remit 1,003 754 814 772 performance management process for 2009, Access services ITV1 which in turn ensures that all ITV staff have clear % of programmes and aligned objectives for the coming year.
In 2008 Subtitling 95.5 91.4 87.0 89.0 we continued to develop our core training portfolio, Audio description 13.2 10.5 9.0 8.0 focusing on core skills that meet the priorities of the business.
This will continue for 2009 to Signing 5.3 4.5 4.0 3.5 ensure we have fully trained staff to deliver our 1 UK only, excluding GMTV and landlord managed sites where data strategic priorities.
2 Calculated in accordance with the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodolgy.
3 Percentage of those that disclosed their ethnicity.
4 Percentage of those that disclosed their disability.
5 Complaints data is compiled from Ofcom Broadcast Bulletins.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Corporate responsibility 29 And, in addition, for all ITV managers: Excellence kk Integrity Commercial k Leading aiming for the highest demonstrating integrity in doing everything possible providing clarity and standards and all we do and understanding to make ITV a commercial direction to create results, demonstrating that we the diversity we have across success leading by example to are the best in everything the organisation motivate others we do We have a number of other initiatives of which we Diversity are particularly proud, including the 12 month Fast ITVs talent strategy aims to ensure equality of Track for people at the start of their careers and the opportunity in both recruitment and retention to annual Colleagues United programme.
Both have support the best content creation and the most given employees the opportunity to gain innovative approach to business development.
experience in different parts of the organisation, Diversity data gathering continues to improve demonstrating ITVs commitment to developing and further details can be found in ITVs CR report.
staff and the importance of company-wide The Company is an active participant in the major collaboration.
diversity forums whose focus is the employment and development of minority groups including Incentives Opportunity Now, the Employers Forum on Disability and the Broadcasters Disability Network.
If ITV is to deliver its business strategy we need to Through these forums and direct activities attract, retain and motivate the best talent to work undertaken by ITV, the Company is committed to at ITV.
To do this ITV aims to offer all employees a working towards our programmes and workforce competitive and attractive package of pay, benefits fully reflecting the audiences it serves.
ITV issued all employees with a total reward statement in 2008 following its successful introduction in 2007.
This helps to improve Communication employees understanding of the full range of Information is essential to drive a collaborative and rewards financial and non-financial they can enjoy creative culture.
In 2008 we sought to increase the as an ITV employee.
amount of face-to-face time between staff and The current economic climate is difficult but executives by introducing regular lunches with the we continue to aim to incentivise all employees Executive Chairman and open forums with the through a number of initiatives: Executive Board.
Monthly leadership breakfasts were launched for senior managers and we also An annual bonus scheme for all ITV employees, introduced regular posters at all ITV buildings, giving which is dependent on ITVs performance against updates on our performance and highlighting our key financial and non-financial targets: top programmes.
The impact of this work was Our all-employee reward scheme Create.
reflected in an Ipsos-MORI survey conducted in July.
This scheme rewards any employee for new Engagement among staff was up from 63% to 68%, ideas that generate profit or improve the while 72% of respondents said they know who the way ITV does business: leadership team are, an increase of 21%.
Over 60% of staff said they felt better informed Our Save As You Earn scheme which gives all than a year before, which is significantly above employees the chance to save to own a stake the average MORI-reviewed company.
finalist in the Internal Communications category in the Chartered Institute of Public Relations Excellence Awards 2008.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Corporate responsibility 30 The heart of our business is delivering first-rate content that appeals to our viewers and, in turn, attracts advertisers.
Customers Suppliers Our two key customers are our viewers or ITV conducts business with a wide range of consumers and our advertisers.
The heart of our suppliers.
The procurement department deals business lies in serving our viewers by delivering with all our suppliers and ensures we do business first-rate content that appeals to them.
This in with them in a consistent and appropriate manner.
turn attracts the mass audiences to which our Given the current economic environment, advertisers will want to market their products.
leveraging our scale and competitive advantage and managing the ITV cost base is more important To understand our viewers and their expectations than ever and this will be a key focus for the of us more fully, throughout 2008 we procurement department in 2009 and beyond.
commissioned an independent research company to recruit and survey our Vision Panel a fully As a broadcaster, ITV commissions programmes representative panel of 10,000 adult UK television from a number of external production companies.
viewers and a smaller independent panel My ITV is required to publish terms of trade for Digital Life to obtain feedback from the online independent commissioning consistent with market.
guidelines laid out by the industry regulator, Ofcom.
ITV believes that its terms are considered fair and We believe that it is very important that our reasonable by market participants.
viewers can be confident that they know in advance whether programmes will be suitable for Directly and via such producers, ITV contracts with them and their family.
Observing the 9.00 pm suppliers of premium rate services.
ITV procurement watershed is a key protection for children.
For all ensure that services offered by such suppliers are relevant programmes, ITVs policy is to alert viewers of appropriate quality and reliability.
to possible risk of offence via announcements immediately before the programme.
Viewers may complain to ITVs duty office if any issue arises and any viewer not satisfied with ITVs response can refer their complaint to Ofcom.
ITV has an in-house compliance team which provides support and advice for programme makers and commissioners before and during production.
Our relationship with the advertising and agency community is critical to our ability to drive advertising revenue.
The commercial success of ITV is predicated on having a clear understanding of the needs and objectives of our customers.
We have recently restructured the account management and sales team to enable us to build closer relationships with advertisers and to offer a better service to them.
