qxd 26 3 09 5:42 pm Page 20 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Social Responsibility As a leading provider of marine services in the United Kingdom and The Group operates personnel policies with the objective that all employees: overseas, the Group is committed and determined to conduct its affairs Understand their role and duties within the Group.
in an equitable manner recognising its responsibilities with regard to Work in healthy and safe working conditions.
social and ethical conduct, human resources, health and safety and the Have an opportunity to discuss their areas of performance environment collectively known as Corporate Social Responsibility CSR improvement and training needs.
and to communicate with its stakeholders.
The Group believes that its Receive suitable training as part of a programme of continuous activities and relationships should be undertaken with integrity and in an personal and professional development.
honest manner and that it should be accountable for its actions.
Are fairly treated and have their views considered.
The following statement contains information on the Groups policies Have confidential access to a member of senior management to and procedures in areas of social and ethical conduct, human resources, discuss concerns about any aspect of their employment.
health and safety and the environment.
It is also an acknowledgement Stakeholders of the Groups responsibility to provide information and transparency to The Group recognises the aspirations and needs of shareholders, shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and the wider community customers, suppliers and communities in establishing and developing in which the Group operates.
relationships leading to the creation of mutual success.
Good The statement consolidates information drawn from many policies and relationships are founded on trust and good working practices.
procedures in operation throughout the Group.
These policies and In pursuit of good relationships the Group endeavours to understand the procedures are under regular review by senior management to enable objectives and desires of those with whom it is interacting and to honour continual improvement and development.
the standards of service that have been agreed between parties.
The Groups policy commitments focus on the following areas: The Group believes that long-term relationships are based on: Ethical code of conduct High performance standards Human resources Delivery commitments Stakeholders Flexible and strong working practices Health and safety Environment Health, safety and environment The Group operates a philosophy in which the management of safety, Ethical code of conduct health and environment control is integral to, and equal to all commercial The Group is committed to ensuring the highest standards in all its activities.
All employees, both at sea and ashore, have a paramount business dealings and applies the following principles: responsibility to prevent accidents, incidents or injury to themselves Respect the rule of law and comply with legislation and recognised and others and harm to the environment.
The Groups management industry standards.
system embraces this responsibility and encourages improvement by Do not participate in or condone corrupt or unacceptable continual assessment.
Health and safety Avoid any conflicts of interest both at a corporate and individual level.
The nature of the Groups business is to provide quality assured marine Promote a strong culture of health and safety and environmental and technical services which entails: awareness for the benefit of customers, suppliers, employees and third parties.
Operating vessels and transporting cargo safely and efficiently.
Aim to provide continuous improvement in the services the Group offers.
Providing high quality equipment to clients.
Respect the confidentiality of each customers business and activities.
Avoiding injuries to personnel and loss of life.
Protecting owners assets that are entrusted to the Group.
Human resources Complying with statutory and classification rules and requirements.
The Group holds its employees in high regard and recognises that their Applying recognised industry standards.
skills, knowledge and expertise fundamentally contribute to the Groups Continuous development of skills and systems.
The Group operates an equal opportunities policy which provides Preparing for emergencies.
that it will not discriminate against employees, and any complaints of discrimination will be viewed seriously and dealt with according to the To ensure that high standards are achieved the Group has established Groups disciplinary procedures.
The Group will also not tolerate sexual, and maintains an efficient and effective quality assurance programme.
physical or mental harassment of employees.
The Groups quality assurance system complies with and exceeds the requirements of the quality standard ISO9000, the International Safety Management ISM Code and the Oil Companies International Marine Forum Ship to Ship Transfer Guide.
qxd 26 3 09 5:42 pm Page 21 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The Group is fully committed to providing services in accordance with the Examples of specific initiatives by the Group in 2008 to protect the international quality standard ISO9001:2000.
The system encompasses the environment include: Groups business from head office functions to its offshore operations and a incorporating an energy efficient heating system into the design of its is designed to continuously improve performance, reliability and safety new premises in Stavanger Norway, which system recycles the steam whilst providing a service that fully meets our customers requirements.
generated in testing compressor systems: The objectives of the Safety Management System are: b the continued roll-out of the programme to apply anti-fouling hull Continuously develop and improve the awareness and management coatings to vessels in the fleet, minimising friction and discouraging of safety of all personnel in the Group.
the adherence of marine life to the hull and hence reducing fuel Provide a continuously safe working environment.
Operations and consumption: activities are subject to appropriate controls that include the c the adoption of the facility to communicate with shareholders by application of safe working practices, complying with relevant electronic means, thereby reducing the need to print and deliver hard legislation and the employment of appropriately trained and copy documentation: competent personnel.
Review accidents and incidents with a view to ascertaining and d the introduction of digital x-ray systems at James Fisher Inspection publishing the root cause to improve personnel awareness.
Evaluate and Measurement Services anticipated to achieve annualised savings existing controls following an incident to determine how these controls of 0.8m litres of water, 4,800 litres of fixer and developer chemical, and may be improved upon, to reduce the possibility of recurrence.
Prevent damage to property and the marine environment by employing best practice and complying with all applicable rules and regulations.
Environment James Fisher and Sons plc is committed to operating a sustainable business and to the protection and conservation of the environment.
As such the Group will endeavour to: Include environmental concerns on an equal basis with economic and commercial considerations in decision-making.
Identify the environmental impacts of its operations and to take the appropriate steps to minimise or eliminate those impacts in a similar manner to health and safety risk assessments.
Go beyond legal compliance by subscribing to relevant industry best practice and by encouraging all staff to take voluntary steps to improve environmental performance.
Establish pre-defined objectives or targets to help achieve its environmental aspirations.
Monitor its environmental performance, to seek continuous improvement, to conduct regular reviews, and to verify progress towards meeting its environmental objectives.
Ensure that management at board level takes ownership of environmental issues and develop good communication flows to foster a sense of environmental responsibility in every employee.
Make available the appropriate resources and provide the necessary training for employees to comply with, and where appropriate exceed, their statutory environmental obligations.
Encourage the development and installation of new systems and or procedures to reduce environmental impact.
Encourage the use of recyclable materials whenever possible, to minimise packaging and to dispose of waste in an environmentally responsible manner.
Encourage contractors and suppliers to apply these principles and, if necessary, require them to improve their standards to conform with the above.
