Corporate social responsibility report We are running a sustainable and profitable business by We benchmark our pay & reward strategy continually, to ensure supporting our people, their communities, the environment, that our total package is above the industry standard.
Financial nominated charities and businesses with which we interact.
benefits to our colleagues include a share incentive plan in which the company allocates shares to employees twice a year All over the UK, J D Wetherspoon is a central part of local free of charge.
An industry-leading bonus scheme is available to communities, bringing benefits to millions of people in their all employees, rewarding them for their contribution to the daily life, through social enjoyment or direct indirect businesss success.
In the year under review, we spent a total of employment.
16 million on bonuses and share awards for employees.
The backbone of our growth has been the provision of the Employment practices highest standards in all of our outlets, but we also understand As a company, we are committed to equality of opportunity that our role in society doesnt begin and end simply by and to the elimination of direct and indirect discrimination, serving quality food and drink.
harassment and victimisation of employees, job applicants, customers and contractors alike.
The board of J D Wetherspoon has made corporate social responsibility CSR a part of the daily culture of the business.
We promote equal opportunities actively throughout the organisation, through the application of employment policies A CSR plan has been developed, through engagement with which ensure that individuals receive fair, equitable and staff, and approved by the board.
The plan identifies five key consistent treatment.
areas: our people: community and charity: energy and the environment: ethical working: health.
The plan sets out to Community communicate the following in each area: our aim: objectives Historically, pubs have always been a focal point of any and measurements: key achievements: ongoing priorities.
Our aim is to continue that tradition by supporting and building relationships with the local community, through The personnel and legal director, responsible for CSR, chairs employment, charitable giving and investment.
the CSR group, encompassing members of staff from our pubs and head office.
The group will meet monthly to progress Access to our pubs is a priority for us.
Our efforts to bring a initiatives set out in the CSR plan and ensure that top-quality service to those with disabilities have been communication and momentum are maintained.
Minutes of recognised by charities, local agencies and national government.
these meetings will be reported to the plc board.
All of our pubs are regularly audited for accessibility.
Our people Where possible, we work closely with local suppliers and We aim to be an employer of choice in the UK, through our support local businesses.
ongoing investment in training, development and rewards, together with our employees involvement in the long-term Responsible drinks retailing business plan.
As a retailer of alcoholic drinks, J D Wetherspoon fully supports practices which promote responsible drinking and has Employees are our greatest asset, and we seek to develop staff developed several initiatives and policies to ensure that it acts through effective and award-winning training and in a highly responsible manner.
development, through a positive working environment and by a competitive remuneration package.
J D Wetherspoon does not participate in irresponsible retailing practices and avoids any actions which would be seen to We aim to set industry benchmarks and to be the best.
encourage or condone irresponsible drinking.
This has been demonstrated by the recognition which we have We have a code of conduct for responsible retailing which received from awarding bodies in these areas.
We lead the way details our approach in this area.
This can be found on the in training for managed house pub companies.
were awarded the best training scheme run by institutions of further and higher education in partnership with the licensed Partnerships with local authorities and police retail industry by the British Institute of Innkeeping BII.
We have developed close partnerships with local authorities and police.
We always join Pubwatch, where possible, with Last year, for the fifth consecutive year, we featured in Britains several pub managers chairing the scheme in their respective Top 100 Employers handbook, as published by The Guardian.
If no scheme exists, we endeavour to be instrumental in setting one up.
As a company, we are a member of National Pubwatch and a key member of The Drinkaware Trust.
Both of these bodies aim to promote a sensible and responsible approach to the retailing of alcohol.
We also support the Portman Group.
24 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Corporate social responsibility report Challenge 21 national campaign strive to minimise any emissions or effluents which may J D Wetherspoon takes all reasonable precautions to ensure that cause environmental damage.
people under 18 years cannot buy or obtain alcoholic drinks.
raise awareness of environmental issues among all of its employees and suppliers partners.
We operate the Challenge 21 policy in all of our pubs.
To ensure appropriate training, in environmental issues, ensure effective implementation of this campaign, we provide of all employees.
support and training to all of our staff and carry out regular audits to ensure compliance.
Over the past 12 months, we have complemented our policy with several initiatives, including: Customer management As a retailer of alcohol, all employees of J D Wetherspoon do Recycling their utmost to create a safe and convivial atmosphere for J D Wetherspoon aims to reduce the amount of waste which it customers and colleagues.
sends to landfill sites, through a combination of packaging reduction and recycling of waste products.
We recycle ordinary As part of our internal shift manager training programme, all materials, generated as a consequence of our daily business, managers are trained in how to deal with conflict situations such as glass, aluminium cans, paper and cooking oil.
During the financial year, J D Wetherspoon recycled 5,281 Charities tonnes of waste 1,616 tonnes of cooking oil, 3,136 tonnes of J D Wetherspoon continues to remain committed to its cardboard, 19 tonnes of aluminium, 95 tonnes of plastic and nominated charity CLIC Sargent Caring for Children with 415 tonnes of paper.
Cancer, a partnership now in its sixth year.
This commitment is demonstrated by achieving our target, in December 2007, to Glass-recycling has been a major focus and challenge for the raise 2 million.
We have pledged to raise a further 500,000 year.
We generate 30,000 tonnes of glass per annum.
During the past financial year, J D Wetherspoon has joined forces with Biffa to roll out J D Wetherspoons employees and customers have raised glass-recycling across the estate.
J D Wetherspoon successfully 446,693: this has contributed to the overall total raised by recycled 5,000 tonnes of glass in the year, the aim by 2009 the company since its association with this charity to being to recycle 75% of the glass supplied to pubs.
To reduce the volume of glass generated in our pubs, we Every pub is also encouraged to support a local charity.
The implemented a bag-in-box wine-dispense system.
We have company makes further donations, via our charity committee, reduced the number of bottles in our supply chain by to local good causes, including sponsorships, raffle prizes, 3.5 million as a result.
computers for schools and unwanted furniture for local institutions.
J D Wetherspoon has a dedicated supply chain for its food, bottled drinks and non-consumable products.
This means that Energy and the environment we can consolidate our deliveries to our pubs and, on the J D Wetherspoon is committed to fostering the preservation return journey, bring any recycling material back to our and protection of the environment, while recognising our dedicated recycling operation, thereby saving road miles.
It is the companys policy to: We were recognised in 2007 for our efforts in recycling minimise the extent of the environmental impact of its and named as the high-street recycling champion by operations, as far as is reasonably practicable.
conserve energy through minimising consumption and maximising efficiency.
Energy-effciency minimise the use of materials which may be harmful to the J D Wetherspoon understands that it has a responsibility for the environment.
resources which it uses and that good environmental promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise management is an essential part of being a responsible business.
waste and allow materials to be recycled, where appropriate.
The companys Energy Group, chaired by the finance director, adopt efficient waste-management strategies which reduce is responsible for maintaining a constant focus on improving the amount of waste going to landfill or other disposal sites.
the energy-efficiency of our pubs.
Ideas and initiatives are embrace the use of recycled materials and ensure that communicated weekly to pubs, with each pub awarded an materials or waste generated by the business are recycled, energy-efficiency rating, based on its total energy cost per where appropriate.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 25 Corporate social responsibility report During the financial year, we installed smart electricity meters Much of our food is sourced in the UK.
We have strict in 327 pubs, complementing our current portfolio of 170 pubs specifications for all of our products to ensure that high with half-hourly electricity meters, so that we can monitor and standards of quality and safety are met.
For example, our accurately control the energy used.
We aim to install smart sausages come from the award-winning Welsh Sausage meters in a further 85 pubs during the next financial year.
Company and contain only British pork, with no artificial colours or flavours: we use only dolphin-friendly tuna: the cod In 2007, in conjunction with the Carbon Trust, we opened our and haddock used in our fish and chips are from recognised, greenest pub, in Melton Mowbray, incorporating all of the sustainable fisheries.
most up-to-date technology available, to minimise the environmental impact, and aiming to use 50% less energy than We use high-quality ingredients and are proudly offering a traditional pub of similar size regional dishes and locally sourced ingredients.
For example, farm-assured British beef is used in our beef and Abbot Ale We are committed to reducing the amount of energy which pie, lasagne and cottage pie.
Our chips are made from 100% we use and we have set up a group to champion energyBritish potatoes.
We use only free-range eggs and support savings at pub level.
Compassion in World Farming CIWF and the use of cage-free eggs.
Ethical business practices We carry out our business honestly, ethically and with respect In 2007, we switched to using virtually trans-fat-free cooking for the rights and interests of all those people involved.
We oil, with a saturated fat level below 20%.
We are working expect relations with customers, suppliers and business partners closely with the Food Standards Agency FSA to reduce the to be mutually beneficial and expect our business practices and salt, saturated fats and sugar levels in our dishes, in line with standards to be upheld, while the relationship continues.
the latest FSA guidelines, over an 18-month period.
Working with suppliers To help our customers to make an informed choice about our J D Wetherspoon promotes long-term relationships with its menu items, an about us booklet, including food fact suppliers, working closely with them to maintain the integrity information, is available in all of our pubs and detailed and continuity of service expected by our customers.
nutritional information is provided on our Web site.
Our menu is coded, so that customers can easily see those dishes which We wish to ensure that both our own activities and those of count towards the five-a-day target.
Specific information on our suppliers are socially and environmentally responsible.
Our our Web site is also provided for those with food allergies policies on social, environmental and ethical issues have been or intolerances.
developed: in particular, the environmental policy already commits us to working with our suppliers, contractors and All of our food suppliers are British Retail Consortiumpartners to minimise our environmental impact and to accredited bodies and are independently audited by encourage ecologically sustainable and, where possible, local EFSIS annually.
sourcing of products and services.
We were also Eat Out magazines winner of MenuMasters Health best menu 2008 kids category, in recognition of the work J D Wetherspoon has steadily grown a reputation for great food.
which we have carried out to increase organic and free-range We aim to improve the quality of our food offers continuously products on the menu.
In addition, we serve Tierra and provide our customers with the information and range of Lavazzas  sustainable coffee and products to allow them to make informed decisions about their our Twinings tea is ethically sourced.
We aim to provide a range of menu items which appeals to our broad spectrum of customers.
