Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 38-54 55-99 32-37 33 Corporate responsibility review Ukraine Novo-Nikolaevskoye complex We believe corporate responsibility is a core business issue.
Our primary focus is to ensure that we have the highest standards of health, safety and environmental management for the benefit of our workforce, contractors and stakeholders.
How we manage corporate responsibility Our aim is to comply with, and exceed where Corporate responsibility is led at executive level applicable, all standards set by local laws and by the Chief Executive Officer CEO.
We require our partners to comply with Safety and Environment and Community HSEC our standards in the same way.
manager reports to the CEO.
The managers Our HSE system is risk-based.
For that system to primary role is to create a consistent and work properly, a culture of open reporting of both standardised framework for the management of the success and failure is essential.
We have made Groups key non-financial impacts.
progress in creating a working culture in which this The Board receives a quarterly report on key is recognised.
Inevitably, this means that we will corporate responsibility issues, including health, have increases in the number of incidents reported, safety, and environmental indicators.
A full Boardbased on the principle that to improve a level review of progress was completed in management system, you have to have in place the December 2008, and plans were agreed for 2009, correct measurement tools.
including an increased focus on continuous improvement methodologies and raising of Reporting awareness on HSEC issues among staff and We have been strengthening our approach to management.
corporate responsibility in recent years.
This report contains important data relating to health, safety, In each operating company, we identify, appoint employment, and community issues.
We welcome and train a nominated individual who has executive feedback and suggestions on our corporate responsibility for health, safety and environment.
responsibility practice from our stakeholders.
These representatives are familiar with local culture, regulatory requirements and operating Our record in 2008 key elements practices.
They report directly to the general director of the local operating company but also Objectives Delivery liaise with the Group HSEC manager, to ensure Group-wide consistency.
Continue to manage and We use annual reviews improve health, safety, by location management Policies and standards environmental and with a robust audit We currently have in place standards and reporting community management programme identifying processes covering: systems opportunities for improvement Safety reporting and incident management Exposure man hours Continue to assess the Managed via scale and impact of our measurement against Occupational health provision and record keeping community, economic and annual plans and Environmental reporting and incident social contributions consultation with management stakeholders Continuing Professional Development and Monitor policies and Auditing and reviewing implementation management frameworks standards, policies and Human resources practices, including [equal to give management procedures is part of the opportunities etc] assurance they deliver annual HSEC plan and is against the key impacts based on the principle of Handling of charitable requests and issues that we have identifying opportunities Local community relations identified for improvement Reporting to local authorities i. e. RIDDOR OSHA.
