Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 38-54 55-99 32-37 37 Corporate responsibility review Community Our philosophy as a company has been to engage with the communities in which we operate to ensure that we are managing our operations with their interests in mind.
In addition, we value the benefits this brings in maintaining public confidence in the integrity of our operations and products and our commitment to HSEC performance.
We implement this philosophy through a process of stakeholder liaison in each of our operational locations.
Community liaison is the responsibility of the General Director in each location.
Community engagement is measured in monetary terms and frequency of initiatives and reported to the Group Forest fire HSEC manager as well as to local management.
On 16th August 2008 a serious forest fire broke out near our operation in Poltava, threatening Charitable donations and volunteering the homes and lives of local inhabitants.
What Charitable activity is handled both locally and followed was an example of the way in which centrally.
Local operations have a limited budget for our resources can be deployed to help our host good causes in their operational areas and in 2008 communities.
Working with the local authorities, they spent $628,000.
Centrally, the Group made we deployed all available vehicles including our charitable donations in response to appeals of fire engines, personnel and safety equipment.
The fire was rapidly brought under control and no lives were lost.
Staff who volunteer for causes that interest them can be given time off for such activities where appropriate and operationally feasible.
Decisions in individual cases are at the discretion of the line manager.
We intend to improve our performance in a number of areas in 2009: In 2009 we will: Develop a systematic engagement with our stakeholders at group and national level Continue and extend our safety culture change programme to reflect risk management best Report more fully on our community practice performance Secure OHSAS 18001 accreditation Develop and implement a volunteering policy.
Commence ISO 14001 accreditation Conclusion Introduce a structured system for stakeholder We recognise that a comprehensive, stakeholderdialogue in our key operational locations driven approach to corporate responsibility is going to be important in assuring our long-term success Develop and implement a Group policy on as a business.
Just as we have enhanced our community relations and charitable activity.
reporting and data standards in this report, we intend to develop and report on our performance in these important areas more fully in the future.
