Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 38-54 55-99 32-37 35 Corporate responsibility review Ukraine Novo-Nikolaevskoye complex Reporting back On the road Recently we carried out a GAP analysis at PPC In 2008 we reviewed our traffic management in the Ukraine.
One piece of feedback that we in depth, from training issues to managing got turned out to be very valuable in improving and planning journeys in order to reduce the the way we handled safety issues.
The analysis amount of hours spent on the road, and limiting revealed that our staff were happy to raise the number of journeys made by drivers.
Its a concerns but wanted to know what action we very positive issue to deal with since we not had taken in response and up to then we only reduce costs but help the environment at had no system in place to do so.
We decided to the same time.
We managed to introduce plans change all that.
Now there is an opportunity for and procedures which should achieve just that.
feedback at the monthly safety meeting and the Having tighter management of this issue is individual who had first raised the issue gets a already starting to pay off and we should have copy of the action complete form.
more progress to report in 2009.
Environment Data We have improved our environmental dataLike other companies in our sector we are collection throughout 2008.
We now collect conscious of the need to meet and exceed information on a wide variety of impacts.
With regards to carbon management, we have We are reviewing our environmental procedures as monitoring processes established for emissions part of preparing to apply for ISO 14001 under each of scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG protocols.
accreditation and have introduced project environmental management and performance Objectives requirements as part of our enhanced and extended We intend to improve our performance in a number environmental policies, procedures and of areas in 2009, including: management.
Reducing combustion loading and offloading We have agreed an environmental management emissions contract with Environmental Resources Zero discharge of chemicals to land or surface Management ERM one of the worlds leading waters environmental management consultancies which has extensive long-term expertise in Russia.
Restoring habitat and hydrological regime to Working with them we have begun an pre-construction state as soon as reasonably environmental impact assessment for the practicable Koshekhablskoye operations.
No loss of containment of product We have worked with the Carbon Trust to establish Reduction of waste to landfill.
our Carbon Management Plan baseline year.
This progress was reviewed in December 2008 with positive results.
