34 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 doctor at site level to provide advice and help to Health and safety employees.
Continuously improving standards of health Risk management and safety is central to our business.
In 2008 we Training in risk management is a priority for us.
maintained the development of a risk-based We have conducted risk management training approach to health and safety management.
in several locations and intend to roll out risk The benefits of the change are however rapidly management training for field staff in our Ukraine apparent to our field staff and we have received and Russia operations, as well as for contractor positive feedback on the programme from the staff in Bulgaria.
In Russia we have conducted risk Ukrainian, Russian and Bulgarian operations.
management studies using Hazard and Operability A key priority in 2008 has been to encourage the HAZOP : Hazard Identification HAZID : and ALARP reporting of incidents and near misses.
We have as low as reasonably practical methodologies.
engaged in a fundamental review of practice on These have been monitored via site visits and these reporting issues in our operational sites.
HAZOP studies That has led us to create a campaign of in Ukraine were also completed during the year in communication programmes, focused on improved 2008.
We are now planning to reinforce progress by reporting, and included in inductions, monthly creating a CPD scheme there and at other locations safety meetings and management meetings.
within the company sphere of operations.
The assessment process has begun for OHSAS Our safety and health audit process was 18001 HSE management system accreditation.
Our aim was to Initial assessments of our HSEC management increase management visibility and staff buy-in to system have been made by Lloyds Register the audit system, and demonstrate the long-term Quality Assurance LRQA to assess our HSEC improvements the system provides.
The results management system have been made and have been positive.
We conducted audits at several opportunities for improvement have been identified.
locations in 2008, and among the improvements Our aim is to complete this process in the second which have subsequently been actioned were half of 2009 and receive full accreditation at that improved reporting, improved risk assessment stage.
That will make an important step forward in programmes and the need for Continuous the systematic approach to HSE which is our longProfessional Development schemes, as well as term goal.
hardware issues for plant and equipment supply and traffic management.
Objectives We intend to monitor and where necessary improve Occupational health advice and help is available our performance in a number of areas in 2009, as through trained personnel in all JKX operational shown in the table below.
In addition to health issues directly connected to operations, we are also extending occupational 2008 health and safety data health advice to broader lifestyle issues alcohol and The overall TRCF total recordable case frequency drug misuse and smoking where these impact on for JKX for 2008 was 1.1 i. e. 1.1 recordable health workplace effectiveness.
A good example was on a and safety incidents per 200,000 manhours recent seismic operation in Bulgaria where the worked in comparison to the industry benchmark contractor accepted the JKX recommendation for a TRCF of 2.69. drugs and alcohol policy to be administered by a Objectives Status Awareness, competence Peoples behaviour is critical: therefore, our workforce will be carefully and behaviours selected and trained, and their skills and competencies regularly assessed.
Suppliers, contractors Contractors, suppliers and others are key to our business performance and we and partners will assess their capabilities and competencies to perform work on our behalf.
We will work together with them to ensure our HSEC expectations are aligned.
We will monitor contractors and partners performance and ensure our procurement processes contain the mechanism to deliver our expectations.
Customers and products We will assess, manage and communicate the hazards associated with JKX products.
We will communicate up to date information to help users and others handle our products in a safe and environmentally responsible manner.
