Wgpc, china, chairmans hsE aWard 2008 36 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Corporate social responsibility Our framework of CSR reporting Our people Health Safety As an integral part of our business we will We will be successful when no one is maintain a healthy workplace.
hurt and we remain committed to further improvement.
Promoting and enhancing health and wellbeing is an integral part of our TRCF Vision for HSE Excellence.
We are committed to reducing instances of 2008 3.3 occupational illness, reducing sickness & absenteeism and increasing 2007 3.9 awareness of healthy lifestyle options.
2006 4.2 2005 4.6 Les Thomas is the Director with Group responsibility for Health, Safety 2004 5.8 and the Environment HSE.
We aim to continually improve the quality of occupational health management by controlling more effectively LWCF the health risks arising from our activities and promoting the benefit 2008 1.1 of healthy lifestyles for our employees via campaigns and health fairs.
2007 1.5 In 2008 we continued to develop practices focused on issues such 2006 1.2 as asbestos, vibration white finger, malaria, health promotion and 2005 1.5 wellbeing.
2004 1.8 Hand Arm Vibration Syndrome HAVS Since the introduction of a HAVS awareness programme in 2005 TRCF is the frequency of all reportable injuries, including medical we have seen an 82% fall in the number of reported cases.
LWCF is the frequency of all injuries resulting in lost programme has been rolled out across the UK and is designed to time away from work.
Both frequencies are measured per million hours ensure that all relevant personnel are aware of the risks of HAVS and worked.
the measures that can be taken to reduce these risks.
In 2008 we saw a reduction in TRCF of 15% compared to 2007.
This Onsite health centre was achieved through a series of initiatives, with a focus on leading More than 3,000 employees in the Houston area are benefiting from performance indicators.
Our LWCF also reduced by 27%, compared an onsite health centre.
The centre offers employees and their families with 2007, reflecting a decrease in the severity of injuries.
a health care benefit that is convenient, tailored to their needs and affordable.
In line with our Vision for HSE excellence we are committed to continuous improvement.
During 2009 we aim to achieve a further Health fairs reduction in the frequency of safety incidents.
The annual Health & Fitness Fair for Wood Group employees based in Scotland was attended by more than 250 employees.
Attractions included health checks and advice from medical professionals on issues including diet, exercise, UV sun damage, smoking cessation and alcohol awareness.
Highlights 2008 WoodGroupHealth &FitnessFair2008 , 10am-3pm@DavidLloydClub, Garthdee, Aberdeen Dont miss out on the following events and attractions and the chance to win some excellent prizes on the day!
Free health checks and advice from medically qualified professionals Surf simulator and competition Pro Golf Swing Analyser Try out a new dance or exercise class Steve Redgrave Rowing Challenge Chiropractors, physiotherapists & dieticians Shiatsu massage & reiki taster sessions Win a mountain bike and helmet Plus healthy snacks, more prizes and giveaways You can also try out the facilities on the day at David Lloyd, and take advantage of the Wood Group corporate discount.
Please contact Sarah Borowski if you have any questions about the event: sarah.
com EmployEEs in aBErdEEn takE part in a drivEr safEty day Based on recorded data for Wood Group Engineering North Sea Ltd Energy Supporting Energy Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 37 : Our people Our environment We seek to minimise the adverse environmental impact of Wood Group and to help customers minimise their environmental impact.
HSE Global Conferences Carbon Footprint Pilot Programme One of the ways we drive continuous improvement is to share best The Group has launched an initiative to measure the carbon footprint practice across the Group.
A key mechanism for this has been across a range of businesses, so that we can identify opportunities regional HSE conferences.
In 2008 over 500 senior managers and to reduce carbon emissions.
The key objectives of the pilot are to HSE professionals attended regional HSE conferences in Aberdeen, put in place appropriate processes and procedures to gather the Houston, Bogot, Abu Dhabi and Singapore.
necessary data in a consistent and robust manner complete a baseline assessment for 2008 using the UKs Carbon Frontline Focus Trust calculator We have introduced Frontline Focus to address immediate identify the areas causing the largest impacts and identify priorities for improving safety where the risks are greatest.
Frontline improvement actions Focus aims to spread best practice to all corners of the Group by re-measure the respective carbon footprints at the end of 2009 directing management time, energy and effort to the frontline of our capture learning from the pilot and develop the optimal approach operations.
for roll out to the wider Group.
As with existing HSE programs, activities will be tailored in each We have obtained the ISO 14001 certification for ten of our organisation and location to address the needs of each business.
businesses, and use it as a basis for our environmental processes Examples of areas of focus in 2009 will include: safety leadership around the Group.
training, joint customer and Wood Group site visits and audits, security & emergency response exercises.
One of the main ways in which we can have a positive impact on the environment is through helping our customers to reduce their impact.
Safety awards achieved Rolls Wood Group Ltd received a RoSPA Gold Award During the year we have been involved in several environmental SKS Wood received a Living Goal Zero award, issued by Brunei projects, for example Shell Petroleum front end engineering design FEED services for Masdars Wood Group Gas Turbine Services received a Presidents Award Carbon Capture & Storage CCS project in the United Arab from RoSPA Emirates.
See page 18 for further details.
Wood Group Engineering North Sea Ltd received a Scottish J P Kenny is the engineering and management contractor for Engineering Safety Award Wave Hub, which will create an electrical socket on the seabed Wood Group Colombia received a VECTOR award connected to the National Grid via a subsea cable.
With a IMV Projects received a GPAC Safety Award capacity of up to 20MW, it will allow the pre-commercial testing of wave energy devices on a scale not seen before anywhere in the world.
an artists imprEssion of WavE huB WgEns aWardEd scottish EnginEEring safEty aWard fivE rEgional hsE confErEncEs took placE in 2008 christmas gift donations in colomBia 38 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Corporate social responsibility Our framework of CSR reporting Our business and the community Community & social Ethics Caring for our communities is important to us We expect our people to uphold high ethical and we encourage all our people to engage in standards wherever in the world our business community projects at a local level.
We also expect those with whom we do business to embrace similar values and standards.
In 2008 we continued to support an extensive range of local and international charities spanning health, education, the arts, and the Ensuring compliance prevention and reduction of poverty.
Non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations or ethical misconduct could damage our reputation and reduce shareholder We have a well established Employee Community Fund supporting value.
charities and fundraising efforts involving our employees around the world.
The Groups business ethics policy sets out standards of conduct, promotes best practice and provides resolution procedures when As part of a team building programme, managers from several questions arise.
The business ethics policy was updated in early 2009. countries participated in a Build-a-Bike project.
More than 20 bikes were delivered to deserving children in the community.
The Group Finance Director chairs the Business Ethics Committee which comprises senior management representatives from across Mustang was presented the 2008 Star Award by the West Houston the Groups operations.
The Committee monitors the operation of the Chamber of Commerce.
The award recognises businesses who have business ethics policy and works to promote compliance and resolve contributed to the community both in economic development and issues.
Telephone helplines and an email address where concerns can be Children in Colombia enjoyed a Christmas gift thanks to the generosity raised confidentially are used to encourage personnel to raise ethical of Wood Group employees from around the world.
Donations from concerns and questions and report potential violations.
The Group Australia, Norway, Spain, Qatar, the UK, and the US provided gift bags has a rigorous process for investigating any potential violations for families in Colombia.
Each of the 74 children received a sweater, a of its business ethics policy.
During 2008 there were a number of pair of trousers, toys, fruit juice, a cake and sweets.
Their mothers also investigations undertaken and the Group took disciplinary action, received a gift bag containing essential cooking ingredients.
including 15 terminations, for breaches of ethical standards.
We are a long term supporter of the annual Aberdeen International Youth Festival, the worlds premiere participatory youth arts festival, with up to 1,000 participants and over 70 events during a two week period.
Highlights 2008 Workshop at aBErdEEn intErnational youth fEstival Energy Supporting Energy voluntEErs from mustang supporting local community Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 39 : Our business and the community Our customers Our shareholders Our goal is to add value to our customers We seek to ensure that stakeholders, analysts through the delivery of high quality services and financial media are well informed of our and products.
strategy, results and financial outlook through clear and timely communication.
a Customer Mix Significant shareholders 3% shareholdings We seek to maintain a diverse international customer mix.
The The Company has been notified, in accordance with Section 793 of following shows our typical customer type and geographic mix the Companies Act 2006 and DTR 5.1.
2R, of the following interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 2 March 2009.
Revenue by IOC Number % of share customer type Large independent of shares capital Small independent Baillie Gifford 37,975,057 7.19% NOC Trustees of I C Woods Childrens Settlement 1997 30,954,060 5.86% Power & other Trustees of I C Woods Childrens Settlement 1981 28,987,413 5.49% Schroder Investments 26,065,805 4.94% North America Revenue by Employee Share Trusts 21,877,452 4.14% region Europe Legal & General 16,206,672 3.07% Middle East & Africa Asia Pacific Sir Ian Wood has interests amounting to more than 3% of the share Central & South America capital as disclosed on page 56.
The Group places considerable importance on communication with Focus on customer quality all shareholders, both institutional and private, and maintains open As part of our commitment to quality we have quality systems in channels of communication with shareholders, fund managers and place across the Group.
Where appropriate, we encourage our analysts.
To allow the Group an insight into shareholder needs and businesses to adopt formal quality standards and achieve external perceptions of the Group, the Groups brokers are invited to make an accreditation.
Examples from across the Group are given below.
annual presentation to the Board.
Within Engineering we have been progressing with external During 2008, investor roadshows were held covering the UK, Europe accreditation of the quality management systems across the and the US.
In addition, an investor and analyst presentation was businesses.
Accreditation was achieved in parts of the business in held in November 2008 which allowed analysts and investors to 2008 and others will follow in 2009. meet with the Group Directors responsible for all divisions and hear an update on their businesses.
Non-executive directors are offered Within Production Facilities our North Sea business Quality the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
The Management System is fully compliant to ISO 9001:2008 and is AGM, which will be held on 13 May 2009, is a valuable opportunity certified and registered by BSi Management Systems, a UKAS for shareholders to have face to face contact with the Board and to accredited organisation.
BSi, as our certification body, visits and raise any questions they may have.
assesses our systems twice a year and we recently successfully completed our first 2009 assessment, which included transition and The senior independent director is available to meet with certification to the revised ISO 9001 standard 2008 edition.
shareholders to discuss any areas of concern that cannot be resolved through normal channels of investor communication, and In Well Support we have obtained, or are in the process of attaining, arrangements for this can be made through the Company Secretary.
API certification for our two manufacturing plants in China.
Our Tianjin facility has had API level 2 accreditation since 2005 and during 2008 received the highest level of accreditation, level 4.
Our new facility in Suzhou has been through the process to receive level 4 accreditation and is anticipating approval in 2009.
Gas Turbine Services is undertaking a global program to improve delivered quality and customer satisfaction through business process efficiency improvements and the deployment of standardised lean tools.
One of the programmes objectives is to halve the number of quality escapes year on year and this was achieved in 2008. a The split of r evenue by customer is based on management estimates and assumptions.
The split is subject to variations from year to year dependent on activity in the periods.
40 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Energy Supporting Energy Governance At a glance Operational review Financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 41 : Governance Contents 42 Board of directors 44 Report of the directors 45 Corporate governance 49 Directors remuneration report
