34 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Corporate social responsibility Our framework of CSR reporting Our people Employer of choice We will treat all our people fairly, responsibly and with dignity, respecting their individual differences and helping them to achieve their potential.
Headcount growth 2008 has been a significant year of growth in the number of people working at Wood Group.
We have seen strong growth in all our regions and 2007 24,700 are particularly pleased to have grown our Asia Pacific workforce by 2006 20,900 42% and our numbers in the Central & South America region by 12%.
2005 16,600 2004 14,600 Our graduate and apprenticeship programmes expanded in the UK, US, Colombia, Brunei and Indonesia, particularly across engineering In 2008 approximately 20% were employed as consultants and business disciplines.
For details of average headcount for 2008 excluding consultants see note 29 of the financial statements.
Our continuing focus on all Wood Group businesses worldwide becoming employers of choice has helped us keep our annual voluntary turnover rates below 11%.
The Group places strong Headcount by region Change by region 200708 emphasis on communication and involvement.
We publish a Group magazine in twelve languages and provide regular local updates.
Senior managers also participate in roadshows around the Group to 18% discuss progress and talk with employees about how they contribute 16% to our success.
5% 42% Mustang 4th in Houstons best places to work listing In June, Mustang Engineering was ranked 4th on the Best Places to 12% Work survey among 140 Houston companies with 501 employees and was the only project management and engineering company named on the list.
The survey, carried out by the Houston Business North America Asia Pacific Journal, was based on a confidential 37-question survey of Houston Europe Central & South America based employees reflecting attitudes about their employer and the workplace.
Middle East & Africa Steve Knowles, President of Mustang commented, This is a wonderful honour for Mustang and is reflective of being People Oriented Project Driven, a philosophy that permeates all aspects of our culture and operations.
We constantly strive to keep a small company, family feel despite our tremendous growth.
Highlights 2008 mustang 4th BEst placE to Work houston kEvin sinclair, oil & gas uk young tEchnician 2008 Energy Supporting Energy jEnny tagalliE, imEchE vision aWard Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements allistEr langlands at rgu scholarship launch go online at www.
com annualreport2008 35 : Our people Training & development We are committed to attracting and keeping the highest calibre people.
Our many training and development programmes are designed to enable our staff to learn new skills and refine existing ones.
We want our people to enjoy their work and feel they have the skills We take an international approach to supporting academic research needed to do their job to the best of their ability.
Our training and and engineering education, working with a number of universities.
development programmes are tailored to our employees long term career objectives and the needs of our business.
Canada sponsoring The Wood Group Chair in Offshore Engineering for Arctic and Harsh Environments at Memorial In 2008 our Group led training initiatives supplemented business University, Newfoundland.
unit programmes and provided a positive learning environment for our people where ideas were discussed openly.
Launched in UK we launched a five-year scholarship project programme, in 2004, our Management Development Programme MDP now conjunction with Talisman, to support the career development of has over 400 alumni, 95% of whom remain with the Group.
Our students at the Robert Gordon University RGU, Aberdeen.
Financial Development Programme FDP, a continuing professional development programme for our senior financial professionals is United Arab Emirates supporting engineering students at now in its fifth year.
Managing People Effectively MPE is aimed at the Dubai campus of Heriot Watt University through Energy supervisors, managers and technical professionals.
It provides them Excellence Awards.
with an opportunity to practise and develop the required skills to become more effective managers of people.
Kazakhstan established a Professorial chair at the Kazakhstan British Technical University KBTU in Almaty.
In a business which employs many engineers and technical specialists we recognised the need to develop skills and Australia supporting students on the offshore pipeline design understanding of non technical areas, in particular finance.
Our course at the University of Western Australia.
Understanding Business Finance course was introduced enabling participants in non financial roles to effectively use financial tools in their business planning and decision making processes.
We also saw significant growth in learning through training development and competency programmes across our businesses worldwide.
These included, Rolls Wood Group apprentice scheme in the UK, Equipo Abilities System in Colombia and our SQV accredited Competence Assurance System in Trinidad.
We also continue to develop the J P Kenny Academy, which is setting new competency standards around the world and the Out in Front employee development programme in our North Sea business, which provides opportunities to emerging leaders.
SQV accredited Competence hrh princE andrEW attEnds graduation day at kBtu Assurance System in Trinidad.
