Sustainability is a challenging area for business but also Sustainability a very exciting one for Johnson Matthey.
It presents an opportunity to improve the efficiency of our offices, internal For a number of years, Johnson Matthey has adopted the principles operations and processes whilst also developing current and of corporate social responsibility CSR, embedded these into its future products and services to meet the sustainability needs of risk management processes and reported on its performance in our customers.
There is a burgeoning market, in which we already this important area.
In 2006 07 the Chief Executive launched an participate, for products which benefit the environment.
There is initiative to broaden the companys definition of these principles also a nascent market for a new generation of products which to ensure a more sustainable business for the future.
enable the more efficient use of materials and other resources.
Sustainability is fundamentally about the best long term way This represents a key opportunity for us.
Our active participation to run a business.
There is growing concern globally, including in this emerging area also helps us to identify and manage the among our employees, our customers, our communities and risks of sustainability.
others with whom we work closely, about the way countries, Since the launch of the vision we have begun the process of companies and people are using the worlds resources.
This is embedding sustainability into every aspect of our business.
From affecting people now in many ways and our decisions and actions 2008 09 all businesses will be required to include their plans for today will affect future generations for a long time to come.
sustainability as an integral part of the annual financial budgeting Work continued throughout 2007 08 and we have made process.
These plans were presented and discussed with considerable progress in a number of areas.
In the early part management then agreed by the CEC at the budget discussions of the year we considered the implications for sustainability in February 2008. through discussions at the companys management conference We have also begun an extensive training programme for and a series of high level seminars across the group which employees designed to help them put the Sustainability 2017 sought to reach a consensus on how best to manage this Vision into practice in their day-to-day work.
The first session emerging topic.
The conclusions stemming from this work were was held in March and workshops will continue in 2008 09. reviewed and adopted by the Chief Executives Committee During the next year, businesses will be working towards CEC and gained the full support of the board.
their plans and setting appropriate targets.
We expect this One of the key conclusions is that sustainability should be process to evolve over a number of years and will be working fully embedded into our routine management processes and very hard to refine our measures of performance so as to the CEC has agreed that this will apply from the 2008 09 monitor our progress against the business level targets and group budget year.
It was also concluded that if we are to make solid targets in the vision.
Further work is aimed at developing the tools progress we need to further refine our measures of of sustainability including those necessary to better estimate the performance, set more challenging targets and measure our carbon intensity of our products and their complete life cycle.
We will continue to report on our plans, targets and In December 2007, the Chief Executive launched Johnson performance in this area.
As in previous years we will publish Mattheys Sustainability 2017 Vision to all employees which sets a separate more detailed report on-line during July 2008.
This out the groups aspirations for the next ten years.
The full years report will be our first Sustainability Report and will statement is available on the companys website at provide more detail on our vision for 2017, what sustainability www.
com and is presented in summary below: means for us and how we will deliver this for our customers We are committed to the principles of sustainable and society through better products and fewer impacts.
development and strive for outstanding resource efficiency and carbon neutrality.
Managing Improvement and Compliance We aim to further develop and enhance sustainability as a Johnson Matthey embraces a culture of continuous improvement core competence and key driver of competitiveness for in all aspects of sustainability.
Continuous improvement is driven our business.
through corporate policies, a comprehensive management system and the commitment of our employees.
Johnson Matthey has We seek to encourage suppliers and customers to adopt three key policy areas which provide the framework for the the values of sustainability which we uphold.
management of environmental, social and governance matters: We will apply our expertise to the development of a new Environment, Health and Safety EHS : Employment: and Business generation of sustainable products and services.
Our ethical, social and environmental policies are well We aim to more than double our earnings per share whilst established and over the last year further initiatives have been achieving zero waste to landfill and halving key resources undertaken to improve our operational performance in these that we consume per unit output by 2017, our 200th areas.
Details of these policies, initiatives and our progress can anniversary.
be found in Johnson Mattheys Sustainability Report and are The Sustainability 2017 Vision encompasses the commitments, presented here in summary.
The full report can be found on aims and targets which will drive the business forward into its the companys website at www.
For Johnson Matthey, there are two As outlined in the Corporate Governance section page 42 key thrusts to the vision.
The first is about being more efficient the board has embedded environmental, social and governance with the resources we use as a business and the second is matters into its risk management processes and formally reviews about designing new products that help our customers to be the area once a year.
These matters are monitored by the CSR more sustainable and competitive.
Some of the ways in which Compliance Committee which is a sub committee of the CEC.
we are working towards achieving the vision are presented in A description of the committee can be found on page 42. summary in this report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29 BUSINESS REVIEW Total Acid Gas Emissions Total Global Warming Potential Tonnes SO equivalent Tonnes CO equivalent 000 2 2 500 350 400 280 Tonnes million Tonnes CO Tonnes million 2 300 210 Tonnes SO sales excluding equivalent sales excluding 2 equivalent precious metals 000 precious metals 200 140 2003 426 0.4124 2003 273 264.3 2004 489 0.4837 2004 310 306.6 2005 480 0.4376 2005 333 303.6 100 70 2006 450 0.3362 2006 326 243.6 2007 416 0.2417 2007 318 184.8 0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Stakeholder Engagement Environment, Health and Safety Johnson Matthey undertakes a wide range of engagement Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Statement activities focused on communication with individuals and The Chief Executives Committee formulates and agrees a organisations who are impacted by its operations or who may written policy statement which forms the basis of the group impact on its business, both at corporate and divisional level.
The board approves this policy These include shareholders, fund managers, employees, statement which is signed by the Chief Executive and is customers, communities and national and international trade available at each site throughout the group, as well as being associations.
The company plays an active role within the published externally.
This policy is presented in full in the Chemical Industries Association CIA with representation on Sustainability Report and on the companys website at the CIA Council and other strategy boards.
has also continued to play a leading advisory role through its participation in a number of sector trade associations and Environmental, Health and Safety Management national and local government organisations.
The company is also actively involved more broadly with other international Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities trade and government bodies to inform the development of throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of policy in areas where Johnson Mattheys technology and protection to the environment and to safeguard the health and products can play a pivotal role, for example in improving air safety of its employees, customers and the community.
Our EHS quality and enabling the shift towards more sustainable policies provide the guiding principles that ensure high standards consumption and production.
Neil Carson, Chief Executive of are achieved at all sites around the world and are used to Johnson Matthey, chairs the UK governments Business Taskforce promote continuous improvement based on careful risk on Sustainable Consumption and Production and is a assessment and a comprehensive EHS management system.
prominent member of the Corporate Leaders Group which The group EHS management system is reviewed regularly has provided valuable suggestions to UK government and the to ensure that it reflects international best practice and our European Commission on climate change issues.
A number of growing understanding of the practical application of sustainable the companys senior management are involved in the UK development.
governments sustainability and climate change initiatives.
The corporate objectives, policies and group EHS In addition to our work with the UK government, last management system define accountability and set the standards October Neil Carson was invited to give testimony on Business against which conformance audits are assessed.
This system is Opportunities in a Low Carbon Economy in the US House of available to all employees via the company intranet.
All facilities Representatives Select Committee on Energy Independence have developed local policies to meet the requirements of and Global Warming.
This was very well received and resulted these corporate policies.
in a number of follow up questions from members of the EHS compliance audits are an integral part of Johnson committee.
Mattheys corporate EHS management system and are vital for Further details of Johnson Mattheys stakeholder the achievement of continuous improvement in all aspects of engagement activities can be found in the Sustainability Report EHS.
All Johnson Matthey operated manufacturing and research on the companys website at www.
and development facilities are included in the audit programme.
The audit frequency for each facility is determined by the scale, inherent risk and past performance of the operation.
30 Johnson Matthey Energy Consumption Water Consumption 3 GJ 000 Thousands m 4,000 2,500 2,000 3,000 3 GJ million m million 1,500 GJ sales excluding Thousands sales excluding 3 000 precious metals m precious metals 2,000 1,000 2003 3,050 2,953 2003 2,262 2,190 2004 3,460 3,422 2004 2,007 1,985 1,000 2005 3,820 3,483 2005 1,967 1,793 500 2006 3,890 2,907 2006 1,909 1,426 2007 3,787 2,200 2007 2,038 1,184 0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Audits review conformance with the group EHS management Regulation The REACH regulation which introduces the new EU chemical system and compliance with national legislation, as well as providing an opportunity to share best environmental, health management framework is now in force and Johnson Matthey has been preparing for its implementation since the final shape and safety practices.
The Group Occupational Physician undertakes business of the legislation became clear several years ago.
This included establishing a centrally coordinated REACH compliance health management reviews to provide consulting advice to guide the prioritisation and planning of programmes to optimise programme covering all of our operating units and products within the scope of the regulation.
Key objectives of the workplace health protection and promote workforce sustainability.
The final year of the three year programme to programme are to assure uninterrupted product flows to customers and ensure our high rate of product innovation implement a revised corporate health management strategy throughout the business was completed successfully.
All business is not affected.
To avoid unnecessary testing and reduce the cost and technical burden of compliance, the company is units now undertake annual health management continuous improvement planning as a formal exercise to structure collaborating with other industrial companies under the auspices of key trade associations.
Considerable effort has been appropriate programmes and services that meet changing business needs.
made to maintain dialogue and information flow throughout the supply chain so that product and process materials and All audit reports including health management reviews are reviewed by the CSR Compliance Committee and their uses are well characterised.
Individual Johnson Matthey business units will be progressing substance pre-registration appropriate follow up is taken on any outstanding issues.
A total of 42 detailed compliance audits were completed in 2007 08. and registration actions in line with REACH timelines from June 2008 onwards.
Accidents and incidents are investigated to gain shared learning and drive continuous EHS improvement.
We also The company has also commenced its preparation for the anticipated widespread international rollout of the Globally monitor relevant events in our industry sectors to derive additional learning and assurance that we are working to the Harmonised System for hazard classification of chemicals.
highest standards and best practices.
Following the publication Training of the investigation reports on the incidents at BPs Texas City Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvement in refinery and at the Buncefield oil storage facility, we reviewed environmental, health and safety performance.
A number of these reports with a view to integrating any relevant learning seminars on high priority health and safety topics were into our existing EHS management systems.
The review completed during the year across the group.
A series of project generated a number of actions that will be completed during management training courses have been completed in the US the next financial year.
and Europe, in which facility managers and engineers were able to gain greater understanding and share best practice on how ISO 14001 Over the past year continued progress has been made with the to improve the EHS aspects and impacts of significant development projects.
This training will be extended to Asia implementation of ISO 14001, in line with our target of achieving registration at all major manufacturing sites by 2010. during 2008 09.
Three manufacturing sites, two in India and one in South Korea, achieved ISO 14001 registration during the last year.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31 BUSINESS REVIEW Total Waste Annual Accident Rate per 1,000 Employees Tonnes waste All accidents 3 Day accidents 100,000 25 80,000 20 Tonnes million 60,000 sales excluding 15 Tonnes precious metals 40,000 2003 61,284 59.33 10 2004 82,255 81.36 2005 96,638 88.10 20,000 5 2006 91,750 68.56 2007 98,764 57.39 0 0 March 04 March 05 March 06 March 07 March 08 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Environmental, Health and Safety Performance number of accidents that resulted in lost time was 68, an 11% reduction compared to the previous year 76, restated.
During Johnson Matthey undertakes a comprehensive annual review of the same time period, the total accident rate reduced by 8% group environmental performance covering all manufacturing from 8.77 to 8.05 per 1,000 employees per year.
and research and development facilities.
Where necessary, past In 2007 08 the number of days lost per 1,000 employees environmental data has been restated to reflect changes in the per year was 68, a reduction of 12% compared with 2006 07. business, for example divestments and site closure.
The group All accidents were thoroughly investigated to determine root sold its Ceramics Division on 28th February 2007 and, as such, causes and assign appropriate preventative and corrective actions.
the data presented in this Sustainability section excludes any On 27th July 2007 Avocado Research Chemicals Limited, contribution from Ceramics Division.
a subsidiary of the company, was fined 600 and ordered to All of the manufacturing facilities across the group made pay 100 costs after pleading guilty at the City of London progress against their individual environmental improvement Magistrates Court to the unlawful exportation of a controlled targets during the year and our five year performance is shown chemical substance.
Following the incident, the business has in the tables on pages 30 to 32.
The groups total energy improved its automated ordering system and recruited a consumption and total global warming potential reduced by 3% dangerous goods compliance specialist to prevent recurrence.
and 2% respectively during the year.
Relative to sales excluding precious metals, both decreased by 24% compared to the Environmental, Health and Safety Targets previous year.
Total emissions of acid gas primarily oxides of nitrogen, NOx reduced by 8% in absolute terms and by 28% Johnson Matthey continually monitors environmental, health relative to sales excluding precious metals.
The total amount and safety performance in order to identify those issues most of waste generated during the year increased by 8% across pertinent to the business and to drive improvement.
the group although relative to sales excluding precious metals, Sustaining the continued reduction in the incidence of waste generated decreased by 16%.
During the year, water occupational illnesses, particularly those attributable to exposure consumption for the group increased by 7% as a direct result to chemical hazards, remains the highest priority health of increased production by our Emission Control Technologies protection issue for the business.
Each business is now also business.
When calculated relative to sales excluding precious addressing the development of health and wellness programmes metals, water consumption reduced by 17% across the group.
to secure and enhance the longer term health, wellbeing and There is a group reporting system to record and investigate work ability of employees, as part of the people and communities occupational illness incidents arising as a result of exposure to element of the new corporate sustainability strategy.
An overall reduction of more than All sites within the group will aim to continue to make 25% has been achieved in the annual incidence of occupational progress against the target of zero greater than three day illnesses since the reporting scheme was introduced in 2005. accidents.
Leading and lagging indicators are now an integral Accidents are actively monitored and detailed statistics are component of site improvement plans in order to better compiled monthly at group level.
In April 2006 the CEC set a monitor performance against these improvement conditions.
new group target of zero greater than three day accidents.
We will continue our process risk management review of Our safety performance has improved during the past year Johnson Matthey facilities and analyse our results in conjunction with the incidence of greater than three day accidents at Johnson with external experts to ensure that the policies, guidance and Matthey calculated as 2.65 per 1,000 employees in March 2008, training that we develop are both robust and appropriate to a reduction of 39% from 4.38 reported in March 2007.
The total those hazards within our business.
32 Johnson Matthey We will complete new environmental, health and safety Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
guidance to support the existing policies within the group EHS Understand employees aspirations.
This guidance will be issued to all sites and Provide development opportunities to meet employees appropriate training will follow.
Human Capital Management Johnson Matthey recognises the need to maintain its ability to recruit well qualified staff to support the development of the Johnson Mattheys people are the groups most valuable business in new and emerging markets.
This challenge will be resource.
We are committed to recruiting high calibre met through appropriate manpower planning, local recruitment employees and providing them with the information, training and the encouragement of international mobility.
and working environment they need in order to perform at the Cross divisional management development activities are highest standards.
We encourage all our employees to develop coordinated worldwide to ensure longer term management to their maximum potential and we are committed to succession and the retention of high potential employees.
supporting them with effective human resources policies and Included are programmes providing key skills, interactive learning practices that are strategically linked to the needs of our and Johnson Matthey business awareness at career foundation, business and our customers.
middle and senior manager levels.
These are delivered at Johnson Matthey facilities throughout Europe, the USA and Asia to meet Implementation of Johnson Matthey Human Resources Policies current and future management requirements worldwide and Johnson Mattheys human resources policies are implemented are being extended in number and variety to meet the growing through the corporate human resources standards which set needs of the business.
Presentations from senior executives requirements for operations throughout the group to follow.
anchor these programmes to the companys progress and These standards, which are generally in advance of legal priorities and align attendees with our strategic intent.
requirements, provide internal consistency and are supported A continuing high level of attendance by employees from either by detailed regional procedures and or business unit Asia, particularly from our operations in Japan, China, Korea procedures.
All of these policies and procedures are subject and India, reflects the increasing importance of this region.
to regular review to ensure that they continue to reflect both Attendance from acquired businesses is also encouraged as a regional best practice and local legislation.
Site specific human well proven way of exposing individuals to the wider company resources policies and procedures are communicated to staff culture and assisting rapid integration with the rest of the group.
at inductions and through staff handbooks.
Human resources Johnson Matthey has a steady requirement for high calibre policies and risks are examined by the Chief Executives graduate recruits to meet immediate technical and commercial Committee and the CSR Compliance Committee.
job needs and for development to meet future management requirements.
The combination of direct scientific contact with Key Employment Policies key university departments and a streamlined recruitment procedure ensures a reliable supply of high calibre applicants Equal Opportunities worldwide.
A variety of career foundation training, including a It is the policy of the group to recruit, train and develop new technology awareness programme, quickly engages new employees who meet the requirements of the job, regardless of recruits in intellectual challenge and early responsibility.
gender, ethnic origin, age, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
The policy recognises that people with disabilities are often Employee Relations and Communication denied a fair chance at work because of misconceptions about their capabilities and seeks to enhance the opportunities The quality of its employee relationships is a priority for Johnson available by attempting wherever possible to overcome obstacles,.
The company has a low voluntary staff turnover 7.6% Matthey such as the need to modify equipment, restructure jobs or to in the calendar year 2007, see page 9 with many employees improve access to premises, provided such action does not staying with the company for their whole careers.
compromise health and safety standards.
Equally, employees who Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of effective become disabled are offered employment consistent with their employee communications and particularly the value of face capabilities.
The business values the diversity of its people and to face dialogue.
Information and comment is exchanged with employment applications are welcomed and encouraged from employees through the companys in house magazine, regular all sections of the community including minority groups.
news bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
Employees are also encouraged to access the companys Training and Development of People intranet and website.
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee Johnson Matthey continues to maintain good and of the board takes a special interest in ensuring compliance with constructive relations with all recognised trade unions which the Training and Development of People Policy objectives to: collectively represent 34% of all group employees worldwide.
Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of employees.
From 12th to 25th September 2007, production was affected at the companys emission control catalyst plant in Germiston, Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
South Africa by a 14 day national strike in the components Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
industry, led by NUMSA National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa.
Other than this event no working time was lost Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
within the group due to employee action.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 33 BUSINESS REVIEW Total Employees by Region Total Employees by Division Gender by Region Average headcount for calendar year 2007 Average headcount for calendar year 2007 As at 31st December 2007 continuing businesses continuing businesses % Male % Female Rest of Corporate World 310 681 100 Fine Chemicals Asia & Catalysts Europe 1,675 765 Environmental 80 4,048 Technologies 4,094 60 40 North America Precious 2,519 Metal Products 20 1,934 0 Employee data relates to the calendar year 2007 and excludes 658 employees transferred out of the group with the Europe North Asia Rest of Group completion of the sale of the Ceramics Division on 28th February 2007 America World The company supports employee share ownership and of the management skills inventory database provides the group where practicable offers employees the opportunity to with a powerful means of helping to identify and match suitably participate in share ownership plans which provide the facility qualified internal candidates to promotional and development to purchase company shares with a company funded matching opportunities both cross divisionally and globally.
Employees in six countries worldwide are able to Continuing priority is given to manager and employee contribute to a company share ownership plan or a 401k understanding of Johnson Mattheys policies and commitment approved savings investment plan.
Through these ownership to their implementation to maintain and enhance the reputation plans Johnson Matthey current and former employees collectively of the company.
Appropriate compliance training for managers held 1.55% of the companys shares at 31st March 2008. in their responsibilities for employees, commercial contracts and Johnson Matthey also sponsors pension plans for company assets has been maintained during the year through employees of its operations throughout the world.
These on-line learning programmes and seminars where appropriate.
pension plans are a mixture of defined benefit or defined The reduction in sickness absence rates across the business contribution pension arrangements, savings schemes and over the last three years has been sustained in the past year provident funds designed to provide appropriate retirement through continued focus on attendance management and benefits based on local laws, custom and market practice.
There has also been an increased investment in programmes to improve employee Activities over the Last Year health and wellbeing and promote attendance and work There have been a number of key initiatives at Johnson Matthey performance.
sites during the past year with a strong emphasis on sustainability, Going forward, the commitment of Johnson Mattheys employee recognition, people development and wellbeing.
employees will be key in delivering our Sustainability 2017 Improvements to employee communications and engagement Vision.
During the year we have commenced a global have continued to focus on the use of site satisfaction and programme of employee engagement activities and attitude surveys as a means of strengthening and enhancing the management seminars to enhance employees understanding, two way dialogue with employees.
Based on the success of a promote local action and spread best practice across the group.
pilot survey, during the year a decision was taken to run a global This will continue in 2008 09 to support our employees in employee attitude survey within each of the groups operating working towards achieving the vision.
The first global business to run the survey will be Emission Control Technologies.
It will be conducted Social and Ethical Matters during the summer of 2008 using a confidential and independent Business Integrity and Ethics survey administrator and a combination of web hosted and A reputation for integrity has been a cornerstone of Johnson paper survey questionnaires.
The results of the survey will be Mattheys business since Percival Norton Johnson founded it published and it is hoped that its findings will help to identify in 1817.
It gives customers the confidence that the companys issues for action and guide management to build the optimum products meet the standards claimed for them and that they working environment for employees.
may safely entrust their own precious metals to Johnson Cross divisional movement of employees as part of their Matthey for processing and safe keeping.
Employees at all career development is encouraged and monitored as an levels are required to protect Johnson Mattheys reputation important part of the annual management development and for integrity.
The further development 34 Johnson Matthey The company strives to maintain the highest standards of demonstrates that a higher proportion of sites are setting ethical conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide.
All objectives for their community engagement activities and employees have a duty to follow the principles set out in planning specific activities in their community programmes.
Johnson Mattheys Business Integrity and Ethics Policy Statement Sustainability issues are also important to the communities which is presented here in summary and available in full on our in which Johnson Matthey operates.
As such, businesses are website at www.
It is the responsibility of directors encouraged to integrate community elements into their and senior management to ensure that all employees who sustainability plans for the coming year.
We will continue to directly or indirectly report to them are fully aware of Johnson offer further support to sites in developing and implementing Mattheys policies and values in the conduct of the companys meaningful community programmes and facilitate the sharing businesses.
It is also the responsibility of directors and senior of best practice across the group.
A review of site community management to lead by example and to demonstrate the engagement activities will be conducted once again and we will highest standards of integrity in carrying out their duties on continue to focus on how best to measure and improve the behalf of the company.
These issues are further safeguarded impact of our community involvement.
through corporate governance processes and monitoring by Charitable Programmes the board and sub-committees of the board.
Johnson Mattheys long history of support for charitable causes Johnson Matthey facilities have established policies and is matched today through programmes at both a group and a procedures through which employees can raise employment business unit level.
The causes supported are aligned to issues related issues for meaningful consideration and resolution.
In to which the Johnson Matthey business makes a contribution the US a confidential and secure website and telephone and issues on which employees are passionate.
helpline was established in 2006 to give employees an In 2007 08, Johnson Matthey supported 36 charitable additional means to raise any issue of personal concern.
These causes through its corporate annual donations programme.
confidential reporting arrangements have been extended to all These included support for organisations working in the areas Johnson Matthey employees worldwide during 2007. of arts and the environment, medical and health, science and Supply Chain education and social welfare.
50% of these corporate donations Management of the supply chain and contractor activities is a were in support of social welfare causes.
A total of 78 core component of the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 series of additional charitable causes received one-off donations through standards.
Supply chain and contractor management the corporate programme during the year.
questionnaires are a requirement of achieving and maintaining In the UK, Johnson Matthey continues to operate its registration and as such, ISO registered Johnson Matthey sites annual charity of the year programme and employee views require the completion of appropriate questionnaires.
For those are considered when deciding on the charity.
EveryChild was sites without ISO registration, the group EHS management chosen as our charity of the year for 2007 08 and further system provides policy and guidance on both supply chain details on the partnership are available in the Sustainability management and contractor control.
Johnson Matthey sites around the world also lend Whilst we are confident of the human rights performance support to many other charities locally and nationally through of our own operations we recognise that business practices in donations, employee time or loans of company facilities.
the supply chain are not always transparent and represent a risk In the financial year to 31st March 2008 Johnson Matthey that must be managed.
We support the principles defined donated 415,000 to charitable organisations.
This figure only within the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human includes donations made by Johnson Matthey and does not Rights and the International Labour Organisation Core include payroll giving, donations made by staff or employee Conventions including the conventions in relation to child time.
The company made no political donations in the year.
labour, forced labour, non-discrimination, freedom of association We will continue to support a wide range of charitable and collective bargaining.
In particular we are developing a specific programme of support focused on promoting the understanding Community Engagement Activities and awareness of science among children and young people.
Johnson Matthey is actively involved in programmes worldwide Johnson Matthey believes that encouraging the next generation that promote good community relations to foster a relationship of scientists is very important to the sustainability of our industry of understanding, trust and credibility.
Guidance on site and we will continue to contribute our resources and expertise.
requirements is detailed in the group EHS management system.
An annual review of community engagement activities Verification across the group has been carried out and shows that 100% The board, Audit Committee, Chief Executives Committee and of Johnson Matthey operations with over 50 employees CSR Compliance Committee review sustainability issues as part participate in activities within their local communities.
These of the companys risk management processes.
The board activities are wide ranging and include charitable giving, support believes that the internal measures taken to review the for educational projects, the advancement of science and sustainability information provide a high level of confidence.
Johnson Matthey employees However, for the first time, third party verification of our full also participate in activities or hold community related roles Sustainability Report has been commissioned.
The full outside of the work environment.
The company is supportive Sustainability Report will be published on the companys of this broader community engagement, allowing employees website at www.
com in July 2008. time off during working hours as appropriate.
The review also Annual Report & Accounts 2008 35
