qxp:29785 p034-037 6 4 09 14:53 Page 34 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility If these gures were to be calculated at the local level of Kazakhmys sites in Kazakhstan relative to each of their local communities, their importance would be signicantly higher.
Even though Kazakhmys represents approximately 1% of the Kazakhstan economy, it recognises the importance of building on the leadership role it has taken in Kazakhstan on matters of corporate responsibility, as evidenced by winning first prize in the 2008 Presidential Corporate Responsibility competition.
However, as a UK-listed company we recognise the need to achieve international best practice standards.
To achieve this aim, we continue to implement more progressive initiatives and policies and to ensure that all our employees have a clear understanding of how they are expected to behave.
Our management approach towards corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility and business strategy Our overall business objective is to create value for shareholders by building an effectively managed, regionally focused, diversied natural resources company.
Kazakhmys recognises that the highest To support this objective and help ensure effective and practicable standards of health, safety, sustainable operational activities, it is essential for corporate environmental and community practices responsibility objectives to be aligned to the Groups goals.
This is achieved in a number of ways, including: are vital to its success, and are a key training managers in the best international management practices responsibility of all employees.
in areas such as human resources and procurement management: maintaining the commitment and support of employees by ensuring standards of health and safety management are Our commitment to corporate responsibility monitored and raised: The trust and confidence of those with whom the Group deals, developing our employees potential: together with its reputation, are amongst its most important assets.
Along with its commitment to competitiveness and retaining the commitment and support of local communities performance, Kazakhmys continues to recognise that the highest by ensuring Kazakhmys presence is a source of positive practicable standards of health, safety, environmental and inuence: and community practices are vital to its success, and are a key ensuring Kazakhmys conducts its business and interacts with responsibility of all employees.
Further policies and procedures its employees, investors, customers, suppliers, government in these areas continue to be developed and embedded in the agencies and the local communities in which it operates business, helping to identify relevant risks and opportunities and in a responsible manner.
to establish a clear framework for our business approach against which performance can be assessed.
Kazakhmys approach to managing corporate responsibility brings real benets to the Group: This report is in a number of sections, the first of which describes our operations in the context of the Kazakhstan economy.
Kazakhmys benets from the trust of second part describes our management approach towards employees, customers, suppliers and opinion formers, as well corporate responsibility, and the third part describes the nature as local communities and government bodies.
This impacts of our key corporate responsibility impacts our health and safety positively on our ability to conduct business: performance, the development of the skills and expertise of our it improves our reputation.
A commitment to raising corporate employees, our environmental performance and our support for responsibility performance helps the Group to attract and retain our communities.
employees with the requisite skills and abilities.
It also enhances the Groups reputation with other stakeholders: and Our place in the Kazakhstan economy To place Kazakhmys operations within Kazakhstan into a proper it helps preserve value.
By ensuring the Group identies, context, it is necessary to describe the contribution of Kazakhmys evaluates and mitigates corporate responsibility risks that could to the Kazakhstan national economy.
Kazakhstan has a developing damage Kazakhmys reputation and financial performance.
economy, which is moving at pace towards governance standards traditionally expected of companies that operate in more Managing health, safety and the environment developed economies.
The following gures are based on 2008 The key elements of health, safety and environmental estimated data the latest national gures available.
management at Kazakhmys are: As a percentage of Kazakhstans national gross domestic product, a Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee GHSE the total of the Groups wages and salaries, and corporate and which comprises David Munro chairman, Philip Aiken and income taxes represented approximately 0.3%.
Similarly, as a Peter Hickson from 5 March 2009 : James Rutland was a percentage of Kazakhstans national investment, Kazakhmys member until 5 December 2008.
The Group Chief Executive, total capital expenditure of both a business and social nature and the Chief Executive officer and other senior managers of represented approximately 1.3%.
The total workforce represented Kazakhmys Corporation LLC are invited to attend Committee approximately 0.8% of Kazakhstans employed workforce.
meetings, and it receives advice from external independent 34 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Business Review 29785 p034-037.
The Committee is responsible for setting standards, monitoring performance and providing guidance to operational management on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Committee met three times in 2008, with all meetings being held in Kazakhstan.
Meetings included a number of visits to operations and discussions with local management: a Fatal Accident Review Panel which consists of the members of the GHSE Committee, the Chief Executive officer and other senior managers of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and Jeff Smith chairman of Wardell Armstrong LLP, the independent safety expert.
This panel reviews in detail the incident investigation process, the actions being taken to prevent a similar incident occurring and plans for enhancing overall safety management from the lessons learnt: an operational HSE committee chaired by the Chief Executive officer of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and comprising senior The new, purpose-built surface and underground training operational and HSE managers.
It is responsible for reviewing facilities provide occupational and safety training to new and incidents, recommending improvements in systems, and existing workers.
implementing risk reduction and training programmes: and Group safety and environmental policies and codes of conduct for doing business.
These, combined with the Groups internal controls, offer the Company and its investors the reassurance that a practical system exists for identifying and managing audits and formal accident investigations, together with continued corporate responsibility opportunities and risks.
investment in training and safety equipment systems form the key elements of our drive to continually raise standards and develop Our key corporate responsibility impacts a safety focused culture throughout the Group.
Health and safety performance and activities Investing in health and safety training of employees at all levels Kazakhmys activities involve working on the surface and of the Group is key to developing improved performance.
underground with large, heavy equipment, explosives and Training helps employees develop their skills and capabilities chemicals, sometimes at extreme temperatures.
It also faces and to strengthen the safety culture further.
During the year new normal industrial hazards such as driving vehicles, working at training facilities were opened in Satpayev.
These facilities provide heights and operating machinery with dangerous moving parts.
traditional classroom training and training on simulators as well The Board is committed to preventing accidents that represent as practical operational and safety training at surface and a risk to people, the environment and Kazakhmys facilities.
Since opening in It believes all work-related accidents are preventable and that April 2008, over 4,500 employees have completed a 20 hour all employees have a responsibility to ensure this is achieved.
Our goal remains no injury incidents and no harm to people and A key part of the Groups change management programme is encapsulated in the Group safety policy which is published in is the introduction of a tailored safety management system English and Russian and sets out required standards and objectives developed to international standards.
This system will enable for operating safe and efficient businesses.
To assist in embedding the establishment of strong systems and performance standards the policy, employees in Kazakhstan are also given a pocket guide as well as raising safety awareness and assisting with the to the Group safety policy, covering 16 key safety rules.
establishment of a strong safety culture amongst all our employees.
The system will be initially introduced in the East Sadly, 32 employees lost their lives in 27 separate incidents Region prior to it being rolled out across the rest of the Group.
at Kazakhmys operations in 2008 2007: 23 fatalities, with the majority of these being due to falls from height, rock fall, As part of health and safety management, work-related accident electrocution, falling objects and moving machinery.
These are based on Kazakhstan regulatory reporting requirements, which are not in line with international safety The cause of every fatal accident is investigated and reported measurement denitions.
The Group continues to focus on achieving to the GHSE Committee, and reviewed by the Fatal Accident an internationally recognised industry measure as a basis for Review Panel.
In Kazakhstan, a State-appointed commission also comparison with our peers and to report upon in external reports.
Kazakhmys is aware that it has As part of this process, we have had an increase in the number a moral as well as a legal responsibility toward employees affected of serious and slight injuries, which has allowed remedial action by accidents at work and makes payments to the family of the to take place to prevent similar or more serious injuries occurring.
victim of a fatal incident to endeavour to ensure that they do not suffer financial hardship.
The Board remains determined to use The occupational health of our employees in Kazakhstan, its powers to eliminate fatalities from its operations.
Additional particularly those engaged in potentially harmful and dangerous Fatal Risk Protocols will be adopted in 2009 to direct attention work, is of considerable importance.
All employees are given to identied risks and risk mitigation activities.
medical examinations both on recruitment and at regular intervals Our goal of no injury incidents and no harm to people commits during their employment to prevent and detect occupationthe Group to make significant strides to improve its approach related diseases at an early stage.
Incidents of occupational to health and safety management and to develop a safety focused diseases affecting employees are measured across the Group, culture.
Group and local health and safety programmes, safety including dust-induced lung disease and vibration sickness.
qxp:29785 p034-037 6 4 09 14:53 Page 36 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Developing our employees With a workforce of over 67,000 people, Kazakhmys is committed to improving the conditions in which employees operate and to optimise their performance.
The Group continues to develop and maintain policies for all aspects of employment, the overall objective being to optimise performance through recruitment and retention of effective, well motivated employees in every sector of its business.
Each operating company has responsibility for designing human resources policies appropriate to their country of origin which attract, retain and motivate the highest quality of staff.
To this end, Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and Kazakhmys Gold employees have individual employment agreements which cover, among other matters, base remuneration.
These businesses also negotiate collective employment agreements, which primarily cover social benets, with representatives of their unions that represent substantially all of the employees.
In Germany, employees are Installation of electrostatic precipitators at all six power units represented by a works council and approximately 55% of between 2009 and 2013 are anticipated to reduce gas emissions employees are members of the IG Metall union.
The Group by a factor of four.
attaches considerable importance to keeping its employees informed on matters affecting their jobs and the progress of the business.
Although there are various information channels including a Group newspaper, an intranet site and emails, the primary one is face-to-face communication between managers and their staff.
During 2008 a number of actions and initiatives were undertaken Kazakhmys aims to ensure that all employees perform to their across the Group to improve health and safety, including: highest potential.
To this end, employees have the opportunity opening of new training facilities in Satpayev: to participate in training and development in a number of elds related to their role.
For example, each year a number of opening of a new technical college to assist in the development employees are selected to attend courses at universities and of employees technical and safety skills.
Since opening in mining schools in Kazakhstan and around 900 employees a year September 2008, over 7,000 employees have completed a range will receive training in a wide range of mining specialities at the of courses at the college covering mine surveying, underground newly built technical college.
In addition, the Group provides mining equipment and welding.
A further 5,000 employees have a number of medical, dental, leisure and holiday facilities in received technical training at other Kazakhmys facilities: Kazakhstan at either no cost or at subsidised rates to its employees, commencement of the roll out of a lock-out system for electrical their families and pensioners.
equipment and a detailed review of electrical safety at the The Group contributes to dened contribution pension schemes Balkhash Complex: in Kazakhstan, Germany and the UK.
The pension scheme in development of a programme to improve the monitoring Kazakhstan is utilised by certain of its employees to contribute the of employees health to better identify, treat and reduce the required amounts under Kazakhstan law.
The Company has two occurrence of occupation-related diseases: share plans for below Board senior executives, details of which are set out on page 61. recruitment of an experienced Group HSE Manager: and Kazakhmys is committed to promoting diversity across the Group, accreditation of 19 sites to ISO 9001 and 15 sites to both in recognition of the inherent value of diversity and to ensure OHSAS 18001.
Kazakhmys businesses reect the diversity of the local population.
Our key health and safety management actions for 2009 include: To this end, Kazakhmys is committed to providing equal opportunity in recruitment, promotion, career development, introduction of a new health and safety management training and reward to all employees without discrimination programme in the East Region, with a view to rolling it and continues to be supportive of the employment of disabled out across the Group: persons in accordance with their abilities and aptitudes, provided all senior managers and engineers to undertake a NEBOSH that they can be employed in a safe working environment.
certicate training course to improve safety awareness and Managing environmental impacts to provide the skills to better assess hazards and discharge Whilst acknowledging that mining by its nature impacts the workplace safety responsibilities: environment, Kazakhmys aims to carry out its activities in an introduction of further Fatal Risk Protocols to address significant environmentally friendly manner, focusing on the responsible risks: and use and management of water, energy and waste, minimising air pollution and undertaking appropriate land rehabilitation.
adoption and implementation of a five-year safety plan setting Through the implementation of an environmental policy which out a number of steps to improve safety performance and provides a framework for establishing effective management embed a safety-focused culture.
practices, Kazakhmys aims to minimise any adverse effects its activities may have on the environment.
36 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Business Review 29785 p034-037.
qxp:29785 p034-037 6 4 09 14:53 Page 37 Our environmental indicators Environmental actions and initiatives Water During 2008 a number of actions and initiatives were undertaken Water is an important natural resource and its availability in across the Group to reduce our environmental impact, including: many parts of the world has come under pressure as consumption commissioning of the Balkhash sulphuric acid plant: and continues to grow.
Effective water management is critical to the long-term viability of a number of our operations, as they are as part of the programme to develop a base line study and located in environmentally sensitive areas.
Our total water usage five-year environmental plan, environmental audits of all major increased by around 34% to 240,624 megalitres in 2008 2007: sites in Kazakhstan were commenced in 2008.
179,500 megalitres principally as a result of the commissioning Our key environmental management actions for 2009 include: of the sulphuric acid plant at the Balkhash Complex.
installation of the first of six electrostatic precipitators at the Emissions Ekibastuz power plant: and Kazakhmys recognises that climate change is a real international and community issue and is committed to contribute to nding preparation of a five-year environmental plan and base line and implementing solutions to the challenges it poses.
The plan will be produced to international standards and monitoring of emissions includes those of sulphur dioxide SO, will set out a number of environmental KPIs, enabling the Group 2 to establish objectives and targets for meeting international nitrogen oxides NO, carbon dioxide CO, arsenic, ash and dust.
X 2 standards for emissions and use of resources.
In 2008, SO emissions from our metallurgical operations were 2 Supporting our communities 492,970 tonnes 2007: 706,591 tonnes.
The reduction of SO 2 Kazakhmys is committed to supporting local communities and emissions is one of our key environmental targets and the remains sensitive to their needs.
Kazakhmys believes it is able to Group has been pursuing a number of initiatives to reduce these benefit communities most by concentrating its efforts on projects emissions.
In June 2008 production commenced at a $130 million sulphuric acid plant at the Balkhash Complex, with the ramp up which are closely related to its operations, allowing it to to full production of 1.2 MT of sulphuric acid per annum to be strengthen links with local communities.
The commissioning of the plant Given the importance of our operations in the regions where we will lead to a six fold reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions at operate, it is fair to say that our complexes are the communities.
the Complex and provide the Group with an important source Being seen to have a responsible social approach is important to of a valuable by-product which is required for a wide range of maintaining ongoing positive relationships with these communities uses in Kazakhstan.
Kazakhmys recognises that greenhouse gas GHG emissions Kazakhmys works with local communities to ensure that they have as important an environmental impact as SO emissions.
2 benefit from our presence on an enduring basis.
In 2008, GHG emissions result from energy combustion at our operations Kazakhmys spent a total of over $120 million on social responsibility including electricity and heat production, from our vehicles costs and investment activities, including infrastructure and through our strip coal mining processes.
In 2008, CO 2 investments, support for local groups, provision for disadvantaged equivalent emissions decreased to 9.2 MT 2007: 9.6 MT.
individuals and support for local government services.
As part of the modernisation and investment programme During the year, Kazakhmys carried out a number of community launched by Kazakhmys following its acquisition in May 2008 projects, including assistance with: of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant, the largest power plant in Kazakhstan, new electrostatic precipitators will be installed the construction of a $30 million boarding school for over 300 at all six power units between 2009 and 2013 at a total cost of orphans in Astana.
The school will be equipped with the latest $94 million.
The precipitators will catch 99.85% of ash in the air teaching technology, computer labs as well as a swimming pool and are anticipated to reduce gas emissions by a factor of four.
and gymnasium and provide professional training in areas such Further investments focused on the environmentally sensitive as construction, transport, metalwork and catering: improvement of operations and capacity expansion of the plant the upgrading and expansion of a sports centre in Zhezkazgan will be made over the coming years.
serving approximately 800 local people and employees a Land disturbance day: and Kazakhmys recognises the need to minimise disturbance of land the sponsorship of the Kazakh Olympic team.
as a result of its operations.
Local legislation requires rehabilitation of site operations that have closed down.
As a condition of its In addition to the significant infrastructure investments and subsoil use contracts and licences, a provision is set aside for this support for organisations, Kazakhmys contributes to a number purpose, which amounted to $48 million as at 31 December 2008 of local community activities, including artistic and cultural 2007: $44 million.
performances, and local events such as the celebrations of the 10th anniversary of Astana being the capital city of Kazakhstan.
Waste The generation of waste from the mining process, including As well as supporting sport and educational facilities and tailings, waste rock and overburden, constitutes the most visibly organisations, Kazakhmys provides support for individuals in their communities, such as providing financial assistance for medical intrusive aspect of our industry.
Since 2006, Kazakhmys has treatment, and subsidising the costs of inuenza immunisation increased the amount of waste rock backlling in its underground and dental care.
It also provides support for community bodies mines.
The Group continues to explore the available opportunities such as veterans and disability groups.
to beneficially reuse and recycle its waste.
In 2008, Group operations generated 120 MT of waste 2007: 120 MT.
