SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Below At work on the Pacific Highway Ballina road bypass scheme, Northern New South Wales, Australia.
The Group has wellestablished and robust health and safety management systems, which are appropriate to the particular risks associated with working on construction sites.
The Board recognises that its responsibilities extend beyond financial results and related matters.
Effective management of social and environmental risk is important to our corporate reputation and profitability.
The Boards role is to ensure that appropriate policies and systems are in place to identify, monitor and manage the social, environmental, ethical and health We see four main areas in particular where Each business within the Group is and safety risks which are material to our business impacts on others and where committed to continual improvement in safe the Groups businesses and which are we recognise our responsibilities to society: working practices and in health and safety apposite to the geographies in which they training.
Each company within the Group Our workplace and people reported and training procedures reviewed.
is responsible for ensuring that, as a Protecting our environment The Board reviews health and safety on minimum, it meets local statutory Our marketplace and relationships a quarterly basis and monitors indicators requirements and is also encouraged with industry colleagues such as accident rates, safety training hours to reflect identified best practice within Community relations.
and safety initiatives in place.
Our workplace and people Safety performance in 2008 The Group has well-established and robust Health and safety Despite the overall trend of improving health and safety management systems, The health and safety of all Keller Group safety performance, it is with great regret which are appropriate to the particular risks employees and others affected by our that we have to report two fatal accidents associated with working on construction operations is an important and integral part at our construction sites in 2008.
Over the years, we have developed of our business activity.
The Board is followed up with rigorous investigations our systems for measuring and monitoring committed to providing a healthy and safe and additional safety briefings to our safety performance, as reflected in the working environment for all our employees employees to reinforce the importance safety KPIs shown overleaf.
Each divisional Managing of situational awareness on site and the we have not placed as much emphasis Director is responsible for ensuring that types of hazard which may occur when on consistent measurement and monitoring health and safety policies and procedures working on site with other contractors.
are established and adhered to throughout Every accident, and particularly those Recognising that we have more to do their division.
Managers and other involving fatality, reminds us that safety in this area, we made progress in 2008 employees also have a responsibility for is something that we must never take in establishing a common framework for implementing and complying with the health for granted.
managing, and reporting on, environmental and safety policy of the business in which issues, as described on page 25. they work.
Companies within the Group Safety managers around the Group, often have procedures for accident investigation, working in collaboration, constantly look for in order to determine the causes of new ways of raising safety awareness.
accidents, and to recommend and For example, in the UK, Keller is introducing implement corrective actions.
These are a MUST stop work if there is a risk to also shared with other Group companies to health and safety policy.
This strengthens ensure that lessons learnt are disseminated the previous policy, which gave the right as widely as possible.
to refuse to work in similar circumstances.
Social Responsibility Keller Group plc 23 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Keller uses the accident frequency rate Changes in the annual Accident Frequency Rate AFR and Accident Incident Rate AIR AFR and accident incident rate AIR 2008 2007 AFR AIR AFR AIR to track the safety performance of its US 0.42 830 0.53 1,029 businesses, where AFR is the number of CEMEA 1.04 2,489 1.72 3,548 accidents per 100,000 hours worked and UK 0.60 1,192 1.07 2,140 AIR is the number of accidents per 100,000 Australia 1.23 2,688 1.40 3,061 employees and where accidents comprise Excludes HJ, for which we do not have full 2007 data.
fatalities, major injuries as defined by the Health & Safety Executive in the UK and injuries involving more than three days An alternative safety measure used in the Australia absence.
The AFRs and AIRs for 2008 US is the total Recordable Injury Rate RIR.
In Australia, the closest available industry in the table above show that all our The 2008 RIRs for our US businesses are comparator is the construction industry businesses improved their safety shown opposite, alongside the industry Incident Rate published by the National performance year on year.
average for 2007 the most recent Occupational Health & Safety Commission.
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The preliminary rate for 2006 07, the most Comparisons with industry standards All our US businesses have a lower better recent available, is 2,210.
This rate only US RIR than the most recently published reflects occurrences resulting in absence The common safety measure used in the industry average.
of one week or more, whereas the 2008 US construction industry is the experience AIR for Keller Australia of 2,688 reflects modification rating EMR.
A low score CEMEA a broader category of incidents.
In 2008, Finding relevant industry average statistics the EMR for the US foundation contracting for the territories in which CEMEA operates UK businesses fell back slightly to 0.66 2007: is difficult, given the lack of published The 2008 average AIR for members of the 0.57, but still compares well with the information.
The most recent relevant data Federation of Piling Specialists, the most industry standard rating of 1.00. published by EuroStat shows an EU-average appropriate comparator group for our UK rate of over-3-day injuries per 100,000 business, was 1,308 indicating that Keller workers across the construction industry of UKs safety performance in 2008, based 6,069 for 2005.
The 2005 rates and 2008 on an AIR of 1,192, was better than the in yellow of our European business units average for its sector of the industry.
In fact, are shown opposite.
the number of reportable accidents in Keller UK was the lowest since 2004, when the company had only 60% of its current workforce.
Below Creating a cut off wall within the levee around Lake Okeechobee in Florida, US.
Above Above Senior managers enjoy a Dynamic compaction works Thames boat trip at the end for the Biglow Canyon Wind of the 2007 08 Strategic Farm in Oregon, US.
Development Programme in London, UK.
24 Keller Group plc Social Responsibility Being a responsible employer waste disposal, energy and construction US industry average 5.7 As a Group, we try to provide fair materials are expected to continue to employment opportunity to all irrespective increase over the long term, so managing of gender, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, our environmental inputs and outputs is sexual orientation, age or disability, whilst also integral to reducing site operational not offending, or being insensitive to, the costs and increasing efficiency.
traditions and cultures of countries in which we operate.
We believe in treating all Developing a Group environmental employees with dignity and respect and programme do not tolerate any form of harassment, In the second half of 2008 we set out to discrimination or bullying.
We are committed define an environmental programme for to advancement based on merit and the the Group as a whole: one which is broad importance of providing training and enough to recognise the diversity of development opportunities to enable drivers for, and benefits of, environmental employees to increase their contribution management across the Groups to the Group.
businesses: flexible enough to enable businesses to adapt it to reflect local Businesses within the Group communicate conditions: and yet structured enough regularly with all their employees using to drive real, measurable improvement.
a number of forums and media channels.
The following three goals were identified: These include company newsletters, consultative councils, suggestion schemes, 1.
Enhancing operational efficiency by Business RIR to industry average electronic messaging as well as informal, better managing our environmental Category: construction special trade contractors.
a two-way dialogue with all employees, 2.
and provide channels for feedback and 3.
Meeting our customers needs for comment on the Groups activities.
Workshops were held with Keller All companies in the Group undertake businesses to discuss their current a wide range of technical training, such environmental management practices as the Drivers Licence qualification for EU average across the and to consult with them on the draft equipment operators and the Keller construction industry 2005 6,069 environmental programme.
In addition, a Academy for the training of young sample of operational sites were visited to engineers in Europe.
assess their current regulatory compliance status and to help inform the development The Group also undertakes significant of the programme.
non-technical management training using different management development As a result of these workshops, the programmes, including learning modules following Group-wide objectives for 2009 for local managers, strategic development were defined: programmes and executive programmes for the senior management teams.
Develop an energy reduction plan.
Provide environmental awareness In the UK, an employee satisfaction survey training.
in 2008 received a positive response, both 3.
in terms of the return rate and an overall 4.
Communicate how we meet our 84% satisfaction rating.
The survey did customers environmental needs.
highlight some areas for improvement, most 5.
Implement an environmental compliance notably in terms of communication and programme.
utilising employees skills, and steps have Keller regions been taken to address these areas.
Central SW SE NE Beneath these will sit business-specific Europe Europe Europe Europe targets designed to meet the Group-wide Protecting our environment 3-day injuries per 100,000 workers objectives.
Environmental management is an essential 2005 2008 part of our approach to good business Keller rates include 3-day injuries, other major management, particularly as the Groups injuries and fatalities.
construction-related activities can have direct environmental impacts.
Costs of Social Responsibility Keller Group plc 25 7,236 Anderson 4.50 6,051 Case Foundation 3.25 3,285 Case Atlantic 4.53 2,675 Hayward Baker 4.43 3,007 HJ 5.37 4,165 McKinney 3.80 0 Suncoast 3.85 0 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Above and right In 2009, we are putting in place the services which can help their customers to Installation of ground anchors organisation and systems that will enable meet their environmental needs.
These can to stabilise the slopes of the A2 road embankment, between us to measure our progress towards these be grouped in the following three categories: Vienna and Graz, Austria.
At the end of 2009 we will report on the extent to which the  benefits of Keller specific targets have been met.
products and services Keller businesses have started to better In addition, we shall be reviewing how quantify the impacts of their products and we measure our equipment fleet fuel services and to communicate these to efficiency and sharing best practice in clients.
Example 1 Many of our businesses offer our customers In France, Keller was able to demonstrate a choice between traditional foundations the energy efficiency of its stone column and more sustainable alternatives.
In 2009 system, relative to traditional foundation we will be developing ways of providing methods.
This energy efficiency, and the customers with objective data on the fact that stone columns can be easily and relative environmental impacts of alternative cheaply removed or re-used, was important techniques, to enable customers to more to Kellers client, Areva, who wished to easily factor this into their purchasing reduce the environmental impacts arising decisions.
from the construction of its new uranium energy facility and to assess the whole life We are also looking into a number of other costs, including decommissioning, of ways of reducing the amount of carbon the project.
content in our foundations solutions such as increasing the proportion of recycled Example 2 Interest in BREEAM scores materials used and increasing our use of for Kellers products in the UK locally sourced materials.
Keller UK has been able to assist customers wanting to take into account Products and services with the Building Research Establishment environmental benefits Environmental Assessment Method In addition to trying to reduce their own BREEAM score of particular technologies operational environmental impacts, our when making purchasing decisions businesses offer a variety of techniques and including re-use of piles and low-CO 2 rated technologies.
26 Keller Group plc Social Responsibility Example 3 Interest in LEED scores for Example 2 Slope stabilisation Many of our senior managers take a leading Kellers products in the US and protection role in the geotechnical construction Some of our US businesses are able to Keller businesses provide solutions, industrys professional associations and support their customers in meeting the including soil nails and anchors, to stabilise activities around the world, getting involved requirements of the Leadership in Energy slopes and embankments, to preserve in writing building codes, specifications, and Environmental Design LEED the natural environment.
guidelines, and industry-wide safety certification programme in the following initiatives.
For example, management three areas: recycled material content, Example 3 Permeable reactive barriers at Anderson recently contributed to the use of regional materials distance travelled Keller businesses can provide permeable Colorado Crane Task Force which has to the project site and use of timber reactive barriers, installed below ground to drafted a white paper on the safe operation from certified sources.
intercept migrating plumes of contaminants.
Example 4 Assessing the life cycle Products for the environmental Community relations impacts of Kellers products management and renewable Companies within the Keller Group often In Europe, we have commissioned a study energy sectors play an important role in their communities.
into the relative environmental impacts of Keller ground improvement products and While much of our work is undertaken in four of Kellers main ground engineering services are being supplied to renewable remote areas, away from local populations, techniques.
This study produced a life cycle energy sectors, including wind energy our companies support their employees assessment tool that Group companies can and biofuel companies, so are enabling when they engage with community groups use to identify opportunities for reducing the development of third parties and local charities.
benefits to the business, in terms of employee satisfaction and development, Products enhancing the natural Our marketplace and relationships with as well as to the communities with which environment industry colleagues they work.
Some Keller products are designed Group companies take a leadership role specifically to improve ground within their industry by providing environmental conditions.
These can help employees, customers, suppliers and Keller customers meet their wider needs potential employees with technical papers, in relation to the developing environmental seminars, field trips and site visits.
from companies throughout the Group maintain close contact with certain Example 1 Dam remediation universities in order to share best practice flood protection and provide examples of their leading Group businesses are involved in a variety edge engineering.
of dam remediation and flood protection schemes, where our works have included For example, in November, around improving the core sealing of river dykes 400 engineers and students attended to reduce their permeability and increasing a conference in Warsaw at which our the height of dykes to improve their managers gave presentations on a number overall stability.
of Keller techniques, followed by visits to two sites the Warsaw National Stadium and the new Warsaw Ring Road where these techniques could be seen in action.
Below and left Visit for engineers and students to the site of the new Warsaw National Stadium in Poland.
Social Responsibility Keller Group plc 27
