CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY By maintaining our core values and remaining focused on improvement and delivery, our vision is to be the most highly respected Group in the industry.
Our positive approach to corporate responsibility CR and our commitment to address sustainability through a responsible approach to economic, environmental and social issues will ensure that our vision becomes reality.
Most of our school-building activities around the country feature Kier staff engaging with the teachers and pupils to contribute to the educational process.
Here Moss Construction sponsored art students at Chosen Hill School, Gloucester, to paint the hoardings around the site.
Our vision is to be the most highly respected Third-party organisations and benchmarks Group in the industry.
This means we aspire to gain In the context of reporting, the Group has worked the highest respect of all our investors, clients, closely with several highly respected organisations employees, supply chain partners and peers as that will help us to measure, benchmark, monitor well as the public at large for the quality of our and establish targets for improvement in all aspects service, the integrity of our business practices and of CR.
From 1 July 2007 the Group became a our ethical and sustainable approach to economic, corporate member of Business in the Community environmental and social issues.
We are committed BITC, having piloted the scheme for nearly a year to delivering that vision.
through Moss Construction, and we began work on benchmarking responsible business practice To do so, we concentrate on our people: their through the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index.
health, welfare, safety, training and development.
From 1 January 2008 the Group became an We also take seriously our approach to business Associate Member of the Considerate Constructors ethics, including corporate governance, compliance Kier Group became a corporate member Scheme CCS, whose third-party auditing and of Business in the Community on 1 July with competition legislation, fraud awareness and 2007 and an Associate Member of the reporting we now use as benchmarks throughout other policies reinforced by a robust whistleblowing Considerate Constructors Scheme on the Group.
Accredited environmental management 1 January 2008. systems and processes remain a core part of our We have also engaged in dialogue with Ethical approach to sustainability including recycling, Investment Research Services EIRIS Limited to seek waste and energy-saving initiatives and biodiversity.
advice and guidance on meeting the criteria for Ensuring good, positive community relations is a potential listing in the FTSE4Good Index, possibly fundamental part of how we deliver our business.
To this end, our central disciplines have increasingly Similarly, we are preparing for the Carbon worked together and with our businesses to help Reduction Commitment CRC, the new legally deliver our vision.
binding climate change and energy-saving scheme This financial year has been characterised by that is a central part of the UKs strategy for acting to considerable efforts by all businesses in the Group reduce our carbon footprint and deliver ambitious to put into practice the objectives of the Group emission reduction targets set out in the Climate Strategy for Sustainability policy that was launched Change Bill.
The CRC scheme begins to operate in in the summer of 2007.
At the same time, we have April 2010 but requires action in 2009. made considerable inroads into coordinating our processes and measurement criteria to enable the Group to report consistently on CR issues.
KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 1 Business in the Community and Corporate employing migrant workers, and community see more online: Responsibility investment.
The completion of this comprehensive www.
co. uk responsibility survey will become the basis for our future CR Having become a corporate member of BITC in reporting criteria.
July 2007, the Group has worked closely with the organisation to participate in the BITC Corporate In the meantime, BITC has continued to work Responsibility CR Index.
We have been working closely with several of our businesses.
Moss with the BITC secretariat on completing a trial Construction, which piloted membership of the index assessment to identify the Groups current scheme in 2007, continued to work with BITC reporting capabilities and to address strengths and locally to further develop its own corporate weaknesses in our processes.
Once this exercise is responsibility policy and this year evolved a formal completed, we intend to submit a full survey for the policy under the banner of Connecting people, public BITC CR Index 2008 this autumn.
This has now become a model framework which is intended to be launched The BITC CR Index assesses corporate strategy, across all Kier Regional businesses.
They continue including corporate values, advocacy, risk to engage widely with communities wherever their management and business conduct, and work takes them.
management systems for community, environment, marketplace and workplace.
It assesses our Kier Sheffield LLP was awarded a Big Tick Award for approach to climate change, waste and resource employability by BITC Yorkshire & Humberside for management and biodiversity.
It also reviews health, the second successive year in 2008 and once again safety and wellbeing, employee development, participated in the BITC Yorkshire & Humberside Environmental Index, improving its score for the fourth consecutive year and maintaining its position in the silver sector of the Index league table, CONSIDERATE CONSTRUCTORS SCHEME which is an excellent achievement.
Kier Building Services Engineers also worked with BITC and the Marks out of 40 No.
of registrations childrens charity Kids Club in the London Borough 34.00 Industry average 70 of Hackney, while Kier Build is involved in the Kier Group average Business Action Group coordinated by BITC in the No.
of registrations delivery of the vast 67-acre brownfield site being 33.50 60 developed by Argent at Kings Cross.
33.00 Once again our Group training & development 50 department used BITC to help deliver the Groups 32.50 executive leadership programme, sourcing three projects for nine senior managers directors on 40 32.00 the programme to work on community engagement activities.
31.50 30 Considerate Constructors Scheme: community, safety, environment 31.00 From 1 January 2008 the Group became an 20 Associate Member of the Considerate Constructors 30.50 Scheme and from that date it became mandatory for every eligible Kier site or project to be registered 10 30.00 with the scheme and to be assessed under its Code of Considerate Practice.
This nationwide scheme and its associated code have been identified by the 29.50 0 Jul 07 Aug 07 Sept 07 Oct 07 Nov 07 Dec 07 Jan 08 Feb 08 Mar 08 Apr 08 May 08 Jun 08 28 KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 1 Cathy Jamieson, MSP for Carrick, Cumnock and the Doon Valley, presented a safety award to Kier Mining staff and operatives at the Greenburn surface mine near New Cumnock to mark the achievement of five years of operation at the site without any reportable accidents.
Receiving the award is Harry Simpson, works manager at Greenburn.
2 Basil Paske of Kier Western explains the construction drawings to a visitor on a site visit at the Torre Abbey refurbishment project, near Exeter.
3 Kier Dubai LLC has set a significant 3 new record for the region by achieving 5,000,000 man-hours without a losttime accident representing almost two years of accident-free working.
In recognition of this milestone, an 2 award was presented to Kier Dubai general manager Shree Kulkami by Kier Construction general manager Andrew Keir.
Group as a vital tool in improving our reputation, Environmental management image and, above all, health, safety, welfare During the year, the safety, health & environment and environmental performance.
It has all the SHE department further developed its structure of ingredients and mechanisms necessary for us to regional environmental managers.
This included monitor, benchmark and improve our performance appointing a sustainability manager for the at site and project level through third-party Group Construction division with responsibility assessment across a broad range of issues under for coordinating and implementing the Groups eight distinct categories: sustainability strategy and coordinating our environmental management system, which has Considerate Respectful ISO14001 certification.
This provides the Environment Safe framework, externally audited by BSI and other Cleanliness Responsible bodies, against which we benchmark our Good neighbour Accountable environmental performance.
Under these headings, the schemes third-party, As part of the implementation of this sustainability independent auditors assess a project, giving each strategy, the Group has been active in promoting category a score up to five the best score and a the environmental aspects of our CR policy, through full project score up to 40.
In this way, we have both the individual businesses, and various Group been able to monitor, on a monthly basis, not only forums.
In November 2007, we held a Kier Group individual project performances, but also those of carbon footprint seminar covering the role of each operating company and division and, in turn, design in achieving zero-carbon and low-carbon the Group performance against the national industry development, the Code for Sustainable Homes, average.
It has therefore allowed us to identify client demands on carbon footprint for the retail any areas for improvement under the reporting sector and on carbon footprint and the property categories outlined above, the type of project, or commercial sectors.
More importantly, it has enabled us to demonstrate and share best practice As a result of these debates and seminars, several within the Group and to set achievable targets for new initiatives have been developed.
The first is the every project and company to aim for.
This requires businesses across the Group to monitor the energy The full-year statistics demonstrate that the Group they use and put in place measures to reduce has consistently performed above the industry energy consumption.
The aim is to reduce our average every single month in the past reporting carbon footprint by 10% over the next 12 months.
year, completing the final month of the year on an Supported by a poster campaign and a monitoring average score of 33.6 against the national industry proforma issued to all businesses, this initiative is average of 31.6. being rolled out in the autumn of 2008.
It is important to consistently achieve above Kier Group was well prepared for the introduction the industry average and, despite the Groups of the Site Waste Management Plan regulations diversity, we have successfully out-performed the that came into effect in 2008.
We engaged BRE industry average every month in the year.
We use to produce a bespoke version of their web-based these statistics as an internal benchmark against SMARTwaste Plan, which has been adopted by all the overall industry average in order to promote Kier Group businesses.
improvement for our own operations.
As part of this exercise, we have begun publishing a quarterly Considerate Constructors Scheme performance review as an internal auditing document to help our project teams improve their performance.
KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 1 Using SMARTwaste Plan has ensured a uniform grounds, and building bug boxes and compost approach to managing construction waste and bins amongst other activities.
Moss Construction provided a source of reliable data.
The plans continues to gain national awards 18 to date for are being used not only to demonstrate legal its environmental flagship building of the National compliance, but also to identify opportunities to Trust headquarters in Swindon.
These will then be implemented Amongst others, Kier South East, Kier Eastern and Group-wide.
Kier Retail have been organising a series Kier Regional is currently supporting a Construction of workshops to help key members of their Industry Research and Information Association respective supply chains develop their own CIRIA project to develop an environmental training environmental management systems.
Facilitated resource pack based on its successful publication by White Young Green Environmental and funded C502 Environmental Good Practice on Site.
This by the Government BREW Business Resource training pack comprises a series of presentations Efficiency & Waste programme, these workshops together with detailed guidance notes and case aim to provide environmental management system Embracing Diversity Kier Building Maintenance studies covering a variety of environmental issues, guidance for companies to be independently has worked with performance which can be delivered individually or combined audited and then accredited through various improvement experts HouseMark to produce a more comprehensive training session.
phases to achieve BS8555, a stepping stone to to produce a guide showing how a variety of social landlords and CIRIA will launch this innovative training resource, the Groups own ISO14001 accreditation.
Several maintenance providers have found which should prove invaluable to the construction subcontractors have now been accredited at various practical ways of addressing diversity, industry, towards the end of 2008. levels of BS8555 due to these Group initiatives.
such as: meeting the needs of their diverse Regionally, all Group businesses have been engaged Donations to charities customer base to provide an with a variety of bodies and local initiatives that excellent and accessible service During the year ended 30 June 2008, the Group are collated at the centre to share best practice embedding the values of diversity companies donated, directly and indirectly, in their workforce throughout the organisation.
For example, 127,000 2007: 109,000 to a wide variety of ensuring that the composition protecting and enhancing a sites biodiversity is one charities and other establishments across the UK of their repairs and maintenance of the aims of the Group strategy for sustainability and overseas.
As in the past, we record direct workforce reflects the communities they work for.
and is a highly visible means of demonstrating Group cash donations annually see directors The guide demonstrates that our commitment to sustainable development.
report on page 41, but within this report we are additional funding and dedicated Marriott Construction recently undertook to protect again monitoring all of our external sponsorship, resources are not always necessary to the wildlife on its EDS project, resulting in their provide opportunities and a sensitive, including those sums raised by individuals and responsive and accessible service.
project manager addressing the Construction teams in sporting activities.
An electronic copy in pdf format Industry Environmental Forums seminar on putting can be downloaded from the Towards the end of the year, the Board agreed biodiversity into sustainable construction.
to sponsor Team GB in some way for the Beijing Kier Easterns Norwich Schools projects have Olympic Games.
Rather than donate to the generic involved providing bat bricks in the new school cause, we directly supported the Huntingdon building, supplying bat boxes for the children Gymnastics Club, being local to the Group head to build, for placing in trees within the school ENVIRONMENTAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION DIVISION Actual Actual Actual Actual 2005 2006 2007 2008 Cost of waste as % of revenue 0.37 0.35 0.33 0.33 Kilogrammes of carbon emitted per square metre 82.63 74.13 49.16 65.00 Environmental training days per person per year 0.19 0.10 0.15 0.17 Prosecutions nil nil nil nil 30 KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 1 Pupils from Morelands Primary School in Hampshire, one of 16 projects by Brazier for Hampshire County Council to provide childrens centres at schools across the county.
The children are pictured with their winning poster designs following a safety talk by Brazier staff.
Brazier director Shane Mason right and site manager Pat Woods left are pictured with the children and head teacher.
2 The Group donated 10,000 to the Huntingdon Gymnastics Club for a variety of new equipment including a new vaulting horse and safety matting.
Pictured are Paul Sheffield, of Kier Group, with Louis Smith 19, who won a Bronze Medal in the pommel horse event at the Beijing Olympic Games and Daniel Keatings, Olympic finalist, together with head coach at the club Paul Hall.
2 office in Sandy, and which sent four of its members At the introductory level of our career development Sustainable procurement policy to Beijing for the Games.
programme, we recruited over 115 graduates and A key component of the Groups 100 students to start their professional careers in overall sustainability strategy is The key areas of Group support during the year are having in place a robust 2008.
We offer a comprehensive and structured as follows: procurement policy.
graduate scheme that includes technical and The policys objective is to ensure managerial training to recognised professional KEY AREAS OF GROUP SUPPORT DURING THE YEAR that, as far as is practicable, we standards.
This helps to motivate people in the purchase materials and services 000s 2008 2007 that through their use, sourcing, Group to achieve their career goals, and to attract Education 6 3 or manufacture, have the smallest high levels of new recruits.
The Group continues impact on both society and Sport 16 27 to work with schools, colleges, universities and the environment.
Wider community events 41 23 careers advisors to promote the construction We will look to achieve this through: Employee sponsored challenges 6 2 raising awareness of the policy industry as a career choice and has over 200 people within the Group Direct support for needy 26 44 currently studying for technical qualifications on providing training and guidance Other 32 10 various training schemes who joined the Group as to enable staff to make informed Total 127 109 school-leavers.
The Group also has over 160 craft and responsible decisions when purchasing materials and services apprentices in construction skills.
Some of these ensuring that our supply chain, apprentices have been recognised by their craft including clients, designers, Some of the notable charities supported by Group guild as outstanding tradesmen through winning subcontractors and suppliers, are businesses and individuals included: various skills competitions.
aware of this policy working with our supply chain to CLIC Sargent Cancer and Leukaemia Over 12% of our workforce is on new entry identify those products that have a in Childhood harmful effect on the environment training programmes, and this helps us to maintain Macmillan Cancer Support and find alternatives that are less and improve the talent of our workforce.
In damaging where practicable Wildlife Trust January 2008, we entered 45 school-leavers and using, where feasible, products Meningitis Research Foundation experienced tradesmen onto a foundation degree made from reclaimed or recycled CRASH The Construction and Property materials instigated and designed by the Group and set up Industries Charity for Homeless People influencing the contract with Oxford Brookes University.
This is a unique specification so as to include, Fire Services Benevolent Fund foundation degree delivered through distance where relevant, a requirement for Care UK sustainable procurement learning and block release centred on cutting-edge Breast Cancer Campaign taking into account a construction practices.
The programme delivers Race for Life subcontractor suppliers learning specifically for modern contractors.
commitment to sustainable Great Ormond Street procurement when assessing The Group actively encourages all employees their suitability as a supply People development and training to achieve full professional membership in their chain member.
The Group is committed to the lifelong relevant discipline.
Our graduate scheme trains We will monitor our performance development of all its employees.
Our approach and include our findings in an annual employees to full membership in recognised sustainability statement.
We will involves recruiting talented people into the industry professional institutions.
We currently have over 70 ensure that examples of best practice and providing a career development framework professional and technical staff working towards are identified and disseminated that supports people from entry level to senior throughout our business.
a construction management National Vocational leadership and prepares our teams to meet and Qualification NVQ.
Additionally, we accredited exceed our customers requirements.
Our career over 55 plant operators in specialist plant NVQs at development framework incorporates a series our Greenburn opencast mining site.
Our technical of programmes, covering people at all stages training is based around the findings of various best of their careers.
practice groups and helps to disseminate knowledge around the Group, adding value for our clients.
We are committed to our Equal Opportunities policy which encourages job applications from all During the last year, we have launched a site sectors of the community.
This is demonstrated by management academy aimed at our housebuilding the diversity of the people recruited.
KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 1 2 1 Under the guise of Moss the NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES REGISTERED ON COURSES site staff.
This programme has been shortlisted Magic Dragons, a team from Moss OR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES IN 2008 for the 2008 Innovation in Training awards Construction participated in a dragon School-leavers studying for technical qualifications 200 by the National House-Building Council NHBC.
boat race to raise funds for CLIC Craft apprenticeships in construction skills 160 Sargent, a charity concerned with Our aim is to develop our staff into our future cancer and leukaemia in childhood.
Foundation degree at Oxford Brookes University 45 management.
We believe this delivers longNVQ accreditation for plant operatives 67 2 Dumpy, a refuse collection vehicle, term continuity and success for the Group.
was converted by Kier Street Services Construction management NVQs 70 Our management development programmes into a recycling, re-use and wasteSponsorships internships 102 have supported us in ensuring that our future saving educational vehicle which is used to spread important messages Graduate schemes working towards management is continually developed from on the environment to children and professional accreditation 220 within the Group.
parents alike at a variety of locations.
Total 864 The Group runs an executive and directors development programme based around defined The Group has delivered approximately 21,500 competencies providing structured development training days during the year 2007: 17,000 and to senior management and directors.
This is linked 14% of our construction workforce is engaged on to the Groups strategy of sharing best practice new entry training programmes.
As part of the programme we Health & Safety have incorporated a series of voluntary community Group companies have in this past year diligently projects led by the participants to prepare them for focused on getting back to basics to ensure we further corporate responsibility as well as supporting create and maintain safe sites.
A strategic review of their leadership skills development.
current SHE procedures is being rolled out across We are very proud that in 2007 Kier Group was the Group with the aim of ensuring a simple process awarded the Contract Journal award for training that is understood by both employees and supply for the second year in succession, a fantastic chain members.
The progress made last year on endorsement by the industry of the quality of our people issues has helped shape our current strategy approach to people development.
which aims to ensure a practical safety approach At the beginning of 2008, we implemented a that facilitates safe working processes on site.
Group-wide employee engagement survey to Health & safety training has increased across the understand how our people feel about working for business and the Group has been instrumental in the Group and how we can improve engagement the Major Contractors Group MCG development levels.
The results reveal that our people strongly of the Construction Skills Supervisor course soon identify with the Group and we have a favourable to be delivered across the industry.
This benchmark level of highly engaged people compared with UK course will set the standard of SHE training for industry averages.
We have planned improvements construction supervisors not just in the Group but in to enhance the engagement of our people over the the construction industry UK-wide.
next two years and intend to use the survey as a key business measure every two years.
As a Group we are embarking on a positive safety leadership campaign that is supported by the The Group works to overcome industry challenges British Safety Council.
This campaign will build on such as skills shortages through its work with our current behavioural successes in Kier Support schools, colleges and universities.
We focus on Services and our joint venture water business customers by ensuring our workforce is fully KMI Plus.
It will challenge behaviour across the competent and able to deliver best practice for Construction division and will help all employees to clients.
The continual investment in people is examine their personal behaviour and to implement embedding a deep-rooted development culture to the positive actions required for an improved maintain our long-term success.
This approach is needed 32 KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 AIR v MANPOWER TEN-YEAR CHART Manpower AIR 25000 End of June AIR 2500 At 30 June 2008 the Kier Group End of June Average Manpower AIR was 588 per 100,000 staff 20000 2000 and subcontractors, measured against a HSE benchmark of 865.
15000 1500 This compares with our 2007 AIR of 640 per 100,000 staff and subcontractors measured against 10000 1000 an HSE benchmark of 946.
5000 500 0 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 RoSPA BSC AWARDS RECEIVED IN 2008 to ensure that the positive work that has already been delivered throughout the Group is further AWARD 2008 2007 strengthened and developed.
RoSPA gold medals 12 11 RoSPA gold awards 10 9 Using the approach of safe and unsafe acts RoSPA silver awards 1 1 recognition, we will reinforce the positives and RoSPA bronze awards 0 2 with support and education develop and promote a positive safety culture in the weaker areas.
British Safety Council national awards 17 16 Our subcontract supply chain members will also Customers be asked to partake in this programme and we Customer care remains at the heart of our vision believe this open, honest and proactive leadership and core values: By providing our clients with the programme will further enhance the positive safety highest possible quality of service and through culture partnerships we currently enjoy with our sustainable, profitable growth, our vision is to be supply chain.
More details are shown in the AIR the most highly respected Group in the industry.
Our volume of repeat and negotiated business and Occupational health particularly the number of partnering frameworks We have focused on a number of areas to put the in which we operate clearly demonstrates our health back into health & safety throughout the commitment to customer service, quality of service year.
We employed a specialist occupational health and our focus on delivering value and innovation.
manager who has reviewed and streamlined the The diverse nature of our business divisions occupational health processes that were in place enables us to enhance our customer relations and and we will continue to develop these processes community relations across a broad spectrum to raise awareness both within the Group and our from business-to-business on one hand to direct supply chain.
One highlight of the occupational consumer relations on the other.
The Support health programme has been the highly successful Services division is not only focused upon the local Mens Health Roadshow.
The occupational health authority clients, but especially upon the residents team, supported by nurses and consultants, visited and tenants in whose homes we are working for a large number of our sites throughout the UK repairs, maintenance, refurbishment and upgrading.
promoting a host of subjects including personal Similarly, our Homes division delivering private health issues, general health awareness, healthy homes and Kier Partnership Homes working on eating and task-related health awareness.
This affordable housing have particular obligations to proactive site-level approach to occupational customer care and after-sales service.
health was very well received by both employees In the context of both construction and support and supply chain members, raising awareness services, our adoption of the Considerate of personal health issues in a practical and Constructors Scheme and our becoming an Associate understandable way.
Member of the scheme signals a further commitment The longer-term education focus will be to by us to assume measurable responsibilities towards reinvigorate occupational health issues at induction our customers, the communities in which we work and as a fundamental part of any design and safe and the environment impacted by that work.
This approach will also include a We constantly monitor and report every quarter health surveillance programme to ensure that we through our Kier Regional key performance continue to promote health awareness.
indicator reports on customer satisfaction levels Our focus for the new year will be to continue to based upon feedback on their perception of us raise awareness of safe working and occupational measured on points up to a maximum of 9.0.
It resulted health throughout the Group and our supply chain.
in Kier Regional achieving an overall figure of 8.6 against a target set at 8.0 for the year.
KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 33
