24 A sustainable business King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Corporate Responsibility steps to sustainability Over the past year King sher has been working with the sustainable B&Q Chinas Better Homes campaign is ongoing promoting development charity Forum for the Future to identify sustainability sustainable products to customers through the Better Homes opportunities and challenges for the business over the next 10 logo, catalogue, in-store posters and lea ets.
In order to prepare for these changes, King sher has set Energy ef cient products To help customers reduce their the ambitious objective of fully integrating sustainability into its impact on climate change, the business has sourced its own-brand business thinking.
Individual case studies have been included range of energy-ef cient light bulbs, which are being rolled out in the Operating Review on pages 8 to 17 and further information across the Group.
B&Q UK has run its Energy Ef ciency Made Easy is available in King shers Corporate Responsibility Report and campaign for the second year, with TV adverts and a printed yer on the King sher website.
on energy ef cient products.
Castorama France has introduced King sher has also developed a set of sustainability goals see a series of workshops for customers in stores on energy saving.
We are working to achieve these goals through our Timber In 2007 08, 71% of reported timber volume sold was Steps to Responsible Growth programme.
This sets out speci c from proven, well managed forests or recycled.
King shers target actions that King shers operating companies must take on 12 key is to increase this to 75% by 2010 11 and a timber advisor has been social and environmental issues.
For each issue, it identi es three recruited to help achieve this.
levels of progress minimum action, policy target and leadership position.
Most of the operating companies have now met the Chemicals Operating companies are required to have a minimum action level of progress on the 12 issues, with some programme to engage with vendors over the use of chemicals going beyond this on speci c issues.
King shers target is for the of concern by 2010 11.
A Steering Group has been set up to operating companies to meet the policy target level by the end of help prepare for the new EU chemicals legislation, REACH.
The company has also set five-year targets on energy, Factory working conditions King shers overseas sourcing waste and sustainable timber sourcing and additional targets of ces audited 433 factories in 2007 08 to assess compliance with will also be set in 2008 in the light of the new sustainability goals.
the King sher Code of Conduct on Factory Working Conditions.
In The company has been ranked highly in a number of recent addition, a number of King sher operating companies have supplier benchmarking studies.
For example, it achieved Platinum status assessment programmes and King sher has developed a Supply in the BITC CR Index 2007 and number one position in the UK Chain Toolkit to help ensure a consistent approach across the Group.
in The Independent newspapers guide to the worlds greenest Making our own operations sustainable companies.
King sher also continues to be included in the two Climate change King sher has been working with the Carbon main socially responsible investment indices the FTSE4Good Trust to measure and reduce the Groups carbon footprint.
Energy and Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI.
2 ef ciency of stores was 214 kwh m in 2007 08.
The Group target is Sustainable products for consumers to achieve a 10% improvement in store energy ef ciency by 2011 12 Consumers are becoming increasingly aware of environmental and from 2006 07. sustainability issues bringing new opportunities for our businesses Waste King sher has a target to cut the amount of store waste to develop and market sustainable products and services.
disposed tonnes per of retail sales by 10% by 2011 12 against Marketing campaigns King shers operating companies the 2006 07 baseline.
have started a number of high pro le marketing campaigns to Diversity Across the Group, women accounted for 40% of total help customers create more sustainable homes.
For example: employees and 27% of managers in 2007 08.
A Diversity Guidance B&Q UK is one of the first major businesses to commit to Pack has been produced for King sher operating companies.
One Planet Living an initiative launched by the environmental organisations WWF and BioRegional, which sets out 10 Store neighbourhoods King sher aims to be a good neighbour sustainability principles to ensure people live within the in all the communities it serves.
Operating companies support resources of this planet.
The company is planning to introduce a wide range of community and charity projects.
See page 35 for One Planet Living products to help customers reduce the impact data on charity contributions.
See further details on page 10.
A more detailed Corporate Responsibility Report for 2007 08 Castorama France has continued to work in partnership with is available on the King sher website at www.
com cr WWF to promote Partners for the Planet products.
It has and as a printed summary.
The report has been reviewed by produced a 24-page guide for customers Ma Plante cest ma an independent stakeholder panel and assurance of the data Maison The Planet, Its My Home.
See further details on page 15. conducted by Ernst & Young.
The data presented is gathered from operating companies, joint ventures and overseas sourcing of ces.
The scope varies by data set.
Please refer to the CR Report and website for further details.
indd 24 21 4 08 16:35:20 21 4 08 16:35:20 Our sustainability goals 25 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 King shers aim is to fully 01.
Our customers integrate sustainability and services Make it easy for our into business thinking and customers to create be the customer choice Enable sustainability their homes in a for sustainable home in all our product and sustainable way improvement products service categories and services.
Our economic Engage employees operations growth to be champions of Ensure our stores Use our sustainability sustainability across and operations strategy to create value our business are ef cient and for the bene t of our sustainable business and shareholders 06.
Our world Be a good neighbour Work with our suppliers in all the communities and partners to make we serve sustainability easy and nd solutions to common sustainability problems www.
