CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We value our reputation for fairness and integrity, behaving responsibly throughout all our operations.
We also recognise the importance of good employee relationships and high levels of customer satisfaction.
Our approach to business CR strategy We want the Ladbrokes brand to be The following CR issues have been identified recognised and trusted wherever we do as key to supporting our business growth business.
Therefore our internal codes of and form the pillars of our CR strategy conduct require business professionalism, going forward: honesty and integrity in all that we do.
We maintaining high ethical and socially seek to comply with all relevant legislation responsible standards throughout and to maintain good relationships with our operations: all our stakeholders.
promoting responsible gambling behaviours Ladbrokes is committed to being among the across our business and the industry as leaders of our sector in responsible business a whole: practice.
During 2008 our high standards keeping our customers satisfied: well of Corporate Responsibility CR were again informed about and interested in the recognised by the Dow Jones Sustainability products and services we offer: Indexes DJSI and FTSE4Good Indices.
attracting a diverse workforce and sustaining high levels of competence, CR governance motivation and loyalty to the business: Our aim is to embed CR policies and minimising the risks from our third-party processes within the day to day operation of relationships business partnerships, joint our business.
The Chief Executive, who sits ventures or within our supply chain: on both the Executive Committee and the minimising the financial and reputational Group Board, is ultimately responsible for impact of non-compliance with CR legislation: CR matters.
The Chief Executive is supported minimising health, safety and security risks by the CR Team who provide an overview to our business, our employees and the and advisory function for the business.
general public from our operations: understanding global environmental make sure that we engage at all levels in our Overall governance of CR is the responsibility agendas and minimising the impact organisation, more details of which are given of the Executive Committee and the Group of increasing environmental costs on in our separate CR Report.
CR and governance issues are given our operations: and full consideration by the Executive Committee In particular, we keep abreast of the policies being a good corporate citizen and a and the Group Board when defining the and standards of the most significant of our respected neighbour in our communities.
investors and the research organisations We monitor our performance through which support them.
We review their reports CR risks are regularly reviewed by the appropriate KPIs reflecting each pillar of our on Ladbrokes and engage in an ongoing business and are considered by the Board, CR strategy.
Further detail on these is given dialogue where appropriate.
as appropriate, as a part of the corporate risk in our separate CR report.
The results to date review process.
CR matters are reported We also participate in a number of CR indices suggest that we are broadly in line with our to the Group Board on a regular basis as a and disclosure schemes, providing information strategic aims.
minimum quarterly thus forming part of the on the Groups CR activities and taking note Board calendar, along with tailored director of their feedback on our submissions.
Engaging with our stakeholders briefings and where appropriate, training.
Our stakeholders are all those people who High ethical and socially The Board reviews the key CR issues have influence over our business and the responsible standards and agrees the annual CR strategy.
Board industry we work in, and in turn those who we For many years we have supported the members are provided with adequate influence during our operations.
Ladbrokes Association of British Bookmakers ABB and background information to support their has a wide range of stakeholders from our the Remote Gambling Association RGA in decision making.
The remuneration committee shareholders, employees and customers, establishing industry-wide social responsibility also takes account of CR issues when through to our regulators and academics.
determining executive remuneration and We believe that we should engage with For example we were involved with the RGA benefits.
CR governance and management our stakeholders and stay informed of their in developing the new Code for Socially processes are subject to internal audit and opinions.
This knowledge is vital to the longResponsible Advertising and have remained the reporting process is externally verified term development of our business.
We have active in the discussions with the ABB by our CR advisors, Acona Ltd. a comprehensive programme in place to over the potential RET levy funding for 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY research, education and treatment for We have our own systems in place to problem gambling.
ensure that our customers are well informed, for example: about our products, about We have embraced the new legislative regime problem gambling issues and for our online in the UK and are meeting the requirements of customers, about their own gambling history.
We fully support In support of this, we dont use misleading I was delighted to see that the Commissions three key licensing teasers to entice customers onto our sites FTSE4Good, the Dow Jones objectives to: or misrepresent the risks to our customers Sustainability Indices and the keep crime out of gambling: by the use of free demo games with more Observer Good Companies Guide ensure gambling is conducted fairly favourable odds to the main play.
recognised our good practice in CR.
All of these accolades convince and openly: and We provide inherent protection to try me that we are on the right track.
protect children and vulnerable people from to limit the possible financial impacts on being harmed or exploited by gambling.
Christopher Bell our customers from excessive gambling, Chief Executive All relevant personnel are trained to meet the e. g. daily and weekly deposit limits and required standards.
To monitor compliance appropriate customer due diligence.
we have a comprehensive programme in We protect the young and the vulnerable place, headed by our Compliance Director through, for example, clear marketing and overseen by our Compliance Committee.
standards, strict age limits, on-line age This programme is subject to internal audit.
verification checks and self exclusion arrangements.
Promoting responsible gambling behaviours Ladbrokes continues to work with its peers and national governments to improve responsible gambling behaviour across the industry.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY For most people, gambling is an enjoyable Highlights Commentary and harmless leisure pursuit.
However, for Dow Jones Sustainability Indices One of only two global betting and gaming a small number of people gambling can companies in the Dow Jones Sustainability become a behavioural problem.
We scored 71%, thats 7% up from has a responsibility to help tackle problem last year.
gambling, understand its causes and promote its treatment.
We make our employees aware FTSE4Good Ladbrokes remains in FTSE4Good following of the symptoms of problem gambling and both March and September reviews.
We have train them in how to respond.
Ladbrokes been members since its foundation in 2002. was a founding member of the Responsibility The Observer Good Companies Guide 58th out of a total of 311 companies of the in Gambling Trust RIGT, the Independent FTSE350 in the Observer Good Companies Guide.
Betting Adjudication Service IBAS and, through RIGT, supports GamCare and the Britains Most Admired Companies Ladbrokes was 60th in Management Todays list Gordon Moody Association formerly Gordon of Britains Most Admired Companies.
We developed our front-line training programmes with the help of GamCare The WOW!
Awards Retail customer satisfaction averages over and over the past three years we have 87% and over 840 employees get WOW!
Award trained all of our employees in responsible Nominations for excellent customer service.
Ladbrokes Retail Performance 2008 New retail bonus scheme benefits more staff.
A key role for RIGT is to develop a national More than 70% of cashiers think the new bonus public education and awareness strategy scheme is better than previous years.
as part of the overall prevention of problem gambling agenda.
The gambleaware website High Safety Standards We have a good health and safety record.
continues to perform well and the logo or There have been no fatalities and no major website address www.
co. uk injuries across the business in 2008. is carried on all our advertising.
Environmental Performance Our CO2 emissions from our UK Retail and Research indicates that young people are eGaming businesses were over 55,000 tonnes more susceptible to problem gambling than CO2 equivalent for 2008.
RIGT has therefore commissioned the equivalent figure in 2007 and is due to Tacade, a not-for-profit organisation, working increased opening hours across our estate.
with Nottingham Trent University, to create materials specifically aimed at this group.
Communities and Charities Ladbrokes in the Community Charitable Trust LICCT donated over 780,000 to charities Just another game and You bet have been across the UK, including 100,000 to Breast written to raise awareness amongst young Cancer Awareness Campaign, 100,000 to people of gambling issues in order to help Childline, 50,000 to Guide Dogs For The Blind prevent problems.
The education packs and 25,000 to The Samaritans.
enable young people to develop personal and social skills that are also relevant to Leading Employer The British betting industry employs over 40,000 a wide range of choices and not just to people, over 14,000 of whom work for Ladbrokes.
More information is provided Leader in Safety and Security Ladbrokes is the only national bookmaker to have on the RIGT website.
in the workplace a 24 x 7 central security team and 100% of shops with CCTV, Panic Alarms and Intruder Alarms.
Leading funder of problem Committed to voluntary funding for research, gambling charities education and treatment.
Ladbrokes regularly exceeds its fair share of contributions.
24 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Growing and keeping our customers Suppliers and business partners company data on climate change issues.
We provide our customers with an enjoyable, We have a responsibility to assess the social, In addition the facilities, procurement and efficient, secure, fair and socially responsible ethical and environmental risks associated IT teams have identified savings through service and all our employees are trained with our business partnerships, joint ventures a number of energy saving and waste to support this commitment.
These will be implemented initially across the UK estate.
We are keen to drive brand loyalty and all This year we have piloted our new responsible that the brand stands for, including trust procurement framework.
In conjunction with Supporting our communities and integrity.
We seek customer views and the central procurement team, we have tested We strive to be a good corporate citizen and encourage feedback on our employees compliance with the Ladbrokes global CR a valued member of the communities in which and our services.
We continually assess supply chain standards with some of our we operate.
We recognise the links our our performance through third-party audits key suppliers.
employees have to their own communities e. g. mystery shopper surveys and monitoring and through Ladbrokes in the Community Health, safety and security customer complaints.
Charitable Trust LICCT we support their We aim for best practice health and safety This year we were the first company within activities by giving something back.
standards throughout all our operations the betting and gaming industry to establish and we support a proactive culture of risk LICCT has raised over 4.1 million for good a customer reward card.
Our health and safety record causes since it was established in 2003. great success with over 150,000 customers in 2008 was good.
We had no fatalities or The funds have been raised by employees signing up for the card in the first week.
major injuries across our business and all around the country.
During 2008 LICCT More details on this are given in the UK Retail following 92 health and safety inspector visits donated over 780,000 to charitable and review on page 15. in the UK alone, there were no enforcement community causes across the UK.
Diverse and motivated workforce Furthermore we had no prosecutions or As our business becomes more sophisticated Our full CR Report convictions for health and safety offences.
and technology driven, we need to ensure For further details of our CR policies that we sustain a high level of competence One of the important risks to the health of and performance, please refer to our across the business and increase our capacity our employees and our customers comes 2008 CR Report which is available to respond to changing market needs.
from breaches of security on our premises, on the Companys website, We recognise that our employees represent such as robbery and theft.
a centre of excellence for the industry one heavily in CCTV which is installed across all Further information on our approach which we wish to maintain.
of our UK Retail estate, both to help reduce to responsible business is also included the number of incidents and to help protect A key part of our human resources strategy is in the Directors Report on page 35 employees and customers.
to be a modern, attractive and fair employer of this Annual Report.
and to value and recognise employee loyalty.
In addition, we carefully monitor and seek We work hard to understand the needs to minimise the financial impacts of health and expectations of our employees, most and safety related claims from across specifically through our UK Staff Council.
Ladbrokes also provides clear opportunities Environmental issues for development and progression: all of which helps to maintain high levels of employee Although Ladbrokes does not have a major impact on the environment, we are satisfaction and minimise turnover.
nevertheless committed to improving our During 2008 we launched a new retail environmental performance.
Our main focus bonus scheme and a new Get Set training is on energy efficiency, resource use and package which helps focus our training waste management.
We have reviewed the and development programmes.
issues associated with climate change and have been assessing the potential impact from the rising costs of utilities.
This year we joined the Carbon Disclosure Project an investor sponsored scheme for collating Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25
