Responsibility Corporate responsibility report Our approach to CR will continue to focus In addition to looking at our own operating CEOs introduction on three main objectives: environmental impacts, we have made Its been a year since my first Corporate signi cant investment in developing new z Respecting the environment Responsibility CR report with Logica and products and services that will assist our z Making a positive difference to the Im delighted with the progress that has customers to lower their carbon footprint.
Some of these include a web-based energyz Making Logica a great place to work.
I am personally passionate about promoting ef ciency management system: smart a Logica business culture where corporate metering to assist consumers to monitor their responsibility isnt just an addition, but an Respecting the environment own energy consumption, wind farm control integral part of our business.
Logica aims to operate an environmentally systems, on demand infrastructure services We recognise we still have a way to go on sustainable organisation and throughout the and carbon footprint measurement.
this journey but we are rmly committed to year we have been increasing the ways in which building a sustainable business at Logica.
we can minimise energy and carbon emissions.
Helping our customers improve their Our people are passionate about this and We have been researching ways in which environmental ef ciency increasingly our customers are turning to we can reduce electricity consumption and As an IT services provider, we recognise that us to provide them with the solutions and reduce emissions by improving the ef ciency Corporate Responsibility isnt only about our offerings that will help them to maximise of our data centres.
We ran a pilot programme own internal business.
We are continually ef ciencies and to meet their own in Portugal and successfully reduced looking to help our customers reduce their sustainability criteria.
In an uncertain emissions by around 396 tonnes by impact on the environment.
In May 2008 economic environment, becoming sustainable consolidation and improvements to air we implemented a European award winning is increasingly the right thing to do: by conditioning.
Cold weather can override the energy ef ciency management solution with reducing our exposure to volatile energy need for cooling data centres: our UK centre Vxj Energi in Sweden, introducing competition prices and continuing to help ourselves and in Bridgend manages its energy consumption in energy saving between customers.
Our our customers to decouple carbon from by switching off air conditioning and using Total Invoice Management solution saves our economic success, we are securing ourselves free air cooling when outside temperatures customers 17,000 tonnes of CO e every year, 2 a more viable long term future.
We will be building on the as e-invoices can save up to 75% of the CO e 2 Since our last CR report we made lessons learnt from these programmes to emitted in the invoicing process.
important steps towards establishing a increase the ef ciencies in our other data Throughout 2008 we have been successful Group-wide CR programme across all parts centres around our business.
in achieving external recognition for our of our business: we have improved the quality In 2008 total Group carbon emissions were environmental credentials: Logica is ranked of our sustainability measures, enhanced 143,819 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent as one of the UKs Top 20 Best Green the energy ef ciency of our operations and tCO e, primarily generated from of ce Companies in the Times newspaper index, 2 widened our community programme.
We have equipment, building heating, cooling, car and is rated as a leader in the Climate Change put our Corporate Responsibility agenda at air travel and data centre equipment.
In our Disclosure Leadership Index compiled by the the heart of our long term vision for the report this year we have improved the Carbon Disclosure Project and is in the Top 10 organisation with a view to demonstrating accuracy of data, collecting more usage Greenest Outsource Provider worldwide, that by working closely together with our key information from our global of ces.
Countries compiled by Black Book in a survey of 4,200 stakeholders we can make a real difference representing 94.5% of our staff have reported outsourcing customers, for the second to the world at large.
data over 2008, which is an increase from successive year.
Logica in the Netherlands Please follow Logicas corporate 66% representation in 2007.
A small part of was also ranked number one by the Carbon responsibility journey, including how we our CO report continues to be based upon Disclosure Projects Leadership Index, 2 are continuing to support the 10 principles estimations, surveys and extrapolations rather for transparency and completeness of as a signatory to the United Nations than actual data.
We will strive to again our submission.
Global Compact on our website: improve quality of reporting in 2009.
com cr an increase in total emission levels from 2007 which is primarily due to the increased logica.
com cr coverage of reporting and the inclusion of commuting travel, district heating and rail travel into our gures in line with Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Simultaneously, we can report reductions in emissions related to electricity and air travel, which is the result of environmental programmes in our countries.
Andy Green We will be using our gures as part of our Chief Executive Of cer submission into the 2008 Carbon Disclosure Project.
69 Responsibility ` Corporate responsibility report In 2009 our priorities will be to: There is still progress to make on some of Through 2009 we will embark on a the key indicators, but we had some notable programme to build a clear and compelling z Integrate all aspects our CR programme successes in 2008.
We are particularly brand positioning for Logica.
Our intention across the Group so that we run one pleased with the increasing participation in is to set out clearly for our stakeholders the holistic approach to CR the annual staff survey and are taking very inspiring idea behind the Logica brand that z Increase the transparency in our CR.
seriously the action plans that have been put will drive our communications, culture, We will be reporting via the indices in place based on the feedback we have offerings and capabilities and then to turn outlined in the Global Reporting Initiative received.
this into reality across the business.
Our GRI which will be available on our ambition is to use this as a mechanism to internet from June 2009 To read more about our plans build preference for Logica amongst our logica.
com cr z Implement reporting mechanisms for to make Logica a great place to principal stakeholders.
all CR activities work, please go to: In 2008 we held a competition www.
com cr z Increase employee communication for all employees called Storyshare.
This regarding our commitment to the United Retention and Development of our staff is a culminated in a Reward and Recognition Nations Global Compact key strategic issue for Logica and through the event, hosted by Logicas CEO, Andy Green.
z Increase environmental awareness and Logica University which we launched in 2006 The event was held to recognise those action amongst our people both in the as the umbrella for our international employee employees who have demonstrated the of ce and at home.
development programme, we will continue to essential behaviours that underpin our core develop and run our portfolio of programmes.
values and who prioritise the needs Making a positive difference E-learning is available to all staff and we of our customers.
During 2009 we are to the community saw a 28% increase in staff using this facility launching a new global recognition Logica believes that being active in the in 2008. programme which will enable all managers to wider community is an essential part of recognise and reward any individual or team our business.
Given Logicas role in the who has demonstrated these core values.
knowledge economy, our community activity focuses on educational programmes, particularly those targeted at young people.
Environmental targets We support projects that actively involve our Key objective 2008 targets Results Targets for 2009 people and, where possible, make use of Ensure Group Rollout carbon and energy Will be available from Our target is to reduce their expertise.
measurement capability management in key the second half of 2009 emissions by 6% during We have an established Group-wide of emissions territories: 2009: and 50% by 2020: community steering committee which fide ne Group CO Environmental manager 2 emissions reduction target appointed for each regularly shares best practices from our for 2009 country region: community projects around the world.
Improve country coverage France, India, Philippines, Netherlands of reporting to 100% and Portugal have developed local and or Improve environmental Implement Group-wide Programme in place and Build on awareness awareness amongst environmental awareness held our first Group One programme through international activities in line with our employees programme: Logica, One planet training, environmental international policy.
This framework enables Measure awareness of environmental day: ambassadors and countries to partake in local or global environmental programme 50% of staff believe we take increased internal in annual people survey our responsibility to society communications: volunteering, fundraising or charity donations: seriously Increase awareness of appropriate to their culture and needs of staff.
our CR programme to 65% Increase recycling Promote recycling 68% of our people have the 100% paper recycling activities and paper programmes across opportunity to recycle in availability across logica.
com community consumption the Group our buildings the Group: Establish baseline for To read more detailed information about our community measuring waste activity, including reports from our volunteers, go to: management www.
com community Making Logica a great place to work As a services business, we recognise that the quality of our business depends on the dedication and expertise of our people.
We want to attract the best people and provide them with career opportunities and to be a company where people want to build their careers.
70 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Responsibility ` Corporate responsibility report Community targets Key objective 2008 targets Results Targets for 2009 Develop a comprehensive Align our community Our policy is now in 10% increase on employees Group-wide approach activities across the place and has been involved in overseas to making a positive Group to ensure they communicated, with voluntary programmes: contribution to the support the Group regular updates to staff: 15% increase in employees community community objective Countries undertake involved in local voluntary community activity as programmes: appropriate to local Measure staff donations requirements aligned made across the Group with global objectives: 51 staff are involved in global overseas programmes: 157 staff are involved in local programmes Build employee Group programme to Increased numbers of Measure awareness of engagement amongst our develop community activity staff engaged in activities programme in annual stakeholders people survey with objective of achieving 65% awareness: Engagement to be re ected in volunteer numbers and donations: Effective measurement of Establish country speci c Country teams have Introduce assessment tool our contribution to the measurement criteria for successfully implemented to measure output and community community contribution local plans and we are effect of our community assessing methods for programmes measurement Great place to work targets Key objective 2008 targets Results Targets for 2009 Build con dence and 75% work by 64% work by Increased communication of values: Measurement of behaviour in line engagement in the Company values: Company values: Logica strategic 40% believe we are a 34% believe we are a with Company values as part our annual review process: journey better employer than better employer than other companies: other companies: Capture client feedback on employee performance through annual appraisal: 45% believe we work 42% believe we work successfully as a successfully as a Develop as standard the International global company global company resourcing tool so staff have opportunities to apply directly for international roles Increase overall Increase survey Survey response rate Increase survey response rate to 81%: employee satisfaction response rate was 79%: Achieve mean score of 3.60: to 75% : Mean score Develop and execute meaningful action Raise mean score achieved 3.51 plans to address staff issues raised to 3.55 through the people survey in February 2009 Improve satisfaction Increase satisfaction 48% of staff are More online training: with learning and with training and satis ed with training Logica University programmes to be development development to 55% and development made available to all staff progressively each year: Staff engagement levels in University to be monitored at Executive Committee level: Development of more international training programmes: Increase satisfaction with training to 55% Reduce Group-wide Reviewing incentive Attrition levels are now Manage attrition in order to keep the employee attrition scheme to ensure these 13% as compared to best people remain competitive: 16% as at end Reduce Group-wide December 2007: attrition by 2% This re ects the employee attrition over a six-month period For the first time, all countries in the Logica Group took part in the survey.
