18 Sustainable Development Review Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc We believe that sustainable development is paramount to the 19 future of the Company, our employees and the communities where we operate.
Sustainable Development Focus Areas in 2008 The development and training of our employees is We are committed to reporting publicly our sustainable critical to the establishment of a competent workforce development performance as we recognise that our and future leadership for the Company.
We continued to performance is of interest to a diverse range of both implement a number of training programmes and national and international stakeholders, including our initiatives during 2008 including Adult Basic Education employees and contractors.
For the 2008 financial year, and Training ABET, which assists people with literacy we are publishing a Summary Sustainable Development and numeracy, the Lonmin Training Academy, which Report, as well as a more extensive web-based develops peoples technical and safety skills, and a study Sustainable Development Report, giving detailed assistance programme for employees undergoing information on our sustainable development performance independent, part time education.
In 2008, 2,866 full time during the year.
These reports can be found on our employees, 193 community members and 795 part time website: www.
employees attended ABET courses, 118 participated in We believe that sustainable development is the six week Lonmin Leadership Development paramount to the future of the Company, our employees Programme, 188 employees and 592 community and the communities where we operate.
Contributing members participated in the Lonmin training programme to sustainable development helps to create value and and 90 supervisors completed the Front Line Supervisory reduces operational and financial risk, thereby enabling Development Programme.
us to deliver a more consistent performance in the future.
As part of our commitment to empower HDSAs, we Our sustainable development efforts continued to have policies and procedures in place to retain and develop focus on the following risk areas during the year: HDSA employment in a non-discriminatory manner.
At the end of the 2008 financial year, 42.3% of our management Eliminating fatalities and injuries: team comprised of HDSA employees, ahead of our 40% Supporting a skilled and diverse workforce: target for the year.
In terms of preferential procurement, our Eliminating Noise Induced Hearing Loss NIHL : total procurement spend in 2008 with HDSA suppliers was 56.5%, surpassing our target of 50% by 2009.
Managing HIV AIDS in the workplace and community: Accessing and managing our energy and water Eliminating Noise Induced hearing Loss NIHL and resources and minimising our impact on the business: Managing HIV AIDS in the workplace and community We are committed to honouring our health and safety Uniting with our communities.
values and sustaining an environment that promotes the Eliminating fatalities and injuries health and wellbeing of our employees and contractors.
Zero Harm is a core value of our business.
We are The HIV AIDS epidemic has widespread social and committed to the wellbeing of our employees and economic consequences with an estimated 23% of our contractors, and maintaining a culture of safe behaviour.
Our strategic approach to Fatalities and serious injuries at our operations resulting managing HIV AIDS is based on prevention and treatment from falls of ground and material handling remain our key of the disease.
Our HIV AIDS prevention and education safety risks.
Details of various safety improvement programmes have had a noticeable impact, with a 38% programmes developed during the 2008 financial year reduction in HIV AIDS related deaths since 2006 as a direct are included in the Operating Review on page 7. result of early diagnosis and intervention, education and effective treatment.
Once the disease reaches a specific Supporting a skilled and diverse workforce stage, employees can benefit from the anti-retroviral We are committed to an appropriately skilled and diverse treatment programme.
We are committed to ensuring free workforce as a foundation to the success of our business.
anti-retroviral treatment for life for our employees.
We As a result of the ever increasing demand and competing currently have 989 patients on anti-retroviral treatment, interests for skilled recruits nationally and within the an 18% increase from 2007.
As a direct consequence of international mining industry, our success is dependent enhanced participation in our Voluntary Counselling and on our ability to support our existing employees.
As at Testing VCT programme in 2008, enrolment increased in 30 September 2008, our workforce totaled 25,368 with our wellness programme with an additional 550 employees an additional 7,720 contractors working at our operations.
joining taking the total participation to 1,150 employees.
com 20 Sustainable Development Review continued NIHL is the most significant, long term occupational In 2008, we reduced our aggregate fresh water intake disability in the Platinum mining industry.
In 2008, we by 15% per unit of production.
We continue to implement reduced our newly diagnosed NIHL cases by 62% water management programmes and to maximise water exceeding our target of a 20% reduction from our 2007 re-use and recycling to ensure sustainable resource baseline year.
We continue to focus on reducing noise utilisation.
In May 2008 we signed the memorandum of through equipment re-engineering and substitution, agreement as a participant in the Olifants River Water mandatory use of personal protective equipment and Resource Development Project between the Republic of regular screening of employees to enable early detection South Africa, the Joint Water Forum and other mining of hearing loss.
industry peers to secure water for our future mining operations at Akanani and Limpopo.
Accessing and managing our energy and water resources By their nature, the Groups mining and processing and minimising our impact on the environment operations have an impact on the environment, the most We remain committed to promoting the sustainable use relevant of which are as follows: of natural resources, particularly in light of the growing Greenhouse gases South Africas dominant demand for these resources in South Africa.
Our success electricity supplier, Eskom, uses coal or oil-fired in this area is dependant on our ability to secure access capacity for 90% of its power generation.
In total, to sufficient resources and to manage them in a 87% of the Groups energy consumption is derived responsible and sustainable manner at our operations.
from South Africas national grid.
The Group therefore The availability and security of power in South Africa has an impact on global warming through these remains a significant issue for the mining sector.
From indirect emissions of CO. We are focusing on energy 2 February until April 2008, we were obliged to operate management, and in particular improving energy within 90% of our normal consumption.
Since then, efficiency: following agreement with Eskom, we have been operating at 95% of normal consumption, and we expect to remain Air quality our Smelting operations result in the at this level for the foreseeable future.
During the year, we controlled emission of SO, under tightly-regulated 2 introduced a number of energy-saving programmes, permits, at levels in line with equivalent smelters including improved management of the energy efficiency outside the Group: of our mines compressed air networks and running our Materials stewardship and waste and water own internal electricity network on a more stringent basis.
management the Groups operations generate a In addition, we upgraded our electrical energy and number of waste materials and by-products, which demand management monitoring and control systems in must be disposed of by sale or otherwise in an order to effectively monitor our maximum demand and  manner.
Although in 2008, we have improved our aggregate energy consumption by The Groups products are predominantly used in 4.6% per unit of production, we increased our catalysts fitted to the exhausts of road vehicles to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 6.7% per unit of the emissions of noxious gases.
Significant quantities of production, mainly as a result of lower production.
the Groups Platinum, Palladium and Rhodium metal Our approach to the management of water resources sales are consumed by this application, thereby making is three-fold: to secure the availability of sufficient water a material positive impact on air quality.
for our current and future mining operations: to reduce our freshwater consumption by improving water use efficiencies and water recycling: and to prevent the contamination of ground and surface water resources in the regions where we operate.
We remain committed to promoting the sustainable use of natural resources, particularly in light of the growing demand for these resources in South Africa.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc 21 Uniting with our communities Lonmins key policies We are committed to empowering our host communities The Group has a Safety and Sustainable Development and improving their quality of life by contributing to their Policy in place which is underpinned by a number of long term social, economic and institutional development discipline-specific policies, management standards and and promoting the beneficiation of our minerals.
Our guidelines, covering the areas of environmental community development initiatives are focused on our local management, employment and social and community communities as well as our major labour sending areas in issues, the most material of which are described in the the Eastern Cape.
Our key focus areas are infrastructure Summary Sustainable Development Report and on the development, educational support, health support and Companys website, www.
local business development, including commercial During the year under review the development, agriculture.
Projects are selected and developed in close performance or position of the Group in these areas was collaboration with local authorities and government to satisfactory, and there were no significant issues identified.
ensure that we complement local development plans.
To that extent, the Groups policies are broadly effective.
Our community engagement programmes are focused However, these are evolving areas in terms of regulation on understanding community concerns, planning and and or enforcement and the Group will keep its policies managing community development projects and and their application under review.
encouraging community self-reliance, governance and As these matters are generally not significant in skills development.
This engagement takes the form of relation to the development, performance or position of area meetings and provides the opportunity for the Groups business as a whole, key performance community members to become part of projects in their indicators have not save for power consumption been area.
During 2008 we instituted a Development Forum included in those set out on pages 16 to 17.
More where local government, ward councilors, tribal councilors detailed performance indicators for 2008 are included and mining houses co-ordinate community development in the Summary Sustainable Development Report and projects.
In 2008, we continued to assess through an web-based report, both available from the Companys independent process, our relationship with communities website, www.
through a number of empirically verified social performance indicators.
This year our average combined ratings for Marikana and Limpopo amounted to 48%.
Sustainable Development highlights in 2008 key achievements versus targets We achieved a number of our sustainable development targets in 2008, particularly in the following key areas: Issue Achieved Target Safety We improved our Long Term Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR by 42% from 2007, exceeding our target.
Health We achieved a number of health targets in 2008.
By the end of the year, we had 989 patients with HIV on our anti-retroviral treatment programme, ahead of our target of a minimum of 900 patients.
In 2008, we reduced our newly diagnosed NIHL cases by 62% therefore achieving our target of 20% reduction from our 2007 baseline year.
Management 42.3% of our senior and middle management employees are now HDSA, ahead of our 2009 target to ensure that 40% of this level of management comprise of HDSA employees.
Preferential procurement In terms of preferential procurement, our total procurement spend in 2008 with HDSA suppliers was 56%, surpassing our target of 50% by 2009.
Environment We have reduced our aggregate fresh water intake by 15% per unit of production.
