Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Safety and Sustainability Committee Report 59 Role of the Safety and Sustainability Committee The Safety and Sustainability Committee is a formal committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its terms of reference were most recently reviewed by the Board in March 2008 and are available on the Companys website under Our business Executive Management.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board and, as necessary to the Audit and Risk Committee, on safety and sustainability including health, environment and community matters, and particularly as pertaining to the risk and management of these issues within the Group: To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board on the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with safety and sustainability: To assess the effectiveness of managements attitudes and approach towards, and activities in, managing safety and sustainability related risk: To periodically assess the effectiveness of the Groups policies, standards and systems for identifying and managing safety and sustainability related risk: To review significant safety and environmental incidents and consider causative factors, consequences and actions including the impact on employees and third parties and reputational risk: To review the Groups performance indicators in connection to safety and sustainability matters: and To report to the Board on developments, trends and or forthcoming significant legislation on safety and sustainability matters which may be relevant to the Groups operations, its assets or employees.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any matter within its terms of reference, seek any relevant information that it requires from any Director or employee of the Group and co-opt any resources it may require to undertake its duties.
The Committee is also authorised to obtain independent legal or other professional advice if it considers this necessary.
In line with the other Committees of the Board, the Safety and Sustainability Committee does not have any executive power and the Directors and operational managers retain their full responsibility and accountability for the management of safety and sustainability matters in the Group.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committee are circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a verbal update from the Committees chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any material matters which arose from the Committees work.
The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this report.
More detailed information concerning the Groups sustainability related activities are available on the Companys website and will also be available in the 2008 Summary Sustainable Development Report.
The Committee assessed its effectiveness at the September 2008 meeting.
To do this, a tailor-made questionnaire was circulated to the Committee and those senior executives who regularly attended meetings of the Committee.
The Committee and the Board concluded that there were no matters arising which necessitated change.
Composition of the Safety and Sustainability Committee The terms of reference for this Committee require a minimum of two independent Non-executive Directors, one of whom shall be the Chairman of the Committee, and one executive Director.
The Board may, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, appoint or remove members of the Committee, subject to there being at least three members at all times.
At the request of the Committees Chairman, certain senior executives attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Committee comprised the following members during the year and to the date of this report, except where stated otherwise: Sivi Gounden: an independent Director who has been a member of the Committee and its Chairman since November 2006.
Dr Gounden, a South African national resident in that country, is an engineer by formal training and has experience of both the private sector being a former CEO of a listed company and currently running his own business and public sector having been Director General of a government department.
In his business career, he has significant experience of the mining industry globally, and in South Africa in particular.
Karen fide Segundo: an independent Director who has been a member of the Committee since January 2007.
Formerly Chief Executive Officer of Shell International Renewables and Chief Executive of Shells global gas and power business, Ms fide Segundo currently holds a number of non executive directorships with a variety of international companies.
David Munro: an independent Director who joined the Board in August 2007 and was appointed to the Safety and Sustainability Committee on 21 September 2007.
Mr Munro is a mining engineer with significant experience of the mining sector, both internationally and in South Africa.
Brad Mills: an executive Director and Chief Executive of the Company who has been a member of the Committee since its inception in September 2004.
Mr Mills ceased to be a member of the Committee on 9 October 2008.
Michael Hartnall: an independent Director, who joined the Committee at its inception in September 2004 retired from membership of the Committee on 2 May 2008. www.
com 60 Safety and Sustainability Committee Report Composition of the Safety and Sustainability Committee continued Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 22 and 23 of the Report & Accounts.
Each of the Non-executive Directors on this Committee receives an annual fee of 7,500 for serving as a member or, in the case of the Chairman, 12,500.
These fees are included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 41 of this document.
All members of the Committee are provided with appropriate induction into the role of the Committee and the operation of its terms of reference on appointment.
Members are also offered opportunities to visit the operations and community projects with which the Company is involved.
Activities of the Safety and Sustainability Committee The Committee usually meets four times a year and reports its material findings to the next Board meeting.
The principal business of these meetings was: November: review of safety statistics and trend analysis: review of quarterly progress report from the International Finance Corporation IFC on joint IFC Lonmin projects and review of other community development projects undertaken by Lonmin: approval of the Safety & Sustainability Committee report contained within the 2007 Annual Report and recommendation of the same to the Board.
March South Africa : review of safety statistics and trend analysis: review of quarterly progress report from the IFC on joint IFC Lonmin projects: review results of the annual stakeholder perception survey and consideration of the Companys action plan: review of report on environmental performance:.
July: review of safety statistics and trend analysis: review of quarterly progress report from the IFC on joint IFC Lonmin projects: review of external auditors management letter following audit of 2007 Sustainability Development Report SDR : approval of the 2007 SDR: consideration of the revised Terms of Reference for the Committee and recommendation of the same to the Board September usually in South Africa but in UK this year : review of safety statistics and trend analysis: review of quarterly progress report from the IFC on joint IFC Lonmin projects:.
In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the year and in the period to the date of this report in discharging its responsibilities: Reviews of ICAM reports on all serious incidents, including fatalities being a detailed analysis of factors contributing to these incidents and the corrective and preventative measures that were taken to prevent recurrence presented by the executive responsible for the relevant parts of the Groups business: Review of progress report on Community Development and Human Capital, Training and Procurement in connection with the Social and Labour Plan submitted to the South African government as part of the application for a New Order Mining Licence at Marikana: Review of a report on changes to the environmental and regulatory regime in connection to air emissions and the Groups proposed response to these issues: Review of industry benchmarking on safety-related statistical reporting.
The Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings Number of Director held during time in office meetings attended 1 Brad Mills 44 2 Michael Hartnall 22 Sivi Gounden 42 Karen fide Segundo 42 David Munro 44 Senior Executives 3 President 11 VP Sustainability 44 VP Exploration & Business Development 43 4 VP Risk & Treasury 21 5 VP Safety 32 1 Ceased 9 October 2008.
This report was approved by the Board on 17 November 2008.
