20 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 4,000 people completed our Buying Academy and Food Academy courses, People and were now trialling similar academies As we grow our business and invest for womenswear and merchandising.
for the future, its important we keep Valued and proud to strengthening our team at every level, from work for M&S the shop-floor through to management.
Our staff turnover rate is among the lowest in To attract and retain the best talent in the industry 27% for customer assistants, the industry, we have to demonstrate and 12% for management.
Moreover, some that M&S is a good employer, committed 40% of our people in the UK have been to making all our people feel valued and with us for at least five years, with about providing them with career opportunities 680 celebrating 25 or 40 years service during Listening to and quality training.
For us, this is one of the clearest our people reports on how we delivered against these signs that were succeeding in making our objectives in 2007 08. people feel valued and proud to work for M&S.
More than 3,500 employee representatives have been Training and development In addition to our commitment to providing elected to sit on Business Good training and a clearly defined career quality training and rewarding our people Involvement Groups BIGs, representing staff views on path are essential to our staff.
Thats why well, we have a number of specific initiatives matters relating to work and we have over 7,500 people in stores who designed to make them feel well cared for.
They regularly coach their colleagues so their skills are For instance, we provide free breast cancer discuss employment issues kept up-to-date.
In our stores, most training screening to M&S employees and pensioners directly with company takes place on-the-job, since learning is last year we screened more than 13,000 management at a local, more effective in real-life situations.
All new divisional and national level.
The service is available from the joiners complete a thorough induction and age of 40 10 years earlier than the NHS, We also engage with up to 26 weeks ongoing training the and can play a potentially life-saving role employees through our longest on the high street.
annual YourSay survey, by detecting cancer early.
giving them the chance to We also run a number of specialist training tell us what they think about a range of issues including initiatives for people moving into senior job satisfaction and management roles.
Additionally, more than management performance.
Rewarding our people Employees participated in our Sharesave Schemes 25,000 in 2007 08, saving between 5 and 250 a month.
Employees shared a gain of 37m from the Sharesave 11,160 Scheme that matured in 2007.
Marks & Start: breaking Great Service Awards handed out to staff who did 40,000 a particularly good job taking care of our customers.
down barriers Many people face barriers getting into employment.
For groups such as disabled or homeless people, the difficulties are obvious, but were also concerned with helping parents get back into work and the young-unemployed to get a job.
Over the last year, we offered placements to about 650 people through the Marks & Start scheme.
Recruits were teamed with an M&S buddy to help build their confidence with approximately 40% finding employment at the end of the work placement.
Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 21 Not just any graduate career If you work hard at M&S, and take responsibility, you will be rewarded, as there are just so many opportunities to take your career to the next level.
More and more graduates are discovering that the M&S graduate recruitment scheme is not only a fast track to an interesting and varied career, but in some cases, also a direct route into management.
Our graduate recruits benefit from an intensive training course, and are given the opportunity to build their skills in a challenging but supportive environment.
They are also assigned real responsibilities from the outset, in order to help them make rapid progress within the business.
For example, Katie was running one of our stores within four years.
Graduates joining M&S in other roles food technology, design, HR, buying or IT can make similarly fast progress in their careers.
Each year we employ between 150 and 200 graduates and business placement programme undergraduates.
In 2007 08 we received a record 8,500 applications in just over two months.
All of which helps to explain why we won four major graduate recruitment awards last year, including The Times Graduate Employer of Choice for retail in 2008.
Katie Wyle, Store Manager Brighton Katie Wyle started at M&S as a temporary customer assistant during Christmas 2003.
The experience encouraged her to join the M&S graduate programme, and in just four years, she had proven her talent, stepping into her first store manager position.
Going the extra mile Our people are passionate about what they do.
They care deeply about M&S, and want to make a contribution that goes beyond just doing their job, to making a difference on issues that matter to them and their local community.
Now in their seventh year, our national Plan A Champions Employee Volunteer Awards recognise The environment and all things the outstanding achievements of the green, is a particular passion many hundreds of staff who fundraise and amongst our employees, which is volunteer for local charities in their own time.
why weve appointed 570 Plan A A special mention must be made of Jean Champions in our stores and Turner and the Chester store team, who have offices, to keep their colleagues won the group fundraising category three updated on Plan A, and to find innovative new ideas to implement years running.
In 2007 they did whatever it in-store.
You can read more from took selling cakes, running the Great North our Leeds Plan A Champion Kate Run and even managing car boot sales Edwards on page 30. so they could raise more than 30,000 for a number of charities including their local childrens hospice, Hope House.
