15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:59 Page 21 21 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Diversity More than half of our people work on a part-time basis to suit their HOW WE OPERATE personal circumstances offering excellent opportunities for students and people returning to the work environment.
Around half of our total We strive to be FIT in our dealings with our workforce is female and of those employees undertaking management employees, customers, suppliers and the wider responsibilities about a third are women.
community within which we operate.
The Group runs a development programme for our people on issues FIT is a summary of three fundamental behaviours relating to diversity and, in addition, this topic also features in other that apply throughout the Group.
development and training programmes such as recruitment and selection.
Fairness Any action, decision or policy adopted within the Marstons Group should be both equitable The Group operates a full Equal Opportunities policy and a and reasonable.
It should not result in one particular Whistleblowing policy, both of which are available on the Groups group of stakeholders gaining an unjustified website: www.
advantage or benefit at the expense of another.
Integrity If a commitment is made it should be kept.
If it cannot be delivered or circumstances change so that an alternative course of action is appropriate this should be clearly explained.
Transparency Wherever there is the freedom to do so, the Group should act in a manner that is open to the scrutiny of our employees and the wider community.
The Group has a Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR Committee 1 to oversee its CSR activities and ensure that its activities are consistent with the FIT approach which, in turn, reports to an Environmental, Development opportunities Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee under the stewardship of The Company has been continually accredited with the Investor in the Managing Director of the Marstons Beer Company.
People standard since 1995 and has won a number of National Training Awards over the same period.
The Marstons team The Group directly employs about 13,000 people offering opportunities We support a wide and very varied range of personal development for people in every county of England and Wales.
In addition, our lessees opportunities so that everyone has access to the development they need and tenants within Marstons Pub Company also employ a significant to truly maximise their potential.
Whilst academic and professional number of people within a similar geographical spread.
qualifications are available to employees many of our programmes offer excellent opportunities to those that respond best to vocational forms of The Group has a long history of excellent consultative and collective development.
bargaining relationships with its trade unions, at its breweries, distribution centres, and head office and pub sites.
Employee Development opportunities extend beyond our employees and we run an representatives, both Trade Union officials and lay members, have a extensive range of courses for our tenants, lessees and free trade significant and recognised role to play in developing our business.
Pictured: 1 Kitchen at The Red Lion Hotel, Wendover.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE DIRECTION CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:59 Page 22 22 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Health and safety The Group also supports both the Drinkaware Trust and the industrys The Group has a health and safety policy, endorsed by the Board and own alcohol awareness campaign, currently known as Project 10. used throughout the Group.
The Board receives an annual presentation from the Group Health and Safety Manager giving detailed statistics on Our promotional material carries a clear and concise message health and safety issues and the progress made in improving our encouraging the responsible consumption of alcohol and on our bottles performance where required.
and cans we provide information about the alcohol content of the product concerned.
Marstons Pedigree was the first beer brand to All of our production, distribution and head office locations, together with include a responsible drinking message in its television advertising, Marstons Inns and Taverns, have active health and safety committees, something that the rest of the sector has been quick to adopt.
involving both managers and employees and are co-ordinated by the Group Health and Safety Manager.
In addition to this, all sites undergo The Group continues its association with the British Institute of health and safety audits by external assessors and the measures by Innkeeping and the Schools Project Partnership as the first Core Partner which we judge a satisfactory outcome are continually reviewed and the of the Schools Hospitality Partnership, a nationwide programme to bring standards raised.
alcohol awareness web-based teaching aids to secondary schools across the country.
Further information can be found at Each pub receives a comprehensive health and safety manual for use as www.
a source of information, guidance and training together with a set of compliance documentation that has been widely praised by Responsible Retailing Environmental Health Officers.
The Company has made a significant investment in e-learning tools which all pub staff joining Marstons Inns and Taverns must complete.
In Marstons Pub Company, tenants and lessees are provided with the A core part of this programme is the identification of potential under-age opportunity to receive health and safety training, and can also obtain drinkers.
Marstons Pub Company runs a customised drinks and drugs examples of best practice for use within their pubs.
In addition, we awareness programme, which our lessees and tenants are actively provide assistance with important legal requirements such as fire encouraged to attend, and has produced checklists to assist lessees and risk assessments.
tenants in ensuring they adopt a best practice approach to running their businesses.
Alcohol awareness our responsibility The Group is a long-standing member of the British Beer and Pub The Company actively supports the Challenge 21 initiative in both its Association BBPA, and both Marstons Inns and Taverns and Marstons managed and leased pub estate and maintains close links with licensing Pub Company are associate members of the Portman Group and are and other enforcement bodies to help ensure that our pubs operate in a committed to complying with the provisions of its code of practice, full responsible and considerate manner.
details of which can be found on The Portman Group website.
Much of the advice and support we offer our tenants and lessees is also made available to our customers in the free trade.
In particular, we have worked closely with the English Cricket Board, developing a Know your Boundaries campaign in support of their responsible retailing activities.
Community The Group is committed to being an active and positive contributor to the communities it serves.
Each year our licensed retail managers, pub staff and tenants raise significant amounts of money for many different charitable causes through local pub-based activity and contributions from the Marstons Inns and Taverns Local Heroes Foundation.
Marstons Beer Company 1 makes prize donations for charitable activities run by its free trade Pictured: customers.
Our head office team support charitable causes via 1 Challenger hops.
donations and raffle prizes and during the financial period ended 4 October 2008 over 50 good causes benefited from such donations.
15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 15494 15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 16 12 08 16:02 Page 23 23 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 Our employees also run their own Marstons Employee Charity Fund, In the 2008 Environmental Report the Company explains its which we are proud to support.
This fund is run by employees for environmental impact in depth and publishes figures for energy employees and in the last 12 months the fund has donated over consumption for the Group as well as emission volumes of carbon 14,000 to a range of local good causes nominated by our employees.
dioxide from fossil fuel consumption electricity, gas and transport fuel distribution fleet.
The only greenhouse gas directly produced by the Ethical purchasing brewing process in significant volume is carbon dioxide.
The report also As a responsible employer, we have a duty to support and encourage a sets out the efficiency ratios achieved by our operations at each brewing responsible purchasing policy for all of our goods and services.
As a site in terms of carbon dioxide emitted per tonne of product and water minimum, all of our purchasing professionals abide by the Chartered consumption per barrel of product.
Institute of Purchasing and Supplys CIPS Professional Code of Ethics Statement.
This code requires purchasing professionals to have due Our largest production sites at Wolverhampton and Burton comply with regard for their responsibilities in respect of a whole range of issues and the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control IPPC standards as full details of the code can be found on the CIPS website.
In support of regulated by the Environment Agency.
The IPPC Permit is issued by the our commitment to this code of practice, we also subscribe to the Environment Agency once a year and allows the site to process, ferment European Eco Management and Audit Scheme EMAS.
and package beer and associated products.
The Permit sets out the authorised emissions to the air and sewers, and the controls expected to The Group Director of Purchasing is responsible for the implementation reduce any environmental impact.
The Permit specifies the standards of and monitoring of the Groups ethical purchasing policy which is management expected for: communicated to all employees.
training: Environmental impact and use of natural resources maintenance of plant and equipment: The Group produces an annual Environmental Report which explains the incidents and complaints: impacts which the Group has in terms of energy and resource efficient use of raw materials: consumption, emissions and waste.
The 2008 Environmental Report is waste storage, handling, recovery and disposal: available on the corporate website www.
co. uk together with energy efficiency: the Groups Environmental Policy Statement.
noise and vibration levels: monitoring, recording and reporting: and Our business both pubs and breweries impacts on the environment closure and decommissioning of plant and equipment and local communities in a number of ways by: The Environment Agency conducts an annual audit of the Using raw materials and agricultural products Wolverhampton and Burton breweries and will, if necessary, raise Using energy gas and electricity and water Emitting greenhouse gases, odours and noise points of improvement which must be confirmed as completed by Transportation, delivery and distribution of our products agreed dates.
and employees Generating packaging which requires disposal: and Production, disposal, collection and processing of our waste solids and effluents Of these six areas, we have identified that our largest environmental impacts are in the areas of energy consumption, water use and waste production, and we have prioritised the management of these accordingly.
The Company was admitted into the FTSE4Good Index in September 2007.
Inclusion within the index is dependent upon achieving and Environmental data maintaining an expected standard in corporate responsibility including our policy towards monitoring and targeting reductions in its Unit 2008 2007 environmental impact.
This is challenging, not least because the criteria Consumption usage continue to evolve to take into account responsible business practices Gas GWH 163.5 214.8 around the world.
Electricity GWH 93.2 96.3 3 Water breweries 000 M 698.0 672.4 Fossil fuel diesel 000 gallons 557.1 511.3 2 Emissions CO 000 tonnes 83.4 87.4 Company car fuel usage is not currently measured and is excluded from the calculation of carbon dioxide emissions and fuel usage.
The fuel figures shown are for the distribution fleet.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 15494 16 12 2008 Proof 12 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE DIRECTION CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
