Revenue Dynacast review 208.7m Global designer and manufacturer of precision engineered die-cast Headline operating profit metal components and assemblies.
21.3m 1 At vero eos et accusamus et iusto odio Blu-ray dignissimos ducimus qui blanditiis praesentium voluptatum qui blanditiis.
Dynacast is a leading manufacturer of the optical pick-up, the laser read-head found in all Blu-ray, CD and DVD players.
The part is produced in zinc or magnesium, which is unique to Dynacast.
Casting needs to be extremely precise, as laser and mirror guides are directly bonded to the cast surface during assembly.
Dynacast creates value when producing this part by eliminating the need for expensive CNC machining after the part is cast.
MP3 Dynacast manufactures mid-frames or mounting chassis for a wide variety of electronic handheld devices, including MP3 players.
Customers come to Dynacast as the company has the ability to cast super-thin-wall geometry i. e. less than 0.5mm thick in aluminium, magnesium, and zinc.
This unique technology gives customers the freedom to design their mid-frames with complex geometry not available in competing manufacturing processes like metal stamping.
Phone One of Dynacasts telecommunications customers developed a very small, slider mobile phone.
The challenge for Dynacast was to die-cast an overall 1mm thin component with partly smaller sections of 0.4mm.
With the support of advanced flow analysis, modelling techniques and the new SIS multi-slide magnesium die-casting machine, the engineering team in Germany successfully managed to produce a high quality product for a demanding market.
14 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Dynacast North America was the worst affected region with underlying Dynacast is a global manufacturer of precision engineered, revenue down approximately 40% in the period.
Continued turmoil die-cast metal components and assemblies.
The products are in the automotive sector, coupled with the global recession, hit this manufactured using proprietary die-casting technology and are region very hard.
Here cost reduction plans were implemented supplied to a wide range of end markets, including automotive, swiftly.
Fishercast Canada produced very good results in 2009 healthcare, telecommunications, consumer electronics and with margins well ahead of expectations.
Underlying revenue in Asia fared better in 2009 falling approximately Dynacasts results for 2009, in common with a lot of other 15% compared with 2008.
Growth in the sales of electronics engineering businesses, reflect a very tough year.
Trading in the components into the Chinese market was a factor in limiting the sales first half was particularly difficult, with underlying sales about a decline.
Dynacast opened its new 4,500 square metre factory in third below the comparable period in 2008.
As reported in the Dongguan, South China in July and it is performing in line with plan.
Interim Statement, early and decisive cost cutting by management Management remain encouraged by the prospects in this region.
mitigated the impact of the fall in sales on profit.
Trading conditions Dynacast continues to assess its manufacturing capacity against improved slowly in the second half of the year such that for the regional demand and growth prospects.
The sales decline in North year as a whole the underlying fall in sales over 2008 reduced to America has led to overcapacity in that market.
It is notable, however, that despite this Dynacast has still decision was taken in late 2009 to close the Montreal die-casting produced operating margins of over 10% this year.
facility and transfer its production to other North American plants.
The profit in 2009 includes a foreign exchange gain on translation This is budgeted to cost 6.8 million and will reduce operating of just over 2 million, reflecting the general weakness of Sterling costs while retaining sufficient capacity for future growth.
in the period and a significantly improved contribution from Outlook Fishercast, which was acquired in August 2008.
The stabilisation in Dynacasts markets, noted at the time of the The price of zinc, Dynacasts primary raw material, rose steadily Interim Results, has progressed into a general improvement in in 2009, mirroring its fall in 2008, though the average LME cost in demand.
Although some of the costs taken out of the business 2009 fell to US $1,658 compared to US $1,869 in 2008.
Average will reverse on the back of increasing volumes, it is expected that aluminium alloy prices also declined in 2009 and the combined some efficiency gains will be retained and that these will have effect of this accounts for approximately 10 million of the fall in a beneficial impact on profit as sales increase.
Dynacast benefits from the ability to pass on its metal costs, as a result of which these price movements have no significant impact on profit.
A very focused approach to the management of cash resulted in an excellent 181% conversion of profit into cash in 2009.
Sales in Europe after adjusting for metal prices and exchange rates were down over 30% in 2009 compared to 2008.
Although decisive and radical steps were taken to reduce costs, the legal and social framework in Europe makes it more difficult to implement such programmes expeditiously.
As a consequence, full implementation of the cost reduction actions was not completed until the end of May.
