Revenue Other Industrial review 252.5m Market leading manufacturers across the housing, construction, Headline operating profit automotive, scrap processing 20.6m and other industrial sectors.
1 At vero eos et accusamus et iusto odio Brush Traction dignissimos ducimus qui blanditiis praesentium voluptatum qui blanditiis.
Since the Eurotunnel shuttle locomotives were built in the 1990s, the bogies chassis have been overhauled by the Brush Traction site in Loughborough, UK.
New wheels and overhauled gearbox are shown assembled at the Brush Traction site in Kilmarnock, Scotland, ready for fitment at Loughborough.
Harris The high performance horizontal balers are production machines used for medium to large tonnage recycling operations.
These balers are capable of producing bale weights that meet or exceed maximum container weight capacities, so that containers, will weigh out before they cube out.
MPC This fully automated battery box cell is manufactured for the Ford Fiesta.
It incorporates moulding, insert loading, metal bending, welding and final auto stillage packing.
16 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Truth Harris Truth designs and manufactures operating hardware, hinges Harris is a leader in scrap and waste reduction equipment design, and locks for North American producers of windows, patio doors engineering, manufacturing and servicing.
It operates out of two and skylights utilised in both the new construction and the repair plants in Georgia, USA, and has full service capability and serves and remodel residential markets.
Most of Truths products are the scrap metal and fibre recycling industries.
manufactured in its plants in Minnesota, USA and Ontario, Canada.
Harris performed well in 2009 considering the extraordinary global Truth has staged an excellent recovery in the year ended economic and financial conditions and the capital intensive nature 31 December 2009.
As one of Melroses early cycle businesses, of its business.
Sales declined by nearly 30% in the year compared sales, particularly in the repair and remodel market in contrast to 2008, but the impact on profit for the year was mitigated by a to the new build sector, began to see a pick up in the second significant cost reduction programme resulting in a headcount quarter of the year.
Although revenue in the year was some decline of 36% in the year.
As a result Harris achieved a creditable 10% lower than in the previous year, profit more than doubled, return on sales in the period of over 10%.
reflecting the changes made by the new senior management The weakness in the global economy and the shortage in the appointed in June 2009. availability of credit reduced the prices of scrap metal and fibre New housing starts in the USA, to which Truths performance is in 2009 key determinants in the activity levels in this industry.
broadly correlated, were more than 50% lower in 2009 than at their Recyclers reduced demand for capital equipment in the year recent peak in 2005 2006.
It is against this market background that resulting in a decline in Harris order intake during the year of the Truth performance in 2009 should be judged.
In addition, an aggressive and targeted sales and marketing Harris continued its commitment to invest in design and campaign allied to new product introductions resulted in significant engineering capability to provide highly engineered solutions for market share gains.
This was assisted by a pick-up in Truths customised applications through its new product development Canadian new build market in the year.
Harris expects that up to one quarter of its orders for 2010 could be for newly-launched products.
A major strategic initiative was undertaken in the year to outsource the manufacturing of lower margin products to China.
This will Harris continued push into the parts and services business has have the effect of freeing up valuable space in Truths Minnesota progressed well during the year with aftermarket sales representing plant to focus on the production of higher margin casement units, about 30% of Harris sales in 2009 compared to approximately 20% thereby reducing overtime spend and permitting a more evenly in 2008. balanced manufacturing schedule over the year, taking account Outlook of the seasonality of Truths sales.
Management estimate that A healthy increase in fourth quarter 2009 orders and a good start once fully implemented this outsourcing programme will add to the new year, together with positive trends in steel and scrap some 20% to Truths capacity in this plant.
pricing, indicate that conditions in Harris markets are showing signs Outlook of recovery.
Harris is well positioned to meet the opportunities and Although there are signs of recovery in the Canadian, northchallenges in 2010 with new products coming on stream, the eastern and south-central US builders markets, as a result increasing higher margin aftermarket sales and the lower, more of the continuation of the policy of shedding lower margin sales, efficient cost base give confidence of a satisfactory outcome.
it is not expected that Truths top line will grow significantly in 2010.
Nevertheless, the improvement in market sentiment together with the substantial operational efficiency gains and cost reductions give confidence for further profit improvement in 2010.
Annual Report 2009 Melrose PLC 17 Other Industrial continued Brush Traction Traction MPC Traction specialises in the refurbishment and re-engineering MPC manufactures engineered plastic injection-moulded and of railway locomotives and components from its two sites at extruded components and metal pressings for sectors including Loughborough and Kilmarnock.
food and beverage packaging, automotive, construction and industrial.
Although the trading result was lower in 2009 than in the previous year, reflecting the scheduled ending of the major High Speed Revenue and profit were significantly lower in the year ended Train HST contract, it was nevertheless a satisfactory outcome.
31 December 2009 due to the general economic downturn, which particularly affected the UK automotive and building During the year the major activities at Loughborough derived from markets.
However, as signalled in the Interim Report, MPC a contract to overhaul Eurotunnel shuttle locomotives and smaller recovered strongly in the second half of 2009 after trading near continuation contracts to repower other operators HST power breakeven in the first half.
Despite these poor trading conditions cars with the new MTU diesel engine and associated equipment.
MPC delivered a resilient performance, reflecting the intrinsic Kilmarnock completed a contract to refurbish catering vehicles for quality of the business with its highly specialised engineering First Great Western together with other vehicle and overhaul work.
skills together with stringent cost control and efficiency measures.
The rail vehicle industry is generally late cycle, particularly at the Most importantly, throughout this year, major efforts were heavier end where contracts can take months, if not years, to be made to focus on MPCs core skills to maintain its proven levels awarded and similar timescales to fulfil.
Thus, apart from the of technical differentiation.
During the year, this has proved wheel overhaul business at Kilmarnock, which was adversely highly successful with orders for the design, development and affected in 2009, sales and output for the group were not manufacture of new products for key customers such as Marks seriously affected by the recession in 2009.
& Spencer, Makita, Jaguar Land Rover and Wavin.
A number Outlook of these wins are linked to a move into a manufacturing niche As a result of this lagged effect, it is expected that 2010 will be using new materials and technologies building on MPCs core a more difficult year for Traction, although with signs of economic engineering skills.
recovery the wheelset overhaul business is showing signs of Outlook picking up in 2010.
With continuing steps to reduce costs and MPC currently enjoys its largest ever new business order book, improve operational efficiencies, we are hopeful of a satisfactory the majority of which will go live in 2011.
The forecasts for 2010 outturn in 2010. reflect not only a modest recovery in general trading but a number of good margin new product introductions.
As the economy begins to recover and competitors continue to struggle, MPC is well positioned to capitalise on market opportunities and benefit at the same time from weaker Sterling.
We look forward with confidence to a successful 2010.
