Revenue Energy review 418.3m Market leading manufacturers of electricity generating equipment, Headline operating profit switchgear and transformers.
61.0m Brush 1 At vero eos et accusamus et iusto odio Turbogenerators dignissimos ducimus qui blanditiis praesentium voluptatum qui blanditiis.
Brush Turbogenerators winding specialist inserting copper coils into the stator assembly of a Brush Frame 7 turbogenerator, designed to encompass the 10-85 MW range, destined for the American market.
This type of mediumrange air-cooled generator is ideal for embedded generation where power stations, usually gas turbine based, are built close to the load centres that they serve.
Harrington Harringtons 12.5 kVA generators are being used to power the mobile Guinness Football Viewing Centres.
Vans specially equipped with giant LED screens and sound systems will tour Nigeria to broadcast the 2010 World Cup.
Brush Transformers This 33 kV transformer has been designed to meet the specific demands of the UK distribution network operators.
Brush Transformers provides approximately 80% of the 33 kV transformers supplied across the UKs utility providers.
10 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Generators Hawker Siddeley Switchgear HSS Brush Turbogenerators is the worlds largest independent manufacturer HSS produces a wide range of indoor and outdoor electrical of electricity generating equipment for industrial, marine, oil and gas distribution equipment, principally electrical switchgear, and and offshore applications.
With three plants in the UK, Holland and the sells into global markets.
Czech Republic, it designs, manufactures and services generators HSSs results for the year ended 31 December 2009 were excellent.
ranging from 10 MW to 250 MW for both steam and gas turbine On slightly lower sales compared to the previous year profit more applications and supplies a globally diverse customer base.
In addition, tight control of working capital in the period Marelli Motori, based in Italy, is one of the worlds leading manufacturers of resulted in good conversion of profit into cash.
HSS continued to industrial electrical motors and generators with a product portfolio focus on business process improvements, further refining its supply ranging from 12 kW to 4.5 MW.
chain and applying lean principles throughout the company.
Harrington is a specialised UK based generator manufacturer servicing Both the UK and Australian operations had healthy sales in the year.
the rail, telecommunications, construction and military markets.
This was underpinned by robust demand in the power distribution market and growth in orders in the mass transit markets in the UK and The global power generation market softened in 2009 as economic overseas where the company secured business on a number of high activity declined and Brush Turbogenerators new-build sales reduced profile infrastructure projects.
However, managements strategy to focus on the more profitable generator aftermarket whilst at the same time The China facility in Shanghai commenced component manufacture in aggressively controlling operating costs proved highly successful.
the latter part of the year and is set to play a key role in progressing the companys strategy for South East Asia.
This business is well positioned Aftermarket sales increased by 20% in the period and at the year in what should be a growing market over the next few years.
end represented 25% of the business.
Since the year end Brush Turbogenerators has acquired Generator and Motor Services GMS, Outlook a US $10 million sales aftermarket business based in Pittsburgh, USA.
HSS entered 2010 with an order book equivalent to seven months With an installed base of over 1,300 Brush machines operating in the sales.
This, together with the ongoing operational improvements in the Americas, GMS will provide a good local platform from which to exploit business and promising developments in new markets, gives us the exciting market potential of this sector.
confidence that HSS will have another good year in 2010.
It is particularly pleasing to note the progress made in the year in the Brush Transformers Czech operation, Brush SEM.
This follows the capital expenditure Brush Transformers manufactures mid-range power transformers for programme initiated post acquisition to invest in new machinery to the UK electrical utilities and the oil and gas sector, principally in the alleviate capacity bottlenecks and improve productivity.
cost reduction programme in 2009 this has resulted in a significant Brush Transformers reported a good set of results for the year ended improvement in operating margins in 2009.
31 December 2009, with profit significantly higher than in 2008 on A new management structure was put in place at Brush HMA, Brush similar sales.
In addition, excellent cash management during the year Turbogenerators business in Holland, during 2009.
This again has resulted in very strong profit conversion into cash.
resulted in a more focused business operating on a more efficient The UK business in Loughborough succeeded in retaining its key and lower cost base.
utility contracts with UK DNOs going into the next five year Ofgem Whilst still early in the process, a focused sales strategy is now delivering review period starting in 2010.
Although Ofgem has indicated that the results at Turbogenerators.
When coupled with the decision to extend DNO spend on the network will be higher than in the previous five year the product range into higher output machines, it expands the customer period, it is expected that year one will be slow.
and geographic base of the business.
The increase in profitability of the company during the year was largely The result of all these changes since acquisition is a more efficient as a result of a continuing focus on operational efficiency improvements.
cost base which is better aligned with market opportunities and thus The joint venture in Abu Dhabi Brush Transformers holds 49%, which able to exploit the growth potential more profitably.
serves the local utilities and oil markets, had good sales and profit growth After a record year in 2008, Marelli recorded lower sales in 2009 in its second year of operation.
The factory continues to receive formal reflecting weaker conditions in its market.
Management were swift to supply approval from local customers which is most encouraging.
act and reduced costs and headcount.
Management continued to Approval was granted during the year for a 1 million project to establish focus on increasing the sales of larger and more profitable generators a manufacturing operation in Beijing to supply the local mining industry.
Capital investment was directed at developing It is expected that the factory will be operational in early 2011. new products with more specialised and higher power applications Outlook such as the new 800 frame alternator and electric motor in high voltage.
Although UK demand for power transformers is expected to dip Harringtons sales fell by 30% in 2009 as a result of a very weak UK in 2010 for the reasons explained above, the requirements from the market.
Management responded quickly to cut costs and accelerated the oil and utility sectors in the Middle East remain positive.
With ten transition of the business to more specialised applications where the months order book cover, Brush Transformers starts 2010 with company has developed market leading expertise.
Outlook Although demand in Brush Turbogenerators market has been soft in 2009, the year ended with an order book of 225 million, representing well over 50% of its budgeted sales, and there are preliminary signs of a gradual upturn going into 2010.
We are hopeful that any such increase in sales on the back of the lower and more efficient cost base of the business, together with the exciting opportunities in the aftermarket business, will result in a good year.
