Revenue Lifting review 419.0m World leading suppliers of wire, wire rope products, lifting fittings Headline operating profit and blocks.
62.5m Bridon 1 At vero eos et accusamus et iusto odio dignissimos ducimus qui blanditiis praesentium voluptatum qui blanditiis.
Bridon manufactured, installed and tensioned in excess of six kilometres of cable used to support the new Kurilpa pedestrian bridge in Brisbane, Australia.
The bridge was designed utilising an engineering principle called tensegrity.
Tensegrity balances the tension resistant ability of Bridons high strength cables with the compressive strength of struts, to produce a lightweight solution for this new crossing of the Brisbane River.
Crosby Crosby is working together with a US manufacturer in the development of a lifting system for the new F35 Joint Strike Fighters.
Four custom-designed hoist rings are utilised on each aircraft to lift the aircraft off an airfield or an aircraft deck for maintenance or in the event of an accident.
The project includes orders from the UK, Canada, Australia, Italy and the Netherlands.
12 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Bridon Bridons mining business, positively affecting activity levels in the Bridon designs and manufactures a comprehensive range of lifting Canadian Tar Sands as well as the overall demand for coal.
As a and stabilising solutions for applications in wire rope, fibre rope, result of Bridons broad product range and global presence, the steel wire and strand, serving global customers in oil and gas, business is well positioned to take advantage of the improving mining, industrial, marine and infrastructure.
conditions in both of these key market sectors.
Bridon reported a record operating profit in 2009.
Although sales Crosby in the year were marginally down in volume terms over the previous Crosby is a world leader in the manufacture and sale of fittings year, profit was significantly higher, resulting in an impressive return and blocks to the oil and gas, construction and mining sectors, on sales for the year.
Bridon did benefit, however, from favourable primarily through a global network of specialist distributors.
movements in exchange rates during the year as sales in US As signalled in last years Annual Report, Crosby has faced very Dollars and Euros increased in Sterling terms.
Despite a drop in revenue of Cash generation was very strong in the year with 137% of headline over 25% this business has still produced a double digit return on operating profit being turned into cash, although part of this reflects sales which is a testament to its quality.
some advance payments received during the year in respect of With its greater exposure to the onshore gas markets in contrast contracts won in the structures business mostly stadia and to Bridon where projects tend to be smaller and customers have bridge projects.
been more affected by the global credit squeeze, Crosbys sales A record opening order book combined with solid activity in responded sharply to the fall in the gas price in late 2008.
As a offshore oil and gas and energy-related coal mining were major result, early action was taken to cut costs, which has included a factors behind these results.
Bridon also benefited from a large reduction in headcount, the elimination of overtime, inventory significant increase in demand related to global infrastructure reductions and continued emphasis on lean manufacturing at all construction, securing contracts for a major new bridge project manufacturing locations.
in Norway and several new stadia to be built in 2010.
With a fall in demand from the OEM crane business, Crosby has Bridons High-Performance Crane and Industrial business was witnessed a return to its long-term historical product mix of lifting hardest hit by the recession, suffering a significant decline in sales fittings sold through its traditional distributor base.
In recognition as commercial construction and industrial production slowed of this, management has redoubled its efforts to gain market dramatically in the wake of the global financial crisis.
share by working closer with its distributors, focusing on more technical training, improving customer service support and Product development efforts have been focused on seeking to building further on the relationships with these key customers.
meet customers increasing specification requirements for demanding applications.
In addition to a number of product In addition, during the year there was an increased emphasis enhancements, during the year Tiger DuraCore was introduced on building on the strength of the Crosby name overseas through into the market.
This is the next generation of shovel hoist ropes a focus on the growth opportunities in Europe, Asia Pacific for use in surface mining, made with a combination of wire rope especially China and Latin America.
In 2009 crane block and strands and polymer cores and outer covering which are capable sheave manufacturing centres were brought on line in Belgium of withstanding extreme operating conditions.
Establishing these two operations closer to their end markets greatly reduces lead times and will enable Crosby to During the year an investment of approximately 3 million to better service its customers.
increase Bridons manufacturing capability for large multistrand ropes in its German factory was approved, along with significant Crosby has built its business in Europe through a series of upgrades in its North American ropery and UK based testing acquisitions of different companies over the years and these facilities.
In addition work has continued to improve the factory businesses have operated to a large degree independently of in Hangzhou, China, to ensure Bridon quality standards and it is each other.
During the year a restructuring of these operations expected that sales will increase both domestically and for export.
was undertaken in order to rationalise and co-ordinate the The programme to upgrade the wire mill in Doncaster is on schedule.
manufacturing and sales functions, which has resulted in a considerably leaner and more efficient business.
Outlook While an improving global economy will help to stimulate modest Outlook growth in construction and industrial production, it is expected Although Crosbys markets remain difficult, demand has stabilised that market conditions in Bridons High-Performance Crane and and there are signs of distributors restocking.
Although it is too Industrial business will remain subdued in 2010, particularly in early to tell whether this is sustainable, being ultimately dependent North America.
However, Bridon should benefit from the various on final customer demand, it is nevertheless a reassuring and stadia and bridge contracts secured in 2009, and also expects to necessary first step in any recovery.
see improvements in its efforts to further penetrate developing Crosby is a first class business and with the steps taken to reduce markets such as China, South East Asia and Brazil.
costs and improve efficiency during the year it is very well positioned Against the backdrop of a global economy that is struggling to to recover strongly as the global recovery takes hold.
find its feet, Bridon enters 2010 with cautious optimism.
With oil prices back up to the US $70 $80 per barrel range, offshore and land-based oilfield activity is expected to increase gradually through the year.
The firmer oil price is also expected to benefit Annual Report 2009 Melrose PLC 13
