The Groups cost of capital expenditure on the two major Group operations reduction programme delivered expansion projects in Poland and review savings of E251 million, significantly Russia.
Mondi enjoys a strong liquidity The Groups underlying operating profit exceeding the E180 million target position and, as at the end of decreased by 33% compared with announced at the beginning of the year.
December, the Group had nearly 2008, reflecting the difficult trading In just over two years, Mondi has exited E1 billion of undrawn committed debt conditions that persisted for much of either temporarily or permanently facilities.
Pleasingly, the fourth quarter around 930,000 tonnes of high-cost results came in significantly above paper capacity and closed or sold In addition to the benefits from the cost expectations, supported by volume 18 converting sites.
Furthermore, the savings programme noted above, a improvements across all main paper focus on cash flow optimisation was number of the Groups key input costs grades, price increases in most of the extremely successful, with working declined compared with the previous key packaging grades and a largely capital inflows for the year amounting year, helping to offset the revenue stable pricing environment in the to E248 million and capital expenditure pressures.
There was, however, some European uncoated fine paper market.
outside the two major projects reduced evidence of rising input costs towards to 63% of depreciation.
All this the end of the period.
Wood, recovered The benefits of the early and decisive contributed to a reduction in net fibre, pulp, chemicals and energy costs actions taken to restructure the cost debt for the year of E173 million have all increased from the lows base in light of market pressures were despite funding around E300 million reached earlier in the year.
22 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Cost savings of E251 million Currency movements had a mixed that of the previous year, primarily due Underlying operating profit of impact on the Groups performance to an increase in non-recognised E251 million was down by E83 million during the period.
The weaker eastern assessed losses as a consequence or 25% compared with the previous European currencies, notably the of the decline in profitability.
period, significantly affected by the Czech koruna and Polish zloty, decrease in demand for a number of benefited the results of our eastern Underlying earnings per share were the Groups key products as a European production base in the 18.7 euro cents per share, down by consequence of the general economic second half.
Conversely, the significant 45% compared with 2008. slowdown.
Pricing was down across all strengthening of the South African rand major paper grades, while volumes from the middle of the second quarter The Group is proposing to pay a final were negatively affected by the eroded margins on export sales from dividend of 7.0 euro cents per share, approximately 173,000 tonnes of the South Africa Division, placing giving a total dividend of 9.5 euro cents market-related downtime taken in the substantial pressure on the profitability per share for the year.
Encouragingly, market-related of this business as the year progressed.
downtime taken in the second half of Europe & 2009 was minimal, reflecting a steady Average return on capital employed, International Division pick-up in order inflows over the a key measure of Mondis performance, was 7.6%.
While this is a disappointing Emillion 2009 2008 % course of the year.
Prices in the outcome in relation to the Groups downstream converting markets were Segment revenue 4,099 5,159 21 target of 13% across the cycle, it more resilient, partially offsetting price of which internevertheless represents a resilient declines in the paper grades.
segment revenue 110 155 29 performance given the backdrop of an EBITDA 515 623 17 extremely difficult business environment.
There was some benefit from lower Underlying operating Importantly, the Group is confident that input costs, including wood, recovered the actions taken over the past year profit 251 334 25 paper, chemicals and other variable place the business in a stronger Uncoated Fine Paper 146 126 16 costs, while the Division delivered competitive position than it was when Corrugated 23 49 53 E205 million in cost savings.
it entered the downturn, allowing it to Furthermore, the restructuring actions Bags & Specialities 82 159 48 take full advantage of any improvement the Group has taken in exiting higher- 1 Capital expenditure in the business cycle.
cost capacity helped to offset the 2 -Major projects 300 324 7 revenue pressures while also Net finance costs of E114 million wereOther 167 277 40 contributing to a more balanced E45 million lower than those of 2008, Net segment assets 3,588 3,659 2 market.
mainly owing to higher levels of Return on capital capitalised interest relating to major capital projects and lower exchange employed % 9.1 9.6 5 losses on foreign currency debt 1 Capital expenditure is cash payments and For further information please go to the excludes business combinations.
The effective tax rate before Divisional overview on page 4 of this report: 2 Polish and Russian expansion projects which or click on www.
com AR09 special items of 32% was higher than commenced in the second half of 2007.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 23 Directors report Business review continued Pleasingly, the Division saw an upward management estimates that overall lows in August 2009, while kraftliner trend in performance, with the second demand was down by similar levels to prices improved by around 9% from half of the year stronger than the first those seen in the rest of Europe, the their lows.
The downstream corrugated operations saw some improvement half on the back of a very strong fourth business was able to maintain volumes in operating margins compared with quarter.
Price increases were achieved at the expense of importers.
As a the previous year, benefiting from the across all the main packaging paper consequence, results from the Russian paper price declines.
grades as a result of firm demand operation were particularly strong, while the UFP business delivered a with stable volumes and marginally In February 2010, agreement was particularly strong performance in the improved domestic selling prices reached to sell the 170,000-tonnefourth quarter.
This was supported by supported by good cost control.
per-annum Frohnleiten recycled ongoing cost savings and optimisation Combined with lower pulp input costs containerboard mill in Austria, subject measures as pricing and volumes at the non-integrated facilities and to regulatory approval.
Further, it was remained firm despite concerns over cost-reduction initiatives across the announced in January 2010 that the impact on the market of new business, this more than offset the negotiations were progressing capacity from Portucel.
impact of lower European selling concerning a potential transaction that prices office paper prices down 7% would involve Smurfit Kappa Group Operations on average year-on-year.
SKG acquiring Mondis corrugated In the Uncoated Fine Paper UFP operations in the UK, with Mondi In the Corrugated business, business underlying operating profits acquiring most of SKGs European bag underlying operating profits declined were up by E20 million, or 16%, at converting operations.
There remains E26 million, or 53%, to E23 million in E146 million.
This represents a very no certainty that this transaction will be a very challenging trading environment.
strong result given the difficult completed.
Weak demand coupled with insufficient economic environment and reflects the supply-side response put pressure strength of the Groups low-cost asset To the extent these transactions are on containerboard prices.
Average base and favourable market completed, it will bring to an end an recycled containerboard prices positioning.
While order inflows for 18-month programme of restructuring decreased by around 31% year-onEuropean producers as a whole were the Groups western European year.
Similarly, average virgin down by around 6% compared with corrugated packaging and recycled containerboard prices were down by the previous year, the Group was able containerboard portfolio.
However, the pick-up in to achieve volume increases owing to in response to ongoing overcapacity demand witnessed in the second half its greater exposure to the cut-size concerns in western Europe, and a of the year supported price increases product segment and to emerging desire to improve the quality of our Europe, both market segments that which were implemented in the fourth assets by both moving down the cost have proved more resilient in the quarter.
By the end of the year, curve in recycled containerboard, and economic downturn.
As a domestic recycled containerboard prices had refining our geographical footprint producer in Russia, where increased by some 29% from their around our core central and eastern 24 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group UFP profits up by 16% to p146 million European and Turkish positions.
This Pleasingly, demand recovered after a state-of-the-art box plant at Swiecie in programme will have seen the Group very weak first quarter to the extent that Poland total budgeted cost of E350 almost no market-related downtime was exit four of its five western European million saw the first saleable production recycled containerboard mills taken in the second half of 2009 and in September 2009, and is currently Holcombe in the UK, Niedergsgen order inflows were sufficiently strong to producing well ahead of expectations.
support a sack kraft paper price in Switzerland, Monza in Italy and The Group anticipates that this machine increase of around 12%, announced in Frohnleiten in Austria with aggregate will have the lowest operating costs of its capacity of  2009. type.
Up to 50% of its offtake is secured annum.
The remaining recycled by physical integration with the A E47 million investment in a new containerboard mill in western surrounding box plant network.
Start-up  machine Europe, the 210,000-tonne-perof the machine was ahead of schedule glazed paper machine at the Steti mill in annum Raubling mill in Germany, and the project is expected to come in the Czech Republic was successfully coupled with the new 470,000-tonnearound E20 million below budget.
Startcompleted in August 2009 on time and per-annum recycled containerboard up costs on the machine were within budget.
Production from this machine in Poland and other smaller capitalised to the end of September machine is targeted at growing niche machines in our Polish and Czech mill 2009.
The project had a marginal effect applications, including the release liner complexes, gives the Group a very on underlying operating profit in 2009. and flexible packaging markets as well strong and highly cost competitive as supplying customers previously asset base in central and eastern The project to modernise Mondis mill served by the  Europe, mainly serving the Groups in Syktyvkar is also making good Ruzomberok kraft paper machine, integrated converting network in the progress and completion is anticipated which was closed in October 2009. region.
Severe weather conditions in December Bag converting margins benefited In the Bags & Specialities business, 2009 January 2010 did impact the during the year from lower paper prices underlying operating profits for the year project timetable.
A small cost overrun although volumes were soft mainly due were down by E77 million, or 48%, to of up to 4% E20 million is now to poor demand from the building and E82 million.
The business was affected chemical industries.
Profitability in the anticipated, giving a total capital cost by sharply lower average sack kraft Specialities business unit has improved of up to E545 million.
The key value paper prices down by around 20% and compared with the previous year, drivers of this project are to improve weaker volumes, although speciality driven by resilient demand in consumer efficiency, lower the Groups cost base kraft paper prices and volumes held up markets, lower plastic resin and paper in Russia and increase energy well.
Significant market-related input costs and stable pricing.
production and revenue by selling downtime was taken in the first half of surplus energy to the grid.
In addition it 2009 to balance inventories some Major projects 86,000 tonnes or 18% of capacity, as will provide modest extra capacity demand was badly affected by the The new 470,000-tonne recycled both pulp and paper for the domestic slowdown in the construction sector.
containerboard machine and a new market.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 25 Directors report Business review continued By the end of the period, E664 million Africa were largely offset by the saw an increase in European white-top strengthening rand.
Market-related had been spent on these two projects kraftliner prices.
Input costs offered downtime in paper production of out of the total budgeted capital some limited relief, however, and the 62,000 tonnes was taken to balance commitment of E875 million.
The bulk Division delivered E30 million in cost inventories in the first half of 2009, of the remaining expenditure is savings.
related mainly to export business.
expected to be incurred in 2010, with This led to the decision to mothball a some occurring in 2011.
Prior to the year end, agreement was  UFP reached to sell around 38,000 hectares machine at Merebank which was South Africa Division of forestry assets in three separate completed early in the second half of transactions.
A further 56,000 tonnes of transactions remains subject to Segment revenue 478 587 19 market-related downtime was taken on regulatory approval, which is of which interthe remaining machines in the second anticipated in the first quarter of 2010. segment revenue 210 285 26 half of 2009.
This in turn enabled EBITDA 76 152 50 increased sales of market pulp, where Mondi Packaging South US dollar prices have been rising since Underlying operating Africa MPSA the second quarter of 2009.
Domestic profit 32 111 71 Emillion 2009 2008 % uncoated fine paper cut-size prices 1 Uncoated Fine Paper 16 75 79 Segment revenue 498 474 5 continue to hold up, with demand in Corrugated 16 36 56 of which interthe first half of 2009 below the 2 Capital expenditure 26 44 41 comparable period but recovering fully segment revenue 25 27 7 Net segment assets 840 760 11 in the second half of 2009.
The Division EBITDA 62 52 19 did not recognise fair value gains on Return on capital Underlying operating forestry assets to the extent seen in employed % 4.6 15.9 71 profit 36 28 29 2008, as local wood prices remained 1 Includes pulp and forestry business.
1 Capital expenditure 17 38 55 2 Capital expenditure is cash payments and relatively flat in 2009. excludes business combinations.
Net segment assets 335 301 11 Return on capital After a reasonable performance in the The South Africa Division recorded a employed % 11.5 8.6 34 first half of 2009, the containerboard decrease in underlying operating profits operation struggled in the second half 1 Capital expenditure is cash payments and of E79 million, or 71%, to E32 million.
as a result of the strengthening rand, In the uncoated woodfree operations the lower white-top kraftliner export Underlying operating profit increased profitability was negatively affected by by E8 million, or 29%, to E36 million.
prices down by 6% compared with the lower pulp, woodchip and paper export first half of the year and by 13% Despite a slowdown in the local prices together with lower woodchip compared with the second half of economy and a stronger South African and paper volumes.
Significant US 2008 and reduced volumes due to the rand, the business was able to dollar market price increases in the national strike and annual maintenance maintain average pricing levels during second half of 2009 in both pulp and African paper sales excluding South shut.
However, the final quarter of 2009 the year and benefited from a 26 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Exited 930,000 tonnes of higher-cost capacity in just over two years favourable product mix.
Sales volumes, year, owing to lower sales volumes and consumer bags business in Austria: however, were lower, especially in prices, exacerbated by the weakening closure of a corrugated plant in the of some emerging European currencies corrugated packaging, owing to lower UK and four bag-converting plants in which it trades and higher bad consumer demand both locally and across Europe: debts, as several of its smaller internationally.
Market-related sale of the Italian recycled customers were severely affected by downtime in paper production totalling containerboard plant, Cartonstrong the economic downturn.
Mondi 58,000 tonnes was taken in order to  capacity Shanduka Newsprint came under balance inventories.
Specific cost and the related sheet feeder, and the pressure from lower domestic demand savings initiatives assisted in lowering  Frohnleiten and pricing pressures, recording the cost base, although these gains recycled containerboard mill in Austria operating profits slightly below the were partially offset by higher input subject to regulatory approval : and levels of last year.
mothballing of the  & other per-annum Stambolijski kraft paper Merchant & Newsprint mill in Bulgaria and an UFP machine Net corporate costs before special Emillion 2009 2008 % at Merebank, effectively removing items decreased by E2 million Segment revenue 528 593 11 120,000 tonnes of uncoated fine compared with 2008.
This was mainly of which interas a result of cost saving initiatives paper capacity per annum.
segment revenue 1 10 offset by certain non-recurring costs EBITDA 28 24 17 incurred in the second half of 2009.
These actions, together with those Underlying operating taken in 2008, have seen Mondi exit Restructuring profit 12 771 around 810,000 tonnes of higher-cost 1 Capital expenditure 7 10 30 Continuing our strategy of focusing on paper capacity in Europe around 15% retaining a high-quality, low-cost asset Net segment assets 194 196 1 of the Groups European paper base and in response to the economic Return on capital production capacity and around 9% downturn, we accelerated our employed % 6.0 3.3 82 120,000 tonnes of its South African restructuring plans.
Significant actions 1 Capital expenditure is cash payments and paper production capacity in just over excludes business combinations.
were taken including: two years.
Importantly, these divestment of the four remaining measures, together with the various Aylesford Newsprint returned to corrugated converting operations in cost reduction initiatives in ongoing profitability, benefiting from improved France for total proceeds of operations, have placed the Group in a selling prices on its annual contract approximately E51 million, thereby stronger competitive position than it business, although rising input costs completing the withdrawal from this was when it entered the downturn, and the structurally weak European market: thereby positioning the Group to take newsprint market remain a concern for restructuring of the Turkish corrugated the future.
Europapiers operating profit business, the coatings business in advantage of any upturn in the came in below that of the previous Finland and the UK, and the business cycle.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 27 Directors report Business review continued The asset impairments relate primarily to lower exchange losses on foreign Reconciliation of the write-down of an UFP machine at currency debt balances.
Excluding the underlying profit to reported loss Merebank, the impairment of the impact of capitalised interest, interest recycled containerboard mills at on net debt increased marginally from Emillion 2009 2008 E148 million in 2008 to E151 million, Frohnleiten in Austria and Raubling in Underlying profit 124 202 Germany and converting operations in even though overall debt levels declined Special items: refer the Corrugated and Bags & Specialities during the year, owing to an increase in to note 5 of the the effective gross cost of net debt from business units that have been financial statements restructured or closed.
This Operating special was principally because of the increase the mothballing of the Stambolijski mill in items 128 358 in the Groups rouble debt resulting Bulgaria and the closure or restructuring Net profit loss on of the various converting operations from capital expenditure in Russia at a disposals 3 27 time of exceptionally high interest rates represent the bulk of the E43 million Impairment of assets during the height of the financial crisis.
in sold operations 8 2 At year end, approximately 24% of the Related tax 6 4 Groups debt was drawn in euro, 23% The goodwill impairment charge relates Reported loss 3 181 in South African rand and 15% in solely to the write-down of goodwill in Russian rouble.
Europapier, while the net insurance Special items refer to proceeds relate to a fire at one of note 5 of the financial Taxation statements MPSAs plastics operations.
The effective tax rate before special In aggregate, pre tax special items A non-operating special items charge items of 32% was higher than the amounted to a charge of E133 million.
of E5 million was recognised, which rate of the previous year 29%, mainly comprises the net profit on An operating special item charge of due primarily to an increase in E128 million was recognised, the sale of four corrugated operations unrecognised assessed losses as a principally comprising: in France E3 million profit, offset by consequence of the decline in asset impairment costs of the impairment of the held-for-sale profitability.
There is only minor tax E78 million: assets of the Cartonstrong, relief on special items.
goodwill impairment costs of operations in Italy amounting to E12 million: Minority interests E7 million subsequently sold.
closure and restructuring costs of Minority interests before special items E43 million: Finance costs for the year were E1 million lower than insurance profits of E8 million: and Net finance costs of E114 million were those of the previous year.
Earnings charges related to arrangements put E45 million lower than those of the were down at Swiecie in Poland 66% in place for senior executives previous year, mainly as a result of owned, although this impact was following the demerger from higher levels of capitalised interest Anglo American plc in July 2007 of largely offset by higher earnings in Tire E3 million.
relating to major capital projects and Kutsan the effectively 63.4% held 28 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Cash generated from operations increased by 9% to E867 million Turkish corrugated business and EBITDA of E645 million for the year Balance sheet Mondi Packaging South Africa was 21%, or E169 million, lower than Emillion 2009 2008 70% owned.
in 2008, reflecting the more difficult Trading capital trading environment.
Cash generated employed 4,314 4,367 Cash flow and from operations of E867 million borrowings ROCE increased by E72 million, or 9%, Emillion 2009 2008 pre taxation % 7.6% 9.5% compared with the previous year, EBITDA 645 814 Shareholders funds 2,399 2,323 mainly because of significantly higher Fair value adjustments Return on shareholders inflows from working capital than and other non-cash funds % 4.0% 6.5% were achieved in 2008, offset by the movements 26 46 Net debt 1,517 1,690 Cash flow from working lower EBITDA.
Cash inflow from capital 248 27 working capital of E248 million was Gearing Net debt Cash generated from trading capital achieved despite an already strong operations 867 795 employed % 35.1% 38.7% performance in the 2007 and 2008 Taxes paid and financial years E124 million Net debt to EBITDA dividends from cumulative inflow.
times 2.4 2.1 associates 30 69 Net cash generated Capital expenditure, including from operating Trading capital employed at year activities 837 726 purchase of intangible assets, of end was E4,314 million, E53 million Capital expenditure 517 693 E222 million excluding spend on the lower than in 2008, mainly because Investment in forestry two major strategic projects of around of working capital inflows of assets 40 43 E300 million, was significantly lower E248 million, special item impairments Acquisitions of than depreciation and amortisation of of E98 million and disposals of subsidiaries and E351 million, reflecting the decision E59 million, partially offset by capital associates 2 49 taken in the fourth quarter of 2008 to expenditure including purchases of Disposals of businesses 57 17 limit new capital expenditure intangible assets of E522 million Other investing activities approvals to below 40% of E171 million in excess of including interest depreciation and foreign exchange depreciation.
The remaining received 10 58 movements of E195 million.
expenditure on the two major projects Net cash used in investing activities 492 710 is estimated at around E210 million, Treasury and borrowings the bulk of which will be spent in Cash used generated from financing 2010 with minimal flow through to The Groups treasury function operates activities 364 8 2011.
There were no major business within clearly defined Board-approved Net cash flow 19 24 acquisitions during the year.
policies and limits, follows controlled Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 29 Directors report Business review continued reporting procedures and is subject to E815 million undrawn, committed and the hands of South African investors.
The other key It is pleasing to note the subsequent regular internal and external reviews.
facilities include a E170 million export significant narrowing of the price As part of managements regular credit agency loan in Russia with an differential that had existed between review of the suitability of treasury risk amortising repayment until 2020 and a the Mondi plc and Mondi Limited management policies, the Groups E115 million European Investment ordinary shares.
currency hedging policy has been Bank EIB facility in Poland with an amended.
Effective from the start of Risk management and amortising repayment until 2017.
Total 2010, only material balance sheet internal control undrawn committed debt facilities at exposures and highly probable forecast year end amounted to E990 million.
The DLC executive committee, capital expenditures are hedged.
mandated by the Boards, has The average maturity of the established a Group-wide system of Net debt at year end of E1,517 million committed debt facilities is 2.2 years internal control to manage Group was E173 million down compared with compared with 3.4 years in 2008. risks.
This system, which complies the previous year.
This was achieved Drawn facilities maturing over the next with corporate governance codes in despite significant capital spend of 12 months amount to E219 million.
South Africa and the UK, supports around E300 million on the two key To the extent they are not renewed, the Boards in discharging their capital projects in Poland and Russia, they can be financed out of existing responsibility for ensuring that the through a strong focus on cash flow undrawn committed facilities.
The wide range of risks associated with Groups major refinancing event optimisation across the Group, Mondis diverse international occurs in June 2012, when the including the release of working capital operations is effectively managed.
E1.55 billion, five-year, syndicated and the reduction of capital expenditure revolving credit facility becomes due.
Internal control outside of the two major projects.
It is intended that this facility will be Gearing as at 31 December 2009 The Boards are responsible for refinanced well ahead of this date, was 35.1%, and the net debt to trailing establishing and maintaining an utilising a combination of bank and effective system of internal controls.
12 months EBITDA ratio was 2.4. other debt markets.
This system of internal control, embedded in all key operations, Group liquidity is provided through a Reclassification of provides reasonable rather than range of committed debt facilities Mondi plc shares absolute assurance that the Groups amounting to E2.5 billion, which are in After a constructive dialogue with the business objectives will be achieved excess of the Groups short-term South African Reserve Bank and within risk tolerance levels defined by needs.
The principal debt facility is the Treasury, we announced in July 2009 the Boards.
Regular management E1.55 billion, five-year, syndicated that the Minister of Finance had reporting provides a balanced revolving credit facility which matures in decided to reclassify the secondary assessment of key risks and controls June 2012.
In total, E735 million of this listing of Mondi plc ordinary shares on and is an important component of the facility was drawn at year end, leaving the JSE Limited as domestic assets in Boards assurance.
In addition, certain 30 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Net debt down by E173 million Board committees focus on specific monitored by the Boards: Groups ability to achieve its business risks such as safety, and provide approval by the Boards of all major objectives.
Mondis dynamic risk relevant assurance to the Boards.
investments, with proposals being management system has the subject to rigorous strategic and commitment of the Groups senior The finance heads of the business commercial examination: management and is designed so that units provide six-monthly confirmation a centrally co-ordinated internal different businesses can tailor their that financial and accounting control audit programme, using internal processes to the specific frameworks have operated and external resources to support circumstances.
The Boards also receive the Boards in ensuring a sound for risk management is a key assurance from the DLC audit control environment: performance criterion for the Groups committee, which derives its completion by business unit line managers, who are provided with information in part from regular management of a six-monthly appropriate support through Group internal and external audit reports of internal control assessment, the Groups risk and internal controls.
The requisite confirming compliance with Group The Groups internal audit function is risk and control capability is assured policies and procedures, detailing responsible for providing independent through Board challenge and controls in operation and listing any assurance to the DLC executive appropriate management selection weaknesses: committee and Boards on the and skills development.
Continuous assurance activities covering the effectiveness of the Groups risk monitoring of risk and control management process.
key business risks summarised and processes across all key risk areas reported annually to the Boards, provides the basis for regular reports Key elements of the Groups system of the DLC audit committee or, where to management, the DLC executive internal control are: appropriate, the DLC sustainable committee and the Boards.
a clearly-defined organisation development committee: and structure with established annual risk-profiling by local responsibilities: Principal risks and businesses and the Group to a simple and focused business uncertainties identify, monitor and manage strategy, restricting potential risk significant risks, with the results It is in the nature of Mondis business exposure: discussed at business reviews and that the Group is exposed to risks Group financial, business conduct, internal control, audit and risk and uncertainties which may have an operating and administrative policies meetings.
impact on future performance and and procedures which incorporate financial results, as well as on its statements of required behaviour: Risk management ability to meet certain social and a continuous review of operating environmental objectives.
The Group The Boards risk management policy performance: believes that it has effective systems encompasses all significant financial, a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly results, annual operational and compliance-related and controls in place to manage the budgets and periodic forecasts, risks which could undermine the key risks identified below.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 31 Directors report Business review continued risks.
It is also anticipated that the Mondi operates in a highly Whistle-blowing recent settlement of land claims in competitive environment programme South Africa will provide a framework The Group has a whistle-blowing The markets for paper and packaging for settling future forestry land claims programme called Speakout.
The products are highly competitive.
programme, monitored by the DLC audit committee, enables employees, Similarly, prices of Mondis key paper Significant capital customers, suppliers, managers or grades have experienced substantial investments including other stakeholders, on a confidential fluctuations in the past.
However, basis, to raise concerns about acquisitions carry project risk Mondi is flexible and responsive to conduct which is considered to be changing market and operating Mondi is in the process of completing contrary to Mondis values.
It makes conditions and the Groups a significant capital investment to communication channels available to geographical and product expand and upgrade existing facilities any person in the world who has diversification provides some measure in Russia.
This project carries risks information about unethical practice in of protection.
Uncertain trading and Mondi has put in place dedicated the Groups operations.
During 2009 conditions in the future may have an teams to ensure delivery of the reports were received via the global impact on the carrying value of project on time and within budget.
programme facility covering a number goodwill and tangible assets and may Severe weather conditions in of areas.
Reports were kept strictly result in further restructuring activities.
December 2009 January 2010 had confidential and referred to an impact on the project timetable.
appropriate line managers for Input costs are subject to resolution.
Together with a  fluctuations forecast Russian rouble, this is Materials, energy and consumables Going concern expected to result in a small cost used by Mondi include significant The Groups business activities, overrun of around 4%.
amounts of wood, pulp, recovered together with the factors likely to paper, packaging papers and affect its future development, Accountability and audit chemicals.
Increases in the costs of performance and position are set out The Boards are required to present a any of these raw materials, or any in this business review.
The financial balanced and understandable difficulties in procuring wood in position of the Group, its cash flows, assessment of the Groups financial certain countries, could have an liquidity position and borrowing position and prospects, which are adverse effect on Mondis business, facilities are described in the financial provided in the joint chairmens operational performance or financial statements on pages 79 to 161.
In statement and chief executive's condition.
However, the Groups addition, notes 37 and 38 to the review on pages 12 to 21 and in this focus on operational performance, financial statements include the relatively high level of integration and business review.
The responsibilities Groups objectives, policies and access to its own fibre in Russia and of the directors and external auditors processes for managing its capital: its South Africa, serve to mitigate these are set out on pages 75 to 78. financial risk management objectives: 32 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Nearly E1.0 billion of undrawn committed debt facilities details of its financial instruments and and a number of facilities in South hedging activities: and its exposures Africa totalling E340 million.
The to credit risk and liquidity risk.
availability of these facilities is dependent on the Group meeting The current economic conditions certain financing covenants, most have had an impact on short-term significantly an EBITDA to net debt demand growth for Mondis products, ratio of 3.5.
At year end this ratio was as well as placing pressure on both 2.4.
Mondi had nearly E1.0 billion of customers and suppliers who may undrawn committed debt facilities as face liquidity issues, and could have at 31 December 2009 with an an adverse impact on the Group's average maturity of 2.2 years, which business.
Furthermore, the lack of should provide sufficient liquidity for credit availability could affect the Mondi in the medium term.
Group's ability to execute its strategy effectively.
However, Mondi's The Groups forecasts and geographical spread, product projections, taking account of diversity and large customer base reasonably possible changes in mitigate these risks.
The proactive trading performance, show that the initiatives by management in Group should be able to operate rationalising the business through within the level of its current facilities cost-cutting, asset closures and and the related covenants.
divestitures have consolidated the Groups leading cost position in its As a consequence, the directors chosen markets.
Strong working believe that the Group is well placed capital management has resulted in a to manage its business risks significant net cash inflow from successfully.
working capital over the period, while capital expenditure programmes have After making enquiries, the directors been reduced.
have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to The Group meets its funding continue in operational existence for requirements principally from its the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, E1.55 billion, five-year, syndicated they continue to adopt the goingrevolving credit facility maturing in concern basis in preparing the annual June 2012, together with a report and accounts.
E115 million facility in Poland, a E170 million facility in Russia Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 33 Directors report
