Performance Business Review Overview Mouchels ability to combine strategic advice and transformational services, advanced technological capabilities, and an established track-record as a delivery partner in each of our core sectors is fundamental to our offer.
In 2008 09 Mouchel has faced challenging economic conditions in its core markets, arising from the global slowdown and the resulting pressure on public sector finances.
In addition, we have needed to address some specific challenges in our own business: a rapid decline in Middle East orders, the failure of our Rail business to secure a sustainable volume of new work, and integration difficulties following the acquisition of management consulting practice, Hedra, in the last financial year.
Despite these challenges we have achieved good revenue growth and an underlying pre-tax profit exceeding that of previous years.
We have ended the year with a robust order book and pipeline and a business that has a more diverse service mix than ever before.
We have a strong and effective management team, and Richard Cuthbert a workforce that is motivated, capable and lean, and a business Chief Executive model that remains relevant and sustainable to the market in which we now operate.
We owe this position to the people right across the business, who have collectively turned our plans and ideas into value-adding services, and to our clients, who have placed their trust and confidence in our ability to deliver essential services to their public, day-in, day-out.
Few could have predicted the scale of economic change that has taken place in our markets during the past 12 months but in change there is opportunity and for Mouchel this will be as a result of our proven ability to strengthen and improve performance in client organisations.
Going forward, the emphasis in the UK public sector will be on efficiency, value-for-money, better asset utilisation, and the remodelling of public services to balance long-term budgetary constraints with rising citizen expectations.
Mouchels ability to combine strategic advice and transformational services, advanced Kevin Young technological capabilities, and an established track-record as a Group Finance Director delivery partner in each of our core sectors is fundamental to our offer and equips us to build a business that adds value to both our shareholders and to society.
This is becoming a clear differentiator for the Group and remains central to our business model going forward.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 06 Mouchel Group plc Performance Business Review 3,371 Objectives and purpose incidents attended to by Mouchel in the Highways Agency Area 13 network in 2008 09.
Mouchel will continue to meet its business objectives while enriching and improving the lives of the citizens in our society.
Objectives Purpose Mouchels principal business objective is to win and deliver Mouchels stated purpose is to improve day-to-day life for millions profitable business through long-term partnerships with public of people by helping to transform essential public services and sector and public service industries: bringing about sustainable by sustaining the vital infrastructure upon which society depends.
shareholder value, clear visibility of future earnings, fruitful and dynamic customer relationships, and employee confidence These are services for which demand remains relatively inelastic, and loyalty.
even in times of economic recession.
These are services that provide the fundamental components of modern society and We will continue to develop a business that is highly cashare a given for the majority of citizens.
generative, and that targets margins of around 8%.
We will continue to provide consulting and business services, predominantly to the Mouchel supports the many local authorities, central government UK public sector and public service industries: markets in which departments and agencies, and companies regulated by we can provide multiple service offers and the vertical integration government.
We provide safer, more reliable roads, better teaching of consulting, design and asset delivery expertise in front-line and and learning environments, healthier communities, cleaner drinking back-office environments.
water and more accessible citizen services.
We help our clients to find better ways to run their own services, to make better use of public funds, and to gain more from investment in new technologies, products and systems.
In this way Mouchel will continue to meet its business objectives while enriching and improving the lives of the citizens in our society.
This is a company driven by a passion to do the right thing for the millions of people whose lives are touched daily by our services, while protecting the interests of our shareholders, clients and employees.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 07 Mouchel Group plc Performance Business Review 5,000 Strategy local residents in Northern Ireland attended 12 exhibitions as part of the A5 public consultation exercise.
Mouchel expects to continue to achieve good levels of year-on-year growth in markets which are generally associated with the provision of asset management and maintenance and citizen services across society.
Mouchels strategy is to win and retain long-term managed Our business model is based upon: service and outsourcing contracts, especially in sectors where there is a transfer of staff from the public sector.
Mouchel utilises maintaining a balanced portfolio of managed services and its consulting services to extend the scope and value of its consultancy activities in the public sector and public service relationships with clients and to differentiate itself from other industries: in highways, in utilities, in local government, in central managed service providers.
government, in education, in health and internationally: Although the current environment is challenging, Mouchel expects achieving good contract renewal and win-rates, combined with to continue to achieve good levels of year-on-year growth in markets strong market penetration, to provide our existing mix of services which, though not immune to the effects of global slowdown, are in partnership with new clients in our existing market sectors: generally associated with the provision of asset management and maintenance and citizen services across society.
These markets are increasing the level of integration between our existing areas of becoming increasingly dependent upon private sector participation to business to build new, combined service offers that meet the meet the more demanding performance expectations of government wider needs of our client base: and citizens alike.
introducing through organic growth and, in certain cases, acquisition or joint venturing other new services and products to meet the developing needs of the current client base: and extending Mouchels existing services into new, related markets within the public sector and public service industries.
This strategy has underpinned Mouchels business strategy for over five years.
It was conceived to provide resilience against the cyclical nature of the economy and the public service markets.
While few could have foreseen the rapid rate of change in the economy, and its effects on public sector finances, we remain confident that these business principles are right for our Company now and will remain so in the foreseeable future.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 08 Mouchel Group plc Performance Business Review Structure Our three business streams serve the national and regional highways sector, the central and local government sector and industries regulated by government water, energy, etc.
Mouchels operational structure is market-facing and is designed Mouchels Highways business the number one provider in its to promote intelligent, specialist relationships in our principal areas core market delivers a holistic planning, design, maintenance and of business.
Our three business streams serve the national and operations service to highway authorities.
During the past few years regional highways sector, the central and local government sector the Group has extended the bandwidth of its services in order and industries regulated by government water, energy, etc.
to help authorities optimise the value of their networks and to more effectively manage the movement of people, goods and services.
Mouchels Government Services business which includes its The focus of the business has been modified, away from traditional Management Consulting division provides a broad range of highway design towards technological and product solutions that services to central and local government together with health and improve highway utilisation.
Its differentiator lies in a mix of strategic consulting and transformation expertise that is informed by, and supports, operational service delivery.
Its focus is on maximising citizen value through long-term, multi-dimensional relationships with client organisations and on the joining up of public services with innovative service propositions that, in many cases, challenge conventional thinking in these markets.
It ranks as one of the UKs top operators in local government BPO and is one of the UKs largest independent public sector management consulting practices.
Mouchels Regulated Industries business operates in the water supply and wastewater, waste management, energy and environmental sectors.
In management terms, it also incorporates Mouchels Middle East business, which delivers infrastructure and municipal services in that region.
The Regulated Industries business stream provides a portfolio of strategic consulting, design, asset modelling and asset management and as a premier league provider in the water sector it continues to lead the way in supporting the development of new product and systems technologies in the areas of leakage management, flood prevention, water treatment and public health.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 09 Mouchel Group plc Performance Business review Markets In the past 12 months the world has changed but the basic infrastructure and service needs of society have not.
In the past 12 months the world has changed but the basic Mouchels Management Consulting business enhances the infrastructure and service needs of society have not.
For Mouchel, strategic capacity of the organisation to advise and deliver the economic turmoil presents opportunities as our core clients transformation and restructuring programmes in local authorities, strive for step-change improvement in efficiency and performance where the combination of strategic and operational experience to address public sector spending constraints.
Mouchels markets differentiates the business from the major Limited Liability are relatively inelastic: the services we deliver support the essential Partnerships LLPs such as PwC, KPMG and Deloitte.
infrastructure of society and the ongoing challenge for organisations like Mouchel will be to devise smarter and more cost-efficient ways Education of delivering more for less.
The Government continues to direct considerable expenditure towards the education sector through investments such as its Local government Building Schools for the Future BSF programme which invests Local authorities in England and Wales will focus a significant around 2.5bn per annum in the improvement of Britains 3,500 proportion of their budgets on local services including citizen primary and secondary schools and in grants to local authorities.
services like education, social services and adult social care: asset and infrastructure management in areas like highways and property, The focus of our Education business continues to be on the and business support services such as ICT and procurement.
The provision of education improvement and property services, mainly local government BPO market is expected to grow more rapidly via the City Academy and BSF programmes and to local authority than the overall BPO sector, growing from 28% of the total market schools generally.
We continue to leverage our existing footprint to 40% in the next five years.
The market is maturing and there will across the local and regional government sector through our be increased opportunity to provide transformational capabilities support of major capital programmes like BSF and using our across a broader range of services in what is seen as the next reputation in advisory services to target growth in key areas generation of partnering.
of education services support and change management.
Local government faces the challenge of recessionary pressure on Our range of expertise means we can take a learning-led budgets while, at the same time needing to respond to rising public approach to such services, while offering the breadth of capability expectations on service levels.
A complex and highly fragmented required to improve educational outcomes and to reduce the market: focus in the future will be on efficiency improvement, cost administrative burden associated with school management, reduction and private sector funding.
Opportunities for joint positioning us well for future growth in this market.
procurement and shared services are expected and although the market is highly competitive, Mouchel expects barriers for new Emergency services entrants to increase as the breadth of outsourced services increases.
Blue-light authorities the fire, police and ambulance services Competition in local government comes from the larger IT companies throughout the UK also face growing pressure on costs against such as IBM, Fujitsu and BT together with other support services a background of rising public expectations.
Increasingly, these providers like Serco and Capita and smaller private equity-backed authorities are turning to the private sector for support in the BPO firms such as Vertex and Liberata.
provision of non-core functions and in the transformation of their overall service delivery.
The local government property services market is more mature and many opportunities are now second-generation outsourced Our propositions are geared specifically to help police forces meet services contracts.
However, this is a long-term and relatively the Governments Police Reform Programme which aims to reduce stable market in which Mouchel has a strong existing position.
crime, improve public confidence and satisfaction, raise detection levels, improve performance and deliver value for money.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 10 Mouchel Group plc Performance Utilities The Governments 2007 Energy White Paper highlighted the Water, energy and waste utility companies in Britain present importance of providing sustainable energy at an affordable a current addressable market of 2.6bn per annum for Mouchel, price and the increased need for carbon-efficiency in the energy rising to just over 4.0bn per annum by 2012.
The energy sector in Britain is experiencing services in each of these markets, though predominantly within a substantial change, with the move towards more localised, the water industry at present.
carbon-driven generation driving a shift in operating practices.
Mouchels growing participation in this sector focuses on this The water industry in Britain is regulated by government, which changing market environment and on providing capital design, sets service delivery targets and places revenue generating limits strategic consultancy and carbon management expertise.
Water companies present their investment proposals to the Regulator in the form of five-year asset management Central government The Julius Review identified total government expenditure on plans AMP and in the next asset management cycle, between services amounting to nearly 80.0bn per annum.
Around half the 2010 and 2015, spending of circa 20.0bn is predicted.
support sought from the private sector involves the provision of managed services: around a fifth is for IT services.
The remainder Mouchel is one of the UKs top two water consultancies by is associated with BPO, construction, facilities management and revenue and works with all the major UK water and wastewater other professional services.
companies so we are well-placed to benefit from this increase in expenditure.
The focus of water company investment is changing, But economic events of the past year, and the resulting public away from capital construction projects and towards capital sector deficit, have forced government departments to reflect maintenance and operational management programmes, which on future spending needs and the emphasis going forward is on fits well with Mouchels business model and allows us to compete cost-reduction and operational efficiency.
Focus is, in particular effectively against traditional engineering consultancies like MWH, on the way in which government procures back-office and Mott MacDonald, Atkins and Halcrow.
IT shared services, and on property running costs.
The need for effective flood prevention is becoming ever more There is opportunity in the current state of affairs: the Julius Review pressing in Britain and there is a growing demand for services predicts a 5% to 8% increase in the use of the private sector in the from the Environment Agency, local authorities and Network Rail.
delivery of central government services.
Mouchels differentiator The Pitt Report, which assessed the impact of the 2007 floods, is its ability to fide-risk cost reduction measures, providing strategic highlighted the need for increased flood defences and advocated consulting support that can readily draw upon our in-depth spending of 1.0bn per annum by 2011.
This is a growing source operational know-how to prevent damage to core public services.
of opportunity for Mouchel, which currently has just a 2% share of the addressable market but which has seen a 50% increase The pace of policy change in central government is unremitting, in earnings in this area in the last four years.
reflecting the need to engage with citizens in new and different ways on matters ranging from criminal justice and immigration to the effects of an ageing population.
For Mouchel there continues to be opportunities to translate policy into action: like supporting shared services programmes to improve performance and reduce the cost of provision or technology programmes capable of delivering cashable and non-cashable benefits.
2 5,806 tonnes of road salt spread in Highways Agency Area 3 during last winter.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 11 Mouchel Group plc Performance Highways and transportation Business Review The addressable market in highways is approximately 2.5bn Markets per annum, of which Mouchels current market share is around 10%.
Highway design, maintenance and operational management continued services are readily outsourced to the private sector and the vast majority of highway authorities including the Highways Agency, Transport for London, and many local authorities opt to manage their networks in this way.
The focus of spending has changed in this sector.
While the emphasis of highway authorities is on achieving increased value for money, investment in technology-led programmes to gain improved utilisation of existing network capacity has taken the place of larger scale capital projects, for which funding is scarce.
In January 2009, the Transport Secretary announced a 6.0bn investment programme to improve and make better use of the strategic road network.
As part of this, 340 lane miles of English motorway have been identified for Managed Motorway with Hard Shoulder Running HSR.
The Managed Motorway HSR concept, formerly Active Traffic Management ATM, utilises the hard shoulder as an additional running lane during peak hours and reduces incidents by employing innovative operational regimes supported by technology.
Mouchels combination of traffic engineering, transportation planning, design, systems and operational management skills is well-placed in this environment, allowing us to provide a more holistic solution to highway service delivery.
Our emphasis going forward is on the continued broadening of the bandwidth of our service offer, differentiating from our competitors through our Health ability to impact at each stage in the cycle of planning, consulting, The Department of Healths three strategic objectives better designing, building, maintaining, operating and optimising the road health and wellbeing for all, better care for all, and better value network.
We have strong credentials in the managed movement and affordability for all drive its investment and spending strategy arena and we have maintained market leadership in areas ranging and, in consequence, its ongoing demand for consultancy and from controlled motorway projects to parking management and support services.
NHS spending on external professional services traffic restraint.
Competition is from traditional highway consultants organisations is over 300m per annum and some 12.5bn a year and from specialist technology companies but Mouchels largeris currently spent on central administration and back-office scale and resource depth allows it to retain competitive advantage.
In addition Primary Care Trusts PCTs have been set up to create independent commissioning and provider organisations, A large proportion of Mouchels Highways business involves the presenting further opportunities for private sector participation.
provision of network management and operations services.
In general, highway authorities now expect vertical integration of Mouchel will build upon our portfolio of contracts with the whiteand blue-collar services within a single partner organisation.
Department of Health, PCTs, and NHS trusts, providing a range of Generally the market responds through joint-venture companies, services that will extend from programme management, procurement which offer the underlying strengths of parent company service and strategic consultancy, through ICT implementation, to property depth and breadth.
Mouchel works alongside Enterprise plc in an and asset management.
Our Health business draws upon skills incorporated joint venture company known as EnterpriseMouchel.
and expertise from our Management Consulting and Government This organisation currently operates in two of the Highways Agencys Services businesses.
Other providers to this market include 13 regions but is tendering for work in a third.
Competitors in this Capita and Serco, as well as the management consultancy LLPs.
market include Atkins, Amey, Carillion and Balfour Beatty.
Middle East and International The number of infrastructure projects in the Middle Easts Gulf Cooperation Council GCC has increased at an unprecedented rate.
From 2002 to 2008, GCC governments awarded approximately $720bn worth of projects, yet spending has not always kept pace with economic and population growth: Kuwait still lacks capacity for peak load electricity production, Saudi Arabia and other GCC countries face water shortages, and the UAE is experiencing overloaded sewage plants and congested highways.
Following the economic downturn in the Middle East, currently there is minimal demand for infrastructure development, particularly in Dubai.
As a result, Mouchel will focus on key clients in Kuwait and Abu Dhabi where recent reorganisation of local government and continued capital investment is providing opportunity for our business.
To capitalise on existing infrastructure there is a move by our International business to move from new build to asset management as well as to develop our Government Services business and Management Consulting services.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 12 Mouchel Group plc Performance Business Review People Our strength is the determination of our people to do things better, to lead the way, to go the extra mile, and to keep our promises with clients and citizens alike.
Guiding principles Passion for success Mouchel is a business with a strong belief in itself.
Our purpose Success as an employer means building a satisfied, diverse, is to provide better public services: to improve the day-to-day capable workforce that is shaped around the professional skill sets lives of millions of people by sustaining vital infrastructure and needed to meet the current and future aspirations of Mouchels transforming essential services.
Our strength is the determination client base.
of our people to do things better, to lead the way, to go the extra mile, and to keep our promises with clients and citizens alike.
In 2008 09 staff numbers fell by about 2% to just over 11,100 people at 31 July 2009.
This was due to the downturn in the Middle East People in Mouchel seek careers which are worthwhile and fulfilling, and the right-sizing of activities in the UK, partly offset by staff taking pride in their ability to improve and reshape our communities joining us following contract wins during the year.
Staff turnover for the people who live and work in them.
reduced to less than 10% 13% in 2007 08 which is as a result of a less buoyant employment market, as well as our own efforts The guiding principles which define Mouchel capture the culture to retain and engage a solid skills base in the organisation.
The and ethos of the business: setting out a simple code to describe workforce has become more diverse, women now representing the way in which we should behave and perform.
In Mouchel some 29% compared to 26% the previous year.
there is: For the second year running, Mouchel has been ranked as one of the Sunday Times Best Big Companies to Work For league of major employers, a considerable achievement especially in view of the rapid growth of the Company.
a passion for success: striving for excellence in everything we do It is important, even in times of challenging market conditions, taking responsibility for our actions to celebrate success in a business.
Our 2008 Employee Awards, celebrating the achievements of our teams a celebration of personal, team and corporate achievement that attracted a broad range of entrants from across the organisation, gave us the chance to reflect on the many ways in which Mouchel a spirit of adventure: people had gone that bit further to make a lasting difference.
having a sense of excitement and fun being inquisitive in nature, inventive in Spirit of adventure our approach The UK public service sector, in 2009, is a changing world embracing change as an opportunity and Mouchels ability to embrace change as an opportunity is reflected in the culture and leadership of the firm.
A programme of senior management coaching in 2008 challenged the companys integrity at heart: decision-makers to raise their game in strategic business thinking, keeping our promises and doing the right thing motivational leadership and relationship development.
At the same appreciating the diversity of our people time, right across the organisation, an engagement programme, treating everyone with compassion and care which is available to every employee in every office, created a common purpose in the organisation and ensured that, in changing times, Mouchel can remain relevant to the general public it continues to serve.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 13 Mouchel Group plc Performance The message from the top in Mouchel is that it is acceptable Business Review to challenge and that initiative and drive are positive.
The Taking People the Lead programme which has now run in Mouchel for continued two-and-a-half years, has been received by over 1,000 employees and an Engaging for Growth strategy will promote relationship building across the business and our clients organisations to generate new opportunities and new growth.
Integrity at heart Success and innovation are meaningless without integrity: without the opportunity to do the right thing for the people and society that Mouchel serves.
This is an important driver for employees in Mouchel who create tangible benefits by transforming the way in which services are delivered: doing things more cost-effectively, more sustainably, more quickly and more transparently.
Engagement with citizens and communities is a key element in the daily lives of many Mouchel employees, often co-locating with clients to be visible and effective at grass-roots level.
Environmental sustainability is an important aspect of the service offer for Mouchel, but also an important consideration for its people who have elected to green the lease car and van fleet, to reduce Mouchels corporate carbon footprint and reduce the costs of travel.
Providing its people with a safe working environment is also imperative and in 2009 Mouchel launched an innovative behavioural safety programme designed to challenge inappropriate actions and to tackle the root causes of workplace accidents and ill-health.
Continuing the journey In 2008 Mouchel launched its new Corporate Plan for employees: entitled Our Journey: the Route to 2012.
This set out a direction for the business to 2012 and beyond, and remains the strategy that drives the organisation forward.
It reminds all staff of the companys purpose and its guiding principles: the nature of its work: and the Companys responsibilities to its employees, its clients, the communities it serves, the partners and suppliers it works with, and the shareholders who invest in us.
It presents the journey ahead and the fantastic environment for its people, whether just starting out on their careers or more experienced professionals.
Mouchels people share a common passion and belief that committed, high-calibre, well-trained professionals can continue to raise the standards of efficiency and performance with which public services are delivered to citizens.
Board On 30 January 2009, we announced the appointment of Bo Lerenius to the Plc board as a Non-Executive Director.
Bo is the former Group Chief Executive of Stena Line 1992 to 1998 and of Associated British Ports 1999 to 2007, where he remained 16 a Non-Executive Director until 31 December 2007.
He is currently is our position for the also a Non-Executive Director at G4S plc, Land Securities Group second year running plc and Thomas Cook Group plc.
His expertise in some of our core in the Sunday Times markets, and extensive experience generally will be a significant Best Big Companies benefit to the Group.
Bo succeeded Richard Benton as Chairman to Work For on 1 May 2009. league table.
Richard Benton stood down after 11 years with the Group.
He joined us as a Non-Executive Director in 1998 and became Chairman in 2001, successfully steering Mouchel through its flotation in 2002 and subsequent merger with Parkman Group plc in 2003.
Richard has made a huge contribution to the development and growth of the Group and we wish him well for the future.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 14 Mouchel Group plc Performance Overview Business Review Mouchel has faced a number of challenges in the second half of the year which have significantly impacted our performance.
Current and future Some of these have been caused by the conditions in the markets in which we operate and some have been particular to Mouchel.
development and performance We have struggled for some years to expand our activities in rail and we decided in the year to substantially exit that market: our Management Consulting division has been impacted by the economic downturn and we have responded by scaling back and restructuring that business: and, like many others, we got caught The Group has again performed well, up in the Dubai property crash which left us with over-capacity and severe working capital exposure.
These exceptional factors have with double-digit growth of both revenue created the loss that we have announced.
But its important to keep and underlying operating profit.
this disappointment in perspective at an operating level the Group has again performed well, with double-digit growth of both revenue and underlying operating profit, although the latter was below the expectations we set in the spring of 2008, before the worst impacts of the recession had begun to materialise.
Revenue increased by 13% to 740.6m, compared with last year.
Excluding the impact of the Hedra acquisition last year, revenue increased by 9% versus the prior year: maintaining the strong organic growth of recent years, just below our target range of 10% to 15% per annum.
Correspondingly, underlying operating profit also increased by 13% to 47.3m with underlying operating margins maintained at 6.4%.
Our medium-term target for underlying operating margins remains unchanged at 8%.
Profit before tax and exceptional items rose by 3% from 38.8m to 40.1m after taking into account a 4.3m increase in the overall net Key performance indicators interest cost, comprising 2.0m additional interest on bank borrowings Group and a 2.3m adverse movement in the financing element of the 2009 2008 % change retirement benefits charge.
Excluding the movement in interest on Revenue m 740.6 656.7 13 retirement benefit obligations, which is a non-cash item, profit before Underlying operating profit m 47.3 41.7 13 tax and exceptional items increased by 10%.
Operating margins % 6.4 6.4 Although in-line with our revised expectations, underlying profits Operating cash flow m 32.8 38.0 14 were significantly below what we had anticipated at the start of Cash conversion % 69 91 the year, due to difficulties faced by the Group in the Middle East, 1 Management Consulting and Rail.
However, in spite of the current Order book m 1,863 2,100 11 economic environment, our core businesses have continued to perform 1 Bidding pipeline m 2,163 2,200 2 strongly given that our activities are still focused mainly on the UK public 2 Contract win-rate % 25 33 sector and in the provision of essential services and the management Staff numbers at 31 July 11,121 11,341 2 of vital infrastructure.
We are also benefiting from being able to help our 1 clients reduce costs and deliver public services more efficiently.
Staff turnover voluntary % 8 13 1 Exceptional costs for the year totalled 53.6m 2008: 12.5m, At 31 July 2009 2 Win-rate is calculated by contract value including 7.4m 2008: 5.7m for the amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations.
The increase in amortisation compared to the prior year was due to the acquisition of Hedra in March 2008.
Of the balance, 17.1m 2008: nil related to a one-off impairment charge for goodwill and intangible assets, following the decision during the year to substantially exit the rail sector.
Other exceptional items amounted to 29.1m 2008: 6.8m and largely comprised the costs of restructuring the businesses in the Middle East, Management Consulting and Rail including an impairment charge of 15.0m against contract receivables in Dubai, offset in part by a gain on disposal of the Groups former head office in West Byfleet of 3.8m.
Other exceptional items in the prior year mainly included integration and transition costs associated with the HBS and Hedra acquisitions.
After taking into account exceptional items, the loss before tax for the year was 13.5m 2008: profit of 26.3m.
Further details on the exceptional items can be found in note 3. Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 15 Mouchel Group plc Performance Revenue for the year increased from 267.1m to 303.8m, largely Business Review reflecting the full-year impact of the Hedra acquisition which was completed on 5 March 2008, part way through the second half of the Current and future last financial year.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition, revenues increased from 246.1m to 253.3m, reflecting commencement of development and performance the Building Schools for the Future BSF commission in Hackney, Government Services as well as additional activity in our principal local authority partnership contracts.
Underlying operating profits, at 14.5m, were only slightly above the 14.4m reported the previous year due largely to operating margins reducing from 5.4% to 4.8%.
This was disappointing and reflected the continuing evidence of reduced demand for consulting services in our Management Consulting business, which we first highlighted in our half-year announcement.
This, and the investment within Management Consulting in supporting the expansion and development of the business elsewhere in the Group, adversely impacted the near-term profitability of the consulting business in the second half.
As a result of the challenges within Management Consulting, we took steps in the second half to restructure this part of the business in order to improve performance: this has involved the appointment of a new management team and the reduction in staff numbers to better match supply and demand and to give us greater flexibility.
Key performance indicators Government Services 2009 2008 % change Revenue m 303.8 267.1 14 Underlying operating profit m 14.5 14.4 1 Operating margins % 4.8 5.4 Order book m 1,116 1,218 8 1 Bidding pipeline m 896 1,129 21 2 Contract win-rate % 38 27 Staff numbers at 31 July 4,741 4,832 2 Staff turnover voluntary % 9 11 1 At 31 July 2009 2 Win-rate is calculated by contract value The National Programme for IT managing change to deliver improvements to patient care The challenge with local NHS organisations to The NHS is under tremendous identify ways to deliver joined-up pressure to modernise and reduce services that improve the patient spending while improving patient experience, design new business care.
Through the National processes, understand the impact Programme for IT, the NHS is of change and engage patients providing organisations across and staff.
England with the tools they need to share information and The outcome deliver care using recognised Mouchel has helped the NHS best practice.
The challenge for deliver improvements that are the NHS was to implement the making a difference to patients programme in a way that would and front-line staff.
These include deliver benefits, not just new reduced waiting times across systems.
NHS organisations: improved patient care through increased The solution information sharing: increased Mouchel is the business change patient safety by reducing errors: partner in the CSC Alliance, improving diagnoses: and the local service provider that improved financial balance is leading the implementation through better planning and in three of the five geographical use of resources.
Mouchel works Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 16 Mouchel Group plc Performance Since the acquisition of HBS and Hedra, we have become one We are still shortlisted as one of two for a 10-year, bundled services of the leading providers of strategic partnerships and outsourced partnership contract with North East Lincolnshire Council, which services to the local authority marketplace, where clients are under will focus on urban regeneration and economic development and increasing pressure to improve services and reduce costs.
The deliver property, housing, planning and transport services.
We have combination of the skills acquired as a result of the two acquisitions already been appointed to support the council with their economic is proving increasingly powerful in pursuing new outsourcing deals wellbeing and BSF programmes, building on our earlier success in and in securing programmes of work to help clients transform delivering improved educational outcomes for the authority.
We are in the advanced stages of negotiation with Middlesbrough Local authorities Council on a five-year extension to our existing contract, which We continue to build on our major partnerships with local authorities expires in 2011, and we expect a decision on this later in the year.
Discussions also continue with the client in Oldham around an including Middlesbrough, Lincolnshire, Rochdale, Milton Keynes, expansion in the scope of our services to include other back-office Oldham and Liverpool: and on our other strategic relationships in activities and we expect to secure this in the second half of the Hertfordshire and the London Borough of Hackney.
This year we current financial year.
We have worked with Oldham and Rochdale have secured a further four-year contract extension in Lincolnshire to award a PFI street-lighting contract across both boroughs and are following an earlier one-year extension and the result of a successful now developing business cases for further shared service activities, transformation exercise which helped identify significant savings including highway maintenance and parking management.
Our success in delivering transformation and cost reduction programmes is also reflected in recent consulting projects, More local authorities, driven by the need to become more efficient including several assignments for councils in the Midlands, where and save costs, are seeking to outsource services.
As a result, we we have implemented lean and systems thinking programmes.
have either been shortlisted, or expect to be shortlisted, for a raft of new bundled services and BPO opportunities.
Mouchel has been a partner to Lincolnshire County Council for nearly 10 years.
At the time of appointment this was regarded as Elsewhere in the local authority marketplace, we have won a a groundbreaking BPO partnership implementing major change number of new contracts during the year, including property design to deliver targeted savings of around 50.0m over a 10-year and maintenance services for Kent County Council and support to period, commencing in 2000.
As a result of the two extensions, the London Borough of Ealing with its Decent Homes initiative.
the contract now runs to 2015 and we have also been engaged to support the councils efficiency programme, new ways of working initiatives, and a wide range of projects within the children and adult services departments.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 17 Mouchel Group plc Performance Education Business Review The focus of our Education business continues to be on the Current and future provision of education improvement and property services, mainly development and performance via the City Academy and BSF programmes and to local authority schools generally.
We continue to leverage our existing footprint Government Services across the local and regional government sector through our continued support of major capital programmes like BSF and using our reputation in advisory services to target growth in key areas of education services support and change management.
This year, we have again been extremely successful in tendering for City Academy projects, winning contracts at Bournemouth, Bristol, St Helens, Isle of Sheppey and Solihull Academies.
Our relationship with the Harris Federation of Academies continues to grow and we have a strong pipeline of future opportunities.
We have been involved in about a quarter of the 200 Academies which have been opened to date.
In the BSF area, we are continuing to focus on client side advisory work, particularly through the provision of management, property, ICT and education consultancy services.
Project development has started on the second phase of the 10-year BSF programme in Hackney.
Work on the first phase is also nearing completion.
Also in Hackney, but outside education, we were appointed during the year as a framework contractor for estates and valuation services in addition to our existing role as one of the housing management service providers in the area.
Our work installing a new document management system for the council is also nearing completion.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 18 Mouchel Group plc Performance Emergency services and other public sector organisations During the year the business has supported significant cost reduction We continue to focus our efforts on supporting other public sector and transformation programmes for our major partnerships in delivery organisations and are seeing a growing workload with the Lincolnshire, Middlesbrough and Oldham.
Similar services are blue light service organisations.
As a result, we are now working being developed for our commission with Rochdale Council and with almost half of the police forces in England and Wales, including our change management and business transformation capability commissions recently secured with Gwent, Dyfed Powys and will continue to position us for sustained growth in the value of these Wiltshire constabularies.
We have an emerging presence in fire and partnerships as well as in our other BPO commissions.
rescue services and, in particular, a strong presence in Essex where we have been supporting the clients IT transformation programme.
We continue our work with the NHS on the National Programme for IT as part of the CSC Alliance.
The 10-year programme, for which We work with over 100 PCTs across the country and have Mouchel is the change partner for three of the five geographical recently assisted the PCTs in Yorkshire and Humber to redesign areas in the UK, involves modernising systems and improving and implement their patient referral and clinical decision-making working practices.
Ultimately, the programme will reduce spend processes.
and improve patient care and the environment in which staff work.
Management Consulting We also continue to build a management consulting capability The acquisition of Hedra plc resulted in a step-change in both overseas with our move into Abu Dhabi.
We have been appointed the size and capabilities of our Management Consulting business.
to work with the Abu Dhabi Government to implement a knowledge However, integration of the Hedra business was more problematic management programme, designed to improve government than originally envisaged, as was its trading performance in effectiveness, and we are preferred bidder on a potentially significant business process re-engineering opportunity, also the current economic environment.
We have now restructured for the Department of Municipal Affairs in Abu Dhabi.
the business and strengthened the management team, giving us a stronger base to build on going forward.
The one-off costs associated with this restructure have been separately disclosed as exceptional items.
Darnhill community project a catalyst for regeneration The challenge resulted in a further 850k Built during the 1960s, Darnhill investment to completely was a vibrant housing estate transform this community comprising 16 shops, a library, area.
The additional funding a local community centre and was provided by the Councils a health clinic.
The years since library Services and Asset its heyday have not been kind to Management Group, and by the the area however, due to lack of landlord of the housing estate, investment and increasing apathy Guinness Northern Counties.
The area had become seriously dilapidated The outcome and was rapidly becoming a Following the success of target of crime.
the Young People Centre, an additional 200k was invested The solution to remodel the library.
The estate The Impact Partnership, is now an open, safe environment, a Mouchel joint venture with with a strong community focus Rochdale Borough Council, built in conjunction with local was commissioned to complete residents which has received a 450k scheme to improve many accolades from users and young peoples facilities.
The future for the young led to a programme of extensive people of Darnhill now looks very stakeholder engagement which much brighter.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 19 Mouchel Group plc Performance Revenue for the year increased by 7% from 168.4m to 180.9m Business Review and underlying operating margins improved from 6.4% to 7.2%.
Reduced revenue and profit from the Rail business was more than Current and future offset by the increased activity from our operations in the Gulf prior to the economic difficulties in the United Arab Emirates UAE, development and performance towards the end of the last calendar year, and the subsequent Regulated Industries sudden slowdown in activity in the region, particularly in Dubai.
Utilities Although Rail and the Middle East have proved to be challenging markets for the Group over the last year, our Utilities business performed strongly.
In water, we have continued to experience relatively strong demand for our services in spite of the customary slowdown ahead of the next AMP period which commences in April 2010.
Also, notwithstanding current economic conditions, the indications are still that there will be an increase in expenditure during AMP5 relative to earlier regulatory periods and we expect to benefit from this given our focus on maintenance and asset management.
Mouchels Water business is the second largest provider of water-related consultancy services to the UK water sector, working with all the major UK water and wastewater companies.
During the year, we secured new or additional work with a number of our water company clients: for example, in the North West, we have been awarded a five-year extension to our existing contract with United Utilities, which we hold in joint venture with Kier, Murphy and Interserve.
Key performance indicators Regulated Industries 2009 2008 % change Revenue m 180.9 168.4 7 Underlying operating profit m 13.0 10.7 21 Operating margins % 7.2 6.4 1 Order book m 217 294 26 1 Bidding pipeline m 166 201 17 2 Contract win-rate % 26 42 Staff numbers at 31 July 2,172 2,671 19 Staff turnover voluntary % 9 16 1 At 31 July 2009 2 Win-rate is calculated by contract value SmartBall being smart with leakage detection The challenge a pipeline and travels with the water Leaks in trunk mains are very flow for up to 13 hours collecting difficult and costly to find.
information about leaks over many In Australia, one such pipeline, kilometres with a single deployment.
which spans the distance Our team travelled to Australia, within between Landers Shute and two days of notification, to conduct Morayfield to the north of Brisbane a SmartBall survey and detect any totalling a length of almost leaks.
28km, experienced repeated unsuccessful hydrostatic tests.
The outcome The challenge for the project team Two leaks in the pipeline were was to identify any leakage in the identified using SmartBall extensive pipeline on behalf of technology and the data processing the regional bulk water transport software pinpointed their exact authority.
This new and innovative technology provided increased The solution accuracy on the detection of leaks, SoundPrint SmartBall is an resulting in significantly reduced innovative new leak detection man hours, reduced energy costs technology developed by Pure for the water company and ultimately Technologies and promoted achieving significant cost savings under licence by Mouchel.
SmartBall is introduced into Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 20 Mouchel Group plc Performance Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 21 Mouchel Group plc Performance Business Review Current and future development and performance Regulated Industries continued In Yorkshire, we have continued to support Costain, providing Rail design and build services to Yorkshire Water for the construction During the year, we have continued to work with London of sewage treatment works and other major capital projects.
Underground, where we have been supporting CBS Outdoor We are currently in the process of retendering this commission in with the rollout of its digital advertising media programme and joint venture with Costain and are hopeful of a successful outcome.
Thales with its signal upgrading work on the Jubilee and Northern lines.
We have also continued to deliver services direct to London Early in the financial year, we secured and successfully Underground under a framework set up to develop schemes which commissioned the leakage detection contract for all eight zones will reduce the temperature on its trains and station platforms.
in Thames Waters North East and North West areas.
As a result, we are now undertaking leakage detection and associated activities We have now withdrawn entirely from Rail contracting given the across North London, in two of the clients four area networks.
The unacceptable margins and business risk.
We are currently fulfilling contract started in September 2008 for two years and is potentially our remaining contractual commitments on a small number of extendable by a further five years.
projects in this area but are not tendering for further work.
Our exit from this part of the market will be marked by the imminent Mouchel also has an extensive track record in flood alleviation.
In conclusion of our involvement in the Colchester to Clacton November 2008, we won Severn Trents AMP5 feasibility framework, resignalling contract.
covering a three-year period and involving studies in wastewater, flooding, and environmental schemes.
In 2007, the severe weather Our other principal area of activity in rail during the last five years and subsequent floods in parts of the country covered by Severn has been structures examination and inspection work for Network Trent left thousands of homes without a water supply.
Our work with Rail, where we learned during the second half of the financial year Severn Trent has identified ways to prevent such a catastrophe from that we were unsuccessful with our tender to secure a position happening again and, in particular, involved flood prevention works under its Civil Engineering Framework Agreement to provide these at the Mythe water treatment works which had been threatened by services in future.
As a result, our work with Network Rail was floodwaters in 2007.
We have also been liaising closely with the reduced to almost zero and we took the decision to substantially local planning authority and Environment Agency to negotiate the exit the Rail sector as a whole.
This has resulted in a significant planning and flood defence consent processes, which has impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as subsequently led to a larger national project.
one-off property-related provisions and redundancy costs for staff who did not transfer to the new service provider.
The impairment charges and other one-off costs have been separately disclosed as exceptional items.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 22 Mouchel Group plc Performance 7 0 councils are provided with remote support by Mouchel for Revenue and Benefits cases.
International Looking forward, we are more optimistic for the prospects of the Prior to the recent economic difficulties, we had grown our business elsewhere in the Gulf, though we do not anticipate a return international business to become one of the largest providers of to the very high levels of activity of 2008.
In the UAE, in addition infrastructure consultancy services in the Middle East.
Predominantly, to the management consulting opportunities with the Department this involved working for the state-backed development companies in of Municipal Affairs in Abu Dhabi, we are also now working as part the UAE, particularly Dubai, where we had a leading role on the Dubai of a major consortium pursuing a public private partnership for the Waterfront project and which, until the economic downturn, was Mafraq to Ghwaifat highway, which is being led by the Department planned to be the worlds largest waterfront development.
of Transport in Abu Dhabi.
We are continuing to provide infrastructure design services on the Khalifa Port Industrial Zone development We have been adversely impacted by the deteriorating economic in Abu Dhabi and, in Kuwait, we were recently successful in our environment in the region.
Currently there is minimal demand for tender for the design and supervision of part of the new infrastructure development, particularly in Dubai, as a result of North-South highway.
which we have seen a marked slowdown in activity levels and in the timing of collection of receivables compared to earlier years.
Over the past few months, we have been working closely with our clients in the Middle East to either secure the sums owed to us or to agree payment plans for the remaining outstanding amounts.
As a result, we have now incurred a 15.0m exceptional impairment charge against fees earned which we have not received.
We have also now substantially restructured our business in the Gulf.
This has also resulted in significant one-off property-related provisions and redundancy costs which have been separately disclosed as exceptional items.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 23 Mouchel Group plc Performance Business Review Current and future development and performance Highways Key performance indicators Revenue for the year increased 16% from 221.2m to 255.8m, Highways principally as a result of the Highways Agency HA maintenance management contract in Area 3 Southern England which 2009 2008 % change commenced on 1 September 2008, as well as additional activity Revenue m 255.8 221.2 16 in our maintenance management commissions and technology commissions generally.
At the same time, underlying operating Underlying operating profit m 19.8 16.6 20 margins improved slightly from 7.5% to 7.7%.
Operating margins % 7.7 7.5 1 Order book m 530 588 10 The highways marketplace in Britain has changed significantly 1 in recent years and we have continued to adapt to maintain our Bidding pipeline m 1,101 870 27 market leading position in this area.
2 Contract win-rate % 12 35 Staff numbers at 31 July 3,997 3,480 15 Network management Staff turnover voluntary % 7 13 In order book terms, Mouchels network management commissions for the HA, Transport for London TfL, Transport Scotland and local 1 At 31 July 2009 government clients provide the greatest visibility of future earnings: 2 Win-rate is calculated by contract value with contracts typically running for between five and seven years.
The combination of whiteand blue-collar services generally requires Mouchel to operate in joint venture.
We work with Enterprise plc formerly Accord plc in England and with Balfour Beatty plc in Scotland and Westminster, but we are also still currently working with Amey plc on HA Area 13 North West until the completion of this contract in July 2010.
As a result of the delay in closing the M25 DBFO contract, we benefited during the year from an ongoing role in Area 5 the M25 Sphere contract where our responsibilities finally ceased in September 2009.
In Area 9 West Midlands, we also benefited from a full-years earnings as the commission, which had been undertaken in joint venture with Amey, only finished in July 2009.
No further contracts will be bid through the AmeyMouchel joint venture, from which we will have withdrawn completely on conclusion of Area 13. Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 24 Mouchel Group plc Performance 2.
7 million civil enforcement transactions processed by Mouchel in 2008 09.
Our maintenance management commissions with the HA in Area 1 We continue to have a healthy pipeline of opportunities in Highways.
South West and Area 3 Southern England, which we undertake in In addition to the maintenance management commissions with joint venture with Enterprise, continue to perform well.
In Area 3 the the HA in Areas 1 and 13, we are currently tendering a number of impact of the governments fiscal stimulus has been to increase opportunities elsewhere.
In September 2009, we were named by expenditure through the commission, by delivering schemes to Lincolnshire County Council as the preferred bidder for its highways support the sector through the economic downturn.
professional services commission which is a five-year contract, extendable to 10.
Our performance on both Areas 1 and 3 through the severe weather last winter won special commendation, demonstrating We have recently been shortlisted, in joint venture with Carillion, our ability to collaborate successfully with adjacent highway as one of three bidders for the highways maintenance PFI contract authorities to deliver an effective service and maintain movement in Sheffield and have also been appointed in our own right as on the M4 motorway and other strategic routes during the worst technical adviser to the London Borough of Hounslow for its of the weather.
Overseas, we have formed a joint venture with the Australian company, Downer EDI, to pursue maintenance The Area 1 and 13 commissions come to an end in the middle of management opportunities.
As a result we have now been shortlisted 2010 and the procurement of new providers is currently ongoing.
for four potential commissions in Western Australia where the state We have been shortlisted as one of four tenderers in both areas.
government is pursuing a new approach to highway maintenance, As we are currently incumbent on both commissions, we are similar to the UK HAs model.
optimistic of a favourable outcome, although the result of the tendering process will not be known until late 2009 or early 2010.
Technology Mouchel is the only consultant to have developed, designed The EnterpriseMouchel commission with TfL is also performing and delivered a Hard Shoulder Running HSR scheme in the UK, well.
There is a strong environmental agenda to this contract having successfully managed the implementation of the M42 Active and we are meeting our obligations to reduce its carbon footprint Traffic Management ATM pilot scheme south of Birmingham.
by introducing a range of innovative energy saving measures.
We are a key supplier supporting the HA in the implementation of its Managed Motorway programme, supporting the roll-out of Mouchel continues to deliver local authority highways services under this programme elsewhere in the Birmingham area and on other a range of single-service partnerships with county councils and parts of the motorway network, notably the M60, the M3 and M4.
unitary authorities and as part of multi-service partnerships involving The Managed Motorway concept which includes HSR, speed the outsourcing of other council services the latter through our and lane controls, and slip-road signalisation ramp-metering Government Services business.
Mouchels highways partnership increases capacity in a sustainable way by reducing the scale with Wiltshire County Council has undergone service transformation of construction works.
Our unique experience and recognition as the result of a commission-wide change management exercise.
of the need for operational issues to lead in such schemes has In Hertfordshire, where our contract has been extended to 2012, been a differentiating factor in this market.
we have developed an efficiency improvement programme in collaboration with the council and the term contractor under a new risk-reward model that encourages ongoing efficiency improvements.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 25 Mouchel Group plc Performance The HA TechMAC schemes continue to perform well, involving Business Review Mouchel in joint venture with Peek Traffic, in the delivery of Current and future technology maintenance, system performance improvements and development and performance congestion management schemes.
In 2008 09, this has included delivering several ramp-metering sites across the network which Highways enabled the HA to achieve its targets for ramp-metering delivery, continued as well as the implementation of on-road technology to support congestion management.
Also, in the technology area, we have just learned that we have been successful with our tender for the HA National Roads Telecommunications Service NRTS PFI specialist consultancy commission.
This is a 10-year client-side technical advisory role where we will be working in conjunction with a technology provider to facilitate the improved integration of roadside monitoring equipment with HA regional traffic control centres.
We have also been successful in securing, in partnership with others, a technical consultancy framework for the Highways Agency which focuses on research and technical standards and has a potential duration of two and a half years.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 26 Mouchel Group plc Performance Civil enforcement Capital projects Civil enforcement is also a new, but growing market for Mouchel.
In Northern Ireland, we have been awarded a two-year with a Our market entry was accelerated through the acquisition of potential two-year extension Consultancy Services Framework technology provider Traffic Support Limited in 2006.
Our offer now for the Strategic Roads Improvement Programme for the Northern extends from the planning and design of parking schemes through Ireland Roads Service.
We continue with our delivery of the 88km A5 to the delivery of the software and hardware used in managing Western Transport Corridor improvement scheme, between Derry parking, the front-line civil enforcement officer service used and Aughnacloy.
This is the UKs largest greenfield road-building to control on-street parking and the back office systems and scheme, funded jointly by the British and Irish governments in order services needed to process payments and pursue offenders.
to stimulate economic regeneration in the North West of Ireland, and has a budget of up to 850m.
Although this is an important We have now secured a total of three parking and traffic management commission for us, involvement in major capital schemes now forms a relatively small proportion of our overall highways portfolio.
commissions and have a substantial pipeline of opportunities in this area, mainly with London boroughs.
Following our initial success in Hillingdon in 2008, we have subsequently secured two further similar commissions in Newham and Wandsworth in 2009.
We are also currently targeting other major opportunities in London including Camden and the City of Westminster.
Highways Agency MAC Area 3 Keeping the motorways open during heavy snow The challenge action, mobilising a command February 2009 saw the UK hit centre to effectively manage and by heavy snowfall that threatened co-ordinate resources.
Ploughing to cripple most of the countrys was undertaken to clear deep and transport networks.
Highways fast falling snow while spreaders Agency Area 3, which covers carried out continuous salt runs, critical routes from Southern working round-the-clock to keep England into London, was no transport links open.
Vital roads were put under immense pressure from The outcome the arctic conditions and effective Feedback from the Highways management was imperative Agency and members of the in order to ensure safety and public was exceptional, with to help reduce any negative many emails and letters thanking economic impact.
all those involved for the hard work that led to such a successful The solution outcome.
The preparation Working with the Highways and work carried out by Agency, EnterpriseMouchel put EnterpriseMouchel meant that its winter maintenance plan into all roads remained open and disruption was kept to a minimum.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 27 Mouchel Group plc Performance Market and economic risks Business Review The current economic slowdown is affecting every market and sector but Mouchels business is predominantly focused on the Principal risks and uncertainties development, improvement and delivery of essential public services which are relatively inelastic compared to design and construction services.
In addition Mouchels portfolio of services spans a range of public sector and public service industries and impacts at a number of levels, from strategic consultancy support to operational delivery.
This gives us a degree of resistance to both the normal cyclical effects of the markets and the extraordinary pressures on public finances caused by recession and the banking crisis Like all companies, Mouchel faces a range of 2008 09. of strategic and operational risks to its business.
Managing risk in the business Mouchel will continue to monitor its current contracts to identify future changes in the level of workload and we will maintain a is undertaken at a series of levels and good level of industry intelligence to identify prospects early in in accordance with well-defined risk their lifecycle.
Competitive position Competition in our principal markets is significant, though in many there are complex barriers to entry, preventing rapid changes occurring within the competitive environment in areas such as water engineering, road maintenance management and BPO.
Retaining existing clients and developing strong, long-term relationships is therefore important.
Mouchel has a well-developed approach towards customer relationship management and conducts annual independent customer surveys for each of its larger accounts.
Approach to managing risk Work-winning is also critical and, while the companys conversion Like all companies, Mouchel faces a range of strategic and rate has fallen slightly this year, it has been restored to within operational risks to its business.
Managing risk in the business our target range and is being reinforced by a programme to is undertaken at a series of levels and in accordance with build work-winning capabilities at every level in the business well-defined risk management procedures.
The Group Management Board GMB is responsible for assessing Safety and security risks strategic risk to the business, for maintaining a register of principal Safeguarding the safety, welfare and security of our employees risks and uncertainties, and for developing suitable and effective and others affected by our activities is extremely important.
mitigation measures to control these.
Mouchels health and safety performance is good but we have, this year, improved our approach to training and awareness-building, Each business stream identifies the specific commercial, market monitoring and risk assessment.
In May 2009 we launched a and operational risks to its business and maintains a risk register behavioural safety programme, which challenges employees together with mitigation strategies for each area of risk and at all levels to reassess their workplace behaviours.
The risk environment varies considerably across the business with industry and the nature of work we are involved Our principal safety risks arise from straightforward slips, trips and in.
A large proportion of our work is office-based, which carries falls and from occupational road risks: our focus is therefore on relatively low levels of health and safety risks, and we have these areas and in September 2009 we launched an occupational taken steps to reduce site-based risks including, for example, road risk training programme to specifically tackle the second of the decision taken to exit the rail contracting sector.
The security of those who work independently or in front-line roles is also an issue and we have introduced both At contract and project level, risk registers are also maintained training and technology to safeguard these individuals.
and for all work involving significant risk, detailed and specific risk assessments are carried out by project teams.
In 2008, Mouchel Security of data, including confidential personal information about embedded a bespoke software system to facilitate more effective our employees and those of our clients and their customers, is very risk assessment and to improve our ability to audit risk at important and the increased sensitivity of some of our contracts has operational level.
been a factor in leading us to develop processes and procedures that we believe will meet the requirements of international standard Our principal risks and uncertainties arise in the areas described ISO 27001.
It is expected that the Company will gain formal below.
accreditation of its systems to this standard during 2009 10.
Public health risks The risk to the business of a major influenza pandemic or other public health event has recently been reinforced by the swine flu outbreak worldwide.
At present the risk to the business is relatively low but we have reviewed the potential impact that large-scale absenteeism might create and have contingency plans in place to address such a situation.
We are already providing regular guidance to staff on the matter and are making special arrangements for more vulnerable groups within the business.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 28 Mouchel Group plc Performance 10,000 school uniforms procured and handed out in September 2009 by Mouchel working with Academy sponsors.
Workforce risks Joint venture risks Our ability to attract, recruit and retain sufficient numbers of people A significant proportion of our work is carried out in joint venture with the appropriate qualifications, experience and attitudes is with other organisations: sometimes with our clients but more critical to our ability to operate effectively.
commonly with other service companies.
Such joint ventures allow us to extend the breadth of our service offer and to share risk, Mouchel has a unique culture, which is embraced in our guiding and are essential in the highway maintenance management and principles and the attitude of our people towards public service, water services industries.
We mitigate the risk of such partnerships and it is important that we perpetuate this ethos as we grow.
by developing long-term, multi-contract relationships and by So as well as ensuring that our pay and benefits are comparable embedding many of our systems and practices in the joint venture or better than industry norms, we continue to invest in training and companies we create.
developing our people to the highest standards.
Leadership training equips our more senior people to inspire and motivate those around Financial risks them to perform to their best, while a robust framework for review Financial risks comprise interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, and assessment ensures we provide our people with fulfilment, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk as fully disclosed in note 23. personal growth and the most appropriate career opportunities.
Capacity of systems Project managers provide the crucial commercial, technical and As Mouchel continues to grow, its systems, processes and support programme management skills needed to deliver our projects services will need to be fit-for-purpose in an enlarged business.
effectively and their training and development is an important We continue to pursue a philosophy based on identifying scale element in our staff development programme in order to mitigate economies in all support functions, which are constrained to grow the risks associated with delivery failure.
over the medium-term at a rate of around half that of the operational businesses they support.
This continues to provide the business The fluctuating needs of the marketplace present some challenges with a sustainable level of human resource, legal and contractual, but the multi-skilling of our professional workforce makes us marketing and communications, ICT, safety, environmental agile and capable of adjusting team structures to meet changing and financial management support to meet strategic and customer and industry demands.
Many of our larger partnerships operational needs.
involve workforce transfers under Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment TUPE, which allow us to adjust A major project to replace the companys enterprise-wide workforce levels to meet specific contractual requirements, though management information system is currently being rolled-out also present an element of risk which we can partially ameliorate incrementally across the business: this has involved an investment of through our substantial experience of the TUPE process.
approximately 15.0m and has taken 18 months to date.
We expect the new systems to be operational across the entire business by Reputation risk April 2010, giving our managers improved visibility of the costs of Design, management and communication errors, accidents and delivery and improved project management tools.
Work is also incidents and poor stakeholder management can all threaten the underway to rationalise the policy and process framework of the reputation of the business.
To minimise this risk we have continued Company under a corporate integrated management system.
The to strengthen both internal communications and press media Company is continuing to extend the scope of its ISO 9001 Quality communications and have, this year, introduced a more robust Management, ISO 14001 Environmental Management and OHSAS crisis management protocol which ensures more rapid leadership 18001 Health and Safety Management accreditation.
and control of Group-significant incidents.
Our brand management team has continued to reinforce the new Mouchel brand and to align sub-brands to this common identity.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 29 Mouchel Group plc Performance Business Review Corporate responsibilities Corporate responsibility is, quite simply, good business for Mouchel.
Mouchel has made responsible corporate behaviour the rationale communications and understanding and in our ability to introduce for what it does.
We are, after all, a business that helps to deliver the a wider range of complementary services to our existing customers.
infrastructure and services which, as citizens, we all rely upon every Weve conducted around 200 face-to-face interviews with our single day.
And as the public services sector our principal market clients this year and achieved an average level of client satisfaction feels the impact of increased economic and fiscal pressures, the of 68% 66% 2007 08. need for us to find quicker, cheaper, safer and better ways to deliver becomes ever more important.
Corporate responsibility is, quite In 2007 08 we launched our Perspectives magazine: an in-house simply, good business for Mouchel.
publication that challenges accepted thinking on a range of topical issues.
The perspectives we present are not just our own but Corporate Responsibility CR is addressed in more detail in our include the opinions of leading commentators in particular fields.
separate Corporate Responsibility Report 2009, published in Now in its fourth edition, the readership of this magazine has grown parallel with this Annual Report.
to an estimated 8,000 to 10,000 across all our client markets.
Issues tackled have included sustainability, carbon management, Mouchels policy on CR is determined by our Group Management branding, heritage, conservation, safety and talent management.
Board, led by our Chief Executive.
The Board is guided and informed on corporate responsibility matters by a CR Steering Clients and end-users ethics Group led by the Group Environment and Corporate Responsibility Corporate and personal integrity is paramount in Mouchel and Manager.
The Steering Group includes representatives from across we apply a strict code of conduct to all our business dealings.
the business and is responsible for understanding the needs Our policies on employee conduct, ethics, whistle-blowing and and expectations of each of our stakeholders, for setting realistic fraud set the standards we expect of our people.
Regrettably we standards of achievement, and for coordinating our approach have to report two incidents relating to potential fraud in 2008 09: to corporate responsibility.
these have been investigated and closed satisfactorily.
Two incidents relating to the previous year remain under investigation Our CR strategy provides a plan for addressing the needs of: but in neither case is there any indication that our systems and procedures were deficient.
clients and end-users employees Employee health and safety investors and media Safety is our number one priority and we endeavour, through partners and suppliers advice, training, systems, procedures and enforcement to ensure, environment and communities as far as possible, the safety and health of all our people, of those we work with, and of the public in general.
Our stakeholder wheel identifies the principal parties in each group.
Mouchels occupational health and safety management system Clients and end-users relationships meets the requirements of OHSAS 18001 and gained Lloyds Improving the way in which we serve our clients and their Register Quality Assurance LRQA accreditation during 2008 09. end-users while ensuring that we gain their recommendation This standard provides structure to the way we plan our health as well as their satisfaction means we need an intimate knowledge and safety, our approach to hazard identification, our operational of their working environment: their priorities, their needs, their control systems, our emergency preparedness and our training expectations.
So this year weve fully embedded our key account programmes.
management programme across the business, with account managers in place for our clients and a regular programme During the past year both our accident incidence rate AIR and of account reporting to the GMB now established.
We have Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences already begun to see the benefits of this in terms of improved Regulation RIDDOR reportable statistics remain well below the industry average for our sector.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 30 Mouchel Group plc s r e i l p p u s d n a s r e n t r a P Performance s r e s u - d n e d n a s t n e i l C P e o 65,866 pounds is the total charitable donations made by Mouchel in 2008 09.
Investment Consumers analysts Road-users City commentators Schoolchildren FTSE Utility companies Passengers Press journalists Employee Health and shareholders education Citizens FSA authorities Sharesave Local Professional members government Developers Third sector advisers Small Central investors government Institutional Government General shareholders agencies Direct public suppliers Natural Public sector environment partners Global community Citizens Joint venture we serve partners Subcontractors Local Joint venture communities companies Regulatory Fulland bodies part-time employees Client contractors Partnerships Contract Partnerships workers Environmental bodies Supply chain Subconsultants Health and safety regulators Pensioners Former Alumni employees members Candidates Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 31 Mouchel Group plc p l e a i d e m e h t d n a s r o t s e v n I y t i n u m m o c d n a t n e m n o r i v n E Performance Employees wellbeing and engagement Business Review We want our employees to be healthy and to enjoy a good work-life Corporate responsibilities balance, which we believe is essential to the long-term retention of continued good quality people.
So we actively encourage our people to think about how best to balance the requirements of the job with their broader lifestyle needs: encouraging home-working when practical and equipping our people with the IT and other facilities needed to make this possible.
This year we have introduced a more comprehensive programme to address workplace stress, providing training, advice and counselling to combat the causes and effects of stress on our people.
We have extended our Employee Assistance Programme to all UK contracted staff.
Free access is provided to a 24 7 telephone helpdesk which provides guidance, advice and support across a wide range of issues, from personal and health matters to legal advice.
The helpdesk has handled a wide range of calls in the last year, and feedback from staff on the service has been very positive.
For the second year running, Mouchel has been ranked 16th by the Sunday Times Best Big Companies to Work For league of major employers, a considerable achievement especially in view of the rapid growth of the Company and the fact that due to acquisitions many of the staff surveyed last year had not been with the Company for that long.
We are currently rolling out the next phase of our Mouchel Life programme designed to make day-to-day life better for our people both when they are at work and at home.
In March 2009 we held our annual Employee Excellence Awards event at which prizes were Accidents reported under RIDDOR awarded in categories ranging from innovation, health and safety Benchmark and technical excellence to community involvement, customer Accident incidence AIR for 1 2 Number reported rate AIR industry experience and partnership working.
2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 Employees equality and diversity Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.3 Mouchels diversity steering group has continued to ensure Major injuries 2 2 3 39 25 27 45.7 that diversity and equality are considered in relation to recruitment, Over 3 day injuries 11 9 18 215 115 161 310 team organisation and structure, training, management and communications.
All recruiting managers in the business are 1 In accordance with standard HSE reporting, the accident incidence rate AIR is required to participate in interview and selection training calculated using the formula: number of accidents number of employees x 100,000.
2 explaining the legislative and Company policy issues around Figures taken from HSE website www.
uk : injuries in Great Britain by industry and severity of injury 2006 07 for total service industries category.
diversity and equality and are supported by a competency-based recruitment process which eliminates the risk of direct or indirect In 2008 09 we launched a behavioural safety programme across discrimination occurring.
The purpose of the programme is to challenge those inappropriate behaviours which can, potentially, lead to accidents.
Investors We have established a network of working groups charged Our commitment to those who choose to invest in Mouchel Group with assessing team behaviours and self-managing behavioural plc is to ensure ongoing growth and profitability in the business: improvements over time.
So far the programme has reached to provide good visibility of future earnings by maintaining a strong approximately 800 members of staff in safety-critical positions order book and pipeline of multi-year contracts, and to ensure but we expect to accelerate penetration through the business effective corporate governance through the contribution of in the coming months.
the Non-Executive Chairman and Directors, robust Board and Committee processes, effective professional advisors and In autumn 2008 we staged a simulated fatality exercise to test our good audit practices.
Mouchel has continued to incorporate the systems and communications for responding to a major incident FTSE4Good inclusion criteria within our governance processes involving one of our employees.
While the exercise was generally and for the second year running participated in the global Carbon positive, a number of systems changes have been made to improve Disclosure Project.
We also promote responsible employee our ability to respond to future incidents.
investment within the Group wherever appropriate, and this is supported by our Company Sharesave scheme and our share dealing There were no enforcement actions against the Company in 2008 09 code which is the responsibility of the Group Company Secretary.
in relation to health and safety matters but since the end of the reporting period we have been served with a prohibition notice relating Partners and suppliers to building maintenance work being undertaken by a sub-contractor All Mouchels key suppliers must successfully complete a vendor on one of our partnership contracts.
The incident leading to HSE assessment process prior to working for the Company.
An intervention has been fully investigated and we are satisfied that approved vendor database is maintained for all suppliers and the changes put in place as a result of the incident will prevent a contractors.
The assessment process considers the financial, reoccurrence.
There were no injuries in relation to this incident.
commercial, health and safety, quality management, insurance, environmental and management credentials of the prospective Mouchels health and safety standards received further recognition supplier or contractor.
This provides our project managers and this year, achieving both a RoSPA Gold award and the International our clients with assurance that those who work on our behalf meet Safety Standard award from the British Safety Council.
basic competency and capacity requirements.
During 2009 10 we intend to extend this assessment process to include those contractors and sub-contractors appointed by our client over whom we have managerial, but not contractual, responsibilities.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 32 Mouchel Group plc Performance 1 0 percent is the reduction in our carbon footprint in 2008 09.
Environment and communities In 2009 the Government announced its first carbon budget and Communities and the environment arent just affected by our proposed new regulatory measures the Carbon Reduction business: they are our business.
Our work with local authorities Commitment to tackle large energy users in support of a lower seeks to improve, enhance and regenerate local communities and carbon society.
Although our own internal assessments have we are specialists in the environmental sciences.
The sustainability shown that we will not qualify as a large user under these new aspect of the infrastructure schemes we undertake will invariably carbon rulings we have committed to establishing our own internal be a key consideration and much of the work we do for utility carbon budgets in the coming year and have launched a carbon companies focuses on the carbon-efficiency of their operations.
league to encourage healthy internal competition between our So doing the right thing supporting communities and the businesses.
During the year we reduced our carbon footprint by environment is central to our approach.
10% and have now set reduction targets across the business.
As part of the revision of our charity and community involvement Our involvement in the London Mayors Green 500 initiative a policy employees nominated five corporate charities whose causes carbon-management programme aimed at the capitals top-500 are aligned with our core business sectors and with whom we businesses has led to some of our London offices developing will work closely over the coming years, providing our time and targeted action plans to reduce their footprints and improve energy our fundraising skills: Cancer Research UK, Essex and Herts Air efficiency, a framework which we will be extending to all UK offices Ambulance, Macmillan Cancer Support, NSPCC and Water Aid.
Our commitment to tackle carbon management at During the financial year the Group made charitable donations these locations resulted in Mouchel being presented with a silver of 48,761 to these corporate charities, matching an equal Green 500 award by the Mayor of London in June 2009. amount raised by staff.
A further 17,105 was donated to other charities, making charitable donations for the year 65,866.
In One of the biggest factors contributing to climate change is travel.
2009 10 we have committed a budget of 100,000 to provide Around 52% of our carbon footprint is associated with business further matched funding to support staff fundraising events.
We travel by road, rail and air.
Since 2008 the average emissions of have continued to provide a Give-As-You-Earn GAYE scheme our fleet vehicles has reduced from 148g CO km to 145g CO km, 2 2 through flexible benefits, giving staff a chance to make tax-efficient and we are committed to improving this year-on-year.
In the donations to charities of their choice.
coming year we will be capping emissions for all Company cars and incentivising low emission models on our Company car list.
Our environmental policy and management system EMS All employees will also receive green driver packs containing useful provides the direction and framework for all Company activities guidance on driving techniques that can improve fuel efficiency.
and is supported through role-based training delivered through our e-learning portal and face-to-face training sessions.
In 2008 We have also continued to promote our Company-wide telephone, we set out our three corporate environmental themes: those areas video and webinar-conferencing system to employees, and now of environmental performance that cut across all of our business provide online training to staff on how to use the systems most activities and those that we have the greatest ability to influence.
Through raising awareness of the benefits of using virtual They are to reduce our carbon footprint, to protect natural meetings as a means to reducing our carbon footprint we have resources and to minimise waste.
We have continued to focus seen usage increase by 30% since 2008, with over 20,000 hours on these themes over the last year: providing structure to our spent meeting electronically instead of travelling to other locations environmental campaigns and forming the basis for the setting in the last year.
of environmental objectives and targets within each business.
As a result we have seen some measurable improvements in these key areas.
During the year we also extended the scope of our Group registration to the ISO 14001 standard adding 11 new office locations to our Group certificate and ensuring that all recently acquired business services are now governed by our EMS.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 33 Mouchel Group plc Performance Trade and other receivables before impairment charges increased Business Review by 34.6m over the year, of which 28.8m of the increase related to the Middle East.
At 31 July 2009, sums due in the Middle East Other financial matters totalled 38.6m of which 27.8m related to contracts in Dubai, with the vast majority being due from the local state-backed and business outlook development companies.
Given the economic slowdown in Dubai we have taken an impairment charge of 15.0m against fees earned which we have not received.
Overall cash performance for the year was also affected by the ongoing investment in the replacement of the Groups management reporting systems with a resulting marked increase in capital expenditure.
We anticipate that capital expenditure will reduce to more normal levels in future.
Banking facilities During the year, the Groups credit facilities were amended and restated.
As a result, the Group now has facilities totalling 190.0m with Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds TSB and Barclays.
Of the 190.0m, 125.0m is in the form of revolving credit facilities, which reduce by 10.0m in March each year, commencing March 2010, with the remaining balances of 30.0m expiring on 1 August 2012, and 65.0m expiring on 31 October 2012.
The balance of 65.0m is in the form of a term loan which also falls due for repayment on 31 October 2012.
The interest margin on the 60.0m of the revolving credit facilities expiring in August 2012 was kept at 0.5% to 1.35%, depending on gearing.
The interest margin on the balance of the facilities is 2.0% to 3.5% depending on gearing.
The Group has complied with its banking covenants during the Order book and pipeline year and considers that its existing facilities provide adequate At 31 July 2009, the Groups forward order book stood at 1.9bn, funding for the business.
broadly comparable with the 2.1bn at 31 July 2008 and the 2.0bn at the half-year which means that we continue to have excellent Taxation visibility of future earnings.
The bidding pipeline of near-term The effective rate of tax on profit before tax and exceptional opportunities and potential contract extensions stood at 2.2bn, items was 26.0%, compared with 26.7% for the previous year.
again broadly similar to the 2.2bn and 1.9bn at the last full and The difference between the effective rate of tax and the statutory half-years respectively.
rate of 28.0% reflects the benefit of additional reliefs, partly offset by the normal level of disallowable expenditure.
The pipeline has benefited relative to the half-year from the inclusion of the maintenance management contracts in HA Areas 1 and Pensions 13 and the highways maintenance PFI opportunity in Sheffield.
The Group currently operates three main defined benefit pension We anticipate further growth in the pipeline in coming months schemes: the Mouchel Superannuation Fund MSF, the Mouchel given the number of local authorities currently contemplating the Staff Pension Scheme MSPS and the Mouchel Business Services outsourcing of services.
The Group also has admitted body status in the Teesside pre-funded defined benefit scheme.
In terms of bidding for new work, the Groups win-rate during the second half of the year was restored to within our target range The Group accounts for all four schemes under IAS 19, Employee of between one-in-three and two-in-five of tenders by value.
The IAS 19 charge for the year was 7.1m, compared with 5.2m for last year.
The increase was attributable to a 0.4m Cash flow and working capital reduction in the current service cost and a 2.3m adverse movement At 31 July 2009, net bank borrowings totalled 101.3m versus in the financing element of the charge.
The charge continues to 81.9m at 31 July 2008 and 111.6m at the previous half-year.
benefit from the changes to the MSF and MSPS schemes in 2006 07, whereby most members in the non-public sector sections At the operating cash flow level, the net cash generated from of the two schemes moved from a final salary arrangement to a operations before exceptional items was 32.8m for the period career average revalued earnings CARE basis for the calculation versus 38.0m for the previous year with an equivalent annual of their pension benefits.
Under this basis the link to final salary cash conversion ratio of 69% for this year versus 91% in the has effectively been removed for both past and future service.
Operating cash flow for the period was impacted considerably, largely due to the sudden slowdown in the demand for infrastructure development in the Gulf, especially in Dubai, and the resulting impact on receivables.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 34 Mouchel Group plc Performance 3 30 the total number of jobs created by the Impact Partnership in Rochdale.
At 31 July 2009, the total deficit under IAS 19 was 60.3m compared Business outlook with 67.2m at 31 January 2009 and 34.6m at 31 July 2008.
The Although 2008 09 has been a challenging year, there is strong movement in the deficit compared with a year ago reflects actuarial evidence that Mouchels services continue to be in demand in the experience in the intervening period, principally declining asset sectors in which we have become established.
Public expenditure values and increased liabilities arising from a reduction in the discount is likely to come under increasing pressure, with capital investments rate applied to the liabilities from 6.6% at 31 July 2008 to 6.0% at being postponed or scaled down.
But in this environment we expect 31 July 2009, partially offset by constraints in future salary increase priority to be given to the provision and transformation of the assumptions.
essential services and to the management and maintenance of vital infrastructure, all of which are core to our business.
Much of this will From a funding point of view, the last actuarial valuations of all be through partnership and outsourcing and will create significant the schemes were undertaken at 31 March 2007 following which opportunities for the Group as evidenced by our continuing strong funding targets and related recovery plans were agreed with order book and bidding pipeline.
As a result, we have continued the relevant trustees.
The next valuations will now take place confidence in our long-term prospects.
Loss earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share increased 3% from 25.7p to 26.4p.
Richard Cuthbert Adjusted earnings per share is calculated after adding back Chief Executive shares held by the employee share trusts to the weighted average number of shares.
Earnings are adjusted to exclude amortisation of Kevin Young intangible assets arising from business combinations, impairment Group Finance Director of intangible assets arising from business combinations and other exceptional items net of taxation.
Basic loss earnings per share 16 October 2009 were 11.7 p 31 July 2008: earnings of 17.9p.
Dividends It is proposed that a final dividend of 3.85p 2008: 4.25p per ordinary share will be paid on 18 December to shareholders on the register as at 23 October.
Taken together with the interim dividend of 2.25p per share, this gives a total dividend of 6.10p per share for the year as a whole, maintaining the total dividend at the same level as the prior year.
Business Review 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 35 Mouchel Group plc
