888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review Financial Summary Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 1 1 2009 2008 $ million $ million Revenue B2C Casino 118.7 133.1 Poker 51.6 71.6 Emerging offerings 25.1 13.8 Other operating income 5.5 Total B2C 195.4 224.0 B2B 51.3 38.6 Total operating income 246.7 262.6 2 Operating expenses 89.9 77.3 Research and development expenses 24.1 27.4 Selling and marketing expenses 67.3 80.2 3,4 Administrative expenses 19.8 22.0 1,3, 4 EBITDA 45.6 55.7 Finance income and exchange gains losses 2.5 0.3 Depreciation and amortisation 8.5 7.3 4 Profit before tax 34.6 48.6 1 Rounded.
2 Excluding depreciation of US$7.0 million 2008: US$5.5 million and amortisation of US$1.5 million 2008: US$1.8 million.
3 Excluding exchange rate loss of US$2.7 million 2008: US$2.6 million.
4 Excluding share benefit charges of US$7.0 million 2008: US$8.4 million.
generated from operating activities of US$41 million 2008: Financial Results US$56 million and its financial position remains as strong as General ever with cash and equivalents at year end at US$88 million and Our financial results in 2009, especially during the first three quarters no debt.
were adversely impacted by both the economic downturn and adverse currency movements.
Total Operating Income declined 6% to US$247 Geographical segmentation million 2008: US$263 million, EBITDA was US$46 million 2008: The Groups revenue stream is well diversified across geographies US$56 million, Profit before tax was US$35 million 2008: US$49 with the UK remaining the largest single jurisdiction.
The table below million and Basic Earnings per share was 9.2 2008: 13.4. shows the Groups geographic revenue distribution: The Group continued to be highly cash generative with Net cash Before share benefit charges of US$7.0 million 2008: US$8.4 million.
com Total operating income by geographical market: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Total operating income $ million % share $ million % share UK 90.4 37 97.1 37 Europe excluding UK 113.7 46 122.0 46 Americas excluding USA 19.1 8 26.2 10 Rest of World 23.5 9 17.3 7 Total 246.7 100 262.6 100 Rounded.
In 2009 888s turnover grew 36% in Rest of World while all other During the year, the Group established a new outsourced low-cost reported geographic markets showed decline: 7% in UK and Europe development centre in Ukraine.
While the number of development excluding UK and 27% in the Americas excluding USA.
The relative staff employed and outsourced increased during the year, size of the UK and Europe excluding UK remained stable at 37% development expenses were reduced to US$24.1 million 2008: and 46%, respectively.
The reduction was driven by more cost-effective workforce benefited from the new outsource local development Expenses centre which was established in late 2008 in Ukraine and partially a During 2009, the Group continued its investment in infrastructure result of a favourable exchange rate movement.
as required to propel its B2B capabilities while continuing the development of its B2C offerings.
Marketing expenses, driven almost exclusively by B2C activities, were US$67.3 million 2008: US$80.2 million, representing 27% of Operating expenses, which are mainly salaries, chargebacks and B2C Total Operating Income 2008: 31%.
payment service providers commissions, totalled US$98.4 million 2008: US$84.6 million representing 40% of Total Operating Administrative expenses at US$22.5 million 2008: US$24.6 million.
Salaries and benefits, representing the largest component of operating expenses were US$45.5 million In 2009, the Group continued optimising cost per acquisition across 2008: US$40.3 million reflecting an increase of 13% as a result of various customer recruitment channels.
During the year, 888s continued investment in building up the B2B business.
Chargebacks marketing team recruited more than 206,000 new Casino and Poker increased significantly during the year to US$9.0 million 2008: first time depositors from more than 1.1 million 2008: 0.93 million US$4.8 million as a result of industry-wide concerted fraud new real money registrations with an average cost per acquisition in attacks since Q2 2009.
processes and procedures which resulted in a significant reduction in chargebacks starting in November and continuing to date.
indd 09 30 03 2010 12:33 30 03 2010 12:33 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued Share benefit charges Dividend As part of 888s commitment to invest in human capital, eligible The Groups stated policy is that it intends to make an annual management and employees receive equity awards under the 888 All dividend payment representing 50% of net profit, but the policy Employee Share Plan Share Plan.
In 2009, the Group continued to would reflect long-term earnings and cash flow potential of the award shares and options to employees under the Share Plan.
Given the performance in 2009, the Board is recommending non-cash charge for 2009 was US$7.0 million 2008: US$8.4 million, a final dividend of 3.0 cents per share in addition to the interim and comprising a US$1.1 million charge relating to grants in the current special dividend paid in October 2009. year 2008: US$2.2 million and US$5.9 million 2008: US$6.2 million relating to grants made in the past.
Cash flow The Groups strong profitability during the year was matched by Finance Income strong cash generation with net cash generated from operating While the Group continued to generate and retain cash surpluses activities reaching US$41.5 million 2008: US$56.4 million.
throughout the year, net interest income was only US$0.2 million 2008: U$3.0 million reflecting unprecedented low interest rates.
During 2009, the Group made cash payments of US$30.0 million 2008: US$36.7 million in respect of business investment activities Profit and Earnings per share including US$18 million in respect of the acquisition of the Wink EBITDA Online Bingo Business.
The Group paid US$22.4 million 2008: EBITDA was US$46 million 2008: US$56 million.
EBITDA margin US$25.6 million in dividends to its shareholders consistent with its was 18.5% 2008: 21.2%.
Taxation Balance Sheet The tax charge for 2009 was $2.7 million 2008: $3.1 million The Groups balance sheet remains strong, it has no debt, and reflecting the Groups efficient tax position.
The Groups cash position as at 31 December 2009 was US$87.5 million 31 December 2008: Earnings per share US$98.4 million.
This strong position allows the Group to take Basic Earnings per share were 9.2 in 2009 2008: 13.4. advantage of suitable acquisition opportunities in the consolidating market.
Balances owed to customers were US$37.6 million 2008: US$33.3 million.
The Group maintains 100% cash reserves equal to this liability which would permit immediate withdrawal of all customer Before share benefit charge.
deposits at any time in the extremely unlikely event this was necessary.
com B2C It has always been 888s goal to be the market leader in the global online gaming industry.
In order to achieve this, it is vital to offer an exceptional gaming experience that appeals to a wide range of consumers from the experienced poker player to casual sports fans and people who enjoy a game of bingo.
888 is more than just a place where people go to play online.
2009 saw an increase in the focus on creating online entertainment destinations where players can combine an unparalleled gaming offering with a more complete internet experience, including social Adi Soffer-Teeni networking and personalised activities.
B2C Managing Director The goal is for people to see 888 as a brand beyond gaming and an integral part of their online entertainment experience by fulfilling this wider role in the online lives of players.
Building emotional ties with players and increasing their engagement with the brand builds loyalty, thereby helping to improve customer retention and spend.
Branding As the online gaming industry has evolved, it has become increasingly important to offer all four core gaming products casino, poker, bingo and sport.
Historically the four segments have been marketed as distinct brands to targeted audiences, with crossselling opportunities being utilised where possible.
In 2009 the decision was taken to streamline the 888 brand focus and rebrand core products as being distinct, but complementary, parts of the wider 888 brand.
With a reinvigorated look and feel and unified logos, the brands all speak with one language and link into one offering.
The new sites were launched at the beginning of 2010 as 888casino, 888poker, 888bingo and 888sport, all under the 888. com umbrella brand.
Creating brand continuity allows the new sites to leverage the strength of the 888 brand and greatly increase the 888 share of voice.
The multi-product offering and sub-brand strategy also increases the effectiveness and efficiency of marketing and search engine optimisation strategies, while cross-selling potential improves due to a powerful familiarity between the sites.
888ladies will continue to be the leading bingo site in the UK market targeting the female population, while Pacific Poker and Casinoon-Net will remain as additional stand-alone brands and important aspects of the B2C portfolio.
The December acquisition of the Wink Online Bingo business added other leading brands to the B2C offering Wink Bingo, Posh Bingo and Bingo Fabulous, all of which had previously performed well on the Dragonfish network.
indd 11 30 03 2010 12:33 30 03 2010 12:33 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued Developing the Offering Online gaming continues to evolve, and 888s offering continues to innovate and change with it in order to remain at the forefront of the online gaming experience.
888 is a truly global gaming destination, with localised offerings providing players in different geographies with games that appeal to them in the language that they speak.
The 888 gaming experience is now available in a total of 23 languages.
Four new languages were added in 2009 as 888 supported growing demand in Eastern Europe.
As part of tailoring the offering to satisfy the demand of todays discerning players we launched the innovative Live 888casino in June, allowing players to have a Las Vegas style live gaming experience in the comfort of their own home.
A live video stream with a personally chosen dealer provides a choice of Roulette, Black Jack, and Baccarat.
Results in this area have been very encouraging.
Live dealer was an important part of the new no-download Casino, which launched in May 2009.
The no-download Casino uses flash games that can be accessed through web browsers such as Internet Explorer or Firefox, rather than downloading any form of software.
The offering of instant online games removes the barrier to entry brought about by the hardship of extra time and effort to download software.
As well as innovative new features, constant improvements continue 888games has since been launched as a stand-alone site with 60 to provide a fresh and exciting gaming experience.
888 continues varied games, with more released continuously.
Games range from to offer a wide range of instant games across the B2C network, scratch cards to video slots and virtual sports.
As the rebranding as games were added in 2009.
These included games with iconic of the core offering is completed, 888games will benefit from brands, such as Cluedo and Spiderman.
Instant games have cross-selling traffic arising through players looking to enjoy a more proven a popular addition.
In Bingo, a new integration platform was instant gaming proposition.
In addition, a further Casino brand was completed allowing rapid game deployment.
The speed to market introduced, as Reef Club Casino was re-launched in August in of these games provides the opportunity to capitalise on trends both English and German.
Reef Club Casino, with a low minimum and target offerings to interest and excite customers: 11 new side deposit limit and high bonus offering, provided an inviting gaming games have already been integrated.
The successful X-Factor game, environment which was well positioned at the height of the recession launched at the beginning of the popular shows run in November when many players were looking for a lower spend alternative and supported through exclusive promotions, is a good example of the continues to offer an alternative experience.
timely introduction of a tailored product.
The Poker offering also benefited from the addition of new features.
The increasing popularity in quick-play games led to the launch of A quick seat for beginners allows novices to pick up the basics in a 888games.
Initially launched on 888sport in July, 888games provides free play environment, while private tournaments, the ability to export the opportunity to play instant win games whilst browsing the site, hand histories, and re-match tournaments give more experienced improving the gaming experience and time spent on the site as well players a more satisfying poker experience.
com Beyond Gaming 888ladies has been a pioneering website not just in its combination of a leading gaming product with a wealth of interactive features, but in the creation of a real online community.
888ladies goes beyond the core bingo product to provide players with a welcoming environment in which to interact with like-minded friends.
Regular promotions, both online and offline, increase ties with players and provide incentives to visit the site frequently.
Introductory offers in Casino included an immediate welcome bonus Promotions ran throughout the year, including opportunities to of 100% on a first deposit of up to $200, and a welcome package win tickets to the Soap Awards at Easter and calendar themed with a value of up to $1400.
Other offers were specifically targeted promotions for Valentines Day, Mothers Day and Halloween.
Promotions included the chance to win a years salary or a dream holiday, while lowering the deposit limit to 25 However, it is the social features that set 888ladies apart.
The fulfilled players need to continue playing with smaller stakes.
888ladies blog receives hundreds of visitors every day, with community features leading to genuine interactivity and goodwill The largest promotion in 2009 was the 8,888,888 campaign, which towards the brand.
Utilising social media through providing daily offered the chance to use three free spins to win the biggest communication and real-time promotions further increases brand online jackpot of all time.
The campaign appealed to players across engagement.
A fan page on Facebook, and a regularly updated the spectrum including new, registered, and high value players, Twitter page have both been developed and are great successes.
The promotion was supported by a 360 degree marketing drive across all media outlets, including direct We will further develop the utilisation of social media and brand mail, television, online, and prominent public advertising, and also by interactivity across additional areas of the B2C offering in 2010. search engine optimisation and cross-selling from 888 sites.
Promotions Offline Marketing The economic environment in 2009 was the worst it has been since 888 continued to seek out ground-breaking and timely offline the advent of online gaming and indeed well before that.
Customer marketing opportunities to build brand awareness amongst key acquisition conditions were, therefore, usually tough.
It was important demographics and to drive online traffic.
to offer new players compelling reasons to open accounts with 888.
Leo Margets, the international female poker icon, and the last woman standing at the WSOP 2009, signed a 2-year contract with 888 and will spearhead the 888 ambassador programme.
Leo has generated enormous media coverage, appearing in over 150 publications, most notably on the front cover of El Pais Semanal the most important magazine for the Spanish audience.
2009 was the second year of 888s partnership with Shane Warne, and he continues to represent 888 at high-profile poker events such as the 888 Poker Open, the Aussie Millions and the World Series of Poker.
Also in 2009, the 888 Poker Ashes TV show was also launched in 2009 to coincide with the cricket Ashes series in the UK, and was broadcast after the cricket each day on Sky Sports.
Moving the traditional rivalry of England and Australia from the cricket pitch onto the poker table led to one of the most successful poker television shows ever.
The 2010 11 cricket Ashes series this time in Australia will see the second season of the 888 Poker Ashes.
As the opposing countries squared up in the Poker Ashes, players could join and represent their country online.
100% welcome bonuses up to $400 offered an extra incentive to become an 888 player and was amongst the most innovative promotions in the poker industry in 2009.
indd 13 30 03 2010 12:33 30 03 2010 12:33 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued Shane Warne extended his partnership with 888 in January 2010 888s continuing focus on SEO will be a key driver in the success of and he will continue to represent 888poker and other 888 brands the rebranded core 888 offerings.
2010 Focus 888poker has partnered with an offline poker league and clubs 2010 has started well.
With a number of strategic initiatives in the throughout 2009 taking the 888brand directly to players.
The 888 Poker pipeline, including the completion of the rebranding and refocusing League was first formed in May, and rolled out in over 200 venues around core products, and further expansion of the geographic offering the opportunity to play with Shane Warne in the final.
footprint, 2010 is set to be a year of growth.
Customer Relationship Management In Bingo, the aim for the year is to become a truly global operator, Strong customer relationships are the bedrock of our success.
with penetration in a number of new countries.
In the UK, we will Whilst eye-catching promotions help to drive customer acquisition, build on the success of 888ladies with the 888bingo offering, which customer retention comes from engendering loyalty through building appeals to a wider gaming demographic.
The acquired Wink Bingo bonds with players.
This leads to people playing more games, more business also provides an opportunity to further increase market often, for more time.
share in the growing UK bingo market.
888s ongoing commitment to localisation strengthens relationships The focus in Casino will continue to be on offering the right variety worldwide through speaking to people in their language and culture, of products appealing to the widest range of consumers so as to while the market-leading usage of social features and interactivity maintain the Casino offerings market leading position.
In Poker with players strengthens brand loyalty.
This loyalty is also gained the strategic goal is to differentiate the offering by identifying, and through 888s loyalty plans, which form an important aspect of the fulfilling, a significant customer need that has not yet been answered.
In 2009 888 launched a new Poker loyalty This will be achieved through the creation of a brand positioning that plan, considered one of the best in the sector.
is based on such unique product that customers need.
The VIP offering remains the best in the industry.
VIP members get unparalleled customer service, with personal loyalty managers on call Targeted marketing campaigns in 2009 saw 888sport grow from 24 hours a day to deal with any enquiries quickly and easily.
Exclusive being mainly a tactical business relying on cross-sell into an promotions and more cashback and bonuses also mean that 888 VIPs important contributor to the Group.
888sports growth in 2010 will receive a best in class product with best in class service.
continue through promoting additional events and investing in brand recognition in specific countries.
In 2009, 86 s se ep pa ar ra at te e V VIIP P p pr ro om mo ot tiio on ns s o offffe er re ed d a at tt tr ra ac ct tiiv five e g giifft ts s, b bo on nu us se es s and tickets t to o o on ne e o off t th he e 4 46 6 o offfflliin ne e e ev five en nt ts s h he elld d iin n n niin ne e d diiffffe er re en nt t c co ou un nt tr riie es s.. Search Engine Optimisation h Engine Optimisation SEO The specialis st t S Se ea ar rc ch h a an nd d W We eb b O Op pt tiim miis sa at tiio on n T Te ec ch hn no ollo og giie es s S SW WO OT T team contiin nu ue e t to o g giiv five e 8 88 88 8s s w we eb bs siit te es s p pr ro om miin ne en nc ce e o on n w wo or rlld dw wiid fide e s se ea ar rc ch h engines, m ma ax xiim miis siin ng g t th he e iim mp pa ac ct t o off t th he e p pr ro od du uc ct t o offffe er riin ng g.. S Su uc cc ce es ss sffu ull u us se e of SWOT ha as s h he ellp pe ed d t to o d dr riiv five e p plla ay ye er rs s t to o 8 88 88 8 b br ra an nd ds s, h he ellp piin ng g c cu us st to om me er r acquisition a a an n nd d d t t th h he e o on ng go oiin ng g g gr ro ow wt th h o off 8 88 88 8s sp po or rt t a an nd d 8 88 88 8lla ad diie es s..
In the UK, 888 sites come out on top of Google sear 88 sites com come out on top of Google searches for ches for casino, online casino, online blackjack and poker nline casino ino, online blackjack and pok, er..
This This positioning is r is rep eplicated acr licated a d ac cr ro o oss cor ss core markets.
com Dragonfish Gabi Campos Dragonfish Managing Director 2009 has marked a period of significant growth for the B2B division, New entrants to the online gaming market require diverse gaming with 33% growth over 2008.
Growth has been achieved organically, content, a technology platform to work with, expertise in setting up through the provision of new product and service initiatives that have operations and, above all, knowledge of how to leverage their assets helped Dragonfishs existing partners expand their market share, and and target the gaming consumer.
through the signing of a number of key new partners.
Dragonfishs services help partners optimise the player experience In March 2009, 888 took the decision to brand the rapidly expanding and maximise customer lifetime value.
Utilising over a decades independent B2B division as Dragonfish, crystallizing the divisions experience in the online gaming industry, Dragonfish is able to offer separate function in 888 and signifying its evolution into a major clients a unique end-to-end proposition Total Gaming Services.
A strong leadership team was established to drive the expansion of the business with departments covering This strapline reflects the opportunity for clients not only to benefit Sales & business development, Programme management & from 888s gaming portfolio and experience in technology, integrations, Client executives unit, Client marketing & operations, operations and e-payments, but also utilise advanced marketing B2B marketing & PR and B2B Finance.
The combination of these services, from the provision of offline online marketing, management teams ensures Dragonfish can provide an outstanding B2B service.
of affiliates and search engine optimisation to Customer Relationship Management CRM and business analytics.
Industry leading The creation of the Dragonfish identity was supported with an back-office systems, including operational risk management, 24 7 international advertising campaign in key publications, visibility at customer support and chat hosting services, complete the offering.
major trade shows, and through targeted PR achieving exposure across all trade publications and in overseas gaming markets.
Dragonfish is able to provide clients with broad and customisable solutions for all of their gaming needs.
They can utilise the complete The brand has already achieved significant cut-through in a white label solution or select from individual components to competitive market, and Dragonfish is now one of the largest complement and enhance their own existing gaming offering.
All providers in the B2B sector, with a broad cross section of partners solutions can be tailored for local markets, with Dragonfish currently across all core gaming segments and numerous geographic regions.
providing services in more than 20 languages.
The provision of a New partners were retained in 2009 as strategic agreements were dedicated team and market leading technological infrastructure allow signed with, amongst others, Linden Lab and bwin Italia.
solutions to be both comprehensive and timely.
Dragonfishs goal is to become the major provider of Games & Technology, Marketing services, Operations and e-payments to companies that both lead the e-gaming market or require an experienced partner for entry into the sector.
indd 15 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued Utilising Dragonfish provides a gateway to a huge suite of successful games in a variety of languages, allowing rapid entry into emerging markets.
Dragonfish provides hundreds of games with turnkey integration capabilities, plus the experience and expertise to customise game suites.
Games can be seamlessly integrated through the Advanced Integration Platform allowing constant upgrades, increasing player retention and maximisation of customer lifetime value.
Total Payment Services The unique Total Payment Services offering combines payment optimisation technology and fraud management, including antimoney laundering services, with 24 7 multi-lingual customer operations that assist customers deposits both reactively and proactively.
BUILT FOR YOUR Dragonfish has over a decade of experience in global payment ONLINE WORLD processing and works with a variety of trusted payment partners.
A rich portfolio of local and global payment methods enables Dragonfish to maximise transaction approval rates and provide the Technology Operations Marketing ePayments platform for partners to rapidly penetrate new markets.
With the support of a highly experienced fraud and risk management Casino Poker Bingo Sport Quickplay department, Dragonfishs e-payment solutions are both customer friendly and extremely secure.
com In November an agreement was signed with the worlds leading virtual world technology company Linden Lab, the creator of The agreement with Tsogo Sun Gaming Group followed the Second Life, to provide e-payments, fraud and customer support announcement of a partnership with Phumelela, one of the worlds management services.
This collaboration represented an extension of largest pari-mutuel horseracing and tote betting organisations, to Dragonfishs offering beyond the gaming industry into the wider retail provide a comprehensive sportsbook offering in South Africa.
This environment, and signified its emergence as a strong player in the deal was an example of Dragonfishs ability to co-operate with regulated payment services market.
companies who utilise government licensing, and also indicates Dragonfishs strategy of obtaining first-mover advantage in newly Partners regulated territories.
Dragonfish now works with e-gaming companies, media portals, offline casinos and pools operators, helping them all to maximise Further international agreements were signed in 2009 their online revenues and fulfil the potential of their brands.
harnessing Dragonfishs multi-lingual offering and e-payments expertise in emerging territories.
A partnership with Loper Gate A number of significant partnerships were signed in 2009. launched poker and casino in the Balkans, enabling Dragonfish to Dragonfishs prime position to provide the ideal platform for achieve significant penetration in this emerging market.
international land-based marquee brands to enter the online arena was illustrated through the signing of an agreement with Harrahs Dragonfish remains one of the leading providers of bingo software to launch the internationally renowned World Series of Poker worldwide, providing software to some of the biggest names in and Caesars casino brands online.
This capability was further bingo including Foxy Bingo and Mirror Bingo.
Dragonfish also runs emphasised through the agreement with Tsogo Sun Gaming Group, one of the worlds leading bingo network with over 60 skins offering one of the largest hotel and entertainment groups in South Africa, instant liquidity, dynamic content and access to top tier brands.
also choosing Dragonfish for their first move into online gaming.
This position was further consolidated during the year with the announcement that Kamay Holdings Ltd, owner of leading poker and casino sites LuckyAcePoker, LuckyAce Casino and SuproCasino, selected Dragonfish as its bingo partner to launch Silk Bingo on the Dragonfish bingo network.
The agreement marked the tenth new brand launched on the network in 2009 and complements the new stand-alone networks, all powered by Dragonfish.
"%   ""'% 2009 also saw the fruition of Dragonfishs hybrid strategy for its THE GAMES ENGINE TECHNOLOGY THAT GIVES YOU INSIGHT."
This allows partners to join the Dragonfish bingo GAMES THAT GIVE YOU CHOICE network swiftly, and benefit from instant liquidity whilst gaining a full understanding of back-office functionality, CRM and chat facilities.
Following success on the network, appropriate levels of liquidity subsequently enable partners to launch stand-alone networks, whilst maintaining other brands on the Dragonfish bingo network.
This model was followed by Moon Bingo in June, amongst others.
Dragonfish has been highly pro-active in delivering strong organic www.
com growth for the existing client base through the introduction of new product initiatives.
The poker network has achieved greater liquidity across a number of diverse territories with particular growth for Lucky Ace and Tower Torneos.
Growth has been achieved through new poker software upgrades to provide an enhanced and intuitive player Plans are in place for the development of bingo in the Nordics, enabling experience, the introduction of a new loyalty club and the extension partners to achieve further international expansion, together with a range of the language portfolio.
Successful new language integration of new features that will cement Dragonfishs market-leading bingo projects have been implemented, one example being Lucky Ace position.
This will be supported by the launch of a number of new poker now being offered in languages aimed to target the Eastern stand-alone networks and new brands on the Dragonfish bingo European market.
The recent agreement with WSOP World Series of network.
Poker, arguably the worlds most powerful poker brand, will act as a further catalyst for liquidity growth on the network.
2010 will also mark the launch of new multi-channel marketing In Bingo, Dragonfish launched 17 new Quickplay instant games on campaigns as partners increase spend in UK and pan-European the bingo network, including the global brand X-Factor, to increase territories.
A number of these games have been successfully integrated into Tower Torneos casino in poker Dragonfishs first independent global payments agreement with offering resulting in increased player performance.
Linden Lab will be launched in 2010.
The agreement provides a platform for marketing its Total Payment Services beyond the gaming 2010 Focus industry.
Dragonfish is pursuing a number of existing opportunities in 2010 will see a continuation of the successful growth strategy.
the Forex industry and other non-gaming opportunities.
This includes being the first to regulated markets and integrating a number of new products and services.
The aim is to deliver strong Technological Infrastructure organic growth for partners, whilst targeting new partners with the 888s success is built on the strength of its technological Total Gaming Services proposition so as to maintain the impressive infrastructure.
2009 saw the continued development of the platform growth rate.
from a pure B2C to a hybrid B2C and B2B platform which is able to utilise and offer partners leading infrastructure and a comprehensive The introduction of licensing in newly regulated markets such as suite of applications and services.
Italy offers a significant opportunity to assist operators looking for a speedy entry to such markets.
Dragonfish has recently signed In addition to the customer facing applications and services, B2B an agreement with bwin Italia, a subsidiary of BWIN, to provide a licensees are able to view comprehensive customer data, providing comprehensive casino games suite.
The agreement supports the them with the ability to drill down into data at any level in order to Total Gaming Services proposition allowing partners to either take manage their business better.
advantage of the full white label solution or to select constituent elements to be integrated into their existing online gaming business.
888 continues to invest in technology.
In 2009 a significant In this case.
Dragonfish has developed a flexible gaming platform investment was made in upgrading 888s physical infrastructure, that can be integrated into bwin Italias existing infrastructure.
computing, storage and networking equipment was upgraded, maintaining the best of breed approach to our physical infrastructure: Dragonfish has a number of new product integrations in the pipeline A state-of-the-art data centre replaced one of the existing data that will provide growth opportunities for partners.
Live dealer has centres, and security, networking devices and protocols were proven to be an excellent product for delivering strong growth and replaced in order to provide better performance, maintainability, and the live gaming application will soon be integrated into a number scalability, as well as to reduce energy consumption and bandwidth of partners offerings.
Dragonfish will also be expanding the live costs.
chat multi-lingual customer operations team in Romania to enable partners to accelerate their penetration into new markets.
indd 17 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued The number of servers was also increased.
There are now more than To further enhance development efforts and reduce costs, 1,000 servers in the development and testing environments, and 888 opened and integrated a large new outsourced software 900 in production, most of which are now based on virtual machine development facility in Eastern Europe.
This development centre, in technology.
Ukraine, allows access to excellent, well-trained, highly professional and cost-efficient talent.
By the end of 2009, around 50% of our In addition to data centre improvements, further platform development activities were successfully carried out at this centre.
enhancements and a significant upgrade in 888s payment processing capabilities led to 888 receiving the Payment Card 888 has also focused attention and investment on developing Industry level 1 certification, allowing the Group to provide third party solutions to take advantage of the changing regulatory scene in payment services.
The creation of a leading payment processing Europe.
Tailor-made solutions for both the French and Italian markets infrastructure allows 888, through Dragonfish, to offer partners a Total were developed, seamlessly providing Casino services to B2B partners Payment Services proposition, moving the Company beyond the and leading to a number of significant deals being signed in newly online gaming sector.
regulated regions, such as bwin Italia.
The Integration Platform allows seamless integration of new third Significant work was done during the latter part of the year on party games from multiple vendors into the 888 gaming environment.
Alongside the eye-catching new Building on this flexibility, in 2009, a new Content Management look and feel, the sites infrastructure were rebuilt with content System was implemented for all managed websites.
The new system management systems better optimised for faster performance, enables a greater quantity of content changes to be implemented improving the customer experience by more than halving response with greater speed and frequency across all supported websites.
The bingo platform also benefited from technological enhancement.
Improvements to the Integration Platform saw an abstraction layer In January 2010, a new enterprise resource planning system was created allowing for easy integration of games and third party successfully implemented and integrated into 888s business services, while the chat system was upgraded with enhanced backbone the result of a large undertaking carried out during capabilities and performance, further embellishing the community 2009.
This new system streamlines 888s capability to carry out daily aspect of the bingo offering.
business processes in an optimal manner.
Steps were taken to benefit the player experience as well as Improvements were also made to 888s operational command and improvements in the back-office infrastructure.
The most eyecontrol capability, dramatically enhancing the service levels provided catching of these was the introduction of the Live Dealer offering, to B2B partners through growth and process improvement in the which has proved to be very popular.
A new loyalty system was also Network Operating Center, the 24 7 nerve centre of operations.
This launched in 2009, with the integration of casual games across the greatly improved second level support capabilities.
offering further enhancing player satisfaction.
In order to better support the growing demands from an ever CRM capabilities were also significantly enhanced through the increasing set of B2B partners, and to adapt to the growing implementation of a content management system with multiple offers richness and size of our offering, 888 continues to evolve and and communication channels.
This allows 888 to better segment upgrade existing offerings through routine maintenance, functionality and tailor offers and promotions, making the right offer to the right upgrades, and changes to back-office services.
customer at the right time.
com 888 will continue to invest in technology across the business, ensuring that leading back-office systems provide the basis for an unparalleled experience for both players and partners.
Customer Support and Service 888 remains committed to its goal of being the market leader in the global online gaming industry.
First class customer support is offered for each of the Groups brands and White Labels via telephone, e-mail and chat 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to customers around the world in 11 different languages.
In 2009, we aligned our mission to increase customer conversion and retention by focusing training efforts on sales through service.
On average, our support teams converted 28% of all relevant incoming phone calls to deposits, providing a service convenient to players and beneficial to the business.
The Telemarketing and Proactive Chat department has continued to expand.
Three additional languages have been added to raise the Casino in English total number of languages to eight.
We are pleased to see that the l 98.0% of all phone calls were answered within, on average, department has increased its performance compared to 2008 on 30 seconds all main metrics measured internally efficiency, productivity and l 99.0% of all e-mails were replied to within 24 hours revenue generated.
New initiatives and optimisation of talented staff l 95.3% of all chats were answered within, on average, has also seen all main individual metrics increase.
40 seconds Five additional languages were added to the Online Web Self-Service, Poker in English and a deal with RightNow was signed for the full deployment of its l 98.0 % of all phone calls were answered within, on average, CRM solution across all operational sites in 2010.
This investment will 30 seconds help 888 to reduce its operational expenditure, effectively manage its l 89.0% of all e-mails were replied to within 24 hours resources and improve efficiency and increase customer satisfaction.
l 89.9% of all chats were answered within, on average 40 seconds A third operational contact centre site was opened in Romania via an Bingo in English outsourcing arrangement at the end of the third quarter of 2009 in l 96.0% of all phone calls were answered within, on average, order to increase cost-effectiveness, capacity and continue providing 30 seconds each individual customer with an outstanding end-to-end customer l 91.0% of all e-mails were replied to within 24 hours experience around the clock.
Operating multiple contact centres is a cost-effective way of managing customer contact overspill and Customer Satisfaction allows for efficient balancing of operational demands.
888 continues to monitor customer satisfaction at key points throughout their lifetime cycle by requesting and analysing realThe main Gibraltar contact centre focuses on providing support for time feedback.
As in previous years a comprehensive survey was our principal markets in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America while conducted to benchmark 888s service level within primary markets, the Antiguan contact centre focuses on supporting the Englishwith the results being used to form the basis of quality improvement speaking markets in Europe, Australia, Asia Pacific and Canada.
In 2010, the newly established contact centre in Romania is set to 888 is proud to note that respondents in 2009 once again gave expand inbound customer services for more brands and languages, their highest rating to the level of professionalism of our support and ultimately to become the main support centre for Dragonfish and representatives.
Respondents from Germany remain the most 888s main markets in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America.
satisfied, closely followed by respondents from France where results Support teams in all locations aim to close the majority of issues show a considerable increase in satisfaction compared to previous during the first contact, as exemplified in the Service Level studies: Achievement reached in 2009: 19 17555 30 03 2010 Proof 11 17555888COM.
indd 19 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued l Casino players rated the level of professionalism of our Innovation in this area will continue, ensuring that actions are taken in Representatives at 4.1 out of 5 order that services and processes remain one step ahead of potential l Poker players rated the level of professionalism of our fraudulent activity.
Representatives at 4.0 out of 5 l 89% of all customers who contacted 888 in regards to the Corporate Social Responsibility deposit process, were offered assistance in depositing and or As a global leader in the online gaming entertainment industry, were presented with alternative depositing method to use 888 is committed to a pro-active policy of corporate and social responsibility that reflects the high professional and ethical standards In addition to understanding the different components of customer we have set for ourselves.
satisfaction, recent surveys demonstrated increased awareness and usage of the state-of-the-art Web Self-Service facility available to Conducting our business responsibly is fundamental to the future English and German speaking customers.
Additional regions will be success of 888 and the sustainability of the business.
At 888, we surveyed in 2010. understand that our responsible approach is both the correct way to do business and one that enhances our credibility with stakeholders, A vital component in maintaining and exceeding customer thereby supporting our international business development.
expectations is 888s ability to access each clients full and complete history in real time, thus optimising customer interactions on all levels.
This year marked a significant milestone for the Company in this field.
During October 2009 we published our first ever Corporate 888s unparalleled customer service and leadership in the e-Gaming Responsibility report for the year 2008.
The report is available at industry has been also recognised by the judges of the 2009 www.
e-Gaming Review Awards when awarding 888 the coveted title Casino Operator of the Year.
We aim to publish such a report every two years.
Fraud and Risk Management Regulation and General Utilising over a decade of experience, 888s Fraud and Risk Regulatory Developments Management Department continues to provide 888 and B2B The regulatory framework of online gaming in different countries partners with a leading fraud prevention service.
888 has built a around the world remains as dynamic and rapidly evolving as ever.
comprehensive database of fraudulent accounts and fraud patterns, While some jurisdictions have moved to curtail the activities of online helping introduce new measures to prevent fraudulent activity.
gaming sites such as the US and Turkey, many others are currently contemplating liberalisation and regulation of the industry, and some In 2009, the following steps were taken to further develop risk have already taken this route.
The Group remains committed to management and fraud control procedures: monitoring closely and addressing regulatory changes as they occur, and to fostering, so far as possible, the trend towards liberalisation l Fraud Alerts 888 planned and created an in-house alerts and regulation of online gaming throughout the world.
mechanism that identifies changing trends and patterns, identifying suspicious activity EU l Cashier a more robust new cashier is being built The European Commission is challenging the online gambling l Back-Office back-office systems were updated, allowing 888 and betting regulatory regimes of various European States.
The to react to changes in the type of fraudulent activity Commission holds that, as regards EU licensed companies, these l Data Analytics data continues to be collected and analysed regimes might infringe the enshrined freedom to provide services, the through the data warehouse systems in order to monitor current freedom of establishment and the concept of mutual recognition.
This fraudulent activity effort is reflected in, inter alia, the infringement proceedings initiated l PCI Level 1 Compliance 888 became the first online against several EU States including Spain, Germany, Portugal, gaming company to be PCI Level 1 Compliant, showing 888s Finland, Austria, Hungary, Italy, Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark commitment in handling sensitive and personal data with the and France : should these Member States fail to supply adequate highest degree of care reasoning behind their gambling legislation and fail to rectify what is required from them by the EU Commission, the Commission may refer 888 continues to optimise all procedures to ensure that fraud the issue with each Member State to the European Court of Justice.
aspects are covered across the business.
New releases of White Label brands are thoroughly checked to ascertain whether these bring any inherent risk, and new offerings investigated for possible domain specific risks.
com While these proceedings may, in the end, cause the European States Finally in Italy, where the Company holds an online gambling licence, to liberalise their gambling markets, it should be noted that it could current and future legislation will expand the scope of the games be a very long time before resolutions or judgments are reached if at allowed to be offered under the licence e. g. casino games, and will all : and, as the European Court of Justice opined in its judgment in also relax some of the requirements posed to licensees including, the case of bwin v. Santa Casa, the scope of discretion available to inter alia, the spheres of taxation and establishment in Italy.
Member States in this sphere is relatively wide.
In other cases referred to the European Court of Justice by several German courts, the EU In Germany, the State of Schleswig Holstein announced that it will Advocate General reiterated in March 2010 this position and opined not agree to an extension of the prohibitive interstate lottery treaty, although his opinion is not binding upon the Court that EU law does when its term ends at the end of 2011.
While this in itself does not not oblige Member States to recognise online gambling licenses impact the formal validity of the treaty, it could represent a potential issued by other Member States.
However, in 2010 the new Internal future shift in the regulatory regime in Germany.
Market Commissioner opined that the ECJs ruling in the bwin v. Santa Casa case will have little impact on the EU Commissions activities In addition to these infringement proceedings, the EU Commission is in the sphere of cross border gambling services, as that judgment involved in other instances in which the online gambling and betting was based on considerations specific to Portugal and its gaming regulatory regimes appear to contravene rights and freedoms of monopoly: the Commission will continue to review Member States online gambling and betting operators e. g. issuing detailed opinions legislation in the gambling sphere on a case by case basis.
against the enactment of prohibitive legislation, and intervening in the WTO process described below.
However, the pressure exerted by the EU Commission has resulted in several EU Member States contemplating, and in some cases UK advancing, a liberalised or partially liberalised gaming sector: these The DCMS has announced in 2010 that it will review the current Member States include Spain, France, Sweden, Greece, Estonia, online gaming licensing regime, and is considering whether to require Belgium and Denmark.
Other EU Member States such as Ireland, all gaming operators targeting British consumers to be licensed and Cyprus and the Czech Republic are also considering or are already most probably taxed in the UK.
in the process of revising their gaming laws possibly so as to regulate online gaming.
USA In the USA, several bills have been introduced into the 111th Thus, in France, a draft law is in the final stages of the legislative Congress, which focus on online gambling issues.
One of these process, which will authorize the issue of French online gambling bills creates an online gambling licensing regime that will allow for licences, limited to the spheres of poker, sports betting and a Federal online gambling licence to be issued subject to various horserace wagering.
While the draft legislation is still being conditions, limitations and possible exclusions : the bill has yet to be structured, and several aspects of it are still being discussed with the advanced in Congress.
Another bill aims to delay the implementation EU Commission, the Group is watching closely these developments date of the UIGEA regulations to 1 December 2010 following so as to be in a position which will allow it to apply for an online the decision of the Treasury and Federal Reserve to delay the gambling licence in France: this is expected to happen during 2010. implementation date of the regulations until 1 June 2010.
In parallel, several US States including California, Iowa, New Jersey and Florida In 2009, Belgium passed a law which will allow issuance of online are reviewing the possibility of licensing some form of intra-state gambling licences as an extension of existing terrestrial gambling online gambling activities.
licences: therefore, pure online gambling operators may face difficulties in obtaining online gambling licences in that jurisdiction.
WTO The Group is pursuing potential opportunities to allow it to utilise Following a complaint filed in 2007 by the Remote Gaming this change in legislation.
In Denmark, the government announced Association, the European Commission decided to open an that it will introduce legislation which will regulate and license online investigation into whether the United States is in breach of its WTO gambling activities in the spheres of casino, poker and sports betting.
obligations in the sphere of gambling in relation to the period prior Spain too partially revealed its intention to license and regulate online to the planned withdrawal of its commitment.
In March 2009, gaming activities: a draft law is expected to be introduced in 2010, the investigation was concluded with a report issued by the EU and is intended to present a federal online gaming licensing regime.
Commission, which stated that the US measures taken against EU-based online gambling operators breach the WTO commitments of the US.
The EU commission stated that it will seek to reach a settlement with the US in this respect: trade discussions between the US and the EU have dealt with, inter alia, this issue but no decision has been made as yet.
