Appendix to the directors report and business review Group financial KPIs NWL financial KPIs Gearing to RCV Regulatory gearing Denition and calculation: The ratio of Group net Denition and calculation: The ratio of NWL net debt to NWLs Regulatory Capital Value RCV plus a debt including borrowings to group subsidiaries to pro forma RCV for the Kielder securitisation and the PFI NWLs RCV.
The RCV represents the total capital value contracts at the level of associated debt included in the of the appointed water and sewerage business on Groups net debt relating to those assets.
The NWL which Ofwat allows a rate of return at price reviews RCV represents the total capital value of the appointed based on its view of the cost of capital.
water and sewerage business on which The Water Purpose: The RCV generates most of the revenue Services Regulation Authority Ofwat allows a rate stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an of return at price reviews based on its view of the important factor in credit ratings.
Source of underlying data: NWLs RCV is calculated Purpose: The RCV generates most of the revenue by Ofwat and published each year.
Ofwat also stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an publishes anticipated values up to five years ahead, important factor in credit ratings.
based on its last price determination.
NWLs net debt Source of underlying data: NWLs RCV is calculated can be found in the audited regulatory accounts and by Ofwat and published each year.
Ofwat also Ofwat annual reports on financial performance.
publishes anticipated values up to five years ahead, based on its last price determination.
Group net debt is NWL non-financial KPIs disclosed in the audited financial statements.
N Water Cash interest cover Drinking water quality Denition and calculation: Cash generated from operations less tax divided by net interest paid.
Denition and calculation: Compliance with drinking water regulations as monitored by the Drinking Water Purpose: Measures the ability of the Group to service Inspectorate DWI.
Purpose: To monitor drinking water quality.
Source of underlying data: Audited financial statements.
Source of underlying data: Samples recorded by NWL and audited by the DWI.
Cash ow to net debt N Environment Denition and calculation: Cash generated from operations less tax paid divided by net debt.
Sewage treatment works Purpose: Indicates the Groups ability to reduce debt in the absence of need for additional investment, without Denition and calculation: Percentage of population resorting to asset disposal.
equivalent served by non-compliant works failing Look Up Tables consents.
Purpose: To monitor the performance of NWLs sewage treatment works and their impact on the environment.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded by NWL and the Environment Agency EA and reported on by the latter.
44 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Bathing waters Mandatory Standard N Employee Denition and calculation: Percentage of bathing Lost time reportable accidents waters complying with Mandatory Standards.
Denition and calculation: Injury accidents that are Purpose: To monitor the impact of NWLs coastal reported to the Health & Safety Executive as required treatment works on the environment.
by the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Source of underlying data: Information recorded and Occurrences Regulations 1995.
Calculated as number of reported by the EA.
accidents reported in financial year per 1,000 employees.
Pollution incidents Purpose: To monitor the safety performance of NWL over time.
Denition and calculation: Number of category 1, 2 Source of underlying data: Completed NWL and 3 pollution incidents in the calendar year as accident incident report forms.
Employee numbers dened by the EA.
provided by the human resources department.
Purpose: To monitor the performance of NWLs sewerage system and its impact on the environment.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded and Sickness absence reported to Ofwat by the EA.
Denition and calculation: Sickness absence days as a percentage of total working days multiplied by the N Customer end of month headcount.
Purpose: To track and trend sickness absence levels Customer levels of service across the organisation.
Source of underlying data: Sicknotes, return to work Denition and calculation: Customer service interviews and weekly returns by managers.
standards are established by Ofwat and calculated using source data in the company.
Purpose: To monitor customer service performance of Employee turnover NWL.
Denition and calculation: Number of leavers within Source of underlying data: Information collected by the year as a percentage of average headcount.
the company and submitted to Ofwat.
It is Purpose: To track the employee turnover within the independently certied.
business to ensure that it is within benchmark data.
Source of underlying data: Current employees Customer satisfaction details are held within the human resources Denition and calculation: Domestic customers management system reports show leavers against satisfaction with overall service and overall value for headcount.
money, expressed as satisfaction averaged over the surveys carried out during the year.
Average satisfaction is based on a scale of 1 to 10 using the score of 6 and above as satisfied.
Net scores are used to show true satisfaction by taking into consideration those who are dissatisfied who score between 1 and 3.
Purpose: To enable tracking of perception of reputation, service and value for money over time.
Source of underlying data: Independent surveys of 500 customers 300 north, 200 south chosen at random, but representative of the customer base, carried out each quarter a total of 2,000 customers.
45 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009
