04 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Business & Financial Review Business Review We also gained the operational capability and capacity of asceptic carton packing through Business In the 53 weeks to 31st January, 2009, our new manufacturing facility at Tredegar, the Barr business has accelerated its growth South Wales.
As planned we have run Rubicon momentum.
Our core business has grown & Financial as a stand alone operating business for the strongly and we have benefited from new 22 weeks up to the end of the financial year acquisitions and developing partnerships as Review during this period the business delivered the well as further core brand innovation.
We have earnings enhancement we anticipated.
We out performed the market across almost all of announced in January 2009 that we would the categories in which we operate, delivering commence the integration of the Rubicon revenue of 169.7m a growth of 14.4% across business into the core Barr business with the the 53 week period.
Adjusting for the acquisition specific objectives of improving sales execution of the Rubicon business and the 53rd week our and delivering growth plans, improving supply like-for-like business grew by 6.6% to 158.2m.
management processes and ensuring we achieve our expected synergy plans.
The We have maintained our efforts behind the integration planning process is progressing value based strategy which has continued to well.
Our integration plans are all the more deliver well despite a second consecutive year important because the Rubicon business has of poor summer weather and the increasingly been impacted by the rapid and significant troubled economic climate in the U. K. We devaluation of Sterling as a large proportion also continued to aggressively manage costs of its packaging and raw materials are sourced across the business while at the same time outside of the U. K. We anticipate the we increased our focus on stepping up our commercial actions we are taking in tandem sales growth momentum across our range.
with the accelerated operational integration The continued focus on cost and growth have plans will mitigate the significant impact of seen pre-tax profits excluding exceptional the increased costs related to the devaluation items and impairment charges increase to of Sterling.
23.4m from 21.3m an increase of 9.7% on the prior year.
As a consequence of the acquisition of Rubicon we have entered into new long-term financing The acquisition of Groupe Rubicon Limited in arrangements with Royal Bank of Scotland August 2008 for 59.8m further strengthened with a 70m total facility.
Our net debt position our business.
The acquisition added a strong at 31st January, 2009 was 31.3m which exotic juice drinks brand with high levels of represents a net debt to EBITDA ratio of consumer brand loyalty as well as adding just over one times.
We have achieved this further scale to our business in England.
improvement to our anticipated net debt position by increased efforts to proactively manage cash as well as improving capital expenditure disciplines and by continuing our drive for operational efficiency improvements across the whole business.
The board continues to believe in the importance of a progressive dividend policy and has proposed a further growth in dividend of 7.7% as described by the chairman.
Roger White Chief Executive Stronger than ever IRN-BRU grew its share of the U. K. soft drinks market by 5% last year and recently announced a new sponsorship deal with the Rugby Super League south of the border to complement the sponsorship of the Scottish Football League north of the bor der.
05 Our cor e business has grown strongly and we have benefited from new acquisitions and developing partnerships.
The Market During the course of 2008 we have seen the continued growth in carbonated sports The U. K. soft drinks market in the period fell and energy drinks which grew by 11% across by 2.2% in volume terms but was flat on an the year as the category has seen further overall value basis source Nielsen Scantrack 169.7m innovation and a number of new entrants.
Volumes Revenue for the year Annual growth figures did slow in the final were impacted by the poor summer weather quarter to 5%.
Still sports and energy drinks and value progress has slowed due to the have not maintained their previous growth effects of the worsening economic climate levels with annual growth of 2% impacted and its consequential impact on consumer by final quarter declines of 12%.
behaviour in particular in the impulse channel.
Once again the categories that have The soft drinks market has continued to see been negatively impacted most significantly momentum behind the carbonates category are still drinks which declined by 4.5% in with many of the largest brands now growing volume terms.
Included in this is water and volume ahead of the overall soft drinks market.
a number of the more premium categories The carbonates category delivered volume such as smoothies and premium juices.
growth of almost 5% in the year.
This growth These declines, in particular water which was reflects consumers continued trend towards around 10%, can be attributed largely to the a more balanced purchase repertoire where the poor summer weather but it is undoubtedly position of major carbonate brands is holding also a consequence of the ongoing debate firm.
Much comment is now being made of regarding the sustainability of bottled water consumers desire to find value for money and in the case of more premium products this is undoubtedly true but consumers are the tightening of consumer budgets in the also seeking the reassurance of brands they second half of the year.
Despite the likely growth in retailer brands we believe that well supported The soft drinks market overall is a resilient differential brands that taste great will continue sector which has put in a creditable to be important to all groups of consumers performance in 2008 despite the challenges across all channels.
The increasingly difficult general economic conditions will have an impact on the market going forward especially in the split of category growth: however the total soft drinks market remains robust in overall terms.
Rockstar Rockstar Punched From 0 to over 5,000,000 New flavours such as cans sold in the first full Guava Punched offer year of sales.
exciting new tastes in energy drinks and support the brands high-profile sponsorships.
Still great taste Diet IRN-BRU launched a new campaign and packaging to help shoppers understand the sugar free message.
Phenomenal people drink Phenomenal drinks.
08 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Business & Financial Review Strategy Last year we indicated that we were increasing our efforts around the goal of developing our We remain committed to growing our business sales growth ambitions the results of which profitability and our strategic focus is around can be clearly seen in our revenue growth.
This the following main areas: focus will continue to drive our operating plans.
Core brands and markets In addition we are increasing the profile Portfolio development and pace of our sustainability agenda within Route to market the business.
Sustainability is not new for Partnerships our company: efficiency, waste control and Efficient operations continuous improvement which are at the People development heart of sustainability have been part of our key Sustainability focus for many years.
However we have now increased the level of co-ordination and focus across the business in this area.
At A. G. BARR the sustainability agenda is simply part of being a better business.
The Classics The carbonates market recorded its third consecutive year of sales growth in 2008 despite the poor summer.
Shoppers are looking to buy c lassic brands that offer great value for money.
Carbonated I n the 4 week period ending 24th January, 2009 IRN-BRU was the number one other flavoured carbonate drink on a national basis, by value, for the first time ever overtaking Fanta.
The Barr brand of flavour ed carbonates grew revenue by over 10% versus the prior year.
Functional Still Drinks Through the Taut and Vitsmart brands A. G. BARR p. l. c. is well placed to compete in the fast growing still sports and functional waters categories.
Stills W e now have products, packaging and consumer propositions which we believe are well positioned to meet consumer demand.
Stepping up Despite poor summer weather and a difficult year our portfolio of still drinks continued to grow.
09 Return on capital employed Core Brands and Markets The commitment to develop our core brands 2009 17.3% and markets, despite some changes to 2008 26.3% consumer behaviour over the last five years, continues to pay dividends.
Our strength in core carbonates on both a national and EBITDA margin regional basis has seen improvements to our market share across the year and across all 2009 18.1% core brands.
As we have deliberately increased 2008 18.4% our focus on our core brands we have as a consequence let some of our smaller brands and labels, such as Findlays, Prize, Liptons Free cash flow m and the last of our remaining own label business naturally decline during the period.
2009 18.0 2008 6.3 Juice & Water In 2009 we will launch Strathmore twist.
Rubicon is trying to m ake Britain more exotic, bringing the best tasting exotic juice drinks to more customers thr oughout the whole country.
Rubicon Rubicon juice drinks bring the worlds most exotic flavours to Britain.
With a wide range of exotic fruits used there is something for everyone.
12 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Xxxxxxxxxxxxx Stepping up our operations Acr oss the business we have 500m reduced waste, improved units produced over four production sites energy consumption and reduced CO2 production... 80 000 food miles removed from supply chain T he acquisition of Rubicon 6.8% now provides us with the increase in operational efficiencies across Cumbernauld and Mansfield opportunity to further optimise our supply chain... 13 14 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Business & Financial Review Our core brands have never been stronger: Our promotional activity across the summer increasingly consumers from all areas of the followed a value added approach with the main U. K. and from many differing ethnic backgrounds event being our first ever free IRN-BRU glass prefer our diverse range of unique brands.
This mechanic involved us giving away branded glasses with certain IRN-BRU grew revenue in the period by almost IRN-BRU purchases, allowing us to improve 8% with strong growth on both sides of the sales, reward consumer loyalty and maintain border and record market share in Scotland.
a relatively high level of average PPL pence In the 4 week period ending 24th January, per litre throughout the promotion.
2009 IRN-BRU was the number one other flavoured carbonate drink within mainland IRN-BRU continued its sponsorship programme U. K. by value for the first time ever overtaking with the completion of the first full year of our Fanta.
Growth in IRN-BRU has been in both sponsorship of the Scottish Football Leagues standard and diet with IRN-BRU 32 now and an increasing set of activities both at Club accounting for less than % of our total level and centrally planned to be delivered IRN-BRU sales.
across the second year of our sponsorship.
In addition to our Scottish Football League With the highest marketing and promotion sponsorship IRN-BRU has announced a spend ever behind the IRN-BRU brand in 2008 new sponsorship deal with Rugby League the mix of activities included significant growth IRN-BRU is now the official soft drink of in new pack sizes to ensure we can increase Superleague a three year deal.
In addition the range of occasions on which the brand we have secured full broadcast sponsorship can be drunk, such as a new 1 litre PET bottle of Sky Sports Rugby League coverage for the shaped in line with the 500ml design and 2009 season.
This coverage will reach over a new 4x250ml PET multipack following 10 million consumers over the course of the on from the successful launch of the new season and is designed to reinforce our 250ml wee BRU format in the prior year.
growing position on a national basis.
Consumer communication continues to The IRN-BRU brand is now stepping up to develop within the FMCG sector and IRN-BRU face the future on a national basis with real has increased its digital presence with new web momentum from a strong base.
sites and a number of digital campaigns aimed at reaching the growing audience of, especially During the course of the last 12 months we younger, consumers who spend increasing have seen excellent growth from our regional time online.
However, we have also continued carbonates range with the Barr brand of to utilise the more traditional mainstream flavoured carbonates growing revenue by advertising activity with our award winning over 10% versus the prior year.
This range IF television advertising campaign going of traditional products has had the addition out across the summer months.
of new flavours Cherryade and Shandy plus flavour extensions into 2 litre PET and 500ml PET over the course of the year.
Consumers across the category and in different channels have positively received the increasingly attractive proposition of high quality traditional drinks at good value prices in a variety of formats.
In addition we launched the Barrs Originals range of traditional r ecipe glass bottles.
Designed to be reminiscent of what traditional pop used to taste like.
The range is aimed at both food service and retail customers, further highlighting the wide growth potential of the Barr brand.
Smoothies and Juice Drinks Sales of smoothies and Rubicon continue to grow.
15 Across our full regional range we grew revenue The Strathmore brand has performed by 11% with an excellent performance from broadly in line with the general market place Caribbean brand KA which grew by 46% and for bottled water.
Our strategy to build a is now a 5m sales brand.
Tizer has stabilised premium brand in the water category remains its sales performance with second half revenue intact and we have maintained our brand flat versus the prior year.
We will change the building activity despite the difficult market Tizer consumer proposition once more in 2009 conditions.
Strathmore performance in our with the launch of an impactful sleeved bottle target impulse channel has been excellent and a new recipe with increased flavour aimed despite the poor summer weather but the gains at once more getting Tizer into stronger growth.
made in impulse have been more than offset by declines in the on-trade and catering market Our core still brand offering under the Simply place where we have lost some contracts on St Clements brands significantly out performed a price basis.
The water market will continue the market with revenue growth of 17% in to be very competitive but we believe bottled the period.
Despite the relatively small size water is an essential component of our overall of these brands they are growing momentum portfolio and Strathmore is the right brand to especially in the value segment of the market build for the long-term.
We anticipate some within the impulse, wholesale and discounter continuing weakness in the licensed on-trade channels.
Offering high quality products in sector but will look to build on our success in exciting packaging at good value has been impulse in 2009.
Further brand development our objective this strategy is now beginning took place during 2008 with 750ml sports to deliver wider acceptance of the brands cap launched in April, television advertising in in other retail channels and with a wider Scotland over the summer as well as numerous consumer audience.
sports running sponsorships throughout the year.
In September 2008 we refreshed the Strathmore brand with a packaging re-design which improved our stand out and reinforced its premium positioning.
In 2009 we will launch Strathmore twist a range of flavoured water.
Strathmore was the first significant brand in the U. K. to launch flavoured water and we believe the twist range can add further momentum behind the brand in 2009.
Offering high quality products in exciting packaging at good value has been our objective.
16 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Business & Financial Review Portfolio Development The last significant change to our portfolio during the year was the acquisition of the We have continued our drive to broaden Rubicon brand.
Rubicon exotic juice drinks with our overall portfolio across an increasingly strong core ethnic consumers and a growing wide range of soft drinks categories.
The base of mainstream consumers offer us some development of our still and fruit based range real growth opportunities.
With strength in the has continued with St Clements juices and South East and London we can use our route smoothies.
Despite the category declines in to market strength to develop the brand as part these sectors we have used our good value of our core offering on a more national basis.
for money positioning to drive our ranges at The addition of the carton format in both 1 litre the expense of other more premium competitor take home and 288ml drink now also gives brands.
We have also focused these ranges us a huge opportunity to develop our sales down to fewer variants as the market has further.
The integration and further growth contracted and we remain positive regarding of the Rubicon business and brand is a key the opportunities in this sector.
We acquired the Taut and Vitsmart brands Our portfolio priorities are very clear.
Further to speed our entry into both the still sports development of our range will take place but drinks market and the fledgling enhanced in the short-term we are focused on building water market.
Over the early course of 2008 core brands, integrating and developing Rubicon we invested considerable effort in re-packaging and positioning our offering to meet consumers and re-developing both of these brands.
current financial and lifestyle needs.
We now have products, packaging and consumer propositions which we believe are Route to Market well positioned to meet consumer demands in these two sub categories.
Both brands The impulse market has had a difficult year were re-launched in 2008 but on a relatively with poor summer weather and the difficult low key, low cost basis due to our perception economic environment driving consumers of the changing economic circumstances to move to more planned purchases and in the U. K. Both Taut and Vitsmart have great less impulse purchases.
Overall soft drinks potential but we must get the timing correct sales in impulse dropped by 3.6% in value before we increase our weight of effort behind with volume down 5.4%.
However carbonates these exciting new brands.
This is an example did relatively better, flat in value terms with where we are realistic and make difficult a 2.2% volume decline.
choices regarding our portfolio we have in recent months focused our efforts on our more We have continued to drive our impulse mainstream and core brands and will continue business but this is against the headwind to do so while the economic climate is uncertain.
We maintain our belief that a strong impulse business is vital in soft drinks and we have further invested in the year although in the final quarter in an additional 31 sales personnel to further drive our impulse business.
This investment will begin to deliver in 2009 10.
In addition we have further strengthened our food service and on-trade teams since those areas remain for us an opportunity, despite their current well publicised difficulties.
30.7m EBITDA 17 Our channel split across the business The Orangina brand has continued to out continues to be well balanced with good perform its peer orange carbonates during the growth from core brands in take home and year with further focus behind the iconic bulby increased sales opportunities for impulse bottle.
We are delighted to have in March 2009, helped by the Rubicon acquisition.
signed a new franchise arrangement with Orangina Schweppes Group that will see our At the same time as increasing our partnership extended to 31st December, 2014. executional resources and capabilities This only serves to reinforce our commitment we have completed, later than planned, to building the Orangina brand in the U. K. the roll out of our Customer Relationship Management CRM system to build further The partnership arrangements we previously service and commercial competence for held with Rubicon have now obviously moved customers.
The value added impact of on bringing together the existing strong this investment is expected in 2009 10. working relationships we have enjoyed with our long-term partners at Rubicon into the Partnerships core of our business.
All of our partnerships are important and Sales of IRN-BRU in Russia have continued to 2008 09 was a successful year for both grow with revenue growth of 23%.
Given the us and our partners.
context of very significant economic problems in Russia and a carbonated soft drinks market The launch of the Rockstar brand into the which has fallen by 7% during 2008 this is an U. K. commenced in November 2007 with the excellent performance which highlights both 2008 09 financial year being the first full year the resilience and quality of the brand and the of our partnership with Rockstar.
During the capability and commitment of Pepsi Bottling course of last year we sold over 10 million cans Group, our partner in Russia.
of Rockstar making this the most successful carbonate launch of the year.
The focus in Value exports to other territories increased this first year has been to build awareness and by 21% during the year with further growth the profile of the brand which has been done potential in Scandinavia and the Middle East through a combination of sampling, with over being developed.
1.2 million consumers sampled at over 700 events, and sponsorship activity such as the Partnership relations across the supply side Ricky Hatton boxing sponsorship and headline of the business are also important: never sponsorship of the Taste of Chaos U. K. more so than now as we face volatility and music tours.
uncertainty across much of our key materials supply base.
Our objectives of managing risk, Over the course of the year listings and enhancing quality, improving efficiency and distribution have been growing and in reducing environmental impact remain central September we introduced a new Guava to these key partnerships.
The early success of the Rockstar brand has allowed us to now bring production, which was previously outsourced, in-house to further strengthen our partnership with Rockstar for 2009 10.
KA KA was launched in the 1960s based on original Jamaican soft drink recipes.
These recipes offer an authentic taste of the Caribbean.
18 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Business & Financial Review Efficient Operations The past year has challenged our ability to manage significant price volatility in both raw During the course of the 2008 09 financial year materials and energy across our business.
our operating teams have been far from idle.
We have continued to make good progress This has however been the first time for three to find creative solutions to manage as much years we have not had a major restructuring risk out of our business as possible.
However or investment programme underway.
the current weakness of Sterling has increased the cost challenges in particular within our We have during 2008 09 for the first time Rubicon products.
produced more than 500 million units across our production sites and at the same Our capital spend, outside of building and time improved overall line efficiency in our land, was as forecast much smaller than in manufacturing sites by over 5%.
Across the previous years reflecting the focus on delivering business we have continued to reduce waste performance from the prior years investments.
During It is likely that this trend will continue into the year we reduced our CO2 production per 2009 10 but we continue to look forward tonne of product produced across our main and to plan our asset base to be fit to allow sites by 9.5%.
In addition we have reduced us to compete successfully in the increasingly water usage by 8% and carried out product complex and competitive market place in which packaging re-engineering projects designed we operate.
to save well in excess of 0.5m per annum.
People In addition to our continuous improvement activities we have improved operating The A. G. BARR business has stepped up efficiency at our Cumbernauld site through the in 2008 09: it has delivered strong financial purchase of further on-site storage capacity.
performance despite difficult market conditions.
The purchasing of an adjacent site of some 20 Much of our improvement is as a consequence acres with 150,000 square feet of warehouse of our previous investments and restructuring capacity has eliminated our requirement for programmes.
No single investment is more costly external storage and reduced miles important than the investment we have made travelled for our product by over 80,000 miles.
in building the core capabilities and strength of The site was acquired in September 2008 and our teams.
The combination of long standing was fully refurbished and in operation within experienced individuals and new thinking from four weeks.
outside the company continues to see the A. G. BARR team make huge strides forward The acquisition of Rubicon and its integration collectively and as individuals.
We would like now provides us with the opportunity to further to thank everybody who has worked so hard optimise our supply chain and to seek best over the past year across the whole business to practice operational performance across all deliver our plans.
The combination of personal of our sites including the new carton packing leadership and enhanced team working are facility at Tredegar in South Wales.
taking A. G. BARR to the next level.
We would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the Rubicon team for the positive start which has been made to our new working relationship following the acquisition in August 2008.
Taut The Taut sports drink range offers natural hydration for people playing sports or just working out.
Unlike most sports drinks Taut contains no artificial flavours, colours, sweeteners or preservatives.
