Overview Business r Business review eview Governance Financial statements How we performed in 2009 Throughout 2009 ARM demonstrated the resilience of its business model by outperforming the semiconductor industry.
Despite industry revenues being down 20% in the relevant period, ARMs dollar revenues declined 10% as we continued to gain market share, and made progress on our strategy.
Outperformance looks set to continue as we further build the base of licences that will drive long-term royalty growth.
Industry context in 2009 KPI: Building the base of licences 2009 was a difficult year for the semiconductor industry.
At the beginning of the year, analysts were forecasting Every licence represents the opportunity for a future a 30% decline in full-year semiconductor revenues.
In most years ARM adds between forecast presented a challenge for the semiconductor 60-70 processor licences to its existing base of licences.
manufacturers: although they wanted to continue In 2009, we signed 87 processor licences, the highest their R&D programmes, building the chips that would number signed in a year.
This takes the licensing base drive revenue in 2011 and beyond, reduced revenues to more than 660 licences.
meant that these R&D programmes would have The strong licensing in 2009 occurred as many ARM constrained budgets.
customers looked through the downturn at the products In H1 2009, due to uncertainties about the duration of they needed to develop for sales in 2011 and beyond.
the recession, manufacturing of new chips fell to very ARM also introduced three new processor products that low levels and inventories rapidly declined throughout took ARM into new markets such as mobile computing the supply chain.
In the second half of the year, increasing and very cost-sensitive microcontrollers.
sales of consumer electronics, initially in China, but then ARM technology is becoming more broadly applicable also in the rest of the world, started to result in improved as digital electronics continue to demand smarter chips sales by ARMs semiconductor Partners.
to control the world in which we live.
ARM continues to ARM receives royalty payments one quarter in arrears, see licensing and design wins within mobile products, and reported royalties reflected the shape of the industry but increasingly ARM is being designed in other nondownturn.
However, royalty revenues declined less than mobile applications such as digital TVs, disk drives the industry as ARM gained share in target markets.
ARM royalty revenue Industry revenue Industry revenues shifted one quarter to align with ARMs royalty reports.
2009 licence by target market Even in the downturn ARM royalty revenues Mobile 30 outperformed the industry Embedded 25 Enterprise 17 Licensing revenues are driven by on-going R&D 87 Home 11 programmes.
These programmes continued, but with Multiple 4 limited budgets, and ARM signed more licences with constrained licence terms.
These licences have a lower up-front cost, but higher future royalties.
