Business Review the Group has remained profitable and has generated a positive operational cash flow and maintained its strong balance sheet.
introduction The PV industry is emerging from a challenging market environment in 2009, when module prices fell by more than 40% as overcapacity, coupled with upheaval in financial markets and reduced economic demand slowed growth for renewable energy.
The industry oversupply was largely the result of the collapse of the market in Spain in late 2008 which had represented 40% of demand in that year as a result of a generous feed-in tariff FIT, with installations of 2.5GW in 2008.
This led the Spanish Government to curb demand in September 2008 by reducing FITs and also to implement an annual installation cap of 500MW.
The market grew substantially in the second half of 2009 dR iain dORRity driven primarily by strong demand in Germany fuelled by CHief exeCutiVe OffiCeR low module prices and attractive investment returns for the consumer: installations of 2.4GW were recorded by the Federal Network Agency in the year up until November 2009.
The surge in demand was dramatic, with installations of 1.8GW carried out in the five months since June 2009 in comparison with 0.55GW in the first half of the year.
Total installed capacity is expected to be around 3.0GW up from 1.6GW in 2008.
The reintroduction of investment grants, coupled with the introduction of a FIT, has significantly stimulated PV installations in Japan.
Demand had stagnated in Japan in recent years following the withdrawal of subsidies but in 2009 installations almost doubled with domestic shipments reaching 484MW according to the Japanese Photovoltaic Energy Association.
Overall global PV installations reached a record high of dR PeteR J finneGan 6.4GW in 2009 according to a report from Solarbuzz, the US CHief finanCiaL OffiCeR based PV consultancy.
This represents 6% growth over the previous year and is in sharp contrast to the 110% market growth experienced in that year.
SuMMaRy Of BuSineSS ReView financial review Japan and Germany continue to The Group has delivered a creditable full year performance be the Groups major geographic in a difficult market environment.
Revenue was 237.3 million markets with 77% 2008: 84% 2008: 274.1 million with total wafer shipments up 4% to 239MW 2008: 230MW.
The weak Japanese Yen had a negative impact of our revenues.
on Group sales turnover in the period of approximately 3% see note 30.
Global PV installations reached a record high of 6.4GW in 2009.
In 2009 the Group generated underlying earnings before interest and taxation EBIT excluding currency losses gains the uK market is expected of 50.0 million 2008: 106.5 million.
Actual EBIT including currency losses gains was 41.7 million 2008: 142.8 million.
to develop following the The reduction in underlying profitability was driven primarily introduction of an attractive by severe pricing pressure resulting in lower market prices.
Fit in april which will provide However, our volume production increased in the second 89% returns on investment.
half of year following higher demand from customers.
04 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Net interest income of 0.8 million 2008: 4.4 million was restatement of grants receivable, an increase in inventories significantly lower than last year due to lower global interest and by more efficient use of the debtor book.
The Group maintained its strong cash position at year were reallocated from trade payables and advance payments end with net cash of 70.2 million 2008: 81.1 million.
to proceeds from investment grants and subsidies shown The main impact on the net cash position was relatively under investing activities.
high tax payments settled this financial year which related to the high level of profitability in 2008.
Capital expenditure of 20.8 million was offset by grants received of 22.0 million giving a positive cash flow of Earnings after tax was 29.6 million 2008: 103.2 million 1.2 million compared to 2008 when the net cash outflow was and earnings per share were 0.072 2008: 0.252.
As part of its hedging strategy the Group took out new Japanese Yen loans of 15.1 million.
In February 2010 These financial results generated net operating cash flows Japanese Yen loans were increased further by approximately of 3.5 million 2008: 107.8 million and free cash flow of 16 million.
Dividends totalling 24.6 million were paid in 3.3 million 2008: 22.9 million.
Free cash flow is defined the year 2008: 18.4 million.
using the cash flow statement as net cash from operating activities plus cash from used in investing activities less In spite of a difficult market environment the Group has interest received.
The net operating cash flow was impacted remained profitable and has generated a positive operational by the absorption of 2.8 million into working capital cash flow and maintained its strong balance sheet.
Accordingly, 2008: 4.2 million which was due to the net effect of the the Group has a good financial platform for the future.
BeLOw Our solar-grade silicon production facility success with Bitterfeld production at our new solar-grade silicon production facility started in July 2009 and we remain on track to achieve full capacity of 1800mt in 2011. internal purity targets were reached quickly and we were able to incorporate the material into our standard ingot production at an early stage.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 05 Business Review continued it is our intention to be one of the pV industrys cost leaders and to supply quality wafers at competitive prices whilst retaining attractive margins.
Market overview Group wafer shipments totalled 239MW in 2009, an increase of 4% on the 230MW shipped the previous year and broadly in line with global market growth.
Japan and Germany continue to represent the Groups major customer base with 77% 2008: 84% of our revenues obtained in these two countries, where we have long established relationships with major solar cell producers.
China, now the worlds largest PV manufacturing location, is accounting for an increasing proportion of our revenues and represented 9% in 2009 2008: 6%.
China, Japan and Germany are currently the three leading global PV manufacturing centres, where many of the worlds major solar cell producers serving the global market are located.
In terms of outlook, the PV market is expected to grow strongly in the first half of 2010 as demand in Germany is stimulated by expectations that an additional cut in FIT, originally proposed for April, will not be made before July.
The German Government has indicated that FITs for roof top installations, which account for 80% of the market, will be reduced by 16% at that time and this is expected to put further pressure on pricing in the second half of the year.
Overall installations in Germany are expected to exceed 3GW in 2010. tOP BOttOM Wafer quality testing Unloading an ingot PV installations in Japan, which was the worlds fourth production furnace largest market in 2009, are expected to double in 2010 and reach 1GW.
We believe the Group is favourably positioned to benefit from this growth because of our strong relationships with local Japanese cell manufacturers and because the Japanese market has so far been less impacted by Chinese competition due to consumer preference for domestic products.
In addition to growth in Japan, growing demand in Italy and the USA is also expected to help reduce the effects of any Wafer Shipment Volumes MW 300 drop-off in demand from Germany in the second half of the year.
Furthermore, the UK market is expected to develop 250 239 230 following the introduction of an attractive FIT in April which 200 190 will provide attractive returns for consumers.
The impact 150 in 2010 is likely to be limited given the existing scale of the market, but some forecasts indicate that UK installations 100 could reach 250MW in 2011.
As other markets develop and 50 grow, the industrys dependence on a few large markets will 2007 2008 2009 0 decrease and this diversification is expected to bring about a more stable demand environment.
239Mw 06 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Strategic developments Success with Bitterfeld PV Crystalox Solar remains committed to systematically Production at our new solar-grade silicon production facility enhancing its position in the PV industry as an independent started in July 2009 and a total of 153MT were produced in 2009 producer of multicrystalline silicon wafers.
By focusing on the while processes were being optimised.
The plant is running wafer and not competing with our customers in cell production, satisfactorily with design parameters being met for safety, we are able to develop strong relationships with solar cell energy consumption, throughput and quality.
It is our intention to be one of the PV industrys first two months in 2010 averaged 65MT per month which is cost leaders and to supply quality wafers at competitive planned to more than double per month by the end of 2010. prices whilst retaining attractive margins.
For 2011 we remain on track to achieve full capacity of 1,800MT.
As outlined at the interim results, our strategy seeks to combine Internal purity targets were reached quickly and subsequent cost leadership with production flexibility.
This involves four key qualification tests, carried out with our customers who evaluated areas of focus which we believe will strengthen our position as wafers produced using our solar grade polysilicon, showed a leading pure-play solar wafer manufacturer: that the material gave results which were identical to those from externally purchased high purity polysilicon.
Consequently operate new Bitterfeld polysilicon facility at full capacity: we were able to incorporate the material into our standard ingot production at an early stage.
enhance relationships with existing customers and retain flexibility of wafer production: f ocus on further development of the leading crystalline silicon processing technology: and continued focus on operating cost reduction.
Left RiGHt A vacuum handling system An ingot is removed from for moving ingots a production furnace following crystallisation production flexibility Flexibility is underpinned by carrying out wafering at our own facility in Germany and also at subcontractors in Japan.
operating in these two locations enables us to be close to our end customers and respond rapidly to their delivery requirements.
during the year we completed the next phase of the expansion of our ingot production facility at milton park in the United Kingdom to bring our overall capacity to 400mW and in anticipation of continued market growth, we have taken the decision to expand our production capacity to 470mW.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 07 Business Review continued the Groups strong cash position, long standing customer relationships, established reputation and competitive manufacturing cost ensure that we are well positioned for growth in the developing global pV markets.
flexibility in production Our strategy of cost leadership and flexibility is underpinned by carrying out wafering at our own facility in Germany and also at subcontractors in Japan.
Operating in these two locations enables us to be close to our end customers and respond rapidly to their delivery requirements and also to benchmark production yields and costs.
In addition, these operations help offset the impact of the influence of Euro Yen exchange rate variations.
During the year we completed the next phase of the expansion of our ingot production facility at Milton Park in the United Kingdom.
This was originally designed to bring our capacity up to 350MW from 290MW: but improvements in yield and productivity across our manufacturing chain have now brought the overall capacity to 400MW.
These ingot production systems, which are designed and constructed in-house at a significantly lower cost than sourcing equivalent equipment from external companies, remain one of the Groups core strengths and we continue to benefit both from the lower capital cost and our extensive operational performance.
In anticipation of continued market growth, we have taken the decision to expand our production capacity to 470MW and have leased a 46,000 sq ft building adjacent to our main UK Oxfordshire facility.
Following some internal rearrangement of our existing block production we will have sufficient space ultimately to accommodate an additional 200MW of ingot production capacity.
increased efficiency Effective silicon utilisation remains a key focus for the Group and is an important element of our internal cost reduction programmes.
Whereas customers in Europe have gradually shifted back to 200m wafers because of the improved wafer availability, our customers in Japan and China continue to process 180m wafers.
78% of our total wafer shipments in 2009 were supplied at 180m thickness in comparison with 65% in the previous year.
Kerf losses in wafering have been progressively reduced through the year with the adoption of 120 130m wire in production both internally and at our subcontractors in Japan.
Furthermore the use of wire sawing technology, which was first introduced at our internal ingot cutting operations in the tOP BOttOM United Kingdom, has been extended to our subcontractor in Maintenance at Bitterfeld Crucible preparation Japan during 2009.
All our ingot production is thus now cut using wire saws and silicon losses during ingot cutting reduced by up to 90% in comparison with the band saws used previously.
focus on costs and flexibility Industry overcapacity led to strong downward pricing pressure in all parts of the value chain with momentum increasing during the second half of the year.
In view of the challenging market situation and in order to support our customers, we agreed 08 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Left RiGHt Spools of wire for use in the Crucible filled with high wire saws purity silicon increased efficiency effective silicon utilisation remains a key focus for the Group and is an important element of our internal cost reduction programmes.
Kerf losses in wafering have been progressively reduced through the year with the adoption of 120 130m wire in production.
Furthermore the use of wire sawing technology in our ingot production means silicon losses during ingot cutting are reduced by up to 90% in comparison with the band saws used previously.
temporary price flexibility despite the existence of long-term Even in the slowest industry growth scenario, Solarbuzz supply agreements.
Despite falling sales prices during 2009 expects the global market to be 2.5 times its current size our ability to cut costs further in ingot and wafer production in 2014 approximately 16GW.
We remain positive about our meant we were able to achieve profitability.
medium to long-term prospects and believe that the flexibility provided by our internal silicon production positions the Outlook PV Crystalox Solar Group well for future growth and enables According to analysts estimates, the market for installed us to strengthen our position as one of the PV industrys systems in 2010 is expected to be in the region of 8GW to leading multi crystalline wafer producers.
Furthermore, 12GW, up from over 6GW in 2009, with Germany expected to the Groups strong cash position, our long standing customer remain the single largest market at over 3GW.
The oversupply relationships, established reputation for wafer quality and of wafers in the market, the uncertainty over the impact of competitive manufacturing cost provide us with a significant the German Governments proposed reduction in feed in tariffs advantage in the current environment and ensure that we are and the recent results of other companies in the industry have well positioned for growth in the developing global PV markets.
all created a lack of clarity about the short-term profitability for the industry.
We are, however, experiencing strong demand in the first half of the year and expect shipment volumes to be in the range 145155MW with average prices down 1520% dR iain dORRity on the second half of last year.
There is little visibility for the CHief exeCutiVe OffiCeR second half of the year but as a result of the Groups proven 24 March 2010 ability to adjust its cost base and its silicon supply, the Board is confident that the Group can successfully operate in the current highly competitive market and deal with the associated pricing pressure.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 09
