14 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15 Report of the Directors Business review Revenue Operating profit before m exceptional items Africa m Both the personal care and home care divisions experienced strong revenue and profitability 2009 2009 415.0 39.5 growth in the year with brand renovation 2008 2008 33.6 programmes strengthening the category leading 309.1 2007 2007 positions in soaps, detergents, skincare, haircare, 26.1 252.9 babycare and medicaments.
Regional highlights Africa In Nigeria, the political environment has remained stable with the country now having experienced over a decade of democratic government.
Economically, whilst not totally immune from the global credit crunch, Nigeria has proved robust with continued positive macroeconomic growth.
Whilst the oil price has now fallen from record highs, it remains at a level that provides the country with adequate income to fund its slow but steady investment programme.
The impact on the Groups Nigerian business of the oil price drop is one of underlying falls in oil related raw material costs offset by a managed depreciation of the Naira.
The timing of raw material purchases together with levels of inventory holdings and wider supply chain management have been particularly challenging in the year.
PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc Within the Nigerian listed company, the Continued political and economic stability with Group operates its personal care and home Nigeria less impacted by the global care divisions as well as its supply chain and credit crunch distribution operations.
During the year, the Group increased its holding in the subsidiary Continued growth in all categories of Personal from 61% to 64% at a cost of 5.2 million.
Care, Home Care, Electricals and Nutrition Both the personal care and home care divisions The 39 million investment project in experienced strong revenue and profitability manufacturing and distribution facilities in Nigeria growth in the year with brand renovation well under way programmes strengthening the category Further electrical retail outlets opened taking the leading positions in soaps, detergents, total to four in Nigeria and one in Ghana skincare, haircare, babycare and medicaments.
The Nigerian business continues to be well placed to react to any economic environment with product offerings in the economy, mid and premium segments and thus giving the Nigerian consumer a choice of PZ quality product across the price range.
One of the Groups key strengths in Nigeria continues to be its supply chain and distribution operations.
In terms of inward supply chain, despite disruption to the port operations midway through the year, further reductions in clearance times have been achieved thus enabling more efficient transfer of raw materials from port through to the factories.
The new national distribution centre is almost complete and will enable more finished goods to be held centrally Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
