1 worldwide in Garment Care laundry Leading positions in Analgesics and Upper Net revenue grew by 8% constant to cleaning products for delicate garments Gastro-Intestinal products in Europe and 7,753m.
Adjusted operating profit up 12% with Woolite.
Australia with Nurofen and Gaviscon.
Total dividends paid of No.
1 worldwide in Water Softeners products The Company also has local leading 648m, up 47% versus 2008. to prevent destructive limescale build-up on positions in Denture Care, Dry Skin Care Colin Day Chief Financial Officer washing machines and laundry with Calgon.
The Company also has a number of local Other This review for the financial year ended market positions in Laundry Detergents and The Company also has two non-strategic 31 December 2009 conforms to the Fabric Softeners for example, in Spain, Italy, businesses: Food and Pharmaceuticals.
Business Review required under the certain East European markets and Korea.
The Company owns a largely Companies Act 2006.
It should be read in The Company also has a small private label North American Food business, the principal conjunction with the rest of this annual business, the majority of which provides brands of which are Frenchs Mustard report, the Companys latest Sustainability Laundry Detergent to major multi-national the No.
1 mustard and Franks Red Hot Report and the Companys website retailers in Europe.
1 hot Tabasco wing sauce in www.
NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES OF No.
1 worldwide in the overall Surface Care Pharmaceuticals.
formerly known as BBG THE BUSINESS category due to leading positions across or the Buprenorphine Business Group is Reckitt Benckiser is one of the worlds leading disinfectant cleaners, non-disinfectant all responsible for the development of the manufacturers and marketers of branded purpose cleaners, lavatory care, speciality Companys Subutex and Suboxone products in household cleaning and health & cleaners and polishes waxes.
Both products are personal care, selling a comprehensive range No.
1 worldwide in disinfectant cleaners based on buprenorphine for treatment of through over 60 operating companies into products which both clean and disinfect opiate dependence.
Suboxone is a more around 180 countries.
In 2009, around surfaces, killing 99.9% of germs with Lysol advanced product compared to Subutex, as three-quarters of net revenue was generated by in North America and the Surface Care it has substantially better protection against brands that are either market leader or ranked products in the Dettol range outside abuse by the opioid-dependent population.
Suboxone is sold by Reckitt Benckiser directly principal product categories are listed below.
in the US, a significant proportion of the No.
1 worldwide in lavatory care with Lysol in Reckitt Benckisers vision is to deliver better Pharmaceuticals business, and Australia.
North America and Harpic across Europe and consumer solutions in household cleaning and In the US, Suboxone lost the exclusivity Developing Markets.
health & personal care for the ultimate purpose afforded by its Orphan Drug Status on of creating shareholder value.
The Company has a number of local 8 October 2009.
Suboxone has received leading brands in non-disinfectant all marketing approval from the European The strategy of the business is described in purpose cleaners, speciality cleaners and Commission for treatment in the 27 states of detail in the Chief Executives Review.
the European Union, Norway and Iceland, In summary: with exclusivity until 2016.
During 2009, Dishwashing Have a disproportionate focus on our 17 Subutex was principally marketed in Europe No.
1 worldwide in Automatic Dishwashing Powerbrands to realise our vision and drive by Merck & Co. Inc. previously Schering products used in automatic dishwashers above industry average growth to strengthen Plough Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey with Finish.
As with all The Company also has some small, local prescription drugs, the protection of this Transform the above industry average net positions left in the declining manual business has a finite term unless replaced revenue growth into attractive profits and dishwashing market.
with new treatments or forms.
Group continues to search for ways to offset Home Care THE COMPANYS BRAND PORTFOLIO AND the impact of the loss of exclusivity in the US, Home Care consists of Air Care, Pest Control MARKET POSITION up to 80% of the revenue and profit of that and Shoe Care.
The Company benefits from many very strong business might be lost in the year following market positions for its brand portfolio.
2 worldwide in Air Care with Air Wick.
the launch of generic competitors, with the Excluding Laundry Detergent and Fabric possibility of further erosion thereafter.
2 worldwide in Pest Control with Softener, the Company is the world market Mortein, the Companys international brand, THE INDUSTRY, MARKET AND COMPETITIVE leader in household cleaning products and has supported by local brand franchises like ENVIRONMENT leading positions in selected health & personal d-Con in North America.
The household cleaning and health & personal care categories.
These positions derive from care industry is characterised by steady growth the strength of the Companys leading brands, No.
2 worldwide in Shoe Care with such in demand, with little variation due to described as Powerbrands, which are the brands as Cherry Blossom and Nugget.
macro-economic factors, particularly in flagship brands in the Companys five major Health & Personal Care developed markets.
Some developing markets categories and on which the Company focuses The Health & Personal Care category consists of exhibit more volatile demand in reaction to the majority of its efforts and investment.
products that relieve or solve common personal macro-economic factors.
The principal drivers The Company also has other brands and and health problems.
of market growth in all markets are the rate of market positions that are less of a strategic household formation and growth in the level of focus, but which play a role as scale builders No.
1 worldwide in topical Antiseptics and disposable income, combined with demand for in local markets.
new products that offer improved performance These leading positions include: No.
1 worldwide in Depilatory products or greater convenience.
Fabric Care The industry is intensely competitive, with a No.
1 worldwide in Fabric Treatment No.
2 worldwide in Acne treatment comparatively small number of major multiproducts to remove stains from clothes, with Clearasil.
national competitors accounting for a large carpets and upholstery with Vanish around proportion of total global demand.
1 worldwide in Medicated Sore Throat the globe and Resolve Spray n Wash in Company competes with numerous, wellproducts with Strepsils.
established, local, regional, national and No.
2 worldwide in Cold Flu including international companies, some of which are decongestants with Mucinex.
very large and aggressively establish and defend 4 Reckitt Benckiser 2009 their products, market shares and brands.
Zealand, excluding Pharmaceuticals with the chosen Enterprise Resource Planning ERP Principal competitors include FMCG companies remainder coming mostly from semi-established system and its associated programmes.
like Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, or developing economies.
The Company is The Company has a comprehensive set of Clorox, S. C. Johnson, Henkel and Unilever, expanding its operations in these semipolicies and procedures designed to enforce and such pharmaceutical companies as established economies, which may bring and protect its reputation and govern its GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis increased risks from greater economic volatility, business methods and practices.
These cover, and Bayer, plus a number of strong local additional governmental burden and inter alia, a comprehensive Code of Business industry players.
regulation, political instability and local labour Conduct, an Environmental Policy, a Global conditions.
However, this is not the case with The Company competes, particularly in strongly Manufacturing Standard, Product Safety Policy all developing markets, many of which offer branded segments, through its focus on its including compliance with all regulatory higher economic growth potential.
leading position in higher growth categories requirements, and product quality.
Internal where it is typically the market leader or a close The Company structures its business through a controls on environmental, social, governance follower, and through its ability to introduce matrix of a centralised Category Development ESG matters and reputational risk are further new products whether improved or newly organisation, Global Sales organisation, Supply outlined in pages 15 and 16 of this report.
developed supported by a rising and organisation and support functions Finance, RESOURCES substantial level of marketing, particularly Human Resources and Information Services, The major resources required by the business media investment.
Much industry competition combined with three Area organisations, are an adequate supply of the raw and focuses on competing claims for product Europe, North America & Australia, and packaging materials consumed by the performance rather than price or terms.
For this Developing Markets, plus Reckitt Benckiser Companys products and the necessary funds reason, failure to introduce new products and Pharmaceuticals.
The central Category for developing new products and reinvestment gain acceptance thereof may significantly Development function, where appropriate in advertising and promoting those brands.
The impact the Companys operating results.
The supported by Global Sales, is responsible for other principal resource is management.
Company also encounters challenges to its Powerbrand strategies, brand equity leadership positions in markets, the defence programmes and best practices and new The Company considers that its primary raw against which requires significant marketing product development including R&D and materials, such as bulk chemicals including a expenditure and promotional activity.
consumer and market research, for number of petrochemicals, plastics, pulp, implementation by the Area organisation.
metal cans etc, are generally in adequate The Companys products also compete with supply globally.
The cost of these items private label products sold by major retail The three geographical Areas are fluctuates from time to time but not at levels companies.
The Company competes with responsible for local execution of marketing that seriously impinge on the ability of the private label primarily by focusing on delivering and sales programmes: Company to supply its products or generate innovative new products with real consumer Europe.
The Area covers the regions of profit.
The Company is profitable and cash benefits, on which private label typically does Northern Europe UK, Ireland, Scandinavia, generative, even after reinvesting in marketing, not focus, and by consistent marketing Germany, Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, specifically media, at levels well above the investment to communicate the benefits of its Southern Europe France, Belgium, Italy, industry average.
The Company therefore brands direct to consumers, where private label Greece, Spain, Portugal and export business believes that its ability to reinvest in supporting is not advertised.
and Eastern Europe Poland, Hungary, and building its brands is a significant Technological change and product Czech Republic Slovakia, Romania, Adriatics, competitive advantage.
improvement can therefore be a key Russia CIS, Turkey.
Supply constraints do exist in the Companys determinant of the Companys success.
Reckitt North America & Australia NAA.
The supply chain from time to time.
These normally Benckisers success in introducing new and Area covers the markets of North America arise due to unexpected demand for new improved products stems from its heavy focus USA, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
products or to the time delay involved in on developing a pipeline of product innovation.
stepping up production of new items to the The Company maintains a large category Developing Markets.
The Area covers the levels required to supply many millions of development organisation, including market regions of Latin America Brazil, Mexico, units internationally.
and consumer research, R&D and marketing Argentina and smaller markets, Africa sales best practice, to fuel this pipeline and Middle East South Africa, Middle East, The Companys supply chain is deliberately share category success factors and learning.
Pakistan, East Africa, West Africa, South relatively well spread in terms of geography and The Company invested 126m in R&D in 2009.
Asia India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, technology, such that the reliance on any one While the Company believes R&D to be a key Indonesia and East Asia Korea, Hong Kong, facility is minimised.
However, there are a contributor to innovative new products, it does China, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, number of facilities that remain critical to the not believe it to be the dominant performance Thailand, Japan.
Companys supply chain where major indicator for innovation success.
The Companys interruption to normal working could involve The Supply function is responsible for all success is demonstrated by the fact that around disruption to supply.
The Companys suppliers procurement raw and packaging materials and one third of its net revenue comes from are similarly deliberately well spread in terms of services, production and logistics globally, and products launched over the last three years.
geography and supplied items, but there are is directly responsible for the operation of the nonetheless some risks to continuity of supply INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND Companys 41 production facilities worldwide.
arising from some specialised suppliers both REGULATORY POSITION Approximately 90% of manufacturing and of raw materials and of third party The household and health & personal care supply is through these 41 sites around the manufactured items.
industry is heavily regulated by, inter alia, the world, with facilities located in Europe 15 European Union, the United States government facilities, North America 5 facilities, Australia The supply of strong management for the and individual country governments elsewhere.
and New Zealand 1 facility and the remaining Company remains more than adequate.
This is Ingredients, manufacturing standards, labour facilities spread across Asia 12, Latin America attributable to the Companys culture and its standards, product safety, marketing and 4, and Africa Middle East 4.
These include highly performance-oriented remuneration advertising claims are all subject to detailed a small number of facilities in higher risk policy which is based on paying for excellent and developing regulation.
labour and social environments in Asia and performance.
The Company believes that its Latin America.
ability to attract and retain the excellent Reckitt Benckiser has operating companies management it needs to continue its success in over 60 countries and has sales in around Information Services is responsible for the depends critically on this system.
At present, over 70% Companys global systems infrastructure and of the Companys net revenue derives from global systems, including the Companys The Company trains and develops its Europe, North America and Australia New management pipeline through formal training Reckitt Benckiser 2009 5 Business review 2009 continued programmes focusing on three areas: The Companys customer base is diverse, with materials and packaging may limit the leadership skills, functional skills and general no single customer accounting for more than Groups ability to expand margins.
skills, and through a deliberate policy of 10% of net revenue, and the top ten customers A major supplier or customer could training on the job.
The Company has only accounting for between one quarter and experience financial difficulties, impinging on 14 formal training modules for middle one third of total net revenue.
These customers the Groups normal course of business.
are becoming more concentrated and more During 2009, the Company ran 64 courses multi-national, increasing demands on the The Company may not be able to protect its on these modules, training over 1,100 people.
In addition, many intellectual property rights.
Management is international, and is trained retailers compete with the Companys products Environmental, social and governance through rotation in international postings both with their own private label offerings.
The ESG matters and reputational risks in countries and in the Companys central Company maintains its relationship with its Another group of risks concern the reputation functions.
Succession planning is a critical principal retail customers through the efforts of of the Company and its brands, but are management discipline and is reviewed at its dedicated sales force, including key account reduced by the fact that the Company and its least annually at the full Board and the directors, and its global sales organisation brands are not necessarily connected in the Executive Committee.
specifically set up to manage its interface with mind of consumers.
the growth of international retailers.
The Company closely monitors and tracks its Risks from the perspective of Environmental, Top 400 international managers T400, the The Company has many suppliers.
The suppliers Social and Governance ESG matter and core management team of the business.
This is are predominantly international chemical and reputation are discussed in the Report of the a diverse group, consisting of 49 nationalities: packaging companies.
The Company sources Directors on pages 12 to 18.
These should be and over 60% of the T400 is working in a most of its supplies through its global read in conjunction with the Companys annual country that is not their original domicile, purchasing function, which acts as its primary Sustainability Reports available on the consistent with the Companys policy to interface with its suppliers.
Companys website which address a number of develop a multi-national management team.
The principal risk factors that may be potentially reputation-affecting ESG matters Turnover within this T400 group in 2009 was considered in relation to the Group are, in the such as employee health & safety at work and 15.7%, which the Company considers opinion of the Directors: how the Company is addressing such matters, satisfactory given the need to retain highand which are independently assured.
quality management offset by the benefits of Market risks refreshing the team with new talent.
2009 Demand for the Companys products may In summary, the principal ESG risks identified by saw 95 promotions, 76 moves and 22 external be adversely affected by changes in the Company are: recruits.
The Company ended the year with consumer preferences.
Industry sector and product & consumer an historically low level of vacancies within Customers, mainly large retailers, may decide safety regulatory risks.
The household the T400 of 11, or around 2.5% of the to fide-list the Companys brands, or not products and health & personal care sectors measured group.
participate in the active promotion of the have a number of product and ingredient There is a comprehensive set of policies brands through in-store programmes.
issues relating to ongoing developments in governing employment and employees to ingredient regulation and concerns voiced Competition may reduce the Companys ensure that the Company remains an attractive over the potential long-term effects of market shares and margins.
The Company is committed to the household chemicals and OTC over-theprinciple of equal opportunity in employment: The expiry of the Companys exclusive licence counter drug ingredients on human health no applicant or employee receives less for Suboxone in the United States in 2009, and the environment.
favourable treatment on the grounds of with the possibility that the Company will Supply chain risks.
Most product and raw nationality, age, gender, religion or disability.
not develop new forms that offer new material supply chains present a number of It is essential to the continued improvement in intellectual property protection beyond 2009. potential reputational risks relating to: labour efficiency and productivity that each employee Competition from private label and standards: raw material sourcing: and the understands the Companys strategies, policies unbranded products may intensify.
social, ethical and environmental and procedures.
Open and regular performance of third party manufacturers communication with employees at all levels is Operational risks and other suppliers.
an essential part of the management process.
The Companys new product pipeline may A continuing programme of training and not generate consumer-relevant innovation Product quality risks.
Failures in product development reinforces the Companys and improvement to fuel growth and build quality controls could potentially lead to commitment to employee involvement.
damage to the reputation of and trust in the The Board encourages employees to Companys brands.
Key management may leave, or management become shareholders and to participate turnover may significantly increase.
The Company has a full set of policies, in the Companys employee share programmes and control arrangements, ownership schemes.
Information technology systems may be building on its central Code of Business disrupted or may fail, despite the Companys The Company relies on its brand names and Conduct, that address the full range of ESG disaster recovery processes, interfering with intellectual property.
All of the Companys matters and reputational risks.
The Code itself the Companys ability to conduct its business.
major brand names are protected by nationally was in 2009 the subject of a comprehensive or internationally registered trademarks.
Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal internal training and awareness programme, The Company also maintains patents or and regulatory environment could increase and is covered by an annual review and other protection for its significant product costs or liabilities or limit business activities.
certification process carried out by Internal formulations, designs and processing Audit and the Legal Department.
The Board Operating results may be affected by methods.
The Company aggressively holds a formal review of ESG matters at increased costs or shortages of raw materials, monitors these protections and pursues any least annually.
labour or by disruption to production apparent infringements.
Financial risks RELATIONSHIPS AND PRINCIPAL RISKS The Company has a number of risk exposures Unfavourable economic or business The Companys critical external relationships are in relation to tax, treasury, financial controls conditions may adversely affect or disrupt with its major customers, typically the large and reporting that are actively managed operations in countries in which the grocery, mass market, multiple retailers, and its through the Companys financial manual of Company operates.
suppliers of raw and packaging materials and policies and procedures, through regular review finished goods.
Significant movement in the exchange rates and controls, and through regular auditing, in which the Group purchases its raw both internal and external.
6 Reckitt Benckiser 2009 Environmental matters, employees and The Company has taken a leadership position constant.
The adjusted operating margin social & community issues with regard to its products carbon footprint, increased by 100bp to 24.4% due to gross In line with the requirements of the Companies by seeking to understand, measure and reduce margin expansion and operating cost Act 2006, a rationale has been developed the GHG emissions generated by all stages in efficiencies, partially offset by a re-organisation and a review undertaken to determine what the product lifecycle for its global product charge taken in Q4.
information to include in this Report as portfolio, and including amongst other things: Net finance income was 1m 2008: net necessary for an understanding of the the raw and packaging materials provided finance expense of 31m, reflecting strong development, performance and position of the by its suppliers: the Companys own direct free cash flow generation and progress made business of the Company relating to manufacturing and other operations: on net debt repayment during the year.
The tax environmental matters including the impact of transportation of both raw materials and rate was 25%.
the Companys business on the environment, finished products: the retail sale of its products: its employees, and social & community issues.
consumers use of its products: and, the Net income was 1,418m, an increase of A summary of this information is provided here, disposal recycling of those products and 27% 15% constant versus 2008: on an with further information provided in other their packaging.
The Company publicly adjusted basis, net income was up 24% sections of the Business Review and in the launched this initiative in November 2007, 13% constant.
Diluted earnings per share of Report of the Directors on page 15. comprising its Carbon20 programme and the 194.7 pence was ahead 26% on a reported target to reduce its global products carbon basis: on an adjusted diluted basis, the growth Overall, Environmental, Social and Governance footprint across their complete lifecycle by 20% was 23%.
matters and reputational risk are addressed in per unit dose by 2020 versus a 2007 baseline the Report of the Directors on pages 12 to 18, OPERATING SEGMENT ANALYSIS AT www.
and with regard to Employees and Internal CONSTANT EXCHANGE Control on pages 12 and 14.
These should be In 2008, the first year of the Companys Europe 45% of net revenue read in conjunction with the Companys latest Carbon20 programme, 1.5 million tonnes of 2009 total net revenue increased 1% to Sustainability Report available on the CO2 were avoided by a 5.75% reduction per 3,511m, with growth largely in Dishwashing, Companys website at www.
com which unit dose in the carbon impact of the Home Care and Health & Personal Care.
addresses a number of potentially reputationCompanys global products lifecycle: this is In Dishwashing, the continued success of affecting issues such as employee health & similar to taking around 450,000 cars off the Quantum contributed to growth, while Home safety at work and how the Company is road.
This 5.75% reduction in carbon emissions Care was supported by such initiatives as addressing those issues, and which is per unit dose means the Company achieved Airwick Freshmatic, Freshmatic Mini and independently assured.
25% of its Carbon20 target for 2020 in the i motion.
In Health & Personal Care, Nurofen, first year of the programme.
In summary environmental, employee and Strepsils and Gaviscon all performed strongly, social & community issues identified by the In January 2009, the Company launched Our boosted by increased marketing investment.
Company are: product ingredient regulation Home Our Planet, an international consumer For the full year, the adjusted operating margin and specifically REACh the European communication programme across many of its was -100bp below last year at 22.9%, owing framework for the Registration, Evaluation, major brands.
Our Home Our Planet aims to to a re-organisation charge taken in Q4: this Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, change consumer behaviour by informing resulted in a -3% decline in adjusted operating which is discussed in the Report of the Directors consumers how they can reduce their impact profit to 804m.
Excluding the charge, the on page 15: product quality safety and on the environment when using the Companys operating margin increased 10bp to 24.0%.
specifically the Companys arrangements for products, for example by reducing domestic managing product quality such as to prevent energy and water use, whilst also saving money North America & Australia 28% of large scale sub-standard quality events and its on their household bills net revenue arrangements to ensure that its products are www.
2009 total net revenue increased 7% to both suitable and safe for their intended use, 2,160m, with growth coming mainly in As noted above regarding ESG matters and which are discussed in the Report of the Surface Care, Home Care and Health & reputational risks: the Company has a full Directors on pages 15 and 16: in terms of the Personal Care.
Increased consumption of Lysol set of policies, programmes and control environment, the carbon footprint of its spray and disinfectant wipes boosted growth in arrangements, building on its central Code products, which is described below: and, in Surface Care, while Airwick Freshmatic and of Business Conduct, that address the full terms of the impact of the Companys business i motion contributed to the result in Home range of ESG matters and reputational risks.
on the environment, the greenhouse gas GHG Care.
In Health & Personal Care, growth was The Code itself was in 2009 the subject of a emissions originating from its direct operations driven by Mucinex.
comprehensive internal training and awareness and specifically energy use at its global programme, and is covered by an annual Food performed well, with growth coming manufacturing operations.
Due to the review and certification process carried out by particularly from the consumer brands of Companys industry sectors and product Internal Audit and the Legal Department.
Frenchs Yellow Mustard, Frenchs Fried Onions categories the greenhouse gas emissions The Board holds a formal review of ESG matters and Franks Red Hot sauce.
originating from energy use at its direct at least annually.
operations is of medium-to-low impact in For the full year, adjusted operating profit comparison to those of other similarly-sized PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS IN 2009 increased 12% to 500m: the adjusted companies, as assessed for example in recent Net revenue increased 18% to 7,753m, with operating margin was 60bp higher at 23.1%.
reports of the independent Carbon Disclosure growth of 8% at constant exchange.
Developing Markets 19% of net revenue Project CDP, www.
net : specifically, Gross margin improved by 90bp to 60.2%, 2009 net revenue was ahead 16% to the GHG emissions from the Companys global largely as a result of easing input costs and 1,494m, with strong growth across all regions manufacturing operations is circa.
300,000 benefits from cost optimisation programmes, and driven particularly by Fabric Care, Surface tonnes CO2-equivalents per annum.
partially offset by a negative transaction impact Care and Health & Personal Care.
In Fabric Additionally, the Company has been proactive from foreign exchange.
Total marketing Care, increased marketing investment and in managing the energy use of its direct investment was higher, and pure media spend new initiatives helped generate a strong operations so as to continually reduce its rose 6% -3% constant to a level of 11.1% performance for Vanish.
In Surface Care, associated GHG emissions since 2000: of net revenue.
There was significant growth in Harpic, and Veja in Brazil, were the key growth specifically, the Company reduced the GHG Other Consumer Marketing, funded by savings drivers.
In Health & Personal Care, additional emissions from its global manufacturing from more favourable media rates.
Operating marketing investment helped drive an facilities energy use between 2000 and 2008 profit as reported was 1,891m, 26% higher excellent result for the Dettol personal care by 35% per unit of production and by 20% in than last year 14% constant : on an adjusted range, with Veet and Gaviscon also both absolute terms.
basis, operating profit was ahead 23% 12% contributing strongly.
Reckitt Benckiser 2009 7 Business review 2009 continued For the full year, adjusted operating profit Nurofen, Strepsils, Gaviscon and Mucinex all improvement of 1,316m.
This reflected net increased by 21% to 216m.
This resulted contributed to a strong performance, while the cash flow from operations of 1,803m, offset in a 80bp improvement in the adjusted Dettol personal wash range continued to by the payment of two dividends totaling operating margin to 14.5%.
The Group regularly reviews its banking arrangements and currently has adequate Pharmaceuticals 8% of net revenue Total Household and Health & Personal facilities available to it, only 25m of which 2009 net revenue for the Groups Subutex and Care.
Net revenue was ahead by 6% expires within one year.
Suboxone prescription drug business grew to 6,890m.
At the end of 2009, the Group Pharmaceuticals.
2009 net revenue for the products are used to treat opiate dependence.
had shareholders funds of 4,014m 2008: Groups Subutex and Suboxone prescription This very strong growth was predominantly 3,294m, an increase of 22%.
Net cash was drug business grew 50% to 588m, driven by a continued increase in penetration 220m 2008: net debt of 1,096m and total predominantly driven by a continued increase in of Suboxone in the US.
capital employed in the business was 3,794m penetration of Suboxone in the US.
For the full year, the adjusted operating margin operating profit was ahead 63% to 371m, improved by 650bp to 63.1%.
Adjusted equating to a 650bp improvement in the This finances non-current assets of 6,891m operating profit was 371m, an increase operating margin to 63.1%.
637m is property, plant & equipment, the Food.
Net revenue grew 5% to 275m with remainder being goodwill, other intangible Suboxone has data exclusivity in Europe until good performance across the consumer assets, deferred tax, available for sale financial 2016: in the US, Suboxone lost the exclusivity portfolio, in particular further growth for assets and other receivables.
The Group has net afforded by its Orphan Drug Status on Frenchs Yellow Mustard, Frenchs Fried Onions working capital of minus 1,257m 2008: 8 October 2009.
Within the Pharmaceuticals and Franks Red Hot Sauce.
Adjusted operating minus 1,097m, current provisions of 88m division, the US Suboxone business generated profit increased 3% to 73m.
2008: 73m and long-term liabilities other net revenue of 502m and adjusted operating FINANCIAL REVIEW than borrowings of 1,752m 2008: 1,668m.
While the Group continues to search for ways to offset the impact of the loss Basis of preparation.
The financial The Groups financial ratios remain strong.
of exclusivity in the US, up to 80% of the information is prepared in accordance with Return on shareholders funds net income revenue and profit of that business might be IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and divided by total shareholders funds was lost in the year following the launch of generic IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting 35.3% on both a reported and an adjusted competitors, with the possibility of further Standards Board, and with the accounting basis 2008: reported basis 34.0%, adjusted erosion thereafter.
policies set out in note 1 on pages 30 to 33. basis 34.7%.
CATEGORY REVIEW AT CONSTANT Constant exchange.
The Board of Directors EXCHANGE RATES rates relative to sterling affect actual results as recommends a final dividend of 57.0 pence reported.
The constant exchange rate basis 2008: 48.0 pence, an increase of 19%, to Fabric Care.
Net revenue was unchanged adjusts the comparative amount to exclude give a full year dividend of 100.0 pence 2008: versus the prior year, at 1,578m.
Vanish such movements, to show the underlying 80.0 pence, an overall increase of 25%.
The increased, driven by a strong performance in growth of the Group.
dividend, if approved by shareholders at the Developing Markets: Woolite also contributed, AGM on 6 May 2010, will be paid on 27 May supported by such initiatives as Triple Net finance income.
Net finance income was to shareholders on the register at the record Protection.
However, growth in the 1m, a 32m improvement compared to 2008 date of 26 February.
The ex-dividend date is Powerbrands was offset by weakness in net finance expense of 31m, reflecting 24 February and the last date for election for Laundry Detergents and Fabric Conditioners.
strong free cash flow generation.
the share alternative to the dividend is 6 May.
Net revenue increased 5% to Tax.
The underlying tax rate was 25% The final dividend will be accrued once 1,290m, driven by strong growth for the 2008: 24%.
Dettol and Lysol ranges, and Veja in Brazil.
Net working capital inventories, short-term Contingent liabilities.
The Group is involved Harpic Lavatory Care also performed well, receivables and short-term liabilities excluding in a number of investigations by competition supported by such new initiatives as Harpic borrowings and provisions improved by 160m authorities in Europe.
It is too early to liquid with Max Coverage.
to minus 1,257m, mostly due to further determine the likely outcome of these matters Dishwashing.
Net revenue increased 2% to improvement in payables.
and the Directors have made no provisions for 843m.
The performance was led by the such potential liabilities.
Cash generated from operating continued success of Finish Quantum behind activities was 2,323m 2008: 1,640m and The Group has recently received a Statement increased investment, partially offset by net cash flow from operations was 1,803m of Objections from the Office of Fair Trading weakness in Dishwashing Additives.
Net interest paid was 4m in the United Kingdom regarding alleged Home Care.
Net revenue increased 4% to 2008: 27m and tax payments increased by anti-competitive activity involving the Gaviscon 1,036m.
This growth was largely driven by Air 91m to 371m 2008: 280m.
In the event that the Office of Fair Care, with Air Wick Freshmatic, Freshmatic Mini expenditure was lower than the prior year at Trading finds against the Group it may impose and i motion contributing.
a fine of up to the statutory maximum of ten percent of Group worldwide turnover.
Net revenue Net cash at the end of the year was 220m Board considers it appropriate to disclose a increased 14% to 2,078m.
In Healthcare, December 2008: net debt of 1,096m, an contingent liability in this regard.
The Statement of Objections is under review and the Group will present an appropriate response to the Office of Fair Trading in due course.
The 2009 results excluding RB Pharmaceuticals Directors at this stage believe that there are In light of the increasing significance of the RB Pharmaceuticals business, the Company provides substantive questions of law brought forward the following information relating to the performance of the business in 2009 excluding by the Statement of Objections, questions that RB Pharmaceuticals on an adjusted basis : have not been settled in prior competition law RB ex Pharmaceuticals RB Pharmaceuticals Total RB cases and which require thorough analysis m % constant m % constant m % constant and debate.
Net revenue 7,165 6% 588 50% 7,753 8% Adjusted Operating Profit 1,520 4% 371 63% 1,891 12% Adjusted Operating Margin 21.2% 63.1% 24.4% 8 Reckitt Benckiser 2009 Financial risk management term contracts with certain key suppliers and is COMPANY PROSPECTS The Groups multi-national operations expose it not therefore viewed as being a material risk.
The Company believes it is well-positioned to to a variety of financial risks that include the continue to deliver on its strategic objective of Interest rate risk effects of changes in foreign currency exchange profitable growth.
The Group has both interest-bearing and non rates foreign exchange risk, market prices, interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group For the medium-term outlook, the Company interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
The managed its interest expense rate exposure targets to deliver above industry average Group has in place a risk management using a mixture of fixed rate and floating rate growth in net revenue, converted into attractive programme that uses foreign currency financial debt.
The Group managed its interest rate growth in earnings, with increasing capital instruments, including debt, and other exposure on its gross financial assets by using efficiency.
The Company has confidence in its instruments, to limit the impact of these risks fixed rate term deposits.
ability to continue to generate strong cash on the financial performance of the Group.
flow and to return substantial cash to Credit risk The Groups financing and financial risk shareholders annually.
The Group has no significant concentrations of management activities are centralised into the credit risk.
Financial institution counterparties The unknown factor is the ability of the Group Treasury Centre GTC to achieve are subject to approval under the Groups Company to enhance its prospects through benefits of scale and control.
The GTC manages counterparty risk policy and such approval is mergers and acquisitions.
The industries in financial exposures of the Group centrally in a limited to financial institutions with a BBB which it competes are already characterised by manner consistent with underlying business rating or above.
The amount of exposure to any high levels of concentration, resulting in very risks.
The GTC manages only those risks and individual counterparty is subject to a limit infrequent opportunities to buy worthwhile flows generated by the underlying commercial defined within the counterparty risk policy, assets or businesses.
The Company is of the operations and speculative transactions are which is reassessed annually by the Board.
belief that add-on acquisitions, geographically not undertaken.
and by product category, could enhance the Liquidity risk The Board of Directors reviews and agrees business, but is not in a position to forecast if The Group has bilateral credit facilities with policies, guidelines and authority levels for all and when such acquisitions might occur.
All of these areas of treasury activity and individually The Company retains substantial resources to facilities have similar or equivalent terms and approves significant activities.
The GTC fund such acquisitions and believes it has the conditions, and have a financial covenant, operates under the close control of the Chief management capability to absorb, integrate which is not expected to restrict the Groups Financial Officer and is subject to periodic and manage such acquisitions within its future operations.
The committed borrowing independent review and audits, both internal existing structure.
facilities, together with available uncommitted and external.
facilities and central cash and investments, are Based on the current market outlook, the Foreign exchange risk considered sufficient to meet the Groups Group is confident of achieving good growth in a Translation risk projected cash requirements.
Due to the uncertain timing of generic The Group publishes its financial statements in the Groups borrowing facilities expires within competition to Suboxone in the US, it is not sterling but conducts business in many foreign one year.
considered appropriate to communicate targets currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign for the total Group.
For the business excluding Funds over and above those required for currency exchange risk due to the effects that Pharmaceuticals, the targets in 2010 are for net short-term working capital purposes by the exchange rate movements have on the revenue growth of 5% continuing operations, overseas businesses are generally remitted to translation of the results and the underlying net base: 7,144m and for operating profit growth the GTC.
The Group uses the remittances to assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
of 10% continuing operations, base: settle obligations, repay borrowings, or, in the 1,512m, both at constant exchange.
The Groups policy is to align interest costs and event of a surplus, invest in short-term operating profit of its major currencies in order instruments issued by institutions with a BBB Cautionary note concerning forward to provide some protection against the rating or above.
looking statements This document contains forward looking statements, translation exposure on foreign currency profits Capital management including statements with respect to the financial after tax.
The Group may undertake borrowings The Companys objectives for managing capital condition, results of operations and business of Reckitt and other hedging methods in the currencies are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue Benckiser and certain of the plans and objectives of of the countries where most of its assets as a going concern, in order to provide returns the Company with respect to these items.
forward looking statements are made pursuant to the for shareholders and benefits for other Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private b Transaction risk stakeholders and to maintain an efficient Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, It is the Groups policy to monitor and, only capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
all statements that express forecasts, expectations and where appropriate, hedge its foreign currency In maintaining an appropriate capital structure projections with respect to future matters, including transaction exposure.
These transaction trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, and providing returns for shareholders, in 2009 exposures arise mainly from foreign currency overall market trends, the impact of interest or the Company adopted a programme of receipts and payments for goods and services, exchange rates, the availability of financing to the returning cash to shareholders in the form of and from the remittance of foreign currency Company, anticipated cost savings or synergies and dividends, current details of which are included dividends and loans.
The local business units the completion of strategic transactions are forward in the Financial Review for the year, above.
These forward looking statements enter into forward foreign exchange contracts are not guarantees of future performance: by their with the GTC to manage these exposures The Group monitors net debt total borrowings nature, forward looking statements involve known where practical and allowed by local less cash and cash equivalents and financing and unknown risk and uncertainty and other factors regulations.
The GTC matches the Group derivative financial instruments and at year end because they relate to events and depend on exposures, and hedges the net position where the Company had net cash of 220m 2008: circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a possible, using spot and forward foreign net debt of 1,096m.
Due to the low level of number of factors, discussed in this report that could currency exchange contracts.
net debt in its recent history, the Company does cause actual results and developments to differ not actively monitor a gearing ratio, but seeks materially from those expressed or implied by these Market price risk to pay down net debt using cash generated by forward looking statements, including many factors The Group is not exposed to equity securities outside Reckitt Benckisers control.
Past performance the business to maintain an appropriate level of price risk.
Due to the nature of its business the cannot be relied upon as a guide to future financial flexibility.
Group is exposed to commodity price risk performance.
Each forward looking statement speaks related to the production or packaging of Details of numerical disclosures relating to the as of the date of the particular statement.
finished goods such as oil-related and a diverse Groups financial risk management are included range of other raw materials.
This risk is, in note 24 to the Accounts on pages 54 to 58. however, managed primarily through mediumReckitt Benckiser 2009 9 Business review 2009 continued KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board and the Executive Committee have identified a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs that are most relevant to the Company and are used to measure performance.
KPI 2009 2008 Comments Net revenue growth 8% 10% Measures the increase in sales of the Company % like-for-like growth of net revenue at constant exchange Powerbrands 70% 70% Measures the growth and importance of the % of net revenue from top 17 brands Companys flagship brands Gross margin % 60.2% 59.3% Measures the resources available for reinvestment Gross profit as % of net revenue or profit growth Media investment 11.1% 12.4% Measures the rate of reinvestment in the Media investment as % of net revenue Companys brands Operating margin % 24.4% 23.4% Measures the profitability of the Company Operating profit as % of net revenue EPS fully diluted 194.7p 157.8p Measures the increase in profit per share of the Company % change in EPS fully diluted 23% 28% Net cash flow m 1,803 1,177 Measures how the Company converts its profits into cash See page 29 53% 37% Net working capital ratio -1,257 -1,097 Measures the ability of the Company to finance defined as inventories, short-term receivables and -16.2% -16.7% its expansion and release cash from working capital short-term liabilities excluding borrowings and provisions As % of net revenue Management turnover 16% 9% % of T400 management that has left the Company % of net revenue in No.
1 73% 73% Measures the health of the Companys or No.
2 brand positions brand market positions Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items 10 Reckitt Benckiser 2009
