Business Review Our vision and strategy The vast majority of our sales are made to large consumer products companies which are typically major multinational or regional brand owners.
Our customers are invariably world class organisations often considered best in class in their category.
They are well consolidated and continue to rationalise their supplier base and focus on cost.
Generally, they look to align themselves with global partners who understand the scale and nature of their business and who can also supply their needs at a local level.
They require support for their growth plans in established and emerging markets and consistency in terms of technological capability, service and quality.
They expect their partners to understand the drivers Graham Chipchase of their markets and to be proactive in contributing to innovative Chief Executive solutions to changing packaging needs and in driving costs out of the supply chain.
They also expect them to act in a responsible manner and support their own efforts towards sustainability.
Our vision Our vision is to be the best global consumer packaging company a reference for all others in our industry.
Being best is a journey rather than a destination, and it plays to one of our core values: continuous improvement.
Being the best for our shareholders entails continuous and sustainable value creation.
Being the best for our customers means consistently setting ourselves new challenges to excel in providing them with quality products and world class service.
Being the best for our people means ensuring that they have a safe The Business Review sets out our vision and and fair place of work in which they can develop fully.
It looks at our performance in 2009 at a Our strategy Group and sector level and contains an overview We have evolved our strategy in light of the changing environment.
of the global consumer packaging market to give To ensure that we deliver shareholder value, our strategy is based a fuller view of our industry and the dynamics of on taking the lead in four key areas: achieving best performance: strengthening relationships with our customers and suppliers: the environment in which we operate.
relentlessly pursuing operational excellence and building a winning organisation.
The review also covers the risks that may affect To achieve best performance, our focus is on the fundamentals the execution and implementation of our strategy of cash generation, cost control, improved return on capital and and our work to ensure that Rexam is seen as a absolute profits.
Strengthening our relationships with customers and suppliers hinges on continuing to develop our market insight to guide our quality and service as well as our innovation and product development, and delivering value through the whole supply chain and being recognised for these aspects of our offering.
Relentlessly pursuing operational excellence means taking the lead in key areas such as safety, operations, sustainability and risk management.
These are the fundamentals of a quality business and play to our proven core strengths.
Building a winning organisation means fostering a culture that consistently drives performance towards our vision and delivers on promises.
