CVTJOFTT BOE GJOBODJBM SFWJFX Nick McKittrick Ed Williams Chief Operating Officer Managing Director and Finance Director 2009 has been another year of considerable success for The usage of the Rightmove.
co. uk website has been at record Rightmove.
profits for 2009 were the highest in the Groups levels, as has been our share of activity across all UK property history.
Revenues for the year were signicantly higher than at websites.
Our number of advertisers has grown and the the top of the 2007 market, despite a sharp reduction in the typical spend by our advertisers has increased.
number of estate agents and new homes developments being marketed.
8IBU XF EP BOE UIF LFZT UP TVDDFTT The last 18 months have demonstrated the importance of Rightmoves continued success in adverse conditions arises Rightmove in leading a structural shift from traditional media to directly from what we do and how that differs from others.
As early as April 2009 our revenues started to rise in contrast to traditional property 5IF NPTU FFDUJWF QSPQFSUZ BEWFSUJTJOH NFEJVN advertising media which continues to decline.
co. uk website our advertisers reach Writing a year ago, we stated as our objective to the largest audience of prospective home movers in the communicate unequivocally to home hunters that we remain country by far and home movers see more properties more the place to look for property and to the property industry effectively presented than anywhere else.
2 that we are the place to advertise.
In 2009 around one third of all houses sold were first In 2010 we will build on our position of strength with a found by the buyer on the Rightmove website and Rightmove focus on stressing the importance to sellers not only of having was used by 85% of buyers who used the internet as part of their property on Rightmove, but also the choices that agents their home searching activity.
can offer them as to how their property is advertised on Page impressions on the Rightmove.
According to Experian Hitwise, Rightmove served as many pages of Our 2009 results property information as all the other fourteen hundred 2009 was a record year in terms of Rightmoves profit after property websites combined and ten times that of our 1 tax: 30.0m 2008: 25.5m.
Underlying operating profit was nearest competitor.
This was achieved in a difficult year for the housing industry, with approximately one fifth of estate agents closing and a decline of around one third in the number of developments being marketed.
Both revenue and profits in the second half of the year were up on the first half of the year.
5 rightmove plc annual report 2009 CVTJOFTT BOE GJOBODJBM SFWJFX continued LFZ QFSGPSNBODF JOEJDBUPST The key performance indicators that we monitor include:.
"#&3 0' ""%7&35 4&34 % 82 17,664 PG UIF NBSLFU TIBSF PG UIF UPQ 6, UPUBM NFNCFSTIJQ BU FOE PG QSPQFSUZ XFCTJUFT CZ QBHFT WJFXFE XBT VQ VQ GSPN JO ZFBS PO ZFBS 4PVSDF &YQFSJBO JUXJTF BOE 3JHIUNPWF BOVBSZ BOE BOVBSZ 1"" &."
"13&44 0 4 $03103""5& &45""5& "" & 54 % 100 6.5CJMMJPO BMM PG UIF UPQ DPSQPSBUF QBHF JNQSFTTJPOT VQ GSPN estate agents list their CJMMJPO JO QSPQFSUJFT XJUI VT 4PVSDF 3JHIUNPWF 1301&35 &4 % 41-"":&% &8 0."
"& %&7&-01&34 % 1 million 92 QSPQFSUJFT EJTQMBZFE PO PVU PG PG UIF UPQ OFX 3JHIUNPWF DP VL BU IPNF EFWFMPQFST BEWFSUJTFE %FDFNCFS PO 3JHIUNPWF DP VL JO EPXO PO SFGMFDUJOH DPOEJUJPOT XJUIJO UIF 6, QSPQFSUZ NBSLFU &. """
"- & 26 3 &4 ""%015 0 0' ""%7&35 4 130%6$54 % 10.6million 48 VNCFS PG FNBJMT EPVCMFE GSPN ""U %FDFNCFS PG NJMMJPO UP NJMMJPO BT B SFTVMU DVTUPNFST UBLF BEEJUJPOBM PG JNQSPWFNFOUT UP UIF XBZ UIF BEWFSUJTJOH QSPEVDUT BO JODSFBTF TJUF XPSLT GPS FORVJSZ HFOFSBUJPO GSPN BT BU %FDFNCFS 6 rightmove plc annual report 2009 Rightmoves ability to out-perform newspapers in these Behind the scenes we have invested heavily in ensuring challenging times reects: that a particular area such as Everton in Liverpool is dened U}}iiVi `i in a way that corresponds to how home hunters and estate our advertisers: agents think of it, not just the way the Royal Mail post code UVi } `iViq iii i defines it."
We also now provide nd-as-you-type circulation continues to decline: functionality to make it even easier to search on Rightmove Uiii`viiviLi and have launched map-based searching.
Ui Lq Viii}i`Vi Our See More media campaign ran from Christmas 2008 costs and yet make sales, measurability has been thrust to the start of February 2009 and again in September 2009. to the fore: From Boxing Day 2009 we ran a new TV advertisement UiiV} iiiiiVi }i building on the See More theme and specically focused market their property in the places that they themselves on inuencing prospective sellers of the benets of choosing qiii}ii `, }iiVwV an estate agent that is a Rightmove member.
-POH UFSN TVTUBJOFE JOWFTUNFOU JO CSBOE BOE UIF TFSWJDF 4VQQPSU UP PVS BEWFSUJTFST to home hunters Rightmove has a large eld and telephone based team of The high level of site activity and enquiries is the result of our account managers as well as customer service staff to provide historic investment in the development of the Rightmove.
co. uk a high quality level of service to our customers, in contrast to website and the marketing of it.
That investment was other entirely online services adopted by many internet maintained in 2009 despite an overall reduction in our advertising businesses.
During the year we substantially upgraded the toolkit Rightmoves brand strength means that over four out of we provide to our advertisers in terms of management and every five visitors to the site come as a result of either typing performance reporting.
A new competitive scorecard allows in the Rightmove name, responding to email alerts that we agents to assess their performance against their key send our registered users when relevant properties come onto competitors on a range of critical performance criteria.
the market or via websites that link to Rightmove.
A further We also upgraded our call handling facilities to provide a 15% comes to us free as a result of Rightmove being found in service to our customers to track their performance generic searches entered into search engines e. g. property responding to phone calls and recording phone calls for for sale in Chelmsford.
Only 2% to 3% of visits involve quality checking purposes.
Rightmove paying for online trafc.
Of particular note in 2009 were the 35 breakfast seminars 2009 saw the launch of our iPhone application, which with held across the UK, with close to 3,000 estate agents taking over 300,000 downloads was the third most popular free up the invitation to attend this free service.
We have embraced other aspects of new focused on helping our members get the best value for technology including RSS data feeds, integration with social money out of their basic Rightmove membership and indeed networking sites and Twitter.
We also launched a new area of any other property website that they might use.
the site dedicated to helping sellers and landlords with their market research.
7 rightmove plc annual report 2009 RIGHTMOVE iPHONE APPLICATION RIGHTMOVE ON TWITTER Launched in August, the iPhone application Twitter enthusiasts can follow Rightmove and allows users to search for properties for sale or get updates on what we are doing, when we rent in their exact location.
write new articles: release our monthly house price index and sometimes just what we had With over 300,000 downloads in 2009 it was for breakfast.
the third most popular downloaded free iPhone application in the year.
"4PVSDF ""QQMF CVTJOFTT BOE GJOBODJBM SFWJFX continued OOPWBUJPO JO BEWFSUJTJOH QSPEVDUT 'PDVT 2009 saw a high level of innovation in new advertising Our focus has been and remains on the UK online property products."
This is central to our strategy.
We aim to provide advertising market.
We believe this focus is a vital ingredient our members with advertising products which allow them to of our success.
The last 18 months have offered opportunities promote their own brands and their unique selling points as to make acquisitions but none had the attraction of organic effectively as we help them nd prospective buyers for the revenue growth in our core markets.
The latter part of the year saw record levels of adoption of 1SPUFDUJOH TIBSFIPMEFS WBMVF our existing and enhanced Choice products, with approaching 48% of all our customers and over 59% of new homes PX UIF #PBSE NPOJUPST QFSGPSNBODF developers taking additional products.
Improvements were The Board reviews performance at Board meetings and made to the Premium Listing product which enhances the by a detailed monthly management report, which includes presentation of a property in the search results, as well as the performance of each operating segment against the rolling Premium Listing out to our lettings and overseas monthly and annual plan and covers all the key performance homes customers.
indicators featured in this report.
Risks are primarily The biggest innovation has been the introduction of search monitored and managed by the monthly Executive Board, term driven display advertising in the forms of our Local which reports to the main Board on such risks bi-annually or Homepage advertisements and our Featured Agent Featured as the business requires.
With the assistance of the Audit Developer product.
Agents and developers can not only target Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness of internal the geographical area where their property stock is, but also controls at least annually.
target areas they see as offering good future prospects.
The format of the advertisements allows agents and 6ODFSUBJOUJFT UISFBUT BOE SJTLT developers to communicate their brand, the quality of their The Rightmove business model has proved to be remarkably product and make offers.
Some agents have chosen to use resilient in the face of the unprecedented down-turn affecting Local Homepage advertisements on Rightmove to the customers we serve.
Nonetheless the business is communicate to potential vendors that, if they instruct that inevitably exposed to the general state of the housing market agent, they will enhance the way in which the sellers property and particularly to transaction volumes.
Having hit their lowest is advertised on the Rightmove website by using one or more levels in 50 years during late 2008 and early 2009, there has of our existing Choice products.
Nonetheless, 2009 will prove to have The initial take up of these products in January 2010 has been the second worst year after 2008 in terms of overall been excellent.
Critical to overall success of these products transaction volumes.
We expect 2010 to also be among the will be the retention rates we see through the coming year.
most challenging years in terms of transaction volumes, partly due to agents experiencing low existing stock and lack of sellers coming to market.
However, we believe that lower cost bases among estate agents and a recent period of healthier profits, together with recapitalisation of house builders, should offer more opportunities than challenges.
9 rightmove plc annual report 2008 rightmove plc annual report 2009 LOCAL HOMEPAGE Local Homepage provides agents and developers the opportunity to communicate their message to the largest home hunting audience in the UK.
Launched in December, this advertising product can be targeted geographically.
CVTJOFTT BOE GJOBODJBM SFWJFX continued From its inception, Rightmove has experienced a regular ow.
BSHJO HSPXUI of new property portal entrants, whether explicitly seeking to The underlying operating margin for the year increased from compete with us or not.
They have exhibited a range of 55% to 60% as a consequence of a signicantly reduced business models and frequently offer free advertising to agents.
"Those who attracted the most attention have failed to make 3 Underlying operating margin % any material impact on our market share and whilst we cannot rule out the appearance of a completely new entrant or :&""3 & %&% :&""3 & %&% :&""3 & %&% %&$&."
#&3 business model, nothing we have seen to date gives us serious cause for concern.
% % % Looking to our organic growth prospects, Rightmoves 60 55 54 success as the preferred alternative to local newspapers when property advertising spend recovers will depend on our ability to develop and commercialise the right range of products and services.
#BE EFCU We believe that risks relating to operational failures, to During the year the net bad debt charge was 0.2m financial and legal exposures, to fraud or embezzlement or 2008: 1.4m.
The greatly reduced bad debt charge principally from onerous commercial obligations or liabilities are limited.
reects the much reduced number of estate agents leaving the The business has few tangible assets and the major intellectual industry.
assets are tied up in the design of our website and in our brand identity, recognition and reputation.
Taxation The consolidated tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2009 'JOBODJBM QPTJUJPO was 21% 2008: 33%.
The difference between this and the standard rate of tax at 28% is mainly attributable to the Revenue deferred tax asset created of 2.5m on share-based incentives Revenue fell in 2009 by 4.6m reecting the tougher trading due to the increase in the Company share price over the conditions within the UK housing market.
Revenue from period, together with tax relief on share options exercised estate agency contributed to 68% of total revenue with a during the year.
The slow down in the house building industry saw revenue from new homes developers 4IBSF CBTFE QBZNFOUT BOE OBUJPOBM JOTVSBODF fall by 4.1m.
However, the increase in revenues from In accordance with IFRS 2, a non-cash charge of 1.9m Holiday Lettings Limited of 1.8m partially offsets the falls 2008: 2.0m is included in the profit or loss representing the experienced elsewhere.
amortisation of the fair value of share-based incentives granted, including Sharesave options, since 2006.
11 rightmove plc annual report 2008 rightmove plc annual report 2009 RIGHTMOVE PLUS This scorecard allows agents to assess their own performance against their key competitors on a range of critical performance criteria.
CVTJOFTT BOE GJOBODJBM SFWJFX continued 1 Underlying operating profits Revenue 80 50 40 60 30 40 20 20 10 0 0 06 07 08 09 06 07 08 09 Employers NI is being accrued, where applicable, at a rate $BTI PX BOE OFU EFCU of 12.8% on the potential employee gain on share-based Cash generated from operations was 46.2m 2008: 38.7m incentives granted.
Based on a closing share price at the and cash ow conversion was in excess of 100%.
Net cash year end of 5.04 this resulted in a charge for the year of from operating activities was 7.5m higher at 34.7m 1.3m 2008: 0.2m credit.
2008: 27.2m due to a net positive movement in working capital and lower interest paid offset by increased taxes of FU OBODJBM FYQFOTFT 0.8m.
This A total of 5.5m was invested during 2009 in the reduction reects a combination of a lower level of average repurchase of our own shares 2008: 44.8m whilst a further borrowings as compared to 2008 and historically low 10.9m was paid by way of dividends 2008: 10.4m to the LIBOR rates.
Proceeds of 5.4m 2008: nil were received on the Earnings per share exercise of share options of which 2.4m were applied in the Basic earnings per ordinary share of 27.5p 2008: 22.5p is purchase of our own shares by The Rightmove Employees based on profit after taxation and a weighted average of Share Trust.
Underlying The Group elected to repay 14.8m of its revolving loan 1 basic earnings per ordinary share was 30.5p 2008: 23.8p.
facility in April 2009 and termed out 25m of the loan at LIBOR plus 150 basis points, repayable in equal quarterly 4UBUFNFOU PG OBODJBM QPTJUJPO instalments over five years.
In addition 2.5m of scheduled Due to the strong financial performance and cash generation payments were made during the year bringing total debt during the year combined with lower levels of share buy backs, repayments in the year to 17.3m.
In February 2010, a the Group has moved into a net asset position with total equity decision was made to retire the debt early and the loan was of 3.2m at 31 December 2009 2008: deficit of 15.5m.
repaid in full without penalty.
The reduction in trade and other receivables from 12.6m Net cash at 31 December 2009 was 3.4m to 9.4m relates principally to strong cash collections due to 2008: net debt of 16.9m.
an increased focus on credit control processes as well as a The Board of directors is confident that with the existing reduction of 1.2m in relation to marketing prepayments.
cash resources and banking facilities in place, the Group and Trade and other payables increased from 12.4m to the Company will remain cash positive and have adequate 13.9m principally due to an increase in the potential liability resources to continue in operational existence for the for employers NI on share-based incentive gains and an foreseeable future.
increase in deferred revenue of 0.9m of which 0.6m relates to Holiday Lettings Limited.
13 millions millions rightmove plc annual report 2008 rightmove plc annual report 2009 one million visits RECORD VISITS TO RIGHTMOVE.
CO. UK Over one million visits in a single day for the first time on Monday 25 January 2010, 13% higher than the busiest day of 2009.
January 2010 was also a record month with page impressions of 552m and 8.1 million unique visitors, each averaging three visits in the month.
CVTJOFTT BOE GJOBODJBM SFWJFX continued The Boards priorities for the usage of cash are: investment in The overall outlook for the UK residential housing market the business: payment of dividends: and the return of excess cannot be separated from the general economic cash to shareholders via share buy backs.
We believe that the environment, consumer confidence and spending power and future working capital and capital expenditure requirements of short-term uncertainties around the forthcoming general the business will continue to be low and that the business will election.
Subject to there being no further decline in the UK be in a position to return surplus capital to shareholders housing market, the Board remains confident of making during 2010 through a combination of dividends and share further progress in 2010. buy backs.
$VSSFOU USBEJOH BOE PVUMPPL 2010 has started with the Rightmove.
co. uk website experiencing record levels of site trafc and enquiries, Ed Williams Nick McKittrick including several of the busiest days in Rightmoves history.
Managing Director Chief Operating officer and The new advertising campaign has been well received not Finance Director only among home buyers and our advertisers but also with potential home sellers.
Average spend per advertiser has started the year strongly and is expected to rise further over the coming months.
The strong start to the year is the result of encouraging levels of spending on the new display advertising products as well as the Choice products plus the revenue impact from the first 2010 subscription price rises.
By April we expect to see the full impact of these price rises across all business segments.
Estate agency membership continues to grow at rates similar to the second half of 2009, while the number of new home developments continues to decline and may be challenging for some time to come.
Holiday Lettings has continued to grow with good renewal rates achieved in the key months of January and February.
1 Before share-based payments, NI on share-based incentives and capital reconstruction credit costs.
2 Source: BMRB omnibus survey, November 2009.
3 Based upon operating profit before share-based payements, NI on share-based incentives and capital reconstruction credit costs.
15 rightmove plc annual report 2008 rightmove plc annual report 2009
