Robert Wiseman Dairies 8 Business Review: Business and Financial Review Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Throughout this review the Board makes forward looking statements.
Such statements are by their nature inherently predictive, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty as they relate to events and circumstances that are expected to occur, based B usiness and on the knowledge and information available to the Directors at the date this BFR was prepared.
As one would expect, the predicted events and circumstances may differ significantly from actual events and circumstances over the next year.
The F inancial Review Board does not intend to update any of the forward looking statements contained in the BFR during the course of the financial year ending 3 April 2010, but it shall reconsider these statements in the This Business and Financial Review BFR has been preparation of the BFR for next year.
This is without prepared by the Board of Robert Wiseman Dairies prejudice to the Companys obligations to issue statements to the market.
PLC the Company solely for the members of This BFR has been prepared for the Group as a Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC.
whole and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters that are significant to Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC and its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review: Business and Financial Review 9 of 980 per tonne in the first half of the year, but this declined to 788 per tonne in the second half of the year.
They have stabilised in recent months and the value for April was 820 per tonne.
There remains uncertainty as to how bulk cream prices will change Our branded products have in the next year.
These revenue levels increased the margin pressure on the Group, as our milk price was benefited from promotional not changed to reflect these lower bulk cream values until February 2009, with a further adjustment made activities undertaken by our major from May 2009. customers and the marketing Operations Dairies support provided for these products.
In its first full year of production our Bridgwater dairy has been successfully commissioned, improved its operational efficiencies and increased volumes to its existing capacity.
In addition, it has helped alleviate the pressure that was being experienced at our other customer.
This measurement excludes delivery failures Long-term strategy and business objectives dairies.
This has allowed our other English dairies to that have occurred due to the failure of third parties Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC procures, processes and reduce the number of hours worked and restore them to supply the product to the Group for onward delivers liquid milk to customers throughout the UK.
to our preferred pattern of six day working.
delivery to the customer, as we have no control A detailed analysis of current operations is set out in Our small dairy at Pensilva, Cornwall ceased production over this situation.
the Business Review section below.
There are seven during the year and its production was absorbed into key elements to the Groups strategy for meeting Adjusted Operating Profit ppl is the average ppl our Bridgwater and Okehampton dairies.
its objective to be the largest and most respected operating profit generated by each litre of milk sold liquid milk processing group in the UK: The complexity of the business continues to increase and is calculated by dividing Adjusted Operating with the introduction of additional milk types and 1.
Organic growth further details of progress on Profit, as disclosed, by the number of litres of milk products.
Given this, we are pleased that our dairies this are provided in the Business Review, sold in the period.
have maintained their efficiency levels during the year.
Commercial section below: Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing The volatility associated with HDPE resin costs has Profit for the period from continuing operations as 2.
Investment in facilities, new product development been commented on before.
These costs increased by adjusted to remove the effect of one off items which and technology further details of progress on this 24% in the first half of the year.
We were successful have a significant distorting effect, such as the change are provided in the Business Review, Commercial in recovering these increased costs in the second half, in tax legislation in the current year or the agreed and Operations sections below: but there remains uncertainty as to how these costs fine with the OFT in the prior year by the weighted 3.
Investment in people further details of progress will change in the current year.
average number of shares in issue for the period.
on this are provided in the People and the Distribution Commercial Community report on page 23: Our depots have once again successfully serviced Excluding the additional weeks sales in the year, 4.
Maintaining our relationship with farmers further the growth in volumes whilst maintaining their the growth in our sales volumes amounted to details of progress on this are provided in the service levels across all our customers.
The growth 74 million litres or 4.9%.
Business Review, Milk Procurement section below: in volumes, particularly with The Co-operative The largest contributor to this volume growth was Group, has been concentrated in the South of 5.
Maintaining high levels of customer service: England.
Given this, the construction of the new The Co-operative Group, where sales benefited from depot at Amesbury, Wiltshire will alleviate the the full year impact of stores allocated to Wiseman 6.
Attaining UK wide coverage: and pressure on those depots operating at their in August 2007 as well as additional business which 7.
Adding value to our shareholders.
capacity and allow for future volume growth.
commenced in October 2008 and February 2009.
We were therefore delighted when we were provided We monitor our performance against the strategy A number of initiatives are being undertaken to the opportunity to service a further 116 million litres by means of the following key performance help further improve efficiencies in distribution.
of their business from August 2009 to bring our indicators KPIs.
Key amongst these is the use of Isotrak software, total volumes with The Co-operative Group to 258 which assists in enhancing fuel efficiencies and 2009 2009 2008 million litres per annum.
We are also a significant maximising vehicle utilisation.
It is proposed to 53 week 52 week 52 week supplier to Somerfield, which is now owned by rollout the use of this software to all our sites during Commercial The Co-operative Group.
We have recently agreed to the year ahead.
In addition, we are progressively continue our supply arrangements, in respect of the Sales volume growth 6.9% 4.9% 4.1% reviewing all aspects of our distribution with Somerfield business we service, to coincide with those Operational software that allows for the optimum delivery of the Co-operative Group which run to August 2010. pattern to be identified.
Given the success of the Dairy efficiency 67.8% 67.8% 69.0% above initiatives and savings generated, we are In April 2009 we commenced supplies to an additional Delivery accuracy 99.7% 99.7% 99.8% proceeding with rollout to all our depots at a cost 137 Sainsburys Local stores and we will commence Financial of 1.1 million during the current financial year.
supplies amounting to 15 million litres per annum Adjusted operating The BFR discusses to Cappers, a Spar Group, in June 2009.
Volumes Our trials on running vehicles using liquefied profit ppl 2.17 2.17 2.53 the following areas: during the year also benefited from increased natural gas LNG were successful and, as a result, Adjusted EPS movement 8.35% 10.08% 7.5% Long-term strategy contracts with Netto and the Martin McColl group.
we have incorporated 20 vehicles which utilise LNG and business objectives into our vehicle fleet.
Our trials with bio-diesel were Business review Our branded products have benefited from Volume is the volume of litres of milk sold in each Commercial less successful and we have shelved using this fuel promotional activities undertaken by our major Dairies period.
This is calculated directly by the sales system.
customers and the marketing support provided for Distribution these products.
During the year Tesco listed freshnlo Milk Procurement Dairy efficiency is an internal measurement of the Fuel costs remained high during the first half of in the vast majority of its stores, including those not Financial review machine efficiency of the filling equipment in our the year, but declined in the second half.
The Group serviced directly by Wiseman.
As a result of this listing, three main dairies, which account for 80.5% of Group did not derive any significant benefit from this Principal risks sales of freshnlo have grown by more than 200% and uncertainties production.
It is worth highlighting that 100% is not reduction, as the majority of fuel costs were hedged year-on-year.
Sales of the One have grown by 33% Resources an achievable measure of efficiency due to changes at the equivalent of 95 pence per litre in the second year-on-year, assisted by a multi channel television in milk types, labels, bottle types and hygiene controls half of the year.
A new hedging arrangement has and press campaign in the second half of the year.
associated with each of these.
Management would been entered into for the first three months of the like to achieve 70% and continue to strive to achieve current financial year at a price consistent with Our sales of Extended Shelf Life milk, both this as a medium term target.
In 2010 we shall start present market rates.
Tesco Pure, and our own brand, Puriti, have to include Bridgwater in this calculation.
It has not continued to make strong year-on-year growth Milk procurement been included in the current year given it was being with sales up 32%.
We sought to be supportive of our farmers during commissioned in the first half of the year and steadily the year, recognising the impact of increased costs We continue to trade well in the highly competitive increased its production volumes through the year.
on their business and seeking to defer the impact middle ground sector despite margins in this sector Delivery accuracy is the order fulfilment % of deliveries of reduced bulk cream prices.
The price paid to remaining under pressure.
to all of our customers and is calculated by dividing members of our Wiseman Milk Partnership WMP the number of units delivered to and accepted by Bulk cream prices have remained under pressure was increased three times during the year by a the customer by the number of units ordered by the during the year.
DairyCo reported an average price total of 1.5p per litre, with the last increase in Robert Wiseman Dairies 10 Business Review: Business and Financial Review Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 November 2008.
Unfortunately bulk cream prices fell in the second half of the year and the Group could no longer sustain the shortfall in margins that resulted from this decline.
The cream value underpinning the WMP price was 1,480 per tonne, which dated back to the cream value recorded by DairyCo in September 2007.
Given the decline in cream prices to their current level of 820 per tonne, it was necessary to reduce milk prices in February 2009 and again in May 2009.
Whilst these reductions were disappointing, the past year has been difficult for milk prices given the decline in all commodity prices as the year progressed.
The WMP price of 24.02p per litre remains an attractive price in the market as certain milk groups have reduced prices to significantly below this level.
Wiseman will continue to maintain its position as a purchaser paying a leading price for its supplies.
Across Great Britain there continues to be a decline in the overall volume of raw milk supply and producers continue to exit the market.
Whilst we have had a small number of resignations during the year, given the price paid for supplies relative to others, there have not been any problems securing supplies going forward for the additional volumes to be serviced.
In total we added 85 new farmers on direct Wiseman farm contracts during last year.
We continue to have a positive working relationship with the key milk co-operative suppliers, First Milk, Milk Link and OMSCO.
Whilst the decline in milk prices affects all involved in the industry, we seek to ensure that our supplying co-operatives are treated on an equitable basis to ensure that our supplies are maintained.
We continue to work positively with the Tesco Sustainable Dairy Group and the Sainsburys Dairy Development Group.
These arrangements provide for a premium price to be paid to the vast majority of our WMP members, compared to our WMP price, and they have been beneficial for all parties involved.
Financial review Overview This has been a difficult year, as the Group faced a prolonged downturn in the value of bulk cream along with high HDPE and other oil related costs in the first nine months of the year and delays in implementing necessary cost recoveries with customers.
All of these factors contributed to this year being an extremely challenging trading period for the business.
Below is the comparison of the results against the prior year for both the actual 53 week period and the pro rata 52 week period: 53 wk to 52 wk to 52 wk to 4 April 4 April 29 March Period 2009 2009 2008 The Group has continued to generate strong in the 52 weeks ended 29 March Turnover volume 2008 non-recurring items in respect operational cash flows.
Cash generated million litres 1,622 1,592 1,518 of OFT penalties and restructuring costs 6.8 million have been from operations has increased by 4.0 million Turnover millions 847.7 831.7 722.0 added back.
year-on-year to a record 67.2 million Operating profit millions 35.1 34.5 31.6 in the 53 weeks ended 4 April 2008: 63.2 million.
This improvement is 2009 the impact arising from Adjusted operating the loss of Industrial Buildings profit millions 35.1 34.5 38.4 due to the benefit on working capital arising Allowances, one off tax credits in respect of the settlement of Adjusted operating from the current year being a 53 week period, outstanding tax planning initiatives profit margins 4.15% 4.15% 5.32% and the availability of previously allowing for the collection of more debtors unrecognised tax losses along with Operating profit ppl 2.17 2.17 2.08 the impact of the fair value of the and the deferral of more trade creditors.
Adjusted operating interest rate swaps in the current year has been removed which increases profit ppl 2.17 2.17 2.53 profits after tax by 16.2 million: in Billy Keane, Group Finance Director EPS pence 9.19 9.02 26.76 the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2008, the 1.1 million impact of the change Adjusted EPS pence 31.84 31.24 34.74 in corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% has been added back.
All of the explanation that follows in respect of the income statement relates to the actual income statement for the 53 week period ended 4 April 2009 in comparison to the 52 week period ended 29 March 2008.
Insofar as possible we have explained the impact of the extra week on the results.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review: Business and Financial Review 11 Volumes have increased year on year by 104 million litres, or 6.9%, and 2.0% of the increase is due to the additional weeks sales in the period.
Volumes have increased year on year by 104 million Tax Similar to the movement in inventories there has litres, or 6.9%, and 2.0% of the increase is due to The current year taxation charge is significantly been an increase in trade and other receivables, 6.9% the additional weeks sales in the period.
affected by the one-off impact, which we previously which increased year-on-year by 2.7 million from Rise in sales volumes highlighted in our 2007 and 2008 Annual Reports, 58.4 million to 61.1 million.
This increase is due to Turnover has increased by 17.4% to 847.7 million arising from the change of legislation to phase out an increase of 3.8 million in trade receivables, offset 2008: 722.0 million, of which 2.2% of the increase Capital Allowances on Industrial Buildings IBAs.
by reductions in VAT and Other debtors.
The increase arises due to the additional weeks sales in the period.
The impact of the withdrawal of IBAs in the current in trade receivables is due to increased volumes and The remainder is the result of the additional volume period is a deferred tax charge and a decrease in average selling prices, which in turn reflected increases 17.4% sold, the full year benefit of prior year price increases net assets of 17.1 million, as the deferred tax in prices to recover higher costs during the year.
Increase in turnover to customers and the benefit of further price increases liability is increased to reflect the removal of the The 7.2% increase is less than anticipated given in April May and October 2008. tax allowances available.
There were further nonthat sales volumes for the last two months of the recurring items in respect of adjustments to prior year, compared to the same period last year, were Adjusted operating profit margins confirm the year computations now agreed with HMRC of up by 7.8% and the average price per litre for the increased revenues during the period were required 1.1 million, which encompasses the successful last two months was up by 4.5%.
This partly reflects to recover increased costs.
Despite the increase in conclusion of certain tax planning initiatives, and the timing of the year-end, where debtors due at turnover, we have seen a significant fall in our adjusted the recognition of previously unrecognised tax the end of the month were paid before the end of operating profit margins in the current year which losses in an acquired company in respect of both the financial year.
Debtor days measured against the have declined from 5.3% to 4.2%.
In the first half the prior year and current year of 1.0 million.
last two months of the year have fallen from 24.3 of the year we experienced unprecedented increases Collectively these factors reduce the tax charge days to 23.6 days, which represents an improvement in the cost of diesel and HDPE resin for our plastic per the Income Statement from 24.2 million of 1.6 million and is reflected in the Groups cash bottles, which necessitated the further cost recovery to 9.2 million 2008: 9.9 million increased to flow and debt at the year-end.
In addition, despite the decline in 10.9 million.
Excluding these additional factors, bulk cream prices, we increased our raw milk price Trade and other payables have increased by the underlying effective tax rate on current year to our supplying farmers on three occasions during 7.9 million to 93.8 million from 85.9 million profits would have been 30.1% year ended the year to recognise the market value of milk during in March 2008.
This movement predominantly arises 29 March 2008, excluding the adjustment for this period.
This had an adverse affect on our margins due to a 6.8 million movement in trade creditors the OFT penalty and the change in tax rate: 30.8%.
and this shortfall was partially recovered with and a 1.0 million increase in accruals.
The majority a raw milk price reduction in February.
of this movement arises due to the timing of the Earnings Per Share EPS year-end, as our main cost relates to milk supplies One of the key performance indicators for the Basic EPS is showing a significant reduction, to 9.19p, that are paid mid-month and therefore there is Company is the ppl operating profit generated.
In arriving at an extra weeks supply included in trade creditors Until September 2007 we had been pleased with Adjusted EPS, we have taken account of the oneat the year-end.
the progress in improving this measure, but we then off negative impact of the withdrawal of IBAs that recorded two consecutive periods of decline with increases the EPS by 23.82p, the positive impact The provisions balance of 6.1 million reflects the operating profits of 2.48ppl and 1.74ppl in the six arising from one-off tax credits that decreases the EPS anticipated costs of the OFT settlement, which will months ended 29 March 2008 and 28 September by 2.97p and the negative impact of the fair valuing be payable when the Investigation into the parties 2008 respectively.
Given the cost recovery achieved of the interest rate swaps in place that increases who have not settled with the OFT is concluded.
through price increases to customers in October this figure by 1.80p.
Adjusted basic earnings per 2008, progress has been made in the last six months share stand at 31.84p, a fall of 2.90p year-on-year Derivatives represents the obligations under the in reversing this decline with operating profits of reflecting the difficult trading period experienced by two interest rate swaps for 10 million entered into 2.55ppl in the six months ended 4 April 2009.
The fall would have been greater had to allow the Company to comply with its strategic shall continue to focus on improving this key metric the period been a 52 week period as the extra week objectives of having circa 40-60% of its core through cost recovery and continuous improvement improved the current year Adjusted EPS by 0.60p.
Due to the dramatic fall initiatives, with the long-term objective to achieve in interest rates during the year, the fair value of Balance sheet review levels of profitability of circa 3ppl.
these instruments is a liability of 1.7 million.
During the year the Company invested 29.9 million Interest The Company issued 153,558 shares in the period in additions to property, plant and equipment.
The 25.8 million of net debt at the year-end to satisfy share option arrangements and bought This is substantially lower than the previous year to benefited from the period end timing.
Our level back 822,500 shares for cancellation at a cost of 29 March 2008 when a total of 60.8 million was of debt generally remained higher than the 39.5 2.6 million, equivalent to an average cost of spent primarily for the completion of the Bridgwater million opening balance throughout the year due 3.19 per share.
Significant capital expenditure included to the continued capital investment in the business 11.4 million of vehicles, 8.0 million of residual Net assets at 4 April 2009 stood at 134.5 million, which for the year was 29.9 million.
There has been spend at the Bridgwater dairy and the purchase a fall of 5.0 million since March 2008.
The decline a significant 1.9 million increase in interest costs.
of the land at Amesbury of 4.8 million.
in net assets is due to the 17.1 million impact of Of this, 1.8 million reflects the adverse impact of the loss of IBAs.
Inventories have increased year-on-year by fair valuing our interest rate swaps to reflect the 1.7 million.
This reflects a 1.2 million increase potential future cash costs associated with them in raw materials and 0.5 million increase in which, in turn, reflects the significant decline in finished product.
This is predominantly a result of interest rates since the two interest rate swaps for the increased volume of product held at the year 10 million each were entered into to fix borrowing end due to the increased sales volumes across the costs at 5.36% and 5.22%.
The remainder of the group and the increased storage capacity with movement of 0.1 million arises due to increased Bridgwater now fully operational.
average borrowings offsetting the decline in interest rates during the year.
Robert Wiseman Dairies 12 Business Review: Business and Financial Review Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Cash flow and net debt milk sales by volume was concentrated in five key The Group has continued to generate strong customers year ended 29 March 2008: 75%.
Cash generated from Damage to, or loss of the relationship with these operations has increased by 4.0 million year-oncustomers, could have a detrimental effect upon year to a record 67.2 million 2008: 63.2 million.
the financial performance of the Group.
In order This improvement is due to the benefit on working to manage this risk, the Group focuses heavily capital arising from the current year being a 53 week on delivering a high quality product on time.
We period, allowing for the collection of more debtors maintain regular contact with all of our customers and the deferral of more trade creditors.
Whilst higher and members of the Operational and PLC Boards volumes and sales prices may have been expected to will meet with individual management from our adversely impact working capital, the movement in key customers throughout the year.
the current year has been favourable at 6.2 million.
Manufacturing capacity Despite continuing to invest heavily in property, During the current period our dairies continued plant and equipment during the current year to operate at high volumes and levels of efficiency.
31.7 million, further share buybacks 2.6 million Previously the Group was exposed to a high level and an increase in the level of dividend increase of of risk should one of the four main dairies become 1.4 million to 10.8 million, net debt at the period inoperable for a prolonged period of time.
With the end has reduced by 13.7 million to 25.8 million, commissioning of our new dairy at Bridgwater, there which represents gearing of only 19.2%.
It should has been a reduction of this risk due to the ability be noted that the benefit of reporting post the of the Group to move increased volume around calendar month end has improved the debt position the Group internally.
However, given our growth by circa 11.1 million compared to the prior year.
ambitions, excess capacity at any site is expected to be utilised.
This means that in the medium-term Amesbury depot Consideration of going concern we would expect the level of risk to increase but the In their consideration of going concern, the Directors Bridgwater dairy and depot exposure to be spread over our five main dairies.
have reviewed the Groups future cash flow forecasts The Group has recovery plans for the most likely and associated risks: these forecasts extend for a situations and staff are trained to ensure that, period beyond one year from the date of approval were any such event to arise, we could react of these financial statements.
in the most appropriate manner.
The Groups borrowing facilities with the Clydesdale Information technology Bank were renewed in November 2008 and allow for The Group continues to invest heavily on 100 million of bank borrowings.
Of the 100 million In the last ten years the improvements to production and communication of bank borrowings available to the Group, 80 million facilities.
In the current period the main focus has is due for renewal in November 2011, with the balance Group has invested a continued to be on the new dairy at Bridgwater, due for renewal in November 2009.
The Groups along with plans for a new depot in Amesbury, bankers, the Clydesdale Bank PLC, have indicated that total of 308 million in new Wiltshire.
However, we have also continued to on the basis of information currently available, it would make significant upgrades to our production expect to renew this 20 million facility for a further land and buildings, dairy facilities to ensure they remain the most efficient twelve months beyond its expiry in November 2009. and technologically advanced in the country.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Groups cash equipment, depots, vehicles This increases the Groups risk of reliance on IT flow forecasts, taking account of reasonably possible systems and processes.
In order to mitigate this changes in trading performance given current market and IT infrastructure.
risk to an acceptable level, the Group has invested and economic conditions, show that the Group will be heavily in recent years in additional IT personnel able to operate within its current facilities and comply and IT security to ensure that we are as well with its banking covenants.
protected as we practically can be from IT After making enquiries, the Directors have a viruses and downtime.
reasonable expectation that the Group and the Raw materials Company have adequate resources to continue in With 95.7% of our sales of milk by volume being operational existence for the foreseeable future.
in polybottles year ended March 2008: 95.7%, The financial statements have therefore been the Group is exposed to fluctuations in HDPE resin prepared on a going concern basis.
In addition to an increase in global demand Pensions for this resin, it has been clearly demonstrated in As mentioned in the 2008 Annual Report, in October the current period that it can also be subject to 2007 the Group transferred responsibility for its sole significant fluctuations on account of it being an defined benefit pension scheme to Legal & General.
We have established strong The Groups exposure is therefore limited to pensioner working relations with our polybottle suppliers mortality risk over the period until the wind-up is and believe that we are managing this risk as formally completed.
This exposure is not considered fully as is commercially practical, given a suitable material and it is anticipated the wind-up will be hedging arrangement has not been identified formally completed in the first half of the 2010 in relation to these costs.
Oil related costs In addition to the fluctuations in the plastic resin Summary costs caused by fluctuations in oil prices, the The Groups balance sheet is robust and the business Group is also exposed to fluctuations arising is well positioned to finance the additional capacity from movements in the price of diesel.
The Group to be installed at Bridgwater and the new depot at operates over 1,400 commercial vehicles and diesel Amesbury, Wiltshire.
We are confident that a strong is a significant cost within its operations.
In order return will be delivered from these investments in to mitigate this risk, the Group entered into a six the medium-term.
month hedge on a significant proportion of its Principal risks and uncertainties diesel costs during the year.
This hedge ended There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties at the year-end and, following a review of our which we have identified within the business that strategic objectives and risk appetite, a new hedge could have a material impact on the Groups long-term has been taken out for the first three months performance.
These are not all of the risks which of the 2010 financial year, in order to continue the Directors have identified, but only those that the to mitigate our exposure to these fluctuations.
Directors currently consider are likely to be material.
Further hedge arrangements will be entered into as considered appropriate.
Commercial relationships We have developed close working relationships with Commodity priced products all of our customers.
However, a large percentage The Group produces bulk cream as a by-product of the Groups sales are made to the Multiples and, of the liquid milk process in its dairies.
This product in the period to 4 April 2009, 76% of our total either goes into pot cream or bulk cream sales.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review: Business and Financial Review 13 Above: The bulk cream sales are sold via a mix of long-term Management of interest rate risk Employees with extensive knowledge of Bridgwater dairy.
arrangements or monthly deals, but in both Historically the policy of the Group has been to customers and markets in which we operate circumstances, the selling prices track the current hedge around 40% to 60% of the core borrowings.
While the Group continues to invest in facilities and Bottom opposite: market prices.
During the year there were significant We have in place two interest rate hedges, one is a equipment, we also continue to invest in our people.
Our packaging for the One and our branded fluctuations in the commodity prices achieved for three year 10 million floating to fixed rate hedge and We have an extensive training programme which skimmed milk range bulk cream.
Such fluctuations can result in significant the other a five year 10 million floating to fixed rate we offer throughout the Groups operations for all now promotes the Food adjustments to the profitability of the Group if they hedge.
Whilst the year-end debt was 25.8 million, levels of staff.
We believe that by investing in our staff Standards Agencys are not compensated for via changes in the selling compared to the 20.0 million of hedged balances, and retaining quality staff, we are well positioned to saturated fat campaign supporting low fat milk.
price for liquid milk or changes in the price paid there was a 11.1 million working capital benefit from provide a quality service and react effectively to any for raw milk.
In the past year, the value for bulk the additional week in the financial year.
As a result, issues that may arise.
cream was depressed, resulting in a negative impact the Group had hedged balances consistent with its Close relationship with our key suppliers on our results until compensatory reductions in policy in this area.
In addition, the Group continues The Group continues to develop strategic relations raw milk prices were made.
to have in place an interest rate cap of 6.5% on with its key suppliers such as the Wiseman Milk 10 million of its floating borrowings.
We continue to Partnership, First Milk, Milk Link, Nampak, Alpla, Environmental risk review the appropriateness of our interest rate policy Tetra Pak and Closures.
The Group believes that Whilst we are focused on improving our environmental and our hedging policy throughout each financial year.
by forging strong relations with its suppliers, it is impact at all sites, the nature of the product means Regulatory risk well placed to provide a high quality service to that we have significant environmental impacts It remains the Group policy to ensure that employees its customers.
from packaging types to method of delivery to the are aware of their responsibilities under Competition customer.
We continue to work with industry bodies, Strong corporate reputation for quality Law and their associated compliance is monitored within our own business and with our suppliers, to products and service through the year.
We organise formal training sessions constantly improve our environmental performance.
The Group prides itself in ensuring there is quality for all sales department employees on a regular basis.
Financial risk in everything it does, from product development The treasury function is managed centrally to support Resources to production techniques to distribution service.
the operating activities of the Group.
Its primary role The Group has the following key resources which The Group continues to invest in projects that is to ensure that adequate resources are available to assist it in the pursuit of its key objectives: support the brand and maintain quality meet the funding requirements for the Group on a throughout the Groups operations.
Investment in facilities and equipment day-to-day basis and that financial risk arising from By order of the Board the Groups underlying operations is effectively Employees with extensive knowledge of customers identified and managed.
and markets in which we operate Management of credit risk Close relationships with our key suppliers The Group has a large percentage of its business Strong corporate reputation for quality products concentrated in a small number of multiple and service.
customers and this is also reflected in our trade Robert Wiseman Billy Keane receivable balances.
The credit risk associated with Investment in facilities and equipment Chief Executive Group Finance Director our trade receivables balance is limited because In the last ten years the Group has invested a total 18 May 2009 18 May 2009 the customers are either large corporations with of 308 million in new land and buildings, dairy high credit ratings or we have credit insurance equipment, depots, vehicles and IT infrastructure in place to mitigate the risk of exposure.
and this has provided us with modern and efficient facilities in the right locations to enable us to Management of foreign exchange risk continuously provide quality goods in a quality The Group has no significant exposure to manner to all of our customers.
The investment foreign exchange risks.
The Groups policy when has also enabled the Group to maximise its scale, purchasing capital equipment from, or in selling minimise wastage and operate at record levels products to, overseas countries is to fix its liability of efficiency throughout its operations.
in pounds Sterling when orders are placed using foreign exchange contracts.
