Business Review by Peter France Overall, order intake was 326.3m, down Rotork is an international business with operations which span the globe.
We supply approximately 5% on the 2008 figure.
A actuators, systems and associated products wherever there is a need to control the number of our businesses reported order flow of liquids or gases through pipes or channels, as well as into other specialist intake higher than the prior year, including Iberia up 20%, Russia up 35% and applications.
The end-user industries that we support are diverse and while we Malaysia up 25%.
Asia generally was the broadly categorise them into the general headings of Oil & Gas, Water and Power, least affected with all but one company this does not totally define the very wide range of engineering applications for our showing order intake growth in the year.
Rotork actuators are used in chemical, energy & power, food, transport Shipments were strong and at 353.5m, and many other industries across the world and can be broadly classed as being Group revenue was up 10.4% on the prior related to infrastructure development and management.
year and with operating margin increasing in the year by 2.5 points.
Profit before tax was up 20.0% to 90.9m, a new record We have a direct presence in 29 level.
The closing order book was lower countries, with 15 manufacturing plants, 1 than at the start of the year which itself 96 direct service and marketing outlets, had been heavily flattered by currency and around 1800 staff.
In addition to but at 129.1m it represents a strong these facilities we have over 300 sales position going into 2010.
These figures outlets in a further 59 countries where we include the acquisition of Flow-Quip made operate through agents and distributors.
in November, although its contribution to This network enables Rotork to give direct the year was modest.
local support to customers across the world and is an important facet of our We continue to see medium and long term approach to our markets.
growth opportunities in all of the markets that we serve and our margin resilience As our operations have grown, both reflects our competitive position in many organically and by acquisition, so of these markets.
Our strengths continue has the range of products within the to be in product design, approach to Groups portfolio.
With the addition of market and above all close contact new locations this has enabled Rotork with and support of our customers to supply into increasingly diverse everywhere.
Our growing site service applications, industries and geographies.
operations are particularly important to us, not only in growing our direct income Year under review streams, but also in maintaining close 2 During the past year we have seen customer contact enabling us to also disruption in many of our markets as influence future investment decisions.
companies and governments have Our site service businesses continue to adopted strategies to deal with the be deeply imbedded within our divisional financial issues left by the financial crisis.
businesses and we therefore report on As the year unfolded we saw initiatives them within the context of each divisions in many geographical areas being taken performance.
to address this in the form of stimulus packages.
For Rotork, the first quarter Rotork Controls was buoyant with order intake ahead of This is our largest division accounting for the prior year, but by the half year we 1: Rotork Thailands Site Services team 64.3% of sales revenue.
It reported sales saw some slowing, influenced by project installing a RFS Gas Oil actuator of 227.3m in the year, up 11.2% on the on a natural gas pipeline.
delays and funding issues in a number of prior year.
Order intake was 1.7% down areas.
Order intake continued to be slow 2: IQ Intelligent actuator gearbox on the prior year figure, and at the end of through the second half, failing to reflect combination installed on a new activated the year Controls made up nearly 66% of sludge plant, improving final effluent the buoyant project activity and good our order book.
Both project activity and quality for return to river in line with the level of sales quotations that we had seen the level of sales quotations was good European Fresh Water Fish Directive.
By the year end in 2009 and many of the projects that we started to see improved optimism in we are working on with our customers many areas and indications of projects already have engineering clearance and being released into live status.
operational support, and where there 08 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review have been holdups, this has in most to customers that we have market Controls cases been due to issues relating to leading technology, and the capability the release of funding.
and capacity to handle even the largest Strong growth in core projects in the industry.
business During the year we have invested in our UK, India and Russia businesses in terms The site services business within RFS Positive material cost of facilities, systems and people.
We are is now gaining critical mass and we are management continuing to invest and ensure that we successfully weaving this into our core create further capacity to support our product offerings to our customers New Indian factory in markets in the future.
Despite the recent slowing Bangalore business in Controls has continued to of order intake, we have a high degree prosper and we see this as an important of confidence in this business and the part of our business going forward opportunities for us in the medium term.
enabling deeper partnerships with Fluid Systems customers to give them greater on site Rotork Gears technical support and visibility of Rotork Gears is a supplier of gearboxes, Improved operating margins the performance of their processes.
adaptors and ancillaries for the valve industry worldwide and is now the world Successful product This is a business that is well established leader in terms of product portfolio and development in most of its industrial markets.
The geographic reach across many industrial operating margin of the business sectors.
The division is often a sole original Acquisition of Flow-Quip continues to improve due to operational equipment supplier to major industrial gearing as our throughput increases, groups.
It has created close partnering for 4.9m product mix and attention to cost control.
arrangements with customers and provides a high quality Original Equipment Rotork Fluid Systems Manufacturer 'OEM' service, giving the Supplying pneumatic and hydraulic customer base real product improvements actuators and systems, Rotork Fluid and cost savings in a long term relationship.
Gears Systems RFS has been our fastest We saw softening in valvemaker activity growing division in recent years.
In the across the world during the year, and Improved profitability of year under review we grew sales revenue additionally the division was negatively Chinese plant by 12.6% to 99.7m.
Over the last three impacted by the strengthening of the years RFS revenue has grown from Chinese currency which affected material Margin pressure 40.5m to 99.7m, an increase of 146%.
As a result operating margin fell by 1.6 This has been achieved in a growing points to 21.8% on sales revenue of 36.8m.
Strengthen R&D team, market, but we have undoubtedly made Going forward, we are very positive about introduction of 5 new great progress in building the business our new production facility in India where we products through market share gains due to see good growth prospects and production our customer-oriented approach and costs which will support our margin in 2010. increased variety of product offering through organic product development, Rotork Site Services and latterly by acquisition.
Rotork Site Services operates through each of the three divisions with dedicated The business is largely aimed at teams providing on site and workshop supporting the oil & gas market, which support to our customers for the has been the most impacted by project complete range of products including delays in 2009.
Our order intake into this essential repair, maintenance, factory fit division was down 11.9% over the prior and outsource maintenance programmes year and while there are a number of large tailored to the customers requirements.
projects available to us, the delays here This business is an important feature in were worse than in the other parts of the our strategy going forward and we can Group.
We have been able to maintain demonstrate that we are able to genuinely margins during this period and have support customers across the range improved our engineering and production of products and the applications that processes at the major plants in Italy and they cover.
We are continually making Germany, and are able to demonstrate improvements and structural changes ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 09 Business Review continued Within the Group strategy the following innovation award from an influential 1 key objectives have been identified for our US magazine.
The range is not yet fully business in 2010: developed and remains an active part 1.
Sales growth to continue efforts of our development programme into to ensure that all divisions and 2010.
During 2009 we also widened our subsidiaries sell actively and grow network offering to include the HART market share protocol which has become the fide-facto 2.
New products increased investment standard in the process control industry in product development and have continued our development of 3.
Acquisitions execute acquisition of a wireless interface to complement our identified suitable targets proprietary Pakscan system.
Health & safety continue to drive wireless trial site, located in the US, has 2 improvements in safety performance also been installed and a product launch Group wide is anticipated during the coming year.
Material cost reduction leverage global supply chain We have continued to increase our 6.
Development of Rotork Site Services development resources within the Bath RSS continue progress with RSS facility where we are focussing on offering worldwide and further develop developing technology for future generation our site service capability under a electric products whilst working with our recognisable global brand international supply chain to advance our 7.
IT implement a management system current products from both a cost and 1: 250 IQ Intelligent actuators with Profibus for subsidiary sales & service offices features perspective.
installed at a major new waste water 8.
Nuclear expand resource and treatment plant as part of a scheme to significantly improve water quality product portfolio This has been an important year within returned to the local river.
People development identify and the Fluid Systems division where a develop key talent Technical Director has been appointed 2: Some of the 350 IQT actuators installed in a membrane filtration plant, producing 10.
Processes and ethics continue to to provide focus for the successful and discharge to the sea, cleaner than the embed a high performance culture growing range of current and planned seawater itself.
including delivery of our Corporate product developments.
A product and Social Responsibility agenda technology roadmap is being put in place in this business to better enable it to to ensure a longer term focus on both respond to our customers increasing We operate an asset-light business existing products within the portfolio and demands for an outsourcing business model which is highly cash generative.
RFS has also supplied model in the fields of site service and We will also seek to deliver quality the largest sub-sea rack and pinion plant repair and maintenance.
margins, consistent year on year growth actuator ever built at the Lucca factory.
in revenue, profit and core dividends Measuring over two metres high and Strategy through organic growth and acquisitions.
five metres in length, the single-acting Rotork focuses on valve actuation and spring-return actuator is designed to associated activities, principally wherever R&D operate a 24 inch, ANSI class 900 subthere is a need to control the movement of Investment in our product portfolio is sea safety isolation ball valve SSIV fluids or gases.
As world market leader our an important part of Rotorks success, for the Tuna Gas Gathering Project, aim is to provide high quality, technically and a major differentiating factor in our off the coast of Egypt.
This project is a advanced, innovative products and services competitive landscape.
Each of the three continuation of the work with the Gears that support our customers activities divisions has an active programme of division and the hydraulically operated around the world through our extensive research and development aimed at package incorporates a special gearbox and continually expanding network of refining the product offering, widening and fide-clutch system which enables offices and manufacturing plants.
its market appeal across sectors, and the actuators output drive to the valve bringing technical developments into the to be automatically disconnected and We develop and train our people to deliver product range where they would provide reconnected when maintenance is our strategy and satisfy our customers value for our customers.
requirements while maintaining high ethical and safety standards across The year saw the initial launch of the Following the acquisition in 2008 of the the Group and acting as a responsible Control Valve Actuator CVA which has Smart Valve Monitor SVM product international corporate entity.
achieved accolades in many quarters consolidation has been completed and including receiving a flow control we now look towards building the brand 10 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review and additional sales.
Further significant first survey in 2008.
We were pleased 1 developments for the SVM range are now with the level of response and the level planned.
of involvement and reward that people generally felt from being a part of the The product offering of the Gears business.
The results again showed a division has also been extended with good relationship between Rotork and its the development of gearboxes for the employees and there are a small number American water industry.
This project was of tasks which we are following up on.
completed during 2009 and the product range is now in production.
A complete We believe that our reward system is range of quarter-turn gearboxes has appropriate and fair, and employees in also been designed for building firethe UK and many overseas subsidiaries 2 protection systems and these are now at enjoy participation in long-standing the product testing and approval stage.
Rotork profit sharing and share Other gearbox ranges have also benefited schemes.
At the Bath plant, an Employee from continuous improvement and design Committee sits regularly to discuss staff optimisation programmes.
issues and suggests improvements in working conditions and practices with Quality all issues being reviewed by directors Commitment to product excellence and and acted on as appropriate.
customer satisfaction is fundamental to Rotork and we ensure that it is embedded An Equal Opportunities policy is applied 1: RFS GP actuators installed on a marine into our business processes across design, throughout the Group and in almost jetty importing LNG, Chile.
Rotork all cases, it is nationals from countries 2: Rotork site services inspecting manufacturing sites are required to be in which the Company operates who IQ actuators installed as part of a registered to the international Quality manage those companies locally.
recent upgrade to a Power station.
Management System Standard ISO9001 Financial support for training and and also adopt Rotork systems and working learning programmes directly related to practices that are proven and used across employees working roles are provided.
This process is planned and We have permanent full time training managed from the main production site officers in many of our facilities who coand Group headquarters in Bath.
ordinate product training for employees and customers.
Our commitment to Our research and development function staff development over the long term has a robust design review process for is evidenced by initiatives on four all new products which ensures that our year apprenticeship programmes, quality ethos is built in at our own and our our extended graduate recruitment suppliers facilities.
Our business model programme and other training initiatives requires exact control of our component across the group.
procurement processes and through our global supply chains we have created a Corporate Social Responsibility mutually supportive network of Rotork At Rotork we take seriously our supplier quality assurance SQA and responsibilities to our employees, procurement teams to ensure that our customers, vendors and the wider requirements are achieved.
I address this in part in my strategy statement above and also Our people on our website at www.
Rotork strives to maintain good We adopt an ethical approach to all relationships with all employees through areas of our business and we strive to regular briefings, open communications be responsible in our dealings with our and Chief Executive newsletters and own people and third parties across the briefings to all staff internationally.
More information on environmental matters, health and safety, the Groups During the year we undertook our second employees and social and community employee satisfaction survey, which was issues can be found on pages 24 to 28. improved after the feedback from the ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11
