06 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review sig plc is a leading supplier of specialist products to professionals in the building, construction and related industries, with 753 trading sites throughout the uk and ireland and mainland europe.
glossaRy of teRms like foR like is defined as the business excluding the impact of acquisitions made since 1 January 2008. undeRlying is before the amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment charges, restructuring costs and gains and losses on derivative financial instruments.
tRading cash is defined as cash flow from operations before conveRsion pension movements divided by underlying operating profit.
Chris DaviEs chief executive this business Review has been prepared by the board solely for the members of sig plc.
it is intended to provide shareholders with a summary of the development, performance and financial position of the Group for 2009.
It also provides details of the main trends and factors underlying the years results and which are likely to affect future performance and describes the groups business and its key objectives, strategies, values and resources, together with the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
A cautionary comment relating to forward looking statements is provided on page 27. intRoduction to sig sig plc is a leading supplier of specialist products to professionals in the building, construction and related industries, with 753 trading sites throughout the uk and ireland and Mainland Europe and employed 11,800 people as at 31 December 2009.
Founded in 1957 in Sheffield, UK, SIG has grown from a single site insulation distribution GarETh DaviEs business into a multi-national specialist supplier operating in four different market sectors.
finAnce diRectoR The Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange in May 1989 and is a constituent member of the ftse 250 index, listed within the support services sector.
on 17 march 2010, the share price closed at 1.274.
At this date there were 590,829,339 shares in issue, giving a market capitalisation at that date of 753m.
sigs oRganisational stRuctuRe sigs operations are managed on a country-by-country basis.
within each country there is dedicated divisional management focusing on each market sector.
this is critical to the success of the business, ensuring that focus is provided to the specific requirements of the customer and the supply chain required to service the customer.
Back office functions such as HR, IT, finance, property and fleet management are provided on a country-by-country basis and are shared across business units in each country where it is appropriate and economic to do so.
the parent company of the group, sig plc, oversees and supports the strategic development of each business via the activities of the group board, the corporate development department and the group finance department.
indd 6 06 04 2010 14:10:44 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 07 Focus, Specialisation and Service intRoduction to sig continued sigs maRket sectoRs sigs Business model over the last two decades, sig has continuously expanded the range of products sig is the market leader in most of the specialist markets in which it trades.
it sells to specialist contracting companies and professional trades.
sig now sells sig is positioned as a leading player in the respective specialist market, or seeks different lines of specialist construction products across a number of different to grow its market position through targeted development initiatives.
the principal countries from which sig trades are: insulation specialist specialist markets are characterised by the need to hold a broad and and building construction comprehensive range of stock, supported by technical advice and extensive environments exteriors interiors products service and delivery capability.
united kingdom ireland sigs leading position in specialist markets has enabled the groups sales growth germany and Austria to outperform the general construction output index in recent years, both on an organic basis and including acquisitions.
france poland specialist markets provide opportunity for superior growth as they tend to benelux be more fragmented in nature and require technical product and application czech Republic, slovakia and hungary knowledge which provide entry barriers to the general merchanting community.
sigs strategy in fragmented markets is to build scale and market share whilst in addition to sigs principal countries of operation as stated above, the group generating superior purchasing power and achieving economies of scale also has a small trading presence in six other jurisdictions, being turkey, Romania, in back office activities thereby delivering superior returns.
bulgaria, uAe, spain and luxembourg.
the operations in these six jurisdictions amount in total to less than 1% of group turnover and have therefore not been the supply of specialist products requires a proactive sales approach rather than included in the table above.
a passive retail approach together with a more collaborative process of supply chain management.
sigs PRoducts insulation and Building Environments Exteriors interiors specialist Construction Products Thermal insulation Flat roofing Suspended ceilings Mechanical engineering fixings and accessories Fire protection Roofing felts glass, Partitioning Fixings and fastenings Acoustic insulation polyester and torch-ons Doors and doorsets Groundwork products Dry lining bitumen Category lighting shoring equipment Refrigeration and cold storage Roof lights and domes Dry lining geotextiles Flooring Solar reflective paints Fire protection Reinforcement products Installation of insulation Slating and tiling Insulation ground stabilisation products High temperature insulation concrete tiles Architectural glass Temporary fencing and scaffolding Air tightness testing clay tiles Toughened and laminated glass Masonry components Heating and ventilation products promenade tiles Raised access floors Construction chemicals Industrial lining slates natural and man-made glass Office acoustic screens Safety helmets Pipe insulation shingles Noise control Protective clothing Roofing insulation Sheeting and cladding Fixing products Safety glasses Waterproofing fire cement sheeting Temporary protection products Safety boots Air handling and treatment mastic asphalt Floor coverings Ear plugs Air conditioning Profiled metal sheeting Washroom systems Gloves insulated panels Dust respirators Rainwater goods Tools including power tools Roofline products and accessories Soffits Concrete accessories facias Waterproofing barge boards Render Ventilation Precast Building Plastics Steel support systems upvc windows and doors Site set-up equipment plastic cladding Photovoltaic solar kits panels 1 SHI ar09 front.
indd 7 06 04 2010 14:10:44 08 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review COnTinUED sig provides a diverse range of specialist products from manufacturers to support specialist contractors.
sigs Role in the suPPly chain tHe core sig business the products that sig supplies are specialist in nature and are provided to specialist contracting companies and professional trades, both for new offering: supply specialist construction and for Repairs, maintenance and improvement Rmi.
whilst contractors with specialist general jobbing builders may purchase some items from sig, they are more broadly served through the general builders merchant supply chain.
products across a number of different countries sig provides a crucial role in the specialist building products supply chain by: insulation and building environments PRoVIDING ACCeSS To A bRoAD AND DIVeRSe CuSToMeR bASe sig provides a diverse range of specialist products from manufacturers to exteriors support specialist contractors.
manufacturers deliver products in bulk to sigs trading sites throughout each country of operation.
sig then focuses upon interiors delivering a packaged range of products in job specific quantities on a time critical basis to a broad and diverse customer base as required by the construction specialist construction products cycle.
SIG provides an efficient channel by which manufacturers can access thousands of specialist contractors.
PRoVIDING IMMeDIATe AVAIlAbIlITy oF PRoDuCT CloSe To SITe loCATIoN intRoduction to sig continued through sigs 753 trading sites, contractors are able to obtain product in rapid sigs activities timeframes to meet the demands of a fast moving construction site.
the majority sig is primarily a distributor handling and supplying specialist products of construction sites do not have a large area to store product safely and securely manufactured by other companies.
in markets where the supply chain requires and so the ability to source product quickly overcomes the problems caused bespoke products to be made and supplied direct to the end user, sigs route by such a space constraint.
to market is by manufacturing products for its specialist customer contractors to fit.
SIG currently manufactures partition systems and doorsets in the UK and HAVING THe MoST exTeNSIVe DelIVeRy FleeT IN THe INDuSTRy fabricates certain custom products across the group.
fabrication involves adding sig delivers over 70% of its goods sold to the construction site.
sig has a value by cutting, reshaping or attaching two or more core products together.
wide range of delivery vehicles, including a number of mechanical offload the largest fabrication activities are the cutting and shaping of industrial insulation, and crane facilities to deliver the product to exactly where it is needed.
the cutting and processing of glass products and the assembly of roofing panels.
PRoVIDING TeCHNICAl ADVICe AND PRoDuCT exPeRTISe in addition, in the uk sig also installs loft and cavity wall insulation in residential As building Regulations, environmental issues and modern methods of properties and where customer demands dictate it installs certain interior products.
construction become ever more complex, sigs customer base values the comprehensive technical knowledge that sigs sales staff have of each sig operates under a wide variety of trading names.
many of these brands are products specific application to ensure their suitability for purpose and widely recognised throughout their respective market sectors or countries as that legal and safety standards are met in buildings and industry.
where the leading supplier of specialist products and services to the construction trade.
particularly complex queries arise, sig is able to call upon advice from its supplier base.
this is an important value-added element of the service offered by sig.
no other european company has the depth of experience and expertise that SIG has in its product fields.
indd 8 06 04 2010 14:10:44 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 09 Focus, Specialisation and Service intRoduction to sig continued Residential is sigs second largest market.
in this market, sig is more heavily sigs Role in the suPPly chain continued weighted to the essential repairs and maintenance market which is less sensitive eNAblING CoNTRACToRS To MAxIMISe eFFICIeNT uSe oF lAbouR to the economic fluctuations which can impact the new-build sector and provides It is estimated that there is up to a 40% loss of efficiency whilst skilled labour an underlying market in periods of economic downturn.
sigs ability to deliver product at short notice enables contractors to flex their work schedule depending upon the daily needs of the smallest market for sig is industry non-construction.
sig predominantly the construction site thus minimising this inefficiency.
This part of the service supplies industrial technical insulation to this market which includes, for example, offering is highly valued by sigs customer base and ensures sig maintains power stations and process industries where heat is an important part of the its critical role in the supply chain.
PRoVIDING CReDIT TeRMS To CoNTRACToRS demand foR sigs PRoducts sigs typical customer is relatively small to medium sized.
sig provides credit Demand for the products sold by SIG is influenced by a wide range of factors.
to enable a contractor generally to fit goods before they are paid for to ensure overall economic gdp growth drives construction activity on a long term basis.
continuity of the supply chain.
sig has very well established and rigorous credit As the economy grows and contracts, construction activity reflects this trend.
control procedures that limits its risk exposure whilst having regard to the needs new build is driven by the economic cycle whilst Rmi activity is more constant of the customer base.
in nature and in certain markets can be counter cyclical offering a more constant level of activity.
these activities have enabled sig to build businesses that are able to differentiate themselves from mainstream competitors.
in addition, construction activity is also largely dependant on both the level and cost of credit available in order to finance large construction projects.
Over the maRkets suPPlied By sig last 18 months, the availability of credit has reduced and the cost of credit has SIG is well diversified, serving a wide range of industries and markets.
The following increased significantly, thus having a dampening effect on construction activity.
table provides an indicative estimate, based upon sigs analysis of market information, of the breakdown of the 2009 group sales into the different end markets: the current economic downturn is inevitably affecting the short term demand for sigs products.
however, the medium to long term prospects for sigs new market sectors remain strong.
the current low levels of residential and private total build Rmi non-residential building activity across certain parts of europe are not sustainable % of % of % of group sub-group sub-group when set against demographic growth trends.
given that sig enjoys leading positions in the majority of its markets and geographies and is active in a number non-residential 55% 55% 45% of emergent central european markets, the group is in a prime position to Residential 35% 43% 57% benefit from any upturn in market demand over the medium term.
Industry non-construction 10% 52% 48% source: sig estimates.
the non-residential market is sigs largest market.
this includes both private and public expenditure on schools, hospitals, prisons, warehouses, leisure complexes, retail developments, sports stadia, airports and offices.
indd 9 06 04 2010 14:10:44 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review COnTinUED intRoduction to sig continued demand foR sigs PRoducts continued Whilst demand is principally influenced by the macroeconomic conditions described on page 9, other factors by product range are detailed below: Business sector-specific market drivers Insulation and Building Environments demand for products that reduce energy consumption in both new and existing residential and non-residential buildings to reduce the impact of high energy costs and to reduce carbon dioxide co emissions.
2 demand for insulation products will be driven by regulation in addition to environmental and economic factors.
public sector and private finance initiatives pfi.
insulation usage in new construction is affected by the building Regulations in operation in each country.
over time, it is expected that governments, businesses and the public will increasingly focus on reducing energy consumption more vigorously than in the past and that as a result, insulation demand will continue to rise.
government expenditure on infrastructure projects and residential developments, some of which will be funded under private finance initiatives, will help support demand for insulation products in the current economic climate.
Exteriors A regular and essential Rmi requirement for roofs subject to increasingly variable and severe weather conditions.
demand for new products to reduce building exterior maintenance costs.
growth of specialist distribution as the main supply route.
Government incentives surrounding solar energy feed-in tariffs providing significant impetus to demand for Solar photovoltaic systems.
The age profile of roofs across the UK and Europe gives rise to an ongoing RMI requirement.
This provides a core product demand.
certain products are used extensively for both new build and repair and maintenance in commercial property and demand over time is expected to increase as people look for low-maintenance products and energy efficient options.
Recent reductions in new housing starts, particularly in the uk, will create a shortage of housing in these regions, exacerbated by an increasing population.
in the uk and ireland there is also an oversupply of multiple occupancy buildings, such as city centre flats, and an undersupply of detached single family buildings, which by their nature require more roofing product per person.
Interiors Rising standards of internal fit out and the growing importance of acoustic and fire safety standards.
increased demand for integrated solutions.
government expenditure to improve the internal environments of schools and hospitals and other public buildings.
sig has experienced a trend towards higher quality internal working environments, for example, higher value glass partitions in non-residential buildings and higher quality doors to meet fire and acoustic regulations.
fire and acoustic regulations are set to become more stringent in the next few years.
this will favour the larger suppliers with a depth of technical expertise, such as sig.
new interiors are often required following a change of use or a change of occupancy within existing non-residential buildings, requiring refitting and removal of partitions, wall storage and ceiling systems.
Specialist Construction Products government and utility investment in major infrastructure projects.
Requirement for value engineered solutions on construction projects.
just-in-time approach to project management.
complex major construction projects require specialist application and performance knowledge.
this is provided by sigs specialist businesses in this area.
over recent years, methods of construction have changed, leading to a requirement for new innovative specialist products which sig is ideally placed to supply.
All businesses convergence of trades and requirement from major contractors for bundled solutions and supply chain management, thus benefiting businesses with significant scale and breadth of product offers such as SIG.
indd 10 06 04 2010 14:10:44 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 Focus, Specialisation and Service sigs stRategy in light of a reduction in market volumes across sigs end markets, sig has the groups core strategy is to continue the growth and development of sig as reviewed rigorously the appropriate structure of its trading site networks and a leading european specialist supplier to the building and construction industries, has quickly resized it to align to the latest forecast of market demand.
this has in order to create growth in long term shareholder value.
resulted in the closure of 152 trading sites during 2008 and 2009. in light of current macroeconomic conditions and the associated reduction in SIG has ensured that it has retained its most profitable and successful trading demand for construction related products, sig has reacted quickly to align the sites across each of its businesses to ensure that it is well positioned to benefit cost base of its businesses to current and anticipated levels of market demand.
from any future increases in market demand.
the group has also taken a number of actions which drive operational and commercial efficiencies e. g. the merger of the UKs insulation and interiors furthermore, as part of the groups cost saving and restructuring programme, distribution businesses as detailed further on page 17. the actions taken to a number of sig businesses have been merged to deliver cost savings, but more date in both 2008 and 2009 ensure that the Group is in good shape to deal importantly to deliver operational and commercial efficiencies including the with any further decline in a number of its markets but also to take advantage enhancement of the groups cross selling capabilities.
this includes the merger of the economic recovery when it arrives.
of the uks insulation and interiors distribution businesses and also the merger of the groups polish businesses into one entity.
in order to reduce the groups net debt, cash generation has been a key focus during 2009. this has been driven by a number of initiatives: Five year history trading sites strict management of working capital, through the issue of stringent working 753 capital targets to all business units: trading sites as at 31 december 2009 the deferral of non-essential capital expenditure and the redeployment 05 496 of certain assets: 06 618 an increased drive for process efficiency through the adoption of best practice principles: 07 779 further cross business unit resource sharing and cost saving initiatives: and 08 807 procurement, logistics and property reviews.
09 753 SIGs long term growth plan is focused around five key growth strategies which are as follows: consolidate and exploit existing market leading positions: the change in the number of the groups trading sites over the last two years is shown below: market demand growth: uk and mainland ireland europe total wider product range: 2007 461 318 779 Closures 73 7 80 pipeline of development initiatives: and openings 9 34 43 geographical development into attractive new markets.
Acquired 36 29 65 2008 433 374 807 throughout 2009, despite a backdrop of extremely challenging market conditions Closures 58 14 72 and declining markets, sig worked hard to gain market share in many of its markets.
details of the growth strategies in action during 2009 are set out below: Openings 3 15 18 2009 378 375 753 1. consolidate and exPloit existing maRket leading Positions sigs strategy is to develop its distribution footprint in order to achieve further 2. maRket demand gRowth penetration in core markets.
sig continually evaluates its existing trading site the wider european market into which sig already supplies is huge.
taking all network and trading format structure to take advantage of synergistic opportunities the mainland european countries together except Russia, there is a population within the group.
the market size for the supply of building and construction products is estimated to be c. 750bn per annum.
sig is well placed to exploit its product such opportunities include the sharing of trading sites across different trading and market knowledge to take a larger share of this market place.
brands, sharing of transport and inventory across multiple trading sites and combining purchasing capabilities across different business streams throughout sig believes that the market demand growth for insulation products and sustainable the group.
construction products in particular will outstrip the demand for other building products as the world attempts to address the issues caused by climate change and increasing energy costs.
sig is ideally placed to serve this additional demand.
indd 11 06 04 2010 14:10:44 12 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review COnTinUED following the groups continued focus on working capital management, working capital reduced by 103.3m in 2009.
As a result, despite a reduction in sales, the group reduced its working capital to sales ratio by 1.7% to 9.0%, representing an excellent performance in the year.
sigs stRategy continued key long teRm oBjectives 3. wideR PRoduct Range sig remains committed to the following key long term objectives: extending the range of specialist products and services which sig offers improves customer service and market penetration.
Once SIG has identified a new product create long term growth in shareholder value through a progressive dividend offering, consideration is then given to widening the supply of this product through policy and capital growth: the existing trading site network.
in order to demonstrate sigs diverse product offering, it is estimated that on a typical education project c. 23m in value in develop and grow by applying the groups core principles of focus, the uk, in excess of 35% of the total material cost can be supplied through sig.
specialisation and service: in addition, sig is at the forefront of product innovation and has developed a number of own brand product ranges.
expand the group and its activities as a leading specialist supplier to professional trades in the construction and related industries: 4.
PiPeline of develoPment initiatives in support of sigs long term growth objectives, sig employs an active business supplement organic growth with targeted acquisition and development development and portfolio management strategy.
this involves identifying attractive initiatives: and growth opportunities for the group where sigs key skills and capabilities match with those necessary in developing attractive new market opportunities.
this includes be an employer of choice and provide a rewarding and fulfilling environment a targeted acquisition strategy as well as organic growth initiatives.
in light of the recent challenging market environment the group ceased its develoPment of ouR PeoPle acquisition programme in September 2008.
In 2009, the Group has focused sig is committed to ensuring that all employees and management know what on cash generation and cost saving and restructuring initiatives.
is expected of them in their roles and that they receive the necessary training and development to be highly competent in what they do.
in the uk, access despite the temporary cessation of the groups acquisition programme, the group to e-learning has been extended to include product, technical and management continues to maintain an excellent knowledge of its market place and has ensured training programmes and the business continues to offer a range of nvqs.
that it remains aware of possible future acquisition opportunities across europe.
As well as acquisition of product knowledge, a great deal of emphasis is placed the board will be very careful in its considerations regarding the most appropriate on on-the-job training and during the year, several coaching skills programmes time to recommence this part of the groups strategy.
were run across the group to further improve the effectiveness of training.
new training resource has been added to further strengthen our product in the meantime, the group continues to develop and exploit the synergistic and sales expertise.
benefits that its historic acquisition programme has provided.
These benefits include maximising cross business trading, selling new products to existing group the talent management process has been extended across the group and customers, selling existing products to new group customers and the sharing of within operating companies to marry the aspirations of talented people with resources to enhance current cash flow and profitability.
future business requirements and expectations.
this has led to continued investment in the executive development programme run in conjunction 5. geogRaPhical develoPment into attRactive with Sheffield Hallam University and the introduction of the SIG Young Manager new maRkets of the year Award to recognise the efforts and contribution of new managers sig is continually evaluating the construction market prospects of all countries within their businesses.
the group also continues to invest in graduate within europe to assess where the best growth prospects lie.
sig analyses the programmes across the group.
supply chain structure of each market and evaluates the future potential for sig to enter the market as a specialist supplier within its chosen four market sectors.
key PeRfoRmance indicatoRs the group uses the following key performance indicators to evaluate the success due to the economic downturn and the cessation of the groups acquisition of its business: programme since September 2008, the Group has not extended its geographic coverage into new countries in 2009. geographical development, however, 1. like foR like sales gRowth remains an integral part of sigs long term growth plan.
Like for like sales growth is defined as the percentage growth decline in the sales of the group excluding the impact of current year and prior year acquisitions.
Given the significant exchange rate volatility in recent years, the percentage is calculated on a constant currency basis to provide a realistic understanding as to underlying performance.
indd 12 06 04 2010 14:10:44 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Focus, Specialisation and Service key PeRfoRmance indicatoRs continued on an ongoing basis the mix of sales between these two regions will have an 1. like foR like sales gRowth continued influence on the overall Group underlying operating profit margin: The measure reflects the underlying sales growth in the business which typically 2007 2008 2009 arises from increased sales volumes to both new and existing customers, product price inflation and selling new products through the existing infrastructure.
The growth UK and Ireland 8.0% 6.7% 2.8% is supported by investment in new brownfield trading site openings and trading site mainland europe 4.9% 4.9% 3.5% relocations into larger premises with additional stockholding capability.
maintaining group after parent company costs 6.5% 5.6% 2.9% positive like for like growth in every business is a key target by which every business is measured and is a key component of being able to drive profit growth.
3. woRking caPital to sales Working capital to sales is defined as the ratio of working capital including provisions like for like sales growth rates rates of decline on a constant currency basis are to annualised sales i. e. after adjusting for acquisitions and disposals in the current set out below: and prior year on a constant currency basis.
2007 2008 2009 Working capital to sales uk and ireland 9.7% 3.4% 22.2% mainland europe 12.3% 4.2% 7.6% 9.0% Group 10.5% 0.8% 15.6% 07 10.2% The like for like sales reduction in the UK and Ireland in 2009 reflects the continued reduction in market demand which was first noted in the second half of 2008, 08 10.7% particularly in ireland, where like for like sales in euros were down 42.5% in 2009. management believes that despite this reduction, most businesses have 09 9.0% either held or grown their market share.
Despite strong comparator numbers for 2008, the like for like sales decline in mainland europe is much lower than that experienced in the uk and ireland.
the ability of the group to manage its working capital in relation to the value of the economic recession was less severe in the groups western european sales made by each business is essential to ensure that the group generates cash countries of operation i. e. germany, france and benelux which represent from its operations.
cash generation is important to enable the group to pay its c. 85% of the Groups Mainland European sales than in the UK and Ireland.
taxes and, particularly in the current environment, to ensure that the group complies with its debt covenants.
the geographical spread of the business provides the group with diversity and an ability to manage risk.
As a result of the sales decline in mainland europe being following the groups continued focus on working capital management, less than in the uk and ireland, coupled with the continued weakness of sterling working capital reduced by 103.3m in 2009.
As a result, despite a reduction against the Euro, sales for the first time in 2009 from the Groups Mainland European in sales, the group reduced its working capital to sales ratio by 1.7% to 9.0%, businesses represented over 50% of group sales.
representing an excellent performance in the year.
it is not envisaged that significant further improvement in the Groups working capital to sales 2. undeRlying oPeRating PRofit maRgin ratio will be achieved in 2010.
The underlying operating profit margin is defined as the ratio of underlying operating profit to sales.
Underlying operating profit is defined as operating cash conveRsion profit before the amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment charges, Cash conversion is defined as cash flow from operations before pension restructuring costs and gains and losses on derivative financial instruments.
movements divided by underlying operating profit.
Cash conversion measures the Groups ability to convert its underlying operating profits into cash.
SIG works to improve its underlying operating profit margin by managing its selling prices in the local markets in which it operates and by controlling the cost base over the medium term, the group aims to have a minimum average cash through operational efficiencies.
Despite a significant reduction in the Groups cost conversion ratio of 100%.
However, as the Group begins to benefit from the base in 2009 driven by the groups cost saving and restructuring programme, sig upturn in construction markets when it arrives, investment in working capital will has experienced a fall in its underlying operating profit margin in 2009. be required making a cash conversion target of 100% more difficult to achieve.
the majority of operating costs in the business relate to people, property and Cash conversion transport and in light of the current macroeconomic environment, sig has taken swift action to align these operating costs with the underlying market demand 216% for its products.
07 103% The reduction in operating profit margin in 2009 is a result of the sales volume decline and gross margin pressures suffered in the majority of its markets 08 97% outpacing the reduction in the groups operating cost base.
09 216% SIG has historically experienced lower underlying operating profit margins in mainland europe than in the uk and ireland.
however, due to the greater sales volume and gross margin pressure experienced in the uk and ireland compared to mainland europe and the resultant impact on operating margins, the operating As noted above, due to the significant reduction in working capital achieved in profit margin in Mainland Europe is higher than in the UK and Ireland in 2009.
2009, the cash conversion percentage at 216% is well above the groups long term average target of 100%.
it is not envisaged that the cash conversion percentage of 216% achieved in 2009 will be replicated in 2010, rather a more normalised target of 100% is envisaged.
indd 13 06 04 2010 14:10:44 14 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review COnTinUED in the face of further reductions in demand for its products and services, as well as bearing down on day-to-day running costs and working capital, the company continued in 2009 to implement a comprehensive range of cost reduction measures aimed at adapting resources to the evolving level of demand in its various market sectors and geographies.
tRading PeRfoRmance Against this background, total group turnover in 2009 was 2,744m, a decrease exceptionally challenging trading conditions prevailed in all of sigs market sectors and of 10.2% on prior year.
Underlying profit before tax was 55.9% lower at 60.6m countries of operation throughout 2009, with the economic downturn significantly as a result of the more challenging trading conditions.
the group recorded a loss reducing construction activity and hence demand for the products and services before tax of 55.3m 2008: profit before tax 33.1m, after accounting for other which the company supplies.
the pace and the likely extent of market decline proved especially hard to gauge in the face of further reductions in demand for its products and services, as well in the early part of the year, with abnormally harsh winter weather conditions as bearing down on day-to-day running costs and working capital, the company which gripped mainland europe throughout q1 restricting building site activity for continued in 2009 to implement a comprehensive range of cost reduction measures all outside trades and severely depressing normal patterns of seasonal demand.
aimed at adapting resources to the evolving level of demand in its various market inconsistent trading from week to week across all of sigs operations was a sectors and geographies, and which included a significant number of further trading feature of the early months of 2009 but by mid year underlying trends were site closures and mergers.
beginning to emerge in the groups different sectors and geographies.
it emerged that the heavy fall in demand experienced in the uk and ireland towards the end whilst managements main focus in the year was on optimising revenue and gross of 2008 had gathered speed in the first half of 2009.
The much reduced level of margins and delivering cost savings and efficiencies, the Group did selectively activity that the Group experienced from early 2008 onwards in the UK house continue to allocate some modest additional resources to core operations where building market was followed by a rapid slowdown in non-residential construction.
opportunities arose to extend market coverage which offered good value.
by late spring 2009 new housing construction began to show signs of stabilisation, albeit at a historically low level, whilst an increased flow of work coming through As a result of these various actions, there was a net reduction of 54 in the total from the publicly-funded non-residential sector proved insufficient to offset the number of the groups trading locations to 753 at the end of december 2009 decline in commercial new build.
2008: 807, comprising: the trading environment in ireland remained extremely challenging during the 18 new trading site openings, of which 3 were in the UK, 11 in France, year as the full effects of the countrys economic difficulties impacted on all sectors 2 in benelux and 2 in central europe: and of the construction market.
72 closures or mergers, of which 58 were in the UK and 14 across trading conditions in the groups mainland european countries of operation had mainland europe.
held up much better than in the UK and Ireland throughout 2008, and whilst none of these countries proved to be impervious to the strengthening macroeconomic tRading highlights headwinds, taken together they were also more resilient in 2009. in general terms, uk and iReland 48% of total sales sigs principal western european markets of germany, france and benelux were Total sales decreased by 343.2m 20.6% to 1,326.2m 2008: 1,669.4m.
less volatile than those of poland and central europe and by early summer they began to emerge from recession.
these western european countries appear like for like sales decreased by 342.4m 21.7%.
to have suffered less economic damage and, as management had anticipated, construction markets there seem to have escaped the depth of decline suffered in the uk only, like for like sales decreased by 296.2m 20.5%.
Underlying operating profit decreased by 73.5m 66.1% to 37.7m For the first time sales in Mainland Europe in 2009 represented over half of Group 2008: 111.2m.
this, along with the exchange gains on the translation of overseas earnings denominated in euros following the consistent strength of the euro Underlying operating profit margin was 390 basis points lower at 2.8% and the relative stability in its European markets, proved beneficial to the 2008: 6.7%.
in the uk and ireland the group recorded an operating loss of 61.6m The precipitous fall in volumes in many markets from 2008 onwards has exceeded 2008: profit of 60.4m after accounting for other items amounting most expectations and, notwithstanding cuts in manufacturing capacity in many to 99.3m 2008: 50.8m.
product groups and countries, surplus production continued to wash into the market in 2009, exerting downward pressure on factory gate prices and resulting 3 trading sites were added in the year organically, with 58 closures, taking in price deflation averaging a little over 2% for the Group as a whole.
indd 14 06 04 2010 14:10:44 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 Focus, Specialisation and Service tRading highlights continued the Exteriors division through its sales of core roofing and building plastics uk and iReland 48% of total sales continued products is the part of sig most heavily exposed to the housing market.
with As a consequence of the worsening economic situation, construction activity in both new residential construction and larger discretionary home improvement the uk weakened considerably again in 2009, following an accelerating decline projects running at low levels, trading conditions remained challenging through which began in the Spring of 2008 in the house building sector and which the year, and sales in 2009 were down 20.1% on prior year in total and down subsequently spread to other parts of the market.
new housing starts and 21.8% like for like.
completions again fell steeply in 2009 to levels not seen for decades, resulting from a powerful combination of negative factors including weak consumer the majority of sales in this division are generated from Rmi works rather confidence, falling house prices and lack of mortgage finance availability.
By the than new construction, and from the summer onwards there was a slight, spring, however, demand in the house building sector began to stabilise, and gradual but consistent increase in market activity partly due to the release of as the year progressed there were signs of a small but consistent improvement work under the decent homes scheme by local authorities in the midlands in demand for product from the major national house builders, although smaller and the North of England.
Demand for roofing and cladding products into regional and local builders were slower to see any signs of recovery.
the non-residential building sector remained weak throughout the year.
discretionary repair, maintenance and improvement Rmi demand in the types in 2009 the exteriors division extended the rationalisation of its trading locations of higher value residential projects supplied by sig such as home extensions and which began in 2008, implementing a significant number of further site closures re-roofing work, showed a similar negative trend to residential new build construction.
and merging the hitherto separate Roofing and Building Plastics businesses into a single operating unit.
this streamlining has strengthened the commercial and the private sector component of the non-residential construction market operational efficiency of the Division and provides a solid platform for the future.
contracted sharply in 2009, with the lack of new building projects in the office, retail and leisure segments since mid-2008 causing an acute shortage of work as The number of Exteriors trading sites decreased by 35 to 218 at the end of existing projects under construction came to a finish.
The publicly and PFI-funded december 2009. sectors showed some positive development in programmes such as building schools for the future and nhs infrastructure renewal projects, although this the Interiors division had a very difficult year, with sales decreasing by 24.4% was insufficient to offset the steep drop in the private commercial new build in total and 25.5% like for like.
this division, through its several operating units, and refurbishment segments.
supplies a wide range of specialist products for the fit out of the interior space of all types of non-residential building, from offices, shops and hotels to schools, in ireland, the severe economic recession and government austerity measures hospitals and other public buildings.
the product portfolio encompasses resale took a further toll on all areas of the construction market, which suffered an items such as suspended ceilings and commercial floor coverings bought and overall decline in 2009 approaching 50%.
sold through the divisions distribution network, and partitioning and door sets made to order in the companys own manufacturing units.
sig enjoys a leading sales of Insulation and related products in the uk and ireland decreased by market position in both distributed and manufactured interior products.
16.6% in total, 17.2% like for like, which was better than the overall annual decline in construction markets as a whole in those countries.
in the uk, this in the uk and ireland the steep decline in the commercial new build and was again partly due to the higher levels of thermal performance required by renovation sector which commenced towards the end of 2008 continued apace the 2006 changes to building Regulations part l feeding through into increased in 2009. whilst there was some growth in the distribution businesses in public quantities of insulation being installed in new buildings.
there was also some works such as schools and hospitals, the fall in the office, retail and leisure sectors impact from the effects of the carbon emissions Reduction target ceRt resulted in a more significant reduction in sales and profitability in the manufacturing scheme, a three-year arrangement which came into effect in April 2008 and businesses.
gross margins came under pressure from a diluted product mix and under which the government obliges the uk power generation companies to from capacity underutilisation in the manufacturing businesses as well as external fund co and therefore energy-saving programmes in existing homes.
in ireland, competition, and major restructuring measures were introduced to improve the 2 the sharply reduced level of construction activity resulted in correspondingly commercial and operational efficiency of the division.
lower demand for insulation and all other types of building materials.
in the later part of the year however, there was some modest improvement in insulation the number of interiors trading sites decreased by 9 to 40 at the end of volumes stemming from government supported energy saving initiatives.
The Groups Miller Pattison subsidiary, whose main activity is the retrofitting the Specialist Construction Products division supplies a wide range of specialist of thermal insulation in the walls and lofts of houses, saw volumes under the and niche products to building contractors, including brickwork accessories, CERT scheme grow strongly in the first half of the year, but then fall away from access equipment, groundwork preparation products, power tools, fixings, summer onwards.
This reflected a reduction in the flow of funding from the utility personal protection equipment, cable ducting and other supplies for mechanical companies, pending the outcome of government consultations to increase the and electrical engineering contractors.
A large part of the divisions sales is into value of work to be carried out during the lifetime of the current arrangements new construction, and with the severe curtailment in the number of new projects and to extend the scheme pro rata for a further year to 2012. getting underway in both housing and non-residential development sales in the year were down 24.4% in total, and down 25.8% like for like.
In the face As well as thermal and acoustic insulation for buildings, sig is the leading of reducing market demand significant steps were taken in 2009 to further uk supplier of specialist insulation materials for a broad range of industrial reconfigure the operating structure, increasing the sharing of sites and other process applications, ranging from food processing through to power generation, resources both within the division and with other sig businesses.
demand for insulation for industrial applications was less depressed in 2009 than for construction use, although As a result of these changes, the number of specialist construction products the severe contraction in non-residential building adversely impacted sales trading sites decreased by 7 to 41 at the end of december 2009. into the heating and ventilation h&v sector.
the number of insulation trading sites decreased by 4 to 79 at the end of december 2009.
indd 15 06 04 2010 14:10:44 16 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review COnTinUED management and staff across the group are ready to deal with the challenges ahead, to continue to provide excellent service and value to our customers, to strengthen our position in our different markets, to look for opportunities for profitable growth, and to take full advantage of the upturn when it eventually comes.
tRading highlights continued The number of trading sites decreased by 7 to 82 at the end of December 2009. mainland euRoPe 52% of total sales total sales in sterling increased by 33.1m 2.4% to 1,417.3m in France 37% of sales in mainland europe total sales in sterling grew 7.4% 2008: 1,384.2m, aided by a strengthening Euro.
versus prior year, but were down 3.5% in local currency both in total and on a like for like basis.
Larivire continued to outperform the general French roofing like for like sales on a constant currency basis decreased by 7.6%.
market, with annual sales in euros versus prior year down by 6.2% in a residential construction market down by more than 10%.
incremental sales from maturing Underlying operating profit decreased by 17.7m 26.1% to 50.2m trading sites opened in the previous three years as part of larivires strategic 2008: 67.9m.
development programme, and from a further 4 trading sites opened in 2009, contributed significantly to the positive sales development.
Underlying operating profit margin fell 140 basis points to 3.5% 2008: 4.9%.
the groups french insulation and interiors operations traded exceptionally well Total operating profit reduced by 19.8m 35.4% to 36.1m 2008: 55.9m in challenging trading conditions, achieving like for like sales in local currency in after accounting for other items amounting to 14.1m 2008: 12.0m.
line with prior year levels in non-residential construction and process industrial insulation markets estimated together to be down around 10% versus 2008.
Against a background of strong sales and profit performance in Mainland Europe As in the case of Larivire, these divisions benefited from organic sales growth in 2008, when like for like turnover was up 4% in the year and 5% in H2, from trading sites opened in the previous three years as well as from another 2009s results were overall moderately encouraging.
Although sales and profits 7 sites opened in 2009. were well down on 2008, the region as a whole saw construction activity less impaired by the economic downturn than the uk or ireland, with sigs main the number of trading sites increased by 11 to 175 at the end of december 2009. western european countries of operation going into recession later and emerging from it earlier without the property bubble burst which was experienced in the in Poland and Central Europe 11% of sales in mainland europe, total sales in sterling uk and ireland.
fell by 27.2% and by 23.8% like for like in local currency.
As developing economies, the majority of them recent european union accession states, the countries in broadly speaking, residential new build and Rmi was down in mainland europe which sig is present in this region offer the prospect of above average sales and but tended to stabilise as the year unfolded, while non-residential activity declined profit growth in the medium term, but are prone to above average volatility.
less than many had expected.
in part this was due to the effect of government stimulus packages, notably in france, although the major support measures put in czech Republic, slovakia and hungary a variety of local political and exchange in place in germany by the federal government were much slower to take effect.
rate issues complicated the global macroeconomic pressures on the region, demand for industrial insulation from non-construction sectors also remained severely reducing construction activity and leading to substantial price deflation.
like for like sales in local currency in this sub-region, which represented 2.4% of mainland european sales in 2009, were down 42.3% against prior year.
in Germany and Austria 42% of sales in mainland europe total sales were the larger core business in poland, where the group has been present since 3.2% ahead of prior year in sterling, but down 7.2% in local currency and 1996 and which accounted for 8.6% of sales in Mainland Europe in the year, down 7.6% like for like in local currency.
overall construction activity in the traded in an increasingly weak market and suffered a reduction in like for like region in the groups segments is estimated to have been down around 10% sales in local currency of 20.5% compared with 2008.
Gross margins across on 2008, although the residential sector has been running at a low level for a the whole region were adversely affected by a combination of significant price number of years and experienced only modest further deterioration in 2009. deflation and temporary arbitraging across national borders occasioned by whilst our german operations outperformed the market again in all segments, exchange rate anomalies as well as by general competitive pressures.
the development of the Roofing division was particularly encouraging with like for like sales in Euros held at 2008 levels out of 4 fewer trading locations, and up 6% in h2 on the same basis.
indd 16 06 04 2010 14:10:45 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Focus, Specialisation and Service tRading highlights continued incremental net savings benefit by period mainland euRoPe 52% of total sales continued In light of the unfolding trading environment and forward prospects, significant restructuring measures were implemented in poland to secure greater operational efficiency and commercial effectiveness.
Management continues to have full confidence in the medium term outlook for its businesses in this region.
the number of trading sites decreased by 5 to 92 at the end of december 2009. sales in Benelux 6% of total sales in mainland europe were up by a substantial 11.8% in total in Sterling, and were held at 2008 level on a like for like basis in local currency.
the core business in benelux is focused on industrial insulation and interiors, and both divisions continued to perform well in 2009 against background market conditions in benelux which, in sigs sectors combined, are estimated to have been around 6% lower than prior year.
the number of trading sites increased by 2 to 14 at the end of december 2009. sales in Air Trade Centre, the european-wide air conditioning and air handling became warranted.
consistent with the overarching aims of maintaining customer business acquired in April 2008 and which is headquartered in Benelux, amounted service and defending market position, as appropriate, staffing and vehicles were to 4% of total sales in mainland europe.
this business provides sig with a platform cut back and trading locations merged or closed to protect profitability.
Such for growth in the field of the energy management of buildings, which is highly actions were taken in all of the groups countries and operating divisions, complementary to the groups insulation activities in energy saving and carbon although given the scale of the decline and the density of market coverage, reduction.
like for like sales in euros in Air trade centre in 2009 were 11% the impact of such changes was heaviest in the uk and ireland.
lower than in 2008, not all of which period was under SIG ownership.
In addition to seeking efficiencies in the Groups operations on a standalone the number of Air trade centre trading sites at 31 december 2009 was 12. basis, a number of further initiatives were implemented to increase commercial and operational efficiencies between some of the UK divisions.
These ranged cost saving and RestRuctuRing from site sharing between several trading locations in different divisions to the with its individual operating divisions affected differently by the downturn full merger under single management of the insulation and interiors distribution and being at different points in their business cycle, the group continued a businesses, and likewise of the previously separate roofing and roofline plastics differentiated approach to cost reduction whereby the performance, resources operating units.
in poland, all of the groups standalone businesses were merged employed and forward prospects of individual trading locations were kept under into a single entity with a unified management structure.
Furthermore, the Company regular review and pre-planned contingency measures implemented as these embarked on the complete reconfiguration of its UK Interiors manufacturing operations, with four previously autonomous businesses being re-formed annualised net cost savings of 100m implemented into a specialist uk manufacturing division, rationalising the product range Achieved savings by category and improving capacity utilisation by reducing the number of production facilities from twelve to six.
the impact of these carefully designed changes will become increasingly apparent in 2010, and will stand the Company in good stead to benefit from eventual market recovery.
outlook 2010 is set to be another challenging year, though one in which the rate of decline in most of sigs different market sectors and countries of operation should gradually level out as the year unfolds.
management and staff across the group are ready to deal with the challenges ahead, to continue to provide excellent service and value to our customers, to strengthen our position in our different markets, to look for opportunities for profitable growth, and to take full advantage of the upturn when it eventually comes.
indd 17 06 04 2010 14:10:46 18 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review COnTinUED Net borrowing costs benefited from the significant reduction in net debt in the period, reducing from 697.1m at 31 December 2008 to 254.5m at 31 december 2009. the reduction included: 325m of equity raised 103m reduction in working capital 43m reduction in capital expenditure financial Review Net borrowing costs benefited from the significant reduction in net debt in Revenue the period, reducing from 697.1m at 31 December 2008 to 254.5m at Sales fell by 10.2% overall or 310m to 2,744m 2008: 3,054m.
On a 31 december 2009. the reduction in net debt of 442.6m in the year included: constant currency basis, like for like sales fell by almost 16%.
the deterioration in the macroeconomic backdrop noted in the second half of 2008 continued 325m of equity raised via the issuance of 455,047,973 ordinary shares: further in 2009 and affected the demand for sigs products, with sig experiencing a like for like constant currency reduction in sales in all countries of operation, 103m reduction in working capital: and with the exception of benelux.
maRgins Gross profit margin decreased overall from 26.5% to 25.3%.
This reduction further details are provided in the cash flow and financial position section was partly due to the change in sales mix i. e. an increase in the proportion of on page 21. sales being achieved in mainland europe where margins are inherently lower.
In the UK and Ireland gross margin fell by 2% to 26.9% 2008: 28.9% whilst in in addition, given that 41% of the groups borrowings are at variable rates of Mainland Europe the gross margin increased by 0.3% to 23.8% 2008: 23.5%.
interest, the significant reduction in interest rates in 2009 UK and Euro base rates on a like for like constant currency basis the groups gross margin fell by 1.2%.
are currently at 0.5% and 1% respectively also had a beneficial impact on the groups interest charge in 2009. further details of sigs interest rate policies are underlying operating costs as a percentage of sales increased from 20.9% to provided in the interest rate risk section on page 25. finance costs relating to our 22.3% as the sales volume decline outpaced the benefit from the comprehensive defined benefit pension schemes amounted to 1.3m in 2009 2008: net finance range of cost reduction programmes.
further details are provided in note 27c to the Accounts on pages 103 to 106.
A combination of reduced gross margin and increased operating costs as a percentage of sales gave rise to a lower underlying operating margin of 2.9% finance costs included in the other items column of the consolidated income 2008: 5.6%.
As explained in the trading review section, the Group has taken Statement amounted to 3.9m 2008: 41.4m as outlined below: actions in 2008 and 2009 to ensure the cost base is appropriate in the short to medium term.
following the groups equity issuance in h1 2009 and the subsequent reduction in the groups level of net debt, sig cancelled certain interest rate derivative contracts oPeRating PRofit at a cash cost of 32m.
this termination payment did not increase the groups Underlying operating profit decreased by 52.4% or 88.9m to 80.9m.
Tougher overall level of debt as this payment cancelled the mark-to-market liability already trading conditions throughout 2009 resulted in like for like underlying operating profit included in the groups consolidated balance sheet.
The Group in reserves are being amortised through the consolidated income statement over recorded an operating loss of 32.5m 2008: operating profit of 107.0m the life of the associated debt to 2018 in line with relevant accounting standards.
reflecting a number of other items that are described on page 19. this amortisation is included within the other items column and amounted to 3.9m 2008: nil.
finance costs Net finance costs before gains and losses on derivative financial instruments finance income included in the other items column of the consolidated and financing items relating to our defined benefit pension schemes i. e. net Income Statement amounted to 1.4m 2008: nil.
borrowing costs reduced by 13.6m to 19.0m in 2009. the net borrowing cost as a percentage of average debt in issue during the year reduced from 5.5% to 4.75%.
indd 18 06 04 2010 14:10:46 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Focus, Specialisation and Service financial Review continued fluctuations in exchange rates have and will continue to give rise to translation finance costs continued differences on overseas earnings streams when translated into sterling.
whilst during 2009 the group continued to hedge its foreign exchange rate loans sterling appreciated against the euro at 31 december 2009 1.12 compared against the net assets of its overseas subsidiaries, together with the associated tax to 31 December 2008 1.03, on average, Sterling was weaker against the effects.
A 1.4m finance income credit 2008: cost of 41.4m is included within Euro during 2009 than in 2008. the other items column of the consolidated income statement to account for hedge ineffectiveness arising from this structure.
the group has taken actions As a result, the movement in average exchange rates compared to 2008 which will reduce the likelihood of being required to account for further hedge had a significant effect on total overseas earnings streams.
Total sales increased ineffectiveness in the consolidated income statement from these arrangements by 125m and underlying operating profit increased by 5m due to foreign going forward.
further details of sigs foreign exchange policies are detailed in the foreign currency risk section on pages 25 and 26.
PRofit BefoRe tax Underlying profit before tax decreased by 55.9% or 76.7m to 60.6m taxation 2008: 137.3m.
Profit before tax decreased by 88.4m to a loss before The income tax charge on underlying profits amounts to 18.0m 2008: 40.2m tax of 55.3m 2008: profit before tax of 33.1m.
which represents an underlying effective rate of 29.7% 2008: 29.3%.
The Groups underlying effective tax charge increased by 0.4% in 2009, driven principally by otheR items the increased proportion of Group profits attributable to the Groups Mainland Amounts included in the other items column of the consolidated income european countries of operation which on average have higher corporation tax Statement which in total amounted to 115.9m 2008: 104.2m before tax rates than the uk.
cash tax payments amounted to 16.5m, 1.5m below the are as follows: 18.0m income tax charge on underlying profits primarily as a result of the restructuring costs incurred in the year included within other items reducing amortisation of acquired intangibles 28.6m 2008: 26.4m.
The accounting UK taxable profits.
In 2010, the Groups underlying tax rate will depend on the policies section on page 72 and note 12 to the Accounts on page 90 mix of Group profits from different jurisdictions, although it is anticipated that the provide details of what is included within intangible assets and over what groups underlying tax rate in 2010 could exceed 30%.
the group however periods the assets are amortised: does anticipate cash tax payments in 2010 being below the income tax charge as the Group looks to utilise brought forward tax losses arising principally from 2008 impairment charge of 30.0m 2008: 14.2m following the continued foreign exchange rate losses in order to reduce UK taxable profits.
significant decline of construction activity in Ireland in 2009, in addition to the goodwill impairment charge of 14.2m recognised in 2008, when reviewing The effective income tax credit on the total loss before tax of 55.3m is 18.4% the carrying value of goodwill associated with sigs irish business, the group 2008: charge of 79.5%.
These movements are a result of the other items in the board has concluded that in light of the anticipated medium term view of year.
In both 2009 and 2008 tax relief was not obtained in respect of the goodwill profitability in respect of this business unit, that the assets should be further impairment charge and certain restructuring costs.
impaired by 30m in 2009: eaRnings PeR shaRe ePs restructuring costs of 54.8m 2008: 22.2m the Group has taken a number Underlying basic EPS amounted to 9.0p 2008: 58.9p, which represents a decrease of actions to reduce operating costs in the year as described further on page 17. of 84.7%.
Basic EPS amounted to a loss per share of 9.7p 2008: earnings per share these one-off actions have resulted in redundancy costs of 16.4m, property closure of 3.8p, which takes into account amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment costs of 23.2m, asset write down costs of 6.8m and other items of 8.4m: and charges, restructuring costs and gains and losses on derivative financial instruments.
the weighted average number of shares in issue in the period rose by 305.5m to net finance costs of 2.5m 2008: 41.4m.
The finance costs section opposite 469.4m 2008: 163.9m.
This increase was primarily due to the placing and open explains this item.
offer and firm placing of 455,047,973 ordinary shares approved by shareholders on 9 April 2009. foReign cuRRency tRanslation in accordance with paragraph 26 of iAs 33 earnings per share the group has treated overseas earnings streams are translated at the average rate of exchange for the the discount element to the open offer part of the increase in share capital as if it were a year whilst balance sheets are translated using closing rates.
the table below sets bonus issue.
the effect of this is to increase the weighted average number of shares for out the principal exchange rates used: the reported prior period, with a resulting reduction in the reported basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2008.
indd 19 06 04 2010 14:10:46 20 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review COnTinUED The Groups cash flow from operating activities amounted to 174.1m 2008: 156.0m.
this represents a trading cash conversion ratio of 216% and is a significant improvement on the 97% achieved in 2008. financial Review continued Pension schemes dividends In total, the Group operates five defined benefit pension schemes: the largest the board continues to review sigs dividend policy in response to the defined benefit pension scheme is a funded scheme held in the UK.
The remaining ongoing challenging trading conditions that the group continues to face.
four defined benefit pension schemes are unfunded book reserve schemes held the board has decided that it is in the best interests of shareholders not to pay in the Groups Mainland European businesses.
Together the UK defined benefit a dividend in 2009. the board remains committed to a progressive dividend scheme and the four book reserved schemes are referred to as defined benefit policy and sig will resume dividend payments when markets stabilise and it pension schemes.
believes it is prudent to do so taking into account the groups earnings, cash flow and balance sheet position.
In addition to the defined benefit pension schemes, the Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
acquisitions whilst acquisitions remain a key component of sigs long term growth strategy, SIG contributed 2.4m 2008: 10.2m into its five 2008: five defined benefit as a result of the global financial crisis and difficult trading conditions in the pension schemes during the year.
The total charge in respect of defined benefit majority of its markets, sig temporarily ceased its acquisition programme in pension schemes to the Consolidated Income Statement was 2.9m 2008: 1.7m : September 2008.
The acquisition programme has remained on hold throughout of this total 1.6m 2008: 1.8m was charged to operating expenses and 1.3m 2009 and as a result, no acquisitions have been completed this year.
was charged to net finance costs 2008: 0.1m credited to net finance income.
the board will be very careful in its consideration regarding the most appropriate The overall gross defined benefit pension schemes liability increased during time to recommence its acquisitions programme.
this can be broken down as follows: increase in respect of prior year acquisitions, 3.9m was paid in 2009 relating to deferred decrease contingent consideration payments.
in pension scheme liability m shaReholdeRs funds Actual return less expected return on assets 7.9 Shareholders funds increased by 212.6m to 829.6m 2008: 617.0m.
Change in financial assumptions in all schemes 12.6 the increase comprised the following elements: m Profit and loss charge above cash contributions to the schemes 0.5 loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the company 45.6 exchange gain 0.3 exchange differences on assets and liabilities after tax 43.3 increase in pension scheme liability 4.9 movements attributable to share options 1.3 Actuarial loss on pension schemes net of deferred tax 3.4 There have been a number of changes in financial assumptions in 2009, the key items being a decrease in the discount rate used to value the pension scheme liabilities from Gains and losses on cash flow hedges 18.8 6.2% to 5.7% and changes in the assumptions relating to the settlement of liabilities.
new equity share capital issued 325.0 increase in shareholders funds 212.6 the group continues to monitor the life expectancy assumptions used to value its pension scheme liabilities.
For the UK defined benefit pension scheme, the life expectancy for a male employee beyond the normal retirement age of 60 is 28.5 years 2008: 28.5 years, which is considered appropriate for a scheme of this nature.
indd 20 06 04 2010 14:10:46 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 Focus, Specialisation and Service financial Review continued as trading conditions continue to remain challenging the Group significantly Pension schemes continued reduced investment in new vehicles and new trading sites in the year.
The cost of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes decreased by net capital expenditure amounted to 9.5m in 2009 compared to 52.9m 12% 0.6m to 4.3m.
details of the pension schemes operated by sig are in 2008.
For the year as a whole the net capital expenditure to depreciation set out in note 27c to the Accounts on pages 103 to 106. ratio amounted to 0.24 times 2008: 1.24 times.
Where possible the Group has redeployed certain assets from trading sites which have been closed in cash flow and financial Position both 2008 and 2009: and The Group has significantly reduced its level of net debt during the year via the raising of 325m of equity proceeds in April 2009 but also through excellent cash as a result of the strengthening of sterling versus sigs foreign currencies during generation in the year.
the following table explains the movement in sigs net debt: 2009, the Groups reported Sterling debt position benefited from an exchange gain of 19.5m during the year.
the principal currency to which the group has 2009 2008 exposure is the euro and this moved from 1.03 at the start of the year to m m 1.12 at the end of the year.
during 2009 the group converted 95m of euro Cash flow from operating activities 174.1 156.0 denominated debt into sterling denominated debt at a blended rate of 1.10. interest and tax 37.9 63.4 however, these foreign exchange rate gains were more than offset by fair value movements associated with the groups private placement derivative maintenance capital expenditure 9.5 42.6 financial instruments of 24.5m, which increased the Groups reported debt Free cash flow available for investment 126.7 50.0 position at 31 december 2009.
Acquisition investment including loan notes issued to vendors 3.9 123.2 investment capital expenditure 10.3 The Groups cash flow from operating activities amounted to 174.1m 2008: 156.0m.
This represents a trading cash conversion ratio of 216% dividends including minority dividends 0.2 37.2 and is a significant improvement on the 97% achieved in 2008.
Trading cash proceeds from issue of share capital 325.0 1.1 conversion is defined as cash flow from operating activities before pension foreign exchange gains losses 19.5 154.3 movements divided by underlying operating profit and is a key measure that other items including fair value movements 24.5 5.7 will continue to be a matter of high focus in 2010. movement in net debt 442.6 268.2 the key working capital ratios underlying the trading cash conversion are set out opening net debt 697.1 428.9 below on a like for like constant currency basis: Closing net debt 254.5 697.1 2009 2008 where capital expenditure is equal to or less than depreciation, all capital expenditure inventory days 40 39 is assumed to be maintenance capital expenditure.
to the extent that capital expenditure trade receivable days 44 43 exceeds depreciation, the balance is considered investment capital expenditure.
capital trade payable days 36 28 expenditure shown above includes finance leases drawn down in each year.
during 2009, sigs working capital targets were successful in reducing inventory Cash flow from operating activities and trade receivables and increasing trade payables across the group.
174.1m the groups bad debt charge being both bad debts written off and the movement in the allowance for bad debt amounted to 0.8% of sales 2008: 0.6% of sales.
07 160.3m the group is very mindful of the risk of bad debts increasing as the economies in which it operates continue to remain weak, construction activity remains subdued 08 156.0m and that the groups customer base is at risk of having credit withdrawn by banks.
the groups credit control policies and procedures are regularly reviewed and a 09 174.1m number of the groups businesses have credit insurance to protect them from bad debts rising above prescribed aggregate loss levels.
deBt covenants the companys debt facilities contain a number of covenants attached to sigs key points to note are: committed debt facilities.
the key covenants are leverage and interest cover and these are tested at 30 june and 31 december each year.
included within Cash flow from operating activities is a significant reduction in working capital of 103.3m 2008: increase of 33.4m, which relates to a the leverage covenant is a requirement to maintain a ratio of net debt to reduction in trade receivables and stock but also an increase in trade creditors: annualised EBITDA of less than 3.5 times.
Annualised EBITDA is defined as operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment charges, included within Cash flow from operating activities is a cash outflow depreciation and restructuring costs, plus interest receivable and adjusted if representing the cash costs associated with the groups cost saving and applicable to annualise the ebitdA of acquisitions made during the previous restructuring programme amounting to 27.1m 2008: 7.2m : twelve months.
indd 21 06 04 2010 14:10:47 22 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review COnTinUED the commitment, drive and enthusiasm of all sigs employees are its greatest asset and sigs ability to meet the demands of its customers, suppliers and shareholders is dependent upon their efforts.
financial Review continued the groups leverage was 3.1x, against a maximum covenant of 3.5x.
given the deBt covenants continued uncertainty that surrounded the groups trading environment for 2009, in order the interest cover covenant is a requirement to maintain a ratio of the previous to ensure that the group did not breach its debt covenants sig raised 325m twelve months underlying operating profit to underlying net finance costs excluding following the issuance of 455,047,973 new ordinary shares of 75p each through pension scheme finance income and costs of greater than 3.0 times.
a placing and open offer and firm placing approved by shareholders on 9 April 2009. on a pro-forma basis, this reduced the groups leverage position from 3.1x at the ratio for each of the debt covenants is set out below: 31 December 2008 to 1.6x at that date.
At 31 December 2009, the Groups leverage position is 2.0x.
year ended year ended 31 December 31 december outlook leverage covenant 2009 2008 the directors view of the outlook and prospects for the group are set out Annualised ebitdA 127.1m 227.0m in the chairmans statement on page 5. closing net debt 254.5m 697.1m leverage ratio 2.0x 3.1x ResouRces emPloyees year ended year ended the commitment, drive and enthusiasm of all sigs employees are its greatest 31 December 31 december asset and sigs ability to meet the demands of its customers, suppliers and interest cover covenant 2009 2008 shareholders is dependent upon their efforts.
throughout sig, regardless Underlying operating profit 80.9m 169.8m of country or sector, we believe our people are recognised as the best in their Underlying net finance costs 19.0m 32.6m particular field.
SIGs policy and strategy towards its employees is detailed further in the corporate Responsibility Report on page 43. training, coaching and the interest cover ratio 4.3x 5.2x opportunity for personal career advancement within the company are important features of how sig seeks to recruit, retain and develop skilled staff.
Excluding pension scheme finance income and costs.
BRand stRength The Company is in compliance with its financial covenants in all respects and has sig operates under a wide range of trading names in the respective markets not requested or gained any waivers thereof.
and countries in which it has trading sites.
caPital stRuctuRe Many of these brands, including the original company name, Sheffield Insulations, the group manages its capital structure to ensure that entities in the group are widely recognised throughout their respective market sectors or countries will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to as the leading supplier, offering very focused products and services to customers.
stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
the capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed sig believes that the strength and market awareness of its brands are important assets.
in note 17, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as comPetitive Position detailed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 70. sig aims to occupy leading positions as a specialist supplier in each of its main markets of insulation and building environments, exteriors, interiors and specialist the main measure used to assess the appropriateness of the groups capital structure construction products.
A position of market leadership has been achieved in a is its net debt to ebitdA ratio i. e. leverage, thus ensuring that the groups capital number of specific markets.
Operations in the other countries and market sectors structure is aligned to the Groups debt covenants.
As at 31 December 2008, are continuing to develop their position.
indd 22 06 04 2010 14:10:47 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Focus, Specialisation and Service ResouRces continued sig is exposed to changes in the level of activity and therefore demand from these inventoRy industries.
government policy and expenditure plans, private investor decisions, immediate availability of a wide range of specialist materials is vital to the the general economic climate and both business and to a lesser extent consumer customers served by sig.
confidence are all factors which can influence the level of building activity and therefore the demand for many of sigs products.
materials are often required within hours on an emergency basis.
for example, when a roof leaks and immediate repairs are necessary to prevent damage to Approximately 10% of SIGs sales are made into specific industrial applications, the building and its contents, or in a chemical processing plant where a pipeline especially where there are temperature critical processes and the use of highly becomes dangerously overheated due to a breakdown of the insulation.
in both specialist insulation is an important part of the process plant itself.
these industries of these examples, customers have an unplanned, emergency need for specific include power generation, oil and gas processing, chemical, pharmaceutical and and specialist products in order to prevent substantial damage and costs.
A fundamental feature of sigs position in the supply chain is having these sig is exposed to activity levels and therefore demand for some of its products within products, in depth, in strategically located trading sites to ensure customer these diverse industries.
these industries would, in turn, be affected by the general requirements can be met.
economic climate, energy demand and energy costs and business investment decisions in major industries such as power generation and petrochemicals.
tRading sites sig has an extensive network of trading sites as demonstrated in the chart on comPetitoRs page 11. these are an important resource and an important feature of the sig sig has a mix of both direct specialist competition and some overlap with more business model in each country of operation, as they enable the local market general suppliers such as general builders merchants in all its markets and countries surrounding each trading site to be serviced on an immediate availability basis.
As a distributor handling and supplying products manufactured by As part of the groups cost saving and restructuring programme, 72 sites have other companies, sig is itself dependent upon other companies for in excess been closed in 2009 152 since mid 2008.
As part of the consultation process, of 90% of the products that it sells.
some of sigs competitors may be funded when identifying trading sites for closure, particular attention has been focused in such a way that they are willing to accept lower financial returns than SIG on ensuring that the closure of these trading sites has not affected the groups or have a greater breadth of resources than sig in particular market sectors.
service offering to its customers.
Competition with these companies could adversely affect SIGs profitability and or, financial condition.
for customers conducting work on a regional or national basis in each country, sig can provide a full national service using locally held inventory, thus avoiding however, the majority of products that are sold by sig are relatively bulky and the time and cost penalties of shipping products over large distances.
inexpensive in relation to their mass and the cost of transport.
this means that the risk faced by sig of price disruption and possible cross border or international fleet deliveRy caPaBility trading having a detrimental impact on prices in any particular country is low.
sig uses a mix of own delivery vehicles and external hire to deliver goods to similarly, the risk posed by internet-based trading dependent upon parcel-carrier customers.
this enables availability and service to customers to be maximised service is mitigated by the bulky nature of most of the products sold by sig and whilst ensuring that the cost base is flexible to cope with periods of higher or the fact that specialist handling and delivery services are an important feature of lower daily demand.
the service provided by sig to many customers.
The direct ownership of a large proportion of the fleet and the management infoRmation technology it of this resource on a local basis is an important feature of the speed, flexibility sig uses a range of computer systems to provide order processing, inventory and responsiveness that sig offers to customers.
control and financial management within each country.
Outages and interruptions could affect sigs ability to conduct day-to-day operations.
Any lengthy failure or PRinciPal Risks and unceRtainties disruption to the it system in any business unit or country would result in loss of there are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a sales and delays to cash flow.
Interruption to SIGs IT systems could be caused by a material impact on sigs long term performance.
sig has a comprehensive number of factors, including as a result of human error or malfeasance, malfunction, system of risk management installed in all parts of its business.
the processes are damage, fire or power loss.
There can be no certainty that recovery plans and described in detail on page 54 of the corporate governance Report.
contingency plans will be effective in the event that they need to be activated.
sigs it systems are not interdependent and there are dedicated support staff levels of maRket demand in the Building and directly employed, together with external support service providers, to monitor constRuction maRkets in which sig oPeRates the it systems.
Approximately 90% of sigs sales are made to the building, construction and civil engineering industries.
commeRcial RelationshiPs sig is exposed to changes in relationships with both customers and suppliers.
these industries are driven by private and government expenditure and include failure to negotiate competitive terms of business with its suppliers or failure major new construction projects e. g. airports, hospitals, schools and sports to satisfy the needs of its customers could harm the groups business.
it is a complexes, new residential housing developments and a wide range of key task for the operational management in each country and business unit renovation, upgrading and repair work on existing buildings.
to maintain and develop their relationships with customers and suppliers.
indd 23 06 04 2010 14:10:47 24 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review COnTinUED PRinciPal Risks and unceRtainties continued the group negotiates purchase prices with its suppliers.
the ability of sig cRedit Risk to secure satisfactory terms of trade in these negotiations is key to its ability to sig, by the nature of its position in the supply chain, buys products from highly supply the products to its customers at competitive prices.
Rising product prices reputable suppliers in bulk and sells the products to a wide variety of professional are advantageous for sig as the groups standard gross margin is achieved on contractors on credit terms.
there is a risk that customers do not pay as the typical a higher selling price resulting in improved overhead recovery, thus providing customer does not have many assets.
sig has therefore developed well proven a higher underlying operating profit margin.
Rising prices may also provide SIG credit control guidelines and procedures that are designed to minimise its credit risk with the opportunity to benefit from inventory gains whereby inventory is whilst trying to maximise sales potential.
for the year ended 31 december 2009 bought at the lower price and sold on at the higher price.
bad debt expense increased to 0.8% of sales 2008: 0.6% of sales reflecting the more challenging economic conditions faced by many of the groups customers.
conversely, falling product prices are disadvantageous for sig.
in recent years, product price inflation across the basket of SIG products has been positive rather cRedit insuReRs than negative, although in 2009, the Group has experienced price deflation A number of the groups suppliers insure their credit exposure to sig with of 2.3%.
a small number of credit insurers.
likewise sig also insures its credit exposure in relation to a number of its customers.
these credit insurers could withdraw there is an additional risk that disruption in the supply chain, for example due their cover on sig or its customers which would affect the trading relationship to the insolvency of a supplier, industrial action or adverse weather conditions, between SIG, its suppliers or its customers and potentially the profitability of SIG.
This could lead to SIG being unable to fulfil certain commitments and this could lead to a material adverse effect on sigs reputation, RestRuctuRing of sig business, results of operations and overall financial condition.
Since 1 July 2008 the Group has actively taken steps to align its cost base in those markets where short to medium term demand is expected to remain identification and integRation of acquisitions subdued and also to drive operational and commercial efficiencies within the The Groups long term growth strategy is partly dependent upon the identification group.
there is a risk that the restructuring plans may not achieve their goals of appropriate acquisition opportunities at appropriate prices and the successful and may cost more than anticipated.
integration of acquisitions into the group.
failure to identify, acquire and integrate new acquisitions could adversely affect the growth of the groups business in the goveRnment legislation long term.
sig operates in a number of countries across europe, each with its own laws and regulations, encompassing environmental, legal, health and safety, employment and sig commits dedicated resources to the research of new markets, the origination tax matters.
changes in these laws and regulations could impact on sigs ability of appropriate acquisition targets and the execution of appropriate due diligence to conduct its business, or make such conduct of business more costly.
and the contract negotiation process.
post acquisition, sig constantly evaluates the management structures of its businesses to ensure that appropriate sig is committed to complying with all local legal requirements and the clear management time can be dedicated to new businesses.
devolution of responsibility to local operating management, together with the employment of competent advisers.
changes to legislation are monitored loss of key management oR PeRsonnel locally and appropriate actions taken to ensure they are incorporated into the the groups businesses are highly reliant on the continued services of its companys business policies and procedures.
senior management, including its executive directors and other key personnel.
These individuals possess sales and marketing, technical, manufacturing, financial tRansPoRt and fuel PRices and administrative skills that are important to the continued successful operation in excess of 70% of sigs sales are delivered to customers.
prolonged disruption of the groups business.
sig is also reliant on the ability to recruit and retain to road transport systems or the availability of vehicle fuel would result in reduced skilled and experienced labour available within the industry at an operational level.
sales in any country in which this may occur.
In addition, a significant increase in fuel prices can affect profitability.
failure to retain such individuals, or the failure to attract and retain strong management and technical staff in the future, could have an adverse effect upon the groups PRoduct availaBility and PRoduct PRices business, results of its operations and financial condition.
the availability and market prices of products that the group supplies can change.
These changes can adversely affect the Groups sales and operating profits.
PRoduct defect claims high product quality is an important reason why customers buy products if product demand outstrips supply, be it due to demand rising or supply falling, from sig.
the inadvertent supply of defective or inferior products by sig there could be a negative impact on the groups ability to service its customers to its customers could have an adverse impact on the companys reputation needs.
The factories that produce fibrous insulation products take a number and standing, thereby harming the Companys business and financial results.
of years to build and so if demand exceeds the production capacity, product the group takes care to source products selectively to ensure any possible shortages could result.
the group keeps in regular contact with its suppliers risk associated with product quality issues is minimised.
to ensure that it protects its position regarding product availability and product pricing.
the group also sources its products from a number of manufacturers in order to reduce its reliance upon any one manufacturer.
indd 24 06 04 2010 14:10:47 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 Focus, Specialisation and Service tReasuRy Risk management In order to mitigate the risk of not being able to meet its financial obligations, tReasuRy Risk SIG seeks a balance between certainty of funding and a flexible, cost-effective SIG enters into derivative financial instruments principally foreign currency and borrowing structure, using a mixture of sources of funding in order to reduce interest rate swaps to hedge certain currency risks arising from sigs operations the risk of being over reliant upon any one provider.
The key sources of finance and to hedge interest expenses arising from SIGs sources of finance.
SIGs financial are private placement note providers, being mainly us-based pension funds instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources and principal bankers, the Royal bank of scotland plc, barclays bank plc and and various items such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly lloyds tsb bank plc.
the last private placement transaction completed on from its operations.
1 november 2006 increased the certainty of the groups debt funding, providing a committed 7, 10 and 12 year facility.
sigs finance and treasury policies set out the companys approach to managing treasury risk.
these policies are approved by the board on a regular basis.
it is there is a risk that funding will not be made available to the group or that the Company policy that no trading in financial instruments or speculative transactions cost of accessing and servicing the funding may be prohibitive.
To minimise the credit risk associated with derivative financial reduction in net debt in 2009 driven largely by the raising of 325m via a placing instruments, SIG only enters derivative financial instruments with its principal and open offer and firm placing increases the Groups ability to raise and service uk banks.
SIG finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, Shareholders As at 31 december 2009, sig had undrawn uk committed borrowing facilities from equity, bank, private placement and other borrowings.
sig uses derivative its debt providers of 210.0m 2008: 79.6m.
In addition, at 31 December 2009, financial instruments to change the Groups currency and interest rate profile, the Group held positive cash on deposit of 219.4m 2008: 71.7m which it so managing SIGs exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations.
can call upon to meet any future financial obligations.
A small proportion of SIGs assets are funded using fixed rate finance lease contracts.
At 31 december 2009 outstanding liabilities in respect of such the group has 145m of bank borrowings due for repayment in 2010. in order contracts amounted to 9.4m 2008: 12.6m.
to meet this repayment requirement, the group has undrawn uk committed facilities expiring in 2011 and 2013 of 175m and also 219m cash held on The Groups financial liabilities including derivative financial assets at deposit at 31 december 2009, creating a funding surplus of 249m.
the group 31 December 2009 of 473.9m 2008: 768.8m can be analysed as follows: therefore does not envisage refinancing its debt facilities which mature in 2010.
141.3m 2008: 151.3m has a maturity profile of greater than five years: The year end maturity profile and value of undrawn committed borrowing facilities are set out in Note 18 to the Accounts on pages 96 to 97.
217.0m 2008: 393.7m is denominated in foreign currencies, held to partially hedge the assets of our overseas businesses: foReign cuRRency Risk sig has a number of overseas businesses whose revenues and costs are denominated 151.2m 2008: 443.1m carries a fixed rate of interest: and in the currencies in which the operations are located.
55% of sigs 2009 revenues were in foreign currencies, being primarily euros, polish Zloty, czech koruna and 460.2m 2008: 749.2m is borrowed on an unsecured basis.
the vast majority of sigs sales and purchases are not cross-border.
when cross-border transactions occur it is sigs policy to eliminate currency exposure Details of derivative financial instruments are shown in Note 17 to the Accounts at that time through forward currency contracts, if the exposure is considered to on pages 93 to 95. be material.
inteRest Rates sig faces a translation risk in respect of the local currencies of its primary foreign the companys interest costs in respect of its borrowings will increase in operations, being Euro, Polish Zloty, Czech Koruna and Hungarian Forint profits.
the event of rising interest rates.
to reduce this risk the company has a policy sig also faces a translation risk from the us dollar in respect of its private of fixing between 60% and 85% of its net debt by entering into appropriate placement borrowings.
However, due to the unprecedented low interest rate environment which has prevailed throughout 2009, in order to reduce the the consolidated balance sheet of the group is inherently at risk from movements groups interest charge in 2009, the group has held a greater proportion of its in the sterling value of its net investments in foreign businesses and the sterling debt at variable rates of interest.
At 31 December 2009, 59% 31 December 2008: value of its foreign currency net debt.
64% of the Groups net debt is at fixed rates of interest.
liquidity Risk and financial facilities Liquidity risk is the risk that SIG is unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
in the longer term, a substantial reduction in operating performance and cash generation may result in the group being unable to service its debt, which would have a material adverse effect on the groups business.
indd 25 06 04 2010 14:10:47 26 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review COnTinUED gearing decreased during the year from 112.6% to 30.6%.
the reduction in gearing was largely due to the increase in capital employed and subsequent reduction in group debt arising from the group raising 325m of equity proceeds.
tReasuRy Risk management continued to Annualised ebitdA of less than 3.5x.
the interest cover covenant is a foReign cuRRency Risk continued requirement to maintain a ratio of previous twelve-month underlying operating For currencies where the Group has significant translational risk, SIG seeks profit to underlying net finance costs excluding pension scheme finance income to mitigate this risk by combining financial liabilities and derivatives in currencies and costs of greater than 3.0x.
At 31 december 2009, the groups leverage that partially hedge the net investment values.
the groups policy is that for was 2.0x 2008: 3.1x and interest cover was 4.3x 2008: 5.2x.
currencies where a material translational exposure exists, the group will hold financial liabilities in that particular currency in proportion to the overall ratio sig must manage its business and its capital structure so that it meets its debt of net debt to capital employed.
covenants, thus ensuring it can meet its liabilities as they fall due.
At 31 december 2009, sig had net foreign currency borrowings including gains and losses on deRivative financial cash and cash equivalents amounting to 179.4m and huf111.2m.
the group instRuments also had cash and cash equivalents amounting to PLN47.6m and CZK98.1m at the group has a number of treasury hedging arrangements that attempt to that date.
eliminate foreign exchange, interest rate and associated tax risks under the terms of sigs treasury policy.
where these hedges are deemed imperfect or where net euro borrowings at 31 december 2009 therefore represent 63% of group exceptional gains and losses arise, then these are included within other items net debt.
in the middle column of the consolidated income statement.
further details are set out on in the Finance costs section on pages 18 and 19. gearing, being net debt divided by net assets, decreased during the year from 112.6% to 30.6%.
the reduction in gearing was largely due to the increase in otheR matteRs capital employed and subsequent reduction in group debt arising from the group shaReholdeR RetuRn raising 325m of equity proceeds from the issuance of 455,047,973 shares via SIG has delivered a 5.3% return on capital employed in 2009 2008: 10.9%.
a placing and open offer and firm placing.
the reduction in the return on capital employed compared to the prior year primarily reflects the reduced operating profits in the Group in light of the the net after tax effect on the consolidated balance sheet of currency transaction challenging trading environment and also the increased level of capital employed and translation differences relating to our overseas subsidiaries in 2009 was a following the groups raising of 325m additional equity through the placing reduction in net assets of 40.6m 2008: increase of 37.9m.
This reduction and open offer and firm placing in April 2009. in net assets arose principally as a result of the 8.7% year on year appreciation of sterling versus the euro 1.12 at 31 december 2009 versus 1.03 at SIG is mindful of this reduction in return and is confident that the restructuring 31 December 2008, thus decreasing the carrying value of SIGs net investments actions it has taken and its ongoing actions will enable it to increase return on in its euro denominated businesses.
capital employed when building and construction activity upturns.
deBt covenants As at 17 march 2010, sigs share price closed at 1.274 per share, representing sigs debt facilities provided by its private placement note holders and its three a market capitalisation of 753m at that date.
sig monitors relative total shareholder relationship banks in the uk contain certain covenants.
the key covenants are Return TSR for assessing relative financial performance.
The Groups TSR leverage and interest cover and are tested at 30 june and 31 december each performance has been detailed in the directors Remuneration Report on year.
the leverage covenant is a requirement to maintain a ratio of net debt page 60.
indd 26 06 04 2010 14:10:47 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 Focus, Specialisation and Service otheR matteRs continued this business Review and other sections of this Report contain forward looking going conceRn Basis statements that are subject to risk factors including the economic and business in determining whether the groups 2009 Accounts can be prepared on a circumstances occurring from time to time in countries and markets in which going concern basis, the directors considered all factors likely to affect its future the group operates and risk factors associated with the building and construction development, performance and its financial position, including cash flows, liquidity sectors.
by their nature, forward looking statements involve a number of risks, position and borrowing facilities and the risks and uncertainties relating to its uncertainties and assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on business activities.
these are set out in the chairmans statement and business circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual Review on pages 4 to 27 and in the notes to the group Accounts.
results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward looking statements.
no assurance can be given that the forward the key factors considered by the directors were as follows: looking statements in this business Review will be realised.
statements about the directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions and strategies are the implications of the challenging economic environment and continuing inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions weak levels of market demand in the building and construction markets on the as to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases Groups revenues and profits.
The Group prepares forecasts and projections outside the companys control.
Actual results could differ materially from the of revenues, profits and cash flows on a regular basis.
Whilst this is essential companys current expectations.
for targeting performance and identifying areas of focus for management to improve performance and mitigate the possible adverse impact of a it is believed that the expectations set out in these forward looking statements deteriorating economic outlook, these also provide projections of working are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which capital requirements: could cause actual results or trends to differ materially, including but not limited to, changes in risks associated with the level of market demand, fluctuations in the impact of the competitive environment within which the groups product pricing and changes in exchange and interest rates.
businesses operate: the forward looking statements should be read in particular in the context the availability and market prices of the goods that the group sells: of the specific risk factors for the Company identified on pages 23 to 26 of this business Review.
the companys shareholders are cautioned not to place the credit risk associated with the groups trade receivable balances: undue reliance on the forward looking statements.
this business Review has not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
The information contained the potential actions that could be taken in the event that revenues are worse in this business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and than expected, to ensure that operating profit and cash flows are protected: and information available to directors at the date of its preparation and the company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise this business Review the committed finance facilities available to the Group.
The Group has access during the financial year ahead.
to a variety of bi-lateral banking facilities to meet day-to-day working capital requirements.
At 31 december 2009, the group had undrawn facilities of 210m.
the group also had cash held on deposit at 31 december 2009 amounting to 219.4m.
having considered all the factors above impacting the groups businesses, Chris DaviEs GarETh DaviEs including downside sensitivities, the Directors are satisfied that the Group ChiEF ExECUTivE FinanCE DirECTOr will be able to operate within the terms and conditions of the group financing facilities for the foreseeable future.
the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the groups 2009 Accounts.
cautionaRy statement this business Review has been prepared to provide the companys shareholders with a fair review of the business of the group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing it.
it may not be relied upon by anyone, including the companys shareholders, for any other purpose.
