Our Orthopaedics business reported revenues of $2,135 million in the year, an underlying increase of 1%.
R3 Acetabular System Business Reviews Orthopaedics Orthopaedics comprises reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies products.
Orthopaedic reconstruction implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement and mixing systems used in cemented reconstruction joint surgery.
Orthopaedic trauma fixation products consist of internal and external devices and other products, including shoulder fixation and orthobiological materials used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correction procedures.
Clinical therapies products are those that are applied in an orthopaedic office or clinic setting and include bone growth stimulation, joint fluid therapies and outpatient spine products.
In the US, Orthopaedic revenues grew by 2% to $1,154 million, in Europe revenues were down 4% and they grew 6% in the rest of the world.
Orthopaedic Reconstruction grew revenues at 2%, compared to the market rate of 4%.
In the US, Reconstruction revenues grew by 5%.
In Europe revenues fell by 4%.
We have strengthened our management team and they are implementing a series of operational improvements.
In the rest of the world our emerging market business remained strong throughout the year and we opened our first surgeon training centre in Shanghai, China.
Globally, our knee segment grew by 3% and our hip segment grew by 1%.
Our new products, such as the R3 Acetabular System, and traditional hip and knee ranges, such as the LEGION Total Knee System, have performed well.
Our products which are targeted at younger, more active patients have not fared as well due in part to a greater exposure to the impact of the global recession.
Our R3 Acetabular System in hips and VISIONAIRE Patient Matched Instrumentation sets are now being launched in Europe and Australia.
Pricing pressure increased modestly from previous years as healthcare payers have reacted to the economic climate.
We completed the US Deferred Prosecution Agreement in March and have continued to enhance our ethics and compliance programme globally.
Orthopaedic Trauma revenues were $414 million with flat underlying growth.
This performance was impacted by the relative weakness of the external fixation market, where Smith & Nephew has a strong position, and by some military orders we received in 2008 which were not repeated.
We are focused on improving our sales and marketing execution to gain further growth from our strong product range.
Clinical Therapies revenues were down 3% to $235 million reflecting economic conditions and increased competitive pressures.
Orthopaedics trading margin in the year was 23.8%, a 150 basis point improvement over the prior year and benefited from operational improvements such as the results of rationalising our European infrastructure.
We have also commenced construction of a new orthopaedic manufacturing plant in Beijing, China.
8 Smith & Nephew Summary Annual Review 2009 Summary Shareholder Summary Financial Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Statements Remuneration Report
