A full roll out across our remaining European and relationships with third parties, such as Salford Universitys Asia Pacific markets has been scheduled for this fiscal year.
Centre for Rehabilitation and Human Performance We have also extended our Durex Play 2in1 Research, one of the worlds leading bodies in podiatry.
Massage range to include Durex Play 2in1 Massage Mousse This long-term alliance matches the Universitys expertise and Durex Play 2in1 Massage Melts.
Consumer insight from and knowledge of feet with Scholls in-depth understanding the Durex Sexual Wellbeing Global Survey demonstrated of consumer needs and how to meet them.
It allows us to that both men and women enjoy the benefits of massage grow the brand, invest in innovation and make foot science and frequently incorporate it into their sex lives.
These more accessible and relevant to consumers.
products have been launched with that in mind, and are A key recent addition to our footcare portfolio further evidence of Durexs commitment to excitement is the Orthaheel brand and technology state of the art and variety in bedrooms across the world.
orthotic insoles that correct foot alignment and relieve Durex condoms are the world leader: we continue heel and knee pain.
Drawing on this expertise a new Scholl to deliver steady growth both from existing and new markets Biomechanics range has been successfully rolled out this a trend we believe can continue even in the current year across our global markets and will be key to unifying economic climate, as we leverage both our category our Scholl footcare and footwear brands in the minds of knowledge and expanding geographical reach.
Scholl Biomechanics with Orthaheel technology, have launched our thinnest ever latex condom in the USA like many Scholl footcare products, is targeting a market and across a number of our Asia Pacific markets, including that has real growth potential, and by advertising and Taiwan, Singapore and Malaysia.
The condom provides educating consumers to its benefits should generate and enhanced sensitivity and is already very successful in sustain strong, long-term sales.
Scholl footwear Scholl footcare The past year has seen the Scholl footwear business Scholl too is a world-leading brand in footcare.
Our success maintain its position as the market leader in European over the past year comes from three key areas: strong pharmacies, while using its technological expertise and sales growth from core products: a healthy new product appreciation of style and fashion to begin to increase development pipeline: and the acquisition of an innovative distribution in the mainstream foot trade channel.
technology that is opening up a new consumer market.
Our consumer research shows that people have Scholl Nail Brightening System Perfect Nail five basic needs for comfort in footwear shock absorption, Treatment is becoming a great success in markets across anatomy and ergonomics, exercise effect, massage Europe, while Scholl Party Feet also continues to perform benefits and lightness and are the basis for innovative strongly in European markets.
This year has also seen the new designs that are starting to reach consumers.
The launch of a new Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream K Scholl Bioprint sandal, for instance, concentrates on which contains the regenerative agent, Keratin, to stimulate anatomy and ergonomics to make walking easier and skin cell regrowth and the Scholl Cracked Heel ProFile.
help the foot support itself naturally.
Our latest innovation uses a novel technology.
Consumer demand for footwear that brings The recently launched Deo-Activ Fresh, developed by the exceptional massage benefits is being answered with the Scholl Innovation team, kills bacteria known to cause foot launch this year of the LiquiMassage range.
Our research efforts also encompass important ridges on the footbed are covered with ultra-thin membrane Scholl Deo-Activ Fresh The recently launched Scholl DeoActiv Fresh is a perfect example of how the Scholl brand matches innovation with consumer needs.
A deodorising footspray that instantly kills bacteria known to cause foot odour, it will further enhance the brands footcare offering.
16 17 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 new product pads of lubricating fluid that allow the foot to be massaged to stimulate blood circulation and relieve tiredness.
Advances in footwear technology act as core increase in design benefits that can be incorporated across the whole Footcare sales footwear range.
Thus comfort and foot wellbeing marry perfectly with style and fashion in products such as the latest range of Scholl Pescura exercise sandal and the Scholl by Dolcini range.
Such products are destined for department 11.4% stores and retail outlets where the opportunities for brand growth are huge.
This is an area of major focus as we build at constant exchange rates.
our distribution capability in many countries across Europe.
Locally owned brands sales of Locally owned brands such as Full Marks, Syndol, Paramol Perfect Nail in and Mister Baby are sold in specific countries chiefly first 6 months the UK, Italy and Spain.
They play an important role in achieving operating profit objectives, and there have been exciting developments over the past 12 months.
Full Marks was launched in Spain this year, where the market for 9m pesticide-free products is growing.
Italian brand Mister Baby this is dummy copy to be replaced with has welcomed new products to its portfolio most notably a new breastfeeding range called Mamma Nature.
Also in real Italy, Sauber, a well established brand for deodorants and compression hosiery, is selling the Sonno-Benefit pillow, which helps people achieve a better quality nights sleep.
personal hygiene for feet EXPANDING THE RANGE we are here 4 1 8 5 3 6 7 2 Factory locations Asia Pacific Chinese facility Europe 3.
Bangpakong, Thailand, Condoms Our new factory in Qingdao, China is due 1.
Qingdao, China, Condoms to open in July 2009.
Pallavaram, India, Condoms facility will produce one billion condoms 1 hosiery products 6.
Puducheri, India, Condoms annually within three years, and allow the 1 7.
Virudhunagar, India, condoms business to meet demand from the Chinese 8.
Irungattukottai, India, footcare consumer market and consumers in other markets including the Commonwealth of 1 joint venture.
Independent States and Eastern Europe.
Regional footprint which is popular among consumers in Hong Kong and SSL International is a brand-led company managed Thailand.
The expanding Chinese consumer market, whilst from the Groups main UK operational centre in affected by current economic conditions, is a significant Manchester.
We manage our commercial operations opportunity for SSL.
The buy-out of our joint venture on a geographic basis: in the UK and Europe: Asia partner two years ago and the development of our own Pacific: and the Americas.
These regions account local commercial team, working with a local distributor for 76 per cent, 19 per cent and 5 per cent of our sales network, leaves the business well placed to take advantage respectively.
Durex and Scholl products are sold in of current and future opportunities for growth.
all European markets, while locally owned brands Sales in the Americas, where SSL owns the complement our core offering mainly in the UK, Durex brand, for 2008 09 was 33.7 million, or 5 per cent Italy and Spain.
Total sales in this region was of overall turnover.
Fifty employees, based in Atlanta, 488.2 million.
Some 1,325 employees are engaged USA and Canada, are engaged in commercial functions.
in commercial functions across this region, and Market overview by core brands recent investment to expand geographically is set While we manage the business by geography, we to grow the European commercial division further communicate externally by brand.
as we begin to expand both Durex and Scholl into new territories across Eastern Europe and the Durex Commonwealth of Independent States.
Much has been made in the national and business Our Asia Pacific division, with 830 employees, is media about Durexs apparent trading resilience during engaged in commercial functions over a vast geographical the current recession.
With steady growth in the core area from Japan and China in the north, to Australia condom category and successful uptake of new product and New Zealand in the south.
Sales for 2008 09 was launches in our Play category, we believe that consumers 120.5 million.
The major markets are Australia, China, will continue to spend money on products that enhance Hong Kong, Japan and Thailand.
Durex and Scholl are sold their sex lives.
And with Durex Play O, our new gel that across the region, with sales of these supported by some helps women orgasm more easily, which is due to be locally owned brands such as Woodwards Gripe Water, launched across our European and Asia Pacific markets 18 19 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 DEVELOPING OUR OPERATING PLATFORM in the coming months, we expect consistent sales across our main commercial regions.
We also believe that the brands business in emerging markets principally China, Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States will be a significant contributor to future growth.
These are relatively young consumer markets and SSL is well positioned to take advantage of the potential for growth that they offer.
Scholl footcare The global footcare market continues to perform consistently despite the economic downturn.
This, in part, can be attributed to its relative immaturity compared with other categories in the personal care sector, and we are looking to exploit the resulting growth opportunities.
In Europe, where 80 per cent of Scholls footcare business is concentrated, the market as a whole has grown by 5 per cent: however, the brand has managed double digit growth The explosive over the past 12 months.
A similarly strong market position growth of the Chinese is held in the Asia Pacific region, which accounts for the remaining 20 per cent of our footcare sales.
SSL also consumer market, believes the brand has a strong future in the Russian and albeit slowing in current Chinese markets, while key European markets, including economic conditions, Italy, France, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom, provide consistent opportunities for growth.
In particular, remains a significant the foot skin and toenail categories covered by Scholl opportunity for SSL with products such as Cracked Heel Repair Cream, condoms produced annually within 3 years by our China factory 1bnthi Corn and Callus Removal devices and Nail Brightening Developing our operating platform and System Perfect Nail Treatment are expected to supply chain perform strongly over the next year.
The newly created Last year we set out our plans to improve our manufacturing biomechanical orthotics category is also an exciting capability and supply chain for Durex condoms.
This prospect for the future.
included the construction of a new, state-of-the-art factory in Qingdao, China, due to go live in July 2009.
The new Scholl footwear factory will supply condoms for the global marketplace Over the past 12 months the footwear market as a whole within the year, produce one billion condoms within three has been affected by the wider economic downturn and years, and support brand growth for the next ten years.
poor weather conditions throughout the Spring Summer Crucially, it will allow us to meet increasing demand from the 2008 season.
The middle segment of the market, where Chinese consumer market, as well as from new consumers products struggle to deliver on innovation and compete in Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States on price, was hardest hit.
In these conditions especially, CIS.
In addition, we completed the closure of our plant in consumers are looking for brands that deliver a real Spain and transferred production to India: we are also in the benefit witness the success of ultra lightweight clogs process of increasing production capacity at our condom or make specific promises such as being eco-friendly.
In spite of the tough economic climate, Scholl Footwear The past year has also seen other improvements has performed well, with overall sales up 5 per cent on to our supply chain.
We are installing new state-of-the-art last year.
South Europe and South East Asia are markets facilities at our Peterlee factory in the United Kingdom to that are performing particularly well.
support growth of our pharmaceutical products.
We have We believe that the footwear market will continue to set up an International Procurement Office in Shanghai.
respond favourably to genuinely innovative products that All global freight movements are being consolidated under are marketed well to consumers.
Scholl is well positioned a single provider, which will improve transparency and to exploit the trend and will capitalise on its superior foot control of stock movements within the business to reduce knowledge, links with footcare and marketing experience.
Our hosiery factory in Redruth, in the United Our expansion into the shoe trade sector in Europe, in Kingdom, is now benefiting from weekly stock replenishments, addition to our traditional business in pharmacies, will allowing us to improve supply responsiveness and reduce broaden our consumer base.
SAP update This year SAP has been implemented in France, the existing China manufacturing facility and our new Chinese factory, bringing the total number of implementations across the group to 21.
20 21 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 w ww ww w.. d du ur re ex x.. c co om m www.
com increased production at our Thailand factory Processes and systems SAP update As we aim to engage Our SAP roll out continues across the business.
When more fully with our consumers, complete in 2011 a single, stable platform across all online web strategy is becoming commercial, manufacturing and warehousing units will give greater efficiency: shorten delivery lead times: an increasingly important increase responsiveness: and generate more accurate component of the Durex and information.
This year SAP has been introduced in France, and in both the existing and new Chinese factories.
The Scholl brands marketing activity total number of implementations across the Group is now 21 15 commercial sites and six manufacturing.
The introduction of SAP at the new China factory was a major element of that facilitys construction, and will play an important role in meeting consumer demand in the region more efficiently.
We have also gone live in eight markets with SAP demand planning, which is a key element in the optimisation of our supply chain.
Our aim is to have SAP implemented in the rest of the Asia Pacific and Americas regions by 2011.
Web strategy Businesses can no longer afford to view their online offering as a simple bolt on to their sales and marketing functions: consumers expect high quality web content that engages their views and aspirations, as well as offering GROWTH AREA them opportunities to communicate and share ideas and content with other like minded people.
With that in mind, our web strategy has focused on two complementary strands: e-commerce and brand engagement.
We have recently launched our new e-commerce platform, which delivers a step-change in the consumer experience and integrates e-commerce within our existing business platforms.
This global initiative has been piloted by Scholl in the UK and will be rolled out across other markets during the coming year.
Over the past 12 months we have also improved our web content, enhanced links to related products and invested in online marketing.
The new Durex At SSL, we make it a website www.
com has been rolled out across the businesss global markets.
Looking ahead, we see online matter of priority to recruit presence as an opportunity to create genuine engagement and retain highly skilled and with our consumers, with the online channel becoming an increasingly important component in achieving the Durex motivated staff, and to provide and Scholl brands business objectives.
development opportunities Acquisitions through training and work Acquisitions are an important aspect of our growth strategy.
We look for opportunities that complement our experience programmes existing brand portfolio and infrastructure, provide access to new geographical regions to bolster our consumer base, and bring new products and technologies into our business.
We have made two acquisitions over the past year that will drive shareholder value over the short, medium and long term.
Contex condom brand In April 2009 SSL exercised its option to increase its stake in  Lemore BV BLBV, a distributor of condoms and medical products in Russia and other CIS states, from 15.5 per cent to 50 per cent plus one share.
We also exercised our option to acquire 100 per cent of Gainbridge Investments Cyprus Limited, a distributor of condoms and medical products in Ukraine.
Through these acquisitions, SSL will acquire Contex, the number one condom brand in Russia and Ukraine.
consumers in Russia 140mthi 22 23 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The price for the 35 per cent BLBV option, Investing in our staff based on its Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA to 31 December 2007, is 70 million: Our employees are our greatest asset, and we take their the price for the Gainbridge option is 20.6 million.
Both training and development seriously.
At SSL we believe in acquisitions will be paid for from funds that were raised creating the kind of culture that motivates and inspires from shareholders in a successful share placing at the end our staff to operate to the best of their ability.
There is also a final option for SSL to buy this culture we provide: the remaining shares of BLBV to take us to 100 per cent ownership, exercisable in February 2010. a successful performance oriented pay We believe this to be an excellent opportunity structure with multi-year targets for our business.
There are 140 million consumers in Russia global training programme development and 46 million in Ukraine.
Both countries have rapidly expanding consumer cultures and, despite the current succession planning and career economic climate, we remain optimistic of the potential development reviews they bring for SSLs products and growth within the CIS and Eastern Europe.
Crest 1% Americas In December 2008 SSL acquired the Crest condom brand 50 employees and associated customer relationships in Switzerland for 4.6 million.
Crest is the number two condom brand 34% in the country, with a market share of 32 per cent which Europe allows us to assume market leadership in another 1,802 employees European market.
65% Internal development Asia Pacific It is vital for the success of our business that 3,424 employees we have the right people, with the right skills and competencies, doing the right jobs.
At SSL, we make it a matter of priority to recruit and retain As a brand-led company we seek marketing highly skilled and motivated staff, and to provide professionals with skills second to none, and invest in their development opportunities through training and training and development.
During the year we launched our work experience programmes.
We aim to ensure Marketing Essentials course, as part of a programme for that our employees throughout the Group the businesss marketeers worldwide.
The first part of the understand and feel valued by our company ethos course took place in May 2008, and brought together 45 based on Attitude, Behaviour and Culture marketing professionals from 11 countries in the Asia Pacific providing a common basis from which to drive region.
Backed by extensive research and preparation, growth and improve performance.
it provides tailor-made training to help employees fulfil SSLs strategy.
The second part of the course took place in May 2009 and will build on these learnings and equip the same staff with enhanced leadership, management and presentation skills.
Planning for phase three, scheduled for 2009 10, is already underway.
Corporate knowledge is something that should be fostered and nurtured it should also be shared for the wider benefit of the business.
Last year we undertook our most comprehensive succession planning review to date.
In total, we reviewed 650 managerial roles across the globe.
This is an ongoing process, and succession planning reviews for this population will take place on an annual basis going forward.
New acquisitions Our acquisition of the Contex Taking responsibility for ones own development and Crest condom brands will is another important aspect of working at SSL.
In the UK, grow our consumer base for example, the Shaping Your Future modular programme has had another successful year enabling employees to choose from a suite of education modules ranging from business awareness to technical skills training and lifestyle programmes.
At SSL, we believe in helping our employees appreciate their roles within the companys wider strategic objectives, as well as promoting effective communication across our various functions and regions SSL continues to be a member of the 24 25 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 FTSE4Good index
