BUSINESS BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE Overall performance for the year has been extremely encouraging in a number of key respects: record Group turnover and pre-tax profits of 278.3m and 22.5m respectively: continuing strong underlying cash generation: significant growth in the number of Distributors actively promoting our services: 34% increase in the number of services we are providing to over 790,000: successful launch of new CashBack Card and mobile Pre-Pay service: 69% increase in membership of our Business Club.
This exceptional performance has been driven by increasing confidence within our distribution channel in our financial strength as demonstrated by our profitability, cash resources, and promotion into the FTSE250, the value of our services, and our commitment to ensuring we consistently deliver a first class experience to our customers as evidenced by the numerous independent endorsements we have received in magazines like Which?.
Our growth has benefited from the deteriorating economic climate, which has made the part-time earning opportunity we offer new Distributors increasingly attractive against the background of a broader labour market where working hours are being cut, overtime is being reduced, part-time jobs are less readily available and unemployment is rising.
It has also made it easier for Distributors to find new customers, as households become more focused on finding new ways to reduce their monthly outgoings.
MARGINS Gross margins improved during the year in all areas of our business, primarily reflecting the continuing competitive pressure on the owners of network infrastructure to attract and retain call traffic from the dwindling number of substantial independent resellers like ourselves, and the impact of higher energy prices compared with the previous year.
The overall gross margin reduced slightly, however, due to the increasing proportion of our turnover which derives from supplying energy which has relatively low gross margins compared with telephony and broadband which has relatively high gross margins, and the impact of providing Free Global Calls to a growing proportion of our customers.
THE MARKET Our focus is on supplying a wide range of essential utility services gas, electricity, fixed telephony, mobile telephony and internet to both domestic and small business customers.
These are substantial markets and represent a considerable opportunity for further organic growth.
We remain a small operator in a market dominated by the former monopoly suppliers and a handful of other new entrants.
However, our unique position as the only integrated multi-utility supplier gives us a considerable competitive advantage.
We combine a highly efficient cost base, good customer service and competitive pricing with the unique benefit of a single monthly bill for each customer.
11 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED OUR CUSTOMERS The majority of our customers choose to take advantage of our multi-service proposition, with over 85% having joined our Discount Club since its launch in October 2003.
On average, each member of our residential club now takes 3.07 services 2008: 3.13 with 85% taking two or more services, and 51% taking three or more services: this slight reduction in the average number of services per member compared with last year reflects an increase in the proportion of energy only customers, who are primarily in rental accommodation.
These figures which exclude CashBack cards are illustrated by the analysis below, and demonstrate the effectiveness of our Club concept in encouraging customers to subscribe for additional services: Members Non-Members 1 Service 15% 55% 2 Services 34% 37% 3 Services 13% 6% 4 Services 14% 2% 5 Services 20% - 6 Services 3% - 7 Services 1% - At the year end we had 238,868 members and 42,307 non-members.
Non-members relate to customers gathered prior to the launch of our Discount Club in October 2003 or who have moved into a property where we were the incumbent utility supplier, and have not yet applied to join the Discount Club.
The combination of an increasing proportion of customers taking our BroadCall service and higher retail energy prices has led to a further increase in average revenue per customer, notwithstanding considerable price deflation in the fixed telephony markets over the last nine years.
magazine on a regular basis, the relatively low churn we experience and a recent survey which we carried out amongst our members where over 94% stated that they would recommend us to their friends.
Our overall monthly churn increased slightly to around 2.0% during the year, but remains considerably below the average levels experienced by our competitors, when compared with customers who had similarly already switched away from their original supplier.
We further increased the range of benefits available to our members during the year, with the launch of a CashBack Card which gives members the opportunity to save an extra 5% on all their shopping at a wide range of leading UK retailers, and the introduction of Free Global Calls.
SERVICES Our range of essential utility services includes fixed telephony calls and line rental, mobile telephony, gas, electricity and internet.
At the year end we supplied a total of 794,118 services 2008: 591,981, representing an increase of over 34% during the course of the year.
Services 2009 2008 Electricity 209,262 133,873 Gas 177,452 113,761 Home Phone 167,607 155,035 Fixed line rental 116,622 87,108 Broadband 76,717 55,564 Mobile 35,550 36,358 Freephone 10,908 10,282 Total 794,118 591,981 We saw strong growth in the number of customers to whom we supply gas, electricity, broadband, home phone and fixed line rental, although there was a small reduction in the number of mobile services during the first half of the year prior to the launch of our mobile Pay as you Go service in the Autumn.
Included within the above figures are 16,163 members of our Business Club, who are taking in aggregate over 39,497 services and contributing 24m 2008: 11.1m to Group turnover.
We are extremely encouraged by this strong performance, and the continuing enthusiastic response of our distribution channel to this opportunity.
CUSTOMER SERVICE We pride ourselves on delivering first-class customer service through a single call centre, based in the UK.
Our policy is to ensure that the first person a customer speaks to is able to resolve any issues with their account, irrespective of how many different services we are providing to them.
We continue to invest in improving our customer service resources, and have developed specialist teams capable of dealing with some of the more complicated problems which arise due to continuing inefficiencies in the standard industry processes for switching customers between suppliers.
We are also developing a range of qualitative and quantitative performance measurement tools for our Call Centre, so that we can further improve the overall quality of our members customer service experience.
13 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE We rely on the combined efforts of over 400 employees to manage relationships with both our customers and Distributors, and deliver a consistently high quality of service at all times.
We pay considerable attention to recruiting and retaining appropriate people.
The combination of valuing and developing our staff, our service-oriented culture and the day-to-day reinforcement of our core values are key competitive advantages in enabling us to attract and retain a motivated, talented and diverse workforce.
Opportunities for employment, training, career progression and promotion are determined on the basis of each individuals ability, attitude and track record, irrespective of their gender, ethnic origin, nationality, age, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
Employees are kept informed on a regular basis of the financial performance of the business and other matters of potential concern to them through internal communication channels including email and the Companys intranet service.
We also have an established staff forum, which includes a representative from each department in the Company, to enable employees to give their views on any major changes being considered by management which might have a material impact on their roles within the organisation.
We continue to invest in our premises to ensure the working environment is as attractive as possible, consistent with the practical needs of running the business.
We are currently part-way through a rolling programme that will include redecorating our current office accommodation, and have just completed the first phase of refurbishing our new headquarters office building.
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved employee share option plan, under which employees are granted an option to purchase shares in the Company which is exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The exercise price is the market price at the time of granting the option.
Our policy is to issue options to all employees after the satisfactory completion of their probationary period.
As at 31 March 2009, there were outstanding options over 1,620,650 shares which had been granted to staff, representing approximately 2% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Employees returning from maternity leave with children less than 12 months old are able to benefit from a company contribution towards the cost of an external childcare service provider of their choice.
We also provide facilities for staff to purchase childcare vouchers in a tax-efficient manner using a salary sacrifice scheme, in accordance with HM Revenue and Customs guidelines.
We also encourage all employees to participate in a stakeholder pension scheme operated by Legal & General.
Participants can choose their own contribution level which is matched by the Company within certain limits, depending on length of service.
OUR DISTRIBUTORS Our Distributors remain one of our key strengths.
In contrast to other utility suppliers, the alignment of financial interests provided by our revenue-sharing model ensures that our Distributors focus their activities on finding credit-worthy and high-spending customers who will reap the maximum savings from using our services, and will thus be least likely to churn.
By doing so, they maximise their own long-term income.
This ensures that cases of mis-selling are generally both inadvertent and extremely rare.
Our Car Plan, which provides eligible Distributors with a subsidised Utility Warehouse branded Mini, remains extremely popular and we have now supplied over 170 cars following the extension of the programme in October 2007 to bring it within reach of a substantially larger number of Distributors.
Owners find these helpful in raising their local profile, resulting in enquiries from both potential new customers and Distributors.
14 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS Distributors have generally seen a considerable increase in their average earnings from each customer during the last three years as a result of the growth in the number of services taken combined with rising energy prices.
The largest increases in earnings have however been achieved by those who have been working consistently at building their personal and group customer numbers.
Our unique market position continues to make this predominantly part-time career extremely attractive to potential new recruits.
We have continued to invest in our national training programme the College of Excellence during the year, in order to keep up with the massively increased demand for its services from the rapidly growing numbers of new Distributors who are joining each month.
These are designed to help our Distributors maximise their potential and provide our next generation of leaders with the additional skills they will need.
In addition to increasing the frequency and number of venues for our Career Opportunity Presentations and Getting Started courses, we now also run Goal Setting Courses, Accelerator Courses and an enhanced Leadership training module.
In addition, we have recently begun to investigate the possibility of extending the scope of our training so that successful participants can gain a valuable NVQ qualification, and will be trialling this program over the next few months.
THE ENVIRONMENT The environment is becoming an increasingly important concern and we participate in programmes to help reduce the environmental impact of our activities.
We operate an energy efficiency helpline to provide advice on how customers can reduce their energy usage, and we also participate actively in the Shred-it recycling programme, with a certificated saving of 165 trees during the year.
We also participate in a mobile phone recycling scheme which sends old handsets to less developed parts of the world for re-use, rather than disposing of them in landfill sites.
PRINCIPAL RISKS The Group faces various risk factors, both internal and external, which could have a material impact on long-term performance.
Reputation risk Telecom pluss reputation amongst our business partners, suppliers, shareholders and customers is fundamental to the future success of the Group.
Failure to meet expectations in terms of the services we provide, the way that we do business or in our financial performance could have a material effect on the Group.
These risks are mitigated through our focus on quality customer service, the training of our staff and our systems of internal control and risk management.
Wholesale prices The Company does not currently own or operate any network infrastructure itself, choosing instead to purchase the capacity needed from third parties.
The advantage of this approach is that the Company is not exposed to either technological risk, capacity risk or the risk of obsolescence, as it can purchase each month the exact amount of each service required to meet its customers needs.
Whilst there is a theoretical risk that in some of the areas in which the Company operates it may be unable to secure access to the necessary infrastructure on commercially attractive terms, in practice the pricing of access to such infrastructure is either regulated as in the energy market or subject to significant competitive pressures as in telephony.
The profile of our customers, the significant quantities of each service they consume in aggregate, and our clearly differentiated route to market has historically proven attractive to potential partners, who compete aggressively in order to secure a share of our business.
15 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED The supply of energy, which has been accounting for an increasing proportion of our sales each year, has different risks associated with it.
The wholesale price can be extremely volatile, and customer demand can be subject to considerable short term fluctuations depending on the weather.
To avoid these, the Company decided in 2005 to seek a relationship with a larger energy supplier which would preserve our integrated multi-utility business model whilst passing the substantive risks and rewards of hedging and buying energy to them.
The transaction with npower which was completed on 31 March 2006 achieved these objectives, and has enabled the Company to earn a positive contribution from providing energy since that date.
Bad debt risk on energy customers The Company has a universal supply obligation in relation to the provision of energy to domestic customers.
This means that although the Company is entitled to request a reasonable deposit from potential new customers who are not considered credit worthy, the Company is obliged to supply domestic energy to everyone who submits a properly completed application form.
Where customers subsequently fail to pay for the energy they have used Delinquent Customers, there is likely to be a considerable delay before the Company is able to eliminate its exposure to future bad debt from them by either installing a pre-payment meter or disconnecting their supply, and the costs associated with preventing such Delinquent Customers from increasing their indebtedness are not always recoverable.
Bad debt risk on telephony customers There is regular fraud within the telephony industry which arises from customers using the services without intending to pay their supplier.
Although the amounts involved are generally small, larger-scale fraud is sometimes attempted involving calls to premium rate and or international destinations.
The Company has sophisticated systems to prevent material losses arising as a result of such fraud by processing all call traffic on an hourly or daily basis, and promptly disconnecting any number whose usage profile appears to be suspicious, although short delays are sometimes experienced in receiving information from our network partners.
Information technology risk The Company is dependent on its proprietary billing and customer management software for the successful implementation of its business strategy.
This software is developed and maintained in accordance with the changing needs of the business by a small team of highly skilled, motivated and experienced individuals.
Back-ups of both the software and data are made on a regular basis and securely stored off-site.
Competitive risk The Group operates in highly competitive markets and significant product innovations or increased price competition could affect our margins.
In order to maintain our competitive position, we constantly focus on ways of improving our operating efficiency and keeping our cost base as low as possible.
Legislation and regulatory risk The Group is subject to varying laws and regulations, including possible adverse effects from European regulatory intervention.
Risk management The business continues to develop and operate a consistent and systematic risk management process, which involves risk ranking, prioritisation and subsequent evaluation, with a view to ensuring all significant risks have been identified and prioritised, and systems of control are in place to manage such risks.
Charles Wigoder Chief Executive 20 May 2009 16 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
