Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:58 Page 6 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 03 Annual Business Review About our Business With over 30 years of experience, Victrex is a global manufacturer of innovative, high performance polymers, including VICTREX TM PEEK polymer.
VICTREX PEEK is one of the highest quality thermoplastic materials in the world, offering a unique combination of properties to help processors and end users reach new levels of cost savings, performance and product differentiation.
Operations Our Group and divisional headquarters are based in the United Kingdom along with our manufacturing, research and customer support facilities.
We have invested in an integrated supply chain providing flexibility, control over quality and capacity and reassurance to our customers over security of supply.
This is complemented by a growing network of sales, distribution and technical centres serving more than 30 countries worldwide.
Products As part of the Groups commitment to ongoing product development, we are focused on bringing customers new material solutions.
The VICTREX PEEK polymer product range includes several different types of polyaryletherketones, as well as a wide range of blends, compounds, high flow, high purity, films and coatings grades to meet a variety of performance criteria.
Invibio, our Biomaterial Solutions business, provides a range of biocompatible PEEK-OPTIMA based polymers.
Our Victrex Polymer Solutions Our Invibio Biomaterial Solutions VICTREX PEEK is a linear, aromatic, semi-crystalline polymer widely division focuses on developing division focuses on providing regarded as one of the highest performing thermoplastics available.
applications in major markets specialised solutions for medical It has a unique combination of chemical, wear, electrical, hydrolysis including transport, industrial and device manufacturers.
and temperature resistance, as well as excellent dimensional, electronics.
End users specify Invibio offers an unparalleled mechanical and chemical stability combined with inherent purity and VICTREX PEEK to reduce system combination of high performance low flammability.
costs, improve part performance, biomaterials, advanced technical exploit greater design freedom and research and support, proven create a differentiated application.
market expertise and a network of How we work industry resources.
Our biomaterial Our team of dedicated market development, sales and technical solutions help clients develop support professionals work closely with customers and end users innovative medical devices and around the world offering continuing assistance in new application surgical techniques that improve outcomes and enhance patient development, product performance data and processing support.
Our team includes organic and polymer chemists, physicists and materials scientists, as well as process, mechanical and design engineers.
These teams are effectively networked with a range of industrial and academic collaborators, laboratories and service providers around the world, which enable us to leverage additional specialised resources focused on solving our customers toughest technical challenges.
serving more than 30 countries worldwide
