baCk to ContentS direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW The directors of WH Smith PLC the Company buSineSS obJeCtiVeS and StrategieS present their Annual Report to shareholders together WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs with the audited consolidated accounts of the Company most popular stationer, bookseller and newsagent and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 August 2009. by continuing to grow its strongly performing Travel The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide business and delivering its High Street plan.
information to members of the Company.
The Annual 1 We aim to improve the Companys profitability and Report contains certain forward looking statements cash flow generation, delivering sustainable returns with respect to the operations, performance and to shareholders.
We believe that a focus on these financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these factors will be reflected in a total shareholder return statements involve uncertainty since future events and that compares well with our peer group of equivalent circumstances can cause results to differ from those listed companies.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
We invest where we believe we will achieve a return on investment above our cost of capital.
While external economic and other factors might affect us in the short-term, we believe that most of the markets we WHSmith intends to build on are focused on will deliver sustainable returns.
its position as the UKs most Travel is focused on delivering value to shareholders through organic growth in its existing outlets, securing popular stationer, bookseller new contracts, trialling new formats, increasing average transaction value and making improvements and newsagent by continuing to trading efficiency.
to grow its strongly performing The High Street plan remains unchanged and concentrates on building authority in core categories, Travel business and delivering optimising margins, controlling costs and ensuring we deliver the retail basics.
High Street has made its High Street plan.
significant progress in the delivery of its plan.
We aim to act responsibly towards all our stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, business partners, PrinCiPaL aCtiVitieS employees and the communities in which we operate.
The Company, one of the UKs leading retail groups, Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report is available is made up of two core businesses Travel and High at www.
co. uk cr, with a summary of our Street.
Travel sells a tailored selection of Newspapers, approach on pages 15 and 16 of this report.
Magazines, Books and Impulse products in airports, train stations, motorway service areas, hospitals, workplaces and bus stations: and High Street sells a wide range of Books, Stationery, Newspapers, Magazines and a convenience offer of Entertainment products.
WHSmiths outlets are frequently the first choice for people buying our products on the high street and we are a trusted convenience retailer for customers at travel locations.
We have an extensive store portfolio operating from 490 Travel units including franchise units and 565 High Street stores, with leading positions in Books, Magazines and Stationery.
Overall, WHSmith employs more than 17,000 staff, primarily in the UK.
WHSmith also reaches customers via WHSmith Direct www.
co. uk serving customers on the internet 24 hours a day.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange SMWH and is included in the FTSE 250 Index.
More information about the business is available at www.
co. uk WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 4 baCk to ContentS CHief exeCutiVeS reVieW group summary 1 The Group delivered another strong profit performance The Group generated a profit before tax and exceptional during the year, in what have been challenging trading items of 82m 2008: 76m, an increase of eight per conditions in both High Street and Travel.
Our profit cent on the prior year.
Profit from trading operations performance demonstrates the Groups relative increased to 97m, up ten per cent on the prior year.
resilience in this climate: in High Street our average 1 Travel continued its strong performance, with profit transaction value is low and in Travel our turnoverincreasing by 17 per cent to 48m, and good sales related rental contracts give us a natural profit shield.
and margin growth, achieved despite softer passenger numbers, demonstrating the strength of the Travel business model.
1 The ordinary dividend increase High Street profit was 49m, up four per cent on the prior year.
We are continuing with our strategy to of 17 per cent on the prior year, rebalance the mix of our business towards our core categories, reducing our presence in Entertainment, together with the announced and to optimise margins and maintain tight cost control.
return of cash to shareholders, Total Group sales were down one per cent to 1,340m 2008: 1,352m with like for like LFL sales down five reflects the cash generative per cent.
Travel sales grew by eight per cent to 448m, down two per cent on a LFL basis.
High Street sales nature of the Group and the were down five per cent at 892m and down six per cent on a LFL basis.
Boards confidence in its 2 Underlying earnings per share increased by 17% to future prospects.
41.3p 2008: 35.3p, with earnings per share including 3 exceptional items of 40.6p 2008: 35.3p.
The Group has a strong balance sheet and is highly The Group continues to have a strong balance sheet cash generative.
Net funds were 45m 2008: net debt and remains highly cash generative.
At the year end of 9m and the Group has committed working capital we had net funds of 45m.
Going forward, the cash facilities of 90m through to June 2011.
Group free generative nature of the Group will be a key driver 4 cash flow was 89m 2008: 63m.
Our working capital of value for shareholders.
position has improved, despite the increased level of The operating performance in each of the two businesses stock following acquisitions and new business wins.
was driven by strong cost control, increased gross The Board has proposed a final dividend of 11.3p per margins and taking sales opportunities when they share, giving a total ordinary dividend per share of arose.
During the year, both businesses made good 16.7p, a 17% increase on the prior year.
In addition, progress driving their distinct strategies.
on 15 October 2009, the Board announced its intention As a Group we are well-positioned for the recovery.
to return up to 35m of cash to shareholders through The defensive nature of the High Street business a rolling share buyback programme.
The dividend means our position is stable in tougher times, however, increase on the prior year, together with the announced in Travel we would expect to benefit, particularly in Air, return of cash to shareholders, reflects the cash when the economy improves and passenger numbers generative nature of the Group and the Boards return to growth.
confidence in its future prospects.
1 Profit from trading operations is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation.
2 Profit after tax and before exceptional items diluted.
4 Net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, pension deficit funding, tax refunds and net interest received.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 5 baCk to ContentS direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW WHSmith travel Travels business model is made up of three elements: a compelling customer proposition, a strong track Nature of business and markets record with landlords, and the ability to translate the The Travel business trades under the same brand as fundamentals of the model to other formats and channels.
the High Street business and operates 490 units mainly in airports, railway stations, motorway service areas, Growth drivers hospitals, workplaces and bus stations, primarily The Travel business offers opportunities for expansion in the UK.
Of the 490 units, 121 are operated under in each of its channels and continues to win new franchise agreements.
Travels stores sell a more contracts in hospitals, airports, railway stations, tailored range of products than High Street stores, motorway service areas and workplaces.
to cater for people on the move or in need of a convenience offer.
Travels typical customer has less Despite recent soft airport passenger numbers, time to browse than the High Street customer and is medium-term forecasts predict that passenger more interested in reading materials for a journey as numbers in Air will return to their historical growth well as purchasing food, drink and confectionery.
levels and Travel is well-positioned to benefit when Consequently, there is a limited demand for the recovery comes.
In Rail, Hospitals and Motorways, entertainment and stationery products and the we have seen little change in footfall.
stock and format of each Travel store reflects this.
The business continues to develop other store formats such as specialist bookstores, a tailored workplace format, and mobile pods for larger airports and stations where it is not possible to have a full shop.
Travels business model is made In addition, we are trialling different operating models in travel locations overseas: directly run, partnership up of three elements: a compelling and franchise.
customer proposition, a strong Competitive position and strengths track record with landlords, The Travel business is impacted by geopolitical events, war and acts of terrorism, which have from time to time and the ability to translate the contributed to a reduction in commuter and travelling customer traffic and a heightened apprehension around fundamentals of the model to rail and air travel.
Closure of routes, both planned and unplanned, as well as other factors affecting passenger other formats and channels.
traffic, can also affect operating results.
Travel faces competition in its product categories primarily from other convenience retailers in rail, air, Due to their location and convenience nature, Travel motorways, hospitals and workplaces.
The growth of stores are, on average, significantly smaller than those these retailers may take market share from Travel in the High Street portfolio.
At 31 August 2009, Travel and have a negative impact on sales and profit.
operated from a total of 0.4m square feet of selling space, with units ranging in size from 90 square feet Travel has significant competitive strengths.
Its to more than 6,000 square feet.
Of the 490 Travel units, business model is made up of three elements: 135 are in airports, 114 in railway stations, 118 in a compelling customer proposition with a widely motorway service areas most of which are franchise recognised and respected brand, a strong track units, 95 in hospitals and 19 in locations such as bus record with landlords, and the ability to translate stations and workplaces.
Nine units are in four non-UK the fundamentals of the model to other formats and locations, in Paris, Shannon, Copenhagen and Stockholm.
The business also has prime locations in each of its channels: high levels of customer footfall: Travel has a separate operating structure and purchasing and sourcing scale: and an experienced management team from High Street, reflecting the senior management team.
Considering all these distinct operational and strategic challenges of the two factors, the Board believes that Travel is well-placed businesses.
Travel stores are typically in higher footfall to create shareholder value by delivering long-term locations than High Street stores, resulting in higher profit growth and strong cash generation.
average rents, with rents paid as a percentage of sales subject to minimum guarantees.
Travel is less affected by the Christmas trading period.
Increased passenger traffic during the summer holiday season, particularly in airports, contributes to a summer peak in sales.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 6 baCk to ContentS Performance review 2008 09 The 23 airport units acquired from Alpha last year 1 Travel continued to deliver strong profit growth despite have now been fully integrated, with stores re-branded, soft passenger numbers in Air, demonstrating the systems integrated and all supply to those units now strength of the Travel business model even in tough coming from our Travel distribution centre.
Profit increased by 17 per cent to introduced the key strengths of the WHSmith offer, 48m 2008: 41m, achieved as a result of increased increasing fixture density and expanding space for sales combined with improved underlying gross margin growth categories such as stationery and impulse.
This year, we have continued to strengthen our position as a leading player in our four key sales channels with Travel continued to deliver strong the integration of UNS Group Limited UNS and 1 the 23 units acquired from Alpha Retail UK Limited profit growth, up 17 per cent Alpha now complete.
We believe that the business is well-positioned to benefit from the economic to 48m.
% LFL % Performance in our motorway service area units, which m 2009 2008 Change Change are primarily franchise units, has been in line with our expectations.
Following our agreement with RoadChef Revenue 448 413 8% 2% last year, all of these units have now been converted Profit from to the WHSmith brand.
1 trading operations 48 41 17% Last year also saw the acquisition of UNS.
All 80 UNS 1 Profit from trading operations is stated after directly attributable units have now been re-branded and the UNS chain share-based payment and pension service charges and before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation.
is now fully integrated into our central functions, including all Head Office and field functions, and all Total Travel revenue grew by eight per cent, driven supply is now through our distribution centres.
We by new business wins and recent acquisitions.
Sales have developed a new hospital-specific format that were down by two per cent on a LFL basis with sales takes traditional WHSmith strengths and integrates continuing to outperform passenger numbers.
Gross ranges tailored to hospital staff, patients and visitors.
margin increased by around 220 basis points bps This includes core ranges such as books, news and during the period through better use of space, good magazines combined with a greater variety of lunch category mix management and further buying options, an improved convenience range and basic improvements, resulting in more sales in higher margin groceries such as bread and milk.
We continue to see categories such as confectionery and books.
We have good organic growth opportunities in this channel via increased average transaction value by focusing on this wider category mix and new space.
mix changes and improved promotional activity.
Business development In our Airport units we saw LFL sales down four per We renewed 18 contracts and completed 12 refits.
As expected, passenger numbers were soft, We have opened a total of 51 new units and closed however, we continue to deliver performance ahead 10 units in the period, primarily due to landlord of passenger numbers and have consistently redevelopments.
demonstrated our ability to do this.
We remain focused on running the business and effectively managing our The year has also seen further development of new cost base relative to passenger trends.
In our Rail formats including a mobile pod store for those channel, LFL sales were down two per cent.
locations within larger airports and stations where it is not feasible to put a full shop: and a work format During the year we have seen shifts in consumer catering for the needs of staff in large workplaces.
demand and passenger make-up, particularly in Air, We have also opened 14 more specialist books-only and we have flexed our offer accordingly.
For example, units, bringing the total number of books-only units to we have increased promotional activity and introduced 23.
We continue to consider international opportunities a strong value-for-money message branded Ways to and, as we do so, we aim to trial different operating Save.
Responding to changes in passenger make-up models: directly run, partnership and franchise.
and airline schedules, we have also continued to introduce ranges tailored to individual locations, such as more British souvenirs for the larger numbers of tourists visiting the UK due to the strength of the euro.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 7 baCk to ContentS direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW WHSmith High Street High Street has significant competitive strengths.
The Board believes it is well-placed to deliver strong cash Nature of business and market generation and long-term growth to create shareholder The High Street business operates 565 stores with an value through factors such as its widely respected and extensive reach across the UK and a presence on nearly recognised brand: prime sites in key UK high street every significant UK high street.
At 31 August 2009, retail locations: high customer footfall: leading High Street operated from a total of 3.0m square feet positions in its target categories, allowing it to operate of selling space, with stores ranging in size from with scale: purchasing and sourcing scale, driving value 777 square feet to more than 23,000 square feet.
for the customer: and an experienced senior High Street sells a wide range of products, which management team.
are divided into four categories: Books, Stationery including greetings cards, News and Impulse including Performance review 2008 09 newspapers, magazines, confectionery and other impulse The High Street business continues to focus on the products, and a convenience offer of Entertainment successful delivery of its strategy to build its position products including music, DVD and multimedia games.
as Britains most popular stationer, bookseller and High Streets trading is relatively seasonal, peaking at newsagent.
Despite the challenging trading conditions 1 Christmas, with other peaks at Easter and in August in our markets, we are making good progress.
Profits and September for the Back to School range.
for High Street are up four per cent year-on-year to 49m, delivered through maintained focus on rebuilding The online retail business is operated by High authority in our core categories, tightly controlling costs, Street and sells a range of Books, Stationery, optimising margins and delivering the retailing basics.
Magazines and Gifts through its website at www.
co. uk and Entertainment products High Street revenue was down five per cent and on a LFL through www.
co. uk basis down six per cent, in line with our strategic plan to rebalance the mix of our business towards our core categories.
Excluding Entertainment, LFL sales were down two per cent.
The business continues to be strongly Despite challenging trading cash generative as a result of efficient working capital management and effective, considered capital investment.
1 conditions, profits for High Street % LFL % are up four per cent to 49m.
m 2009 2008 Change Change Revenue 892 939 5% 6% Profit from Growth drivers 1 trading operations 49 47 4% High Streets performance is dependent upon overall growth in consumer spending, growth in the non-food, 1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central non-clothing sector and High Streets ability to take costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges.
share in its product markets.
The management team believes that, following the current slowdown in consumer spending in our markets, we should see a return to more In Books, we have made further progress with the normal levels of growth over the longer term.
implementation of our strategy to rebuild our authority as a popular book specialist and to compete more Competitive position and strengths effectively with other high street specialists.
Books High Streets competition comes primarily from other sales were down, however, gross margin was up.
We high street specialists, supermarkets and internet saw further good market share performance versus the retailers.
Online retailers offer customers access to general retail market with strong shares in childrens our product categories via their computers, while books, where we have increased focus, introducing supermarkets give customers access to our product wider ranges in areas such as picture books.
We also categories as they carry out their regular food increased promotional activity on highly competed shopping.
The growth of either retail format may take titles, for example, Beedle the Bard: and successfully market share away from the High Street business linked up with third parties such as McDonalds and and may have a negative effect on the sales and profit The Times to drive book sales.
generated by our High Street stores.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 8 baCk to ContentS Stationery sales were up, outperforming the general Cost control has been a core part of our strategy and, in stationery market.
Gross margin was up as planned, light of current economic conditions, our cost savings driven by intra category mix as well as improved programme has been accelerated.
In October 2008, we seasonal markdown management and continued set a target of reducing costs by 25m over three years.
improvements in lower cost sourcing.
Core subIn addition to the 9m of cost savings originally categories remain our focus and our share continues to planned, High Street delivered accelerated cost savings be strong.
Following the success of our trials of bolt on of 6m in the year.
These were delivered from a number ranges to core categories, we are rolling these out, for of areas of the business including the variable costs example a range of educational toys and games, that associated with changes in our Entertainment category, complements and builds on our success in childrens and also from IT and savings in store as we continue books.
We had a strong Back to School period with extra to make use of new technology in some of our promotional space and a strong customer offer supported administratively heavy areas like News and Magazine by TV advertising.
We have identified further savings of 14m, making a total target of 24m over the next three years.
The High Street business now operates from 565 stores, which occupy 3.0m square feet 2008: 3.0m We have identified further square feet.
We opened nine new stores and closed one store during the period.
savings of 14m, making a total target of 24m over the group profit The Group generated a profit before tax and exceptional next three years.
items of 82m 2008: 76m, an increase of eight per cent on the prior year.
Profit from trading operations increased to 97m, up ten per cent on the prior year.
News and Impulse sales were down, however, we saw an Profit improvement in gross margin in the year.
The magazine Growth market continues to be challenging but our share in m 2009 2008 % News and Magazines remained stable, supported by a number of exclusive titles in the strongly growing Travel1 48 41 17% 1 bookazine category, with titles to mark key events in the High Street 49 47 4% news, such as the election of Barack Obama and the 1 Profit from trading operations 97 88 10% death of Michael Jackson.
Lottery also performed well Unallocated central costs 14 14 and we installed 80 more terminals during the year.
Operating profit2 83 74 12% In Entertainment, we continue with our strategy to Net finance charges income 1 2 reduce our presence in this category, and as we do 2 Profit before taxation 82 76 8% this we are optimising profitability.
LFL Entertainment 1 sales were down 35 per cent driven by our strategy but Profit from trading operations stated after directly attributable defined benefit service charge and share-based payment costs and before also by availability issues following the collapse of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation.
Entertainment UK Limited, although our contingency 2 Stated before exceptional items.
plans minimised some of the impact of this on our profit performance.
Our view of the long-term outlook Net finance charges and taxation for this category remains unchanged.
The results include a net finance charge of 1m 2008: Gross margin improved by around 230bps, largely due net finance income of 2m due to lower cash balances to our strategy to change the mix of products we sell by following the 90m return of cash to shareholders and reducing the amount of space dedicated to low-margin acquisitions in the prior year, and lower deposit rates.
products such as Entertainment, and rebalancing the The tax charge for the year was 18m 2008: 17m.
mix of the business to focus on higher margin The effective tax rate on continuing activities, excluding categories such as Books and Stationery.
These mix exceptional items, was 22 per cent 2008: 23 per cent.
changes are likely to be a driver of overall profit growth We expect the effective tax rate to remain below the in the years to come, without relying on top-line sales UK standard rate over the medium term.
The exact tax growth in the shortor medium-term.
The remaining rate achieved will depend on the underlying profitability improvement in gross margin came from better of the Group and continued progress in closing off management of promotions, reduced markdowns outstanding tax assessments with the tax authorities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 9 baCk to ContentS direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW Exceptional items discontinued operations Cash flow The Group has recognised a 1m exceptional charge The Group generated 89m 2008: 63m of free cash before tax in relation to discontinued operations.
A 4m exceptional charge was incurred arising from the crystallisation of reversionary property leases and m 2009 2008 a 3m exceptional credit was recognised from progress 3 Operating profit 83 74 made on the winding up of the USA Travel business.
Depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off fixed assets 41 42 Earnings per share Working capital 11 2 1 Underlying earnings per share increased by 17 per Capital expenditure 28 39 cent to 41.3p 2008: 35.3p, with earnings per share Tax 23 21 2 including exceptional items of 40.6p 2008: 35.3p.
Net interest received 2 Earnings per share calculations reflect the increase in Net provisions 1 3 profit and a lower basic weighted average number of Other items 6 6 shares in issue following the share buyback and share Free cash flow 89 63 consolidation last year.
Underlying diluted earnings per Cash inflows from working capital in the period were 1 11m due to the continued focus on working capital share of 41.3p were up 17 per management, including the integration of the prior year acquisitions.
The efficient management of payables and cent on the prior year.
receivables has more than offset increased stock levels.
Capital expenditure was 28m in the year, an 11m decrease on the prior year.
The prior year spend of 39m Dividends was higher than the Groups average capital expenditure The Board is proposing a final dividend of 11.3p per due to the impact of the new business wins and ordinary share, an increase of 16 per cent on the acquisitions in the second half of last year.
In 2009, we prior year, which reflects the cash generative nature opened 51 new Travel units including Shannon Airport, of the Group and the Boards confidence in its future Exeter Airport and Northwick Park Hospital, and nine prospects.
This gives a total ordinary dividend for the High Street stores including Uttoxeter, Leominster and year of 16.7p per ordinary share, up 17 per cent on the Haverhill.
We continue to invest in maintaining our retail prior year.
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend properties and during the period we have undertaken will be paid on 4 February 2010 to shareholders refurbishments at High Street and Travel stores.
In 2010, registered at the close of business on 8 January 2010. we expect capital expenditure to be closer to the levels The Board has a progressive dividend policy and incurred in earlier years at around 32m.
expects that, over time, dividends would be broadly covered twice by earnings calculated on a normalised m 2009 2008 tax basis.
New stores and store development 10 19 balance sheet and cash flow Refurbished stores 9 9 The Group had net assets of 188m 2008: 161m Systems 6 8 at the end of the year, an increase of 27m since 31 Other 3 3 August 2008, reflecting the profit and cash generation Total capital expenditure 28 39 of the Group over the year.
The cash generative nature of the High Street and Travel businesses is one of the strengths of the Group.
In addition to the 89m of free cash flow generated in the year, the Group has seen a net cash outflow of 35m in relation to non-trading operations.
This includes 23m of ordinary dividend payments 2008: 21m, 10m pension funding 2008: 10m and a tax refund including associated interest of 6m 2008: 15m.
At 31 August 2009, the Group had net funds of 45m 2008: net debt of 9m.
The Group has committed working capital facilities of 90m through to 26 June 1 Profit after tax and before exceptional items diluted.
2011, which are expected to be sufficient to meet its 2 EPS as per IAS 33 diluted.
needs in the foreseeable future.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 baCk to ContentS Return on Capital Employed The business has an annual minimum net rental Total capital employed and ROCE were as follows: commitment of 160m 2008: 151m net of 7m of external rent receivable 2008: 8m.
The total future rental commitment at the balance sheet date amounted ROCE % to 1,039m 2008: 900m, with the leases having Operating with an average life of six years.
Although large, these capital operating 2 commitments are characteristic of the retail sector employed ROCE leases 1 3 and the risks associated with them are influenced m % capitalised mainly by the quality and location of the sites.
Travel 55 87% 22% High Street 144 34% 15% Contingent liabilities Trading operations 199 49% 18% The Group has contingent liabilities relating to Unallocated central items 54 reversionary property leases.
Any such contingent liability which crystallises will be apportioned between Operating assets employed 145 57% 17% the Group and Smiths News PLC in the ratio 65:35 pursuant to the terms of the Demerger Agreement 1 Net assets adjusted for net funds and retirement benefit obligations.
provided that the Smiths News PLC liability is limited 2 Return on capital employed is calculated as the operating profit before to 5m in any 12 month period.
We have estimated the exceptional items as a percentage of operating capital employed.
3 Groups 65 per cent share of the future cumulative rental Return on capital employed after capitalised net operating leases including internal rent is calculated as the adjusted profit as a commitment at approximately 50m 2008: 64m.
percentage of operating assets after capitalising operating leases.
Adjusted profit is stated after adding back the annual net rent and charging depreciation on the value of capitalised leases.
The value of capitalised operating leases is based on the net present value of future rent commitments.
The Group has a strong For the prior year, comparable ROCE was 44 per cent balance sheet and has again 17 per cent after capitalised operating leases.
demonstrated very good cash Pensions Following the completion of the triennial valuation of generation.
the main defined benefit pension scheme, the WHSmith Pension Trust, a revised deficit funding schedule of around 11m per annum subject to indexation has been agreed for the next ten years.
The scheme had outlook an actuarial deficit of 113m as at 31 March 2009 with This year, the Group has delivered another good profit the increase from the previous valuation mainly due to performance, despite challenging trading conditions.
The LDI structure The strong performance in Travel highlights the continues to perform well.
The scheme has been attractiveness of the divisions business model and closed to new members since 1996 and, from 2007, demonstrates Travels ability to produce growth even has been closed to defined benefit service accrual.
when passenger numbers are soft.
We continue to focus on the implementation of the High Street plan and are The Groups IAS 19 pension deficit of 2m 2008: nil making good progress despite the subdued market.
relates to the relatively small UNS defined benefit Our staff should be proud of what we have achieved and pension scheme.
The IAS 19 valuation of the WHSmith I would like to thank them for all their hard work and Pension Trust at 31 August 2009 was nil 2008: nil.
There is an actuarial deficit due to the different assumptions and calculation methodologies used Looking forward, we expect the consumer environment compared with those under IAS 19. to remain difficult and have built our plans to account for this.
Both businesses are well-placed for any Operating leases recovery in consumer spending.
The Group has a strong The Groups stores are held mainly under operating balance sheet and has again demonstrated very good leases that are not capitalised and therefore are not cash generation capabilities, leaving it in a strong included as debt for accounting purposes.
The High position to continue to deliver value to shareholders.
Street leases are on standard institutional lease terms, typically with a 15-year term, subject to five-year upwards-only rent reviews.
The Travel stores operate kate Swann mainly through turnover-related leases, usually with group Chief executive, WH Smith PLC minimum rent guarantees, and generally varying in 15 October 2009 length from five to ten years.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 11 baCk to ContentS direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW key PerformanCe indiCatorS Details of key performance indicators used by management of the business are provided below: % 2009 2008 % LFL m m Change Change Profit Travel1 48 41 17% 1 High Street 49 47 4% Group profit before tax and exceptional items 82 76 8% 2 underlying earnings per share 41.3p 35.3p 17% revenue Travel 448 413 8% 2% High Street 892 939 5% 6% Group 1,340 1,352 1% 5% gross margin 220bps 120bps 3 free cash flow 89 63 fixed charges cover 1.5x 1.4x retail selling space Store Units Selling Space Sq ft 000s % % 2009 2008 Change 2009 2008 Change Travel units 490 449 9% 420 364 15% High Streetstores 565 557 1% 3,007 3,005 Includes 115 Motorway franchise units 2008: 101 units : 6 airport franchise units 2008: 0 units and 12 Caffe Nuovo units 2008: 8 units.
3 Net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, pension deficit funding, tax refunds and net interest received.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12 baCk to ContentS riSkS and unCertaintieS and quality control.
WHSmith has contractual and other The Corporate Governance Report on pages 17 to 23 arrangements with numerous third parties in support describes the process through which the directors of its business activities.
None of the arrangements is assess, manage and mitigate risks.
The Board regularly individually considered to be essential to the business reviews the risks faced by the Group.
management team has identified the following factors as major potential risks to the successful performance Store portfolio of the business.
WHSmiths management team The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio is recognises that the profile of risks changes constantly a key contributor to the Groups strategy.
Retailing from and additional risks not presently known, or that are a portfolio of good quality real estate in prime retail currently deemed immaterial, may also impact the areas and at commercially reasonable rates remains Groups business objectives.
critical to the performance of the Group.
All of High Streets stores are held under operating leases, and economic and market risks consequently the Group is exposed to the extent that As a UK retailer, WHSmith is sensitive to the economic any store becomes unviable as a result of rental climate and can be affected by the general condition of the inflation.
Most Travel stores are held under concession UK retail and travel markets.
Factors such as household agreements on average for five to ten years.
There is disposal income, weather, seasonality of sales, changing no guarantee that concessions will be renewed or that demographics and raw material costs will impact the Travel will be able to bid successfully for new contracts.
Through development of our The majority of Travels airport and railway concession product ranges and pricing strategy, the Group works to agreements contain change of control clauses, giving ensure we deliver value for all our customers.
various rights to the grantor of the concession, such as termination of the contract, in the event of a successful Competition in the retail industry takeover bid for WHSmith.
WHSmith operates in highly competitive markets and our failure to compete effectively with convenience business interruption and category-specific retailers may affect revenues An outbreak of a pandemic disease, an act of terrorism obtained through our stores.
The retail industry is or war could reduce the number of customers visiting subject to changing customer tastes.
WHSmiths WHSmith outlets, causing a decline in revenue and performance is dependent upon effectively predicting profit.
In the past our Travel business was particularly and quickly responding to changing consumer impacted by geopolitical events, such as the terrorist demands.
We must also translate market trends attacks on 11 September 2001 and 7 July 2005, which into saleable merchandise.
led to reductions in customer traffic.
Closure of travel routes both planned and unplanned may also have a reliance on the WHSmith brand material effect on business.
The Group has business The WHSmith brand is an important asset.
Failure continuity plans in place which are regularly reviewed, to protect it, an event that materially damages its updated and tested.
reputation and or the failure to sustain its appeal to customers could have an adverse effect on failure or interruption of information technology systems revenues.
The Group regularly monitors key service In common with most retail businesses, WHSmith and compliance measures to ensure operating relies on a number of important IT systems.
Any system standards are maintained.
performance problems could seriously affect our ability to trade.
The Group expects that these systems will key suppliers and supply chain management require ongoing investment to ensure that they are able WHSmith has agreements with key suppliers in the UK, to respond to the needs of the business and do not Europe and the Far East.
The interruption or loss of become obsolete.
Back-up facilities and business supply of core category products from these suppliers continuity plans are in place and are tested regularly to to our stores may affect our ability to trade.
Quality of ensure that business interruptions are minimised and supply issues may also impact the Groups reputation data is protected from corruption or unauthorised use.
and impact our ability to trade.
The Group conducts risk assessments of all its key suppliers to identify alternatives and develop contingency plans in the event that any of these key suppliers fail.
All suppliers also have to comply with the conditions laid out in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which covers areas such as production methods, employee working conditions Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 13 baCk to ContentS direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW reliance on key personnel Capital risk The performance of the Group depends on its ability The Groups objectives when managing capital defined to continue to attract, motivate and retain key Head as net debt plus equity are to safeguard the Groups Office and store staff.
The retail sector is very ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide competitive and the Groups people are frequently returns to shareholders and benefits for other targeted by other companies for recruitment.
The stakeholders, while optimising return to shareholders Remuneration Committee monitors the levels and through an appropriate balance of debt and equity structure of remuneration for senior management funding.
The Group manages its capital structure and and seeks to ensure that they are designed to attract, makes adjustments to it in light of changes to economic retain and motivate the executive directors to run the conditions and the strategic objectives of the Group.
Interest rate risk treasury and financial risk management The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce floating rate bank loans and overdrafts.
At 31 August exposures to interest rate, foreign exchange and other 2009, the Group had nil 2008: 25m drawn down financial risks, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available from its committed revolving credit facility.
The Group to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets periodically draws down on this facility, but does not safely and profitably.
The Group does not engage in see any draw down as long-term in nature and has speculative trading in financial instruments and therefore not entered into interest rate derivatives transacts only in relation to underlying business to mitigate this risk.
The Groups treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved Foreign currency risk by the Audit Committee and are subject to regular The Groups foreign currency exposures are principally Group Internal Audit review.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant future The Groups exposure to and management of capital, transactions and cash flows denominated in currencies liquidity, credit, interest rate and foreign currency risk other than pounds sterling.
The hedging instruments are summarised below.
Further detail can be found have been used to hedge purchases in US dollars and in Note 26 of the accounts.
to minimise foreign exchange risk in movements of the USD GBP exchange rates.
The euro exposure is Liquidity risk principally operational and arises mainly through the The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by ownership of a retail store in both France and Ireland.
reviewing the cash resources required to meet its The Group does not use derivatives to hedge balance business objectives through both short and long-term sheet and profit and loss translation exposure.
The Group has a committed facility and uncommitted facilities with a number of financial investment risk management institutions, which are available to be drawn for general The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, the corporate purposes including working capital.
WHSmith Pension Trust, has assets valued at 743m as at 31 August 2009.
An Investment Committee of the Credit risk Trustees to the scheme meets regularly to review the The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its performance of the asset managers and the scheme trade and other receivables.
The Group has a low retail as a whole, together with the underlying investments.
credit risk due to the transactions being principally of The Company is represented on this Committee.
The a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The credit LDI structure has a number of inflation and interest rate risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments hedges and equity option agreements, with collateral is considered to be low, as the Board approved Group posted daily to or from the scheme to the relevant Treasury Policy limits the value that can be placed with counterparty.
The risk of failure of counterparties to each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of these instruments, and of the investment manager, is loss.
These limits are based on a combination of monitored regularly by the Committee, as such failure short-term credit ratings of P-1 A-1 and long-term could expose the scheme to loss.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14 baCk to ContentS emPLoyeeS We divide our CR into four key areas: Marketplace, The Group employs more than 17,000 people, primarily Environment, Workplace and Community.
Accountability in the UK, and is proud of its long history of being for each rests with our Board and every year it reviews regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
our strategy and agrees the focus for the year ahead.
The following section provides an introduction equal opportunities to our CR work during the year.
More detailed The Board believes in creating throughout the Company information, notably performance data and future a culture that is free from discrimination and harassment targets, is available in our full CR Report, available and will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any to view at: www.
The Company gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment when these are received marketplace from disabled people and employs disabled people Customers whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Should an employee Customer satisfaction is a key driver of our business become disabled while working for the Company, efforts performance.
To ensure we continue to meet our are made to continue their employment and retraining customers expectations, we regularly assess the is provided, if necessary.
service we offer through mystery shopping surveys and we have active programmes to provide customers training and development with reassurance that our products have been made Our training and development programmes are focused with respect for the environment and human rights.
on giving our staff the skills they need to move up to We take our responsibility for the products we sell new roles, enabling them to develop their careers and seriously and are committed to listening to our ensuring that there is a pipeline of talent within the customers feedback.
Our Marketing Code of Practice Group.
During the year, we have also delivered training sets out the standards we will follow to ensure we to staff joining us following the recent acquisition of UNS sell products that are safe, fit for purpose, meet legal Group Limited and units from Alpha Retail UK Limited standards and are never described in a misleading and Martin McColl, to help them integrate into WHSmith.
manner, particularly when marketing to children.
employee engagement Suppliers Employees are kept informed of the performance Ethical trading and objectives of the Group through regular briefings We are committed to ensuring that the workers who and emails and the Companys open management manufacture our products are treated fairly and that style encourages employees to contribute to the our products are made in accordance with good development of the business.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct and Human Rights policy sets out the employee share ownership standards we want our suppliers to achieve and we The Company operates an HM Revenue & Customs work with them to help them improve their performance.
Approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme Sharesave Scheme, which provides employees WHSmiths ethical audit team, based in our Hong with the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company.
Kong office, visits each new factory to assess its Approximately 1,216 employees participate in performance.
Where necessary, any improvements the scheme.
will be agreed with the factory managers and we will continue to visit them on a regular basis to ensure SoCiaL and enVironmentaL matterS compliance and provide support.
We audit all our We continue to believe that good corporate responsibility direct source suppliers in Asia every two years.
CR is essential to the long-term success of our Group.
During the year, we have focused on broadening the Managing social and environmental matters scope of our ethical audits to include UK agents is embedded into the day-to-day management of the sourcing product from Asia.
We have also strengthened Group.
This year, we were delighted to retain Business our buyer training in ethical trade, enabling buyers in the Communitys highest ranking in their annual CR to support our objectives.
WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trade Initiative ETI.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 15 baCk to ContentS direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW Forest sourcing Health and safety It is our continuing objective that all virgin i. e. nonOur Board is committed to maintaining high standards recycled material used in our own-brand products of health and safety.
The management team, supported is from known, legal, well-managed and credibly by professional safety advisers, monitors key safety certified forests.
This year, we increased the volume of performance indicators and an annual report detailing material from recycled sources and certified forests to trends, performance and recommendations is presented over 55 per cent, up from 41 per cent in 2008.
The business also has a properly pleased with this achievement but recognise there is constituted Health and Safety Committee that comprises more to do and we continue to work with key suppliers employee representatives, management, trade union and our buying team to deliver further improvements.
representatives and professional safety advisers.
This year, we continued our downward trend in the number Payment policy for suppliers of reported incidents, with the total number of reportable The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, accidents falling by 1.5 per cent.
Maintaining this trend is which complies with the CBI Code of Practice for an ongoing area of focus over the coming year.
Buyers, is to agree the terms of payment in advance in line with normal trade practice and, provided a supplier Community performs in accordance with the agreement, to abide As a leading bookseller and stationer we focus our by such terms.
Copies of the CBI code may be obtained community investment on supporting education and from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, life-long learning.
Our annual target is to invest at London WC1A 1DU.
The Companys trade creditors least one per cent of Group pre-tax profits in support figure, as at the balance sheet date, was equivalent to of charities and community projects.
52 days 2008: 45 days based on average daily amounts Charitable donations during the year ended 31 August invoiced by suppliers during the year.
In addition, the Company facilitated the sale of charitable products environment which gave rise to further donations of 254,100 2008: We are committed to reducing the environmental impact 340,751 and also made donations in kind with an of our business and recognise that greater environmental estimated value of 104,900 2008: 115,200.
The full efficiency also makes good business sense.
extent of our community investment activity, measured Energy efficiency remains a focus for us and, this year, according to the London Benchmarking Group model, we have continued to reduce energy consumption is outlined in the Groups CR Report.
through a targeted programme working with our The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust, an independent store teams, as well as reviewing store equipment registered charity, actively supports employees that and design.
We reduced our energy per square foot are involved with charitable organisations in their to 27.3KWh, a six per cent reduction from last year.
In addition, we recognise employee In order to reduce the carbon intensity of our transport involvement in the community through our annual operations, we measure the carbon dioxide emissions Community Awards.
associated with the transport of each package from Supporting our literacy objectives, the Group has been distribution centre to store.
We also aim to reduce the working with the WHSmith Trust and with the National overall number of packages moved.
We continue to Literacy Trust for the past four years to fund the make progress in both areas.
This programme aims Waste remains a key issue for the business.
Our to foster a love of reading in children and encourage waste reduction programme focuses on increasing them to keep reading during their summer holidays.
the amount of waste we recycle in our stores and We also raise funds for charities and good causes distribution centres, an area where we have improved in through the promotion and sale of tailored products the year.
In addition, we are also committed to reducing in our stores, such as charity cards and calendars the environmental impact of our carrier bags and and our Adopt an Animal range.
looking at the materials from which our bags are made.
In some regions we have introduced a carrier bag charge to encourage customers to think twice about taking a carrier bag.
Over the year, we have reduced the number of carrier bags that we use by 35 per cent.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 16 baCk to ContentS Political donations All directors have access to the advice and services It is the Companys policy not to make political of the Company Secretary and may take independent donations and no political donations or EU political professional advice at the Companys expense in expenditure were made in the year 2008: nil.
the furtherance of their duties.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, Board and CorPorate goVernanCe, agm and otHer matterS Committee papers normally being sent out several The Board of the Company is committed to achieving days before meetings take place.
All newly appointed the highest standards of corporate governance.
The directors receive induction training on joining the Board principal governance rules applying to UK companies which is tailored to meet the needs of the individual listed on the London Stock Exchange with accounting and the need for director training is regularly assessed periods beginning after 29 June 2008 are contained in by the Board.
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted The performance of the Board is a fundamental by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the component of the Companys success.
The Board confirms that the carried out a formal evaluation of its performance Company has applied the principles and complied in September 2009.
The evaluation was co-ordinated with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout and directed by the Chairman with the support of the the financial year ended 31 August 2009.
A questionnaire covering the main areas of assessment was prepared by the the board Chairman and the Company Secretary and formed On 15 October 2009, the Board comprised the Chairman, the basis of in-depth interviews with each director.
two executive directors and four independent nonThe results of the assessment were considered by the executive directors.
Short biographies of each of the Board, and confirmed the strength of the strategic and directors, which illustrate their range of experience, entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, a sound are set out on page 25.
There is a clear division of governance framework and practices compliant with responsibility at the head of the Company: Robert Walker the Combined Code.
Chairman being responsible for running the Board and Kate Swann Group Chief Executive being responsible The Group Chief Executive reviews the performance of for implementing strategy.
John Barton has been the Group Finance Director.
The Chairman reviews the nominated by the Board as the Senior Independent performance of the Group Chief Executive and each Director.
The Board structure ensures that no individual non-executive director.
During the year, the Chairman or group dominates the decision-making process.
met with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, to discuss Board issues All of the non-executive directors who served during the and how to build the best possible team.
The Senior year and up to the date of this report are considered by the Independent Director met with the non-executive Board to be independent.
John Barton has served on the directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess Board for ten years.
The Chairman conducted a thorough the Chairmans performance.
review with John Barton to assess his independence and contribution to the Board and confirmed that he continues The Companys Articles of Association require that to be an effective non-executive director who demonstrates directors offer themselves for re-election every three commitment to the role and remains independent in years and that new directors appointed by the Board character and judgement.
John Barton stepped down as offer themselves for election at the next Annual General Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2009.
The Board met eight times during the year.
The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These include overall management of the Company: approval of strategic plans including acquisitions and disposals: approval of the Companys commercial strategy and operating and capital expenditure budgets: approval of the financial statements, material agreements and non-recurring projects: treasury policy: control, audit and risk management: remuneration: and corporate responsibility.
It also delegates specific responsibilities to the Board Committees detailed below, the role and responsibilities of each Committee being set out in formal terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 17 baCk to ContentS direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW board Committees Remuneration Committee Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Drummond The Audit Committee is chaired by Mike Ellis, who has Hall and its other members are John Barton, Mike Ellis, recent and relevant financial experience, and its other Luke Mayhew and Robert Walker.
At the invitation members are John Barton, Drummond Hall and Luke of the Committee, the Group Chief Executive and Mayhew, all of whom are independent non-executive representatives of Hewitt New Bridge Street, its external directors.
At the invitation of the Committee, the independent advisor, attend meetings.
The Committee Chairman of the Board, the Group Finance Director, met four times during the year.
The Committees the Internal Audit Director and representatives of the principal responsibility is to determine and recommend external auditors regularly attend meetings.
The to the Board the remuneration of executive directors and Committee has regular private meetings with the the Chairman.
The Committee monitors the levels and external and internal auditors during the year.
The structure of remuneration for senior management and Committees principal responsibilities cover internal seeks to ensure that they are designed to attract, retain control and risk management, internal audit, and motivate the executive directors to run the Company external audit including auditor independence successfully.
The remuneration of the non-executive and financial reporting.
directors is determined by the Chairman and the executive directors.
The Committee met four times during the year and its activities included: a review of the preliminary and The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 26 to 34 interim announcements, Annual Report and Financial as required by the Large and Medium-Sized Companies statements: the consideration of reports from the and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. external auditors identifying any accounting or The Committees terms of reference are available on judgemental issues requiring its attention: approval the Companys website.
of audit plans for the external and internal auditors: considering reports from the Internal Audit Director Attendance at Board Committee meetings on the results of internal audit reviews, significant The following table shows the number of Board findings, management action plans and timeliness and Committee meetings held during the year of resolution: reviewing reports on the Companys risk ended 31 August 2009 and the attendance record management process: reviewing management of fraud of individual directors: risk and incidences of fraud: reviewing the Companys Business Continuity Plans: and reviewing the Committee meetings Board effectiveness of the Companys whistleblowing process.
meetings Audit Nominations Remuneration The Committees terms of reference are available No.
of meetings 8 4 1 4 on the Companys website.
Robert Walker 8 4 1 4 Kate Swann 8 1 4 Nominations Committee Robert Moorhead The Nominations Committee is chaired by Robert appointed 01.12.08 6 3 Walker and its other members are John Barton, Mike Alan Stewart Ellis, Drummond Hall, Luke Mayhew and Kate Swann.
resigned 28.11.08 2 1 The Committees principal responsibility is to ensure John Barton 8 4 1 4 that appropriate procedures are in place for the Mike Ellis 8 4 1 4 nomination, selection and succession of directors Drummond Hall 8 4 1 4 and senior executives.
Luke Mayhew 8 4 1 4 The Committee met once formally and the nonexecutive directors met on a number of occasions The Board has met three times since 31 August 2009 informally to discuss succession issues during the and all the directors attended the meetings.
Its activities included a review of the Companys the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations succession plans and discussion in respect of the Committee have met twice and the Audit Committee ongoing shape and capability of the Board.
In has met once since 31 August 2009.
These meetings accordance with the Companys succession plan, were attended by all Committee members.
Robert Moorhead was appointed as the Group Finance Director on 1 December 2008 following the departure of Alan Stewart on 28 November 2008.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 18 baCk to ContentS risk management and internal Controls the internal audit team meets annually with senior The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys executives in order to complete a formal certification system of internal control and for reviewing its of the effectiveness of internal controls.
These reports effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to are submitted to the business risk committees.
implement the Boards policies on risk and control and Certificates are also provided by the risk committees provide assurance on compliance with these policies.
to the Audit Committee, to assist the Board in Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control conducting its annual review of internal controls and risk management further into the operations of the in compliance with the Guidance.
business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
ii Internal controls Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather a Financial controls than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The Company has an established framework of internal objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not financial control, the effectiveness of which is regularly absolute assurance against material misstatement reviewed by the executive management and the Board.
The key elements of this are as follows: the Board is responsible for overall Company strategy, i Risk for approving revenue and capital budgets and plans, The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for approving major acquisitions and disposals and for identifying, evaluating and managing significant for determining the financial structure of the risks faced by the Company including those risks Company including treasury and dividend policy.
relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
Monthly results, variances from plan and forecasts This process was in place throughout the year under are reported to the Board: review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and meets the requirements of the guidance the Audit Committee assists the Board in the entitled Internal Control Revised Guidance for discharge of its duties regarding the Companys and Directors on the Combined Code produced by the the Groups financial statements, accounting policies Financial Reporting Council the Guidance.
The Audit and the maintenance of proper internal business, Committee has kept under review the effectiveness operational and financial controls.
The Committee of the system of internal control and has reported provides a direct link between the Board and the regularly to the Board.
external auditors through regular meetings: The key features of the risk management process are the internal audit function advises and assists as follows: business management to establish and maintain adequate financial controls and reports to the Audit the business conducts an annual risk assessment Committee on the effectiveness of those controls: based on identified business objectives which are reviewed and agreed by the Executive Committee.
the Board has established an organisational structure Risks are categorised into strategic, operational, with clearly defined lines of responsibility and financial and compliance and are evaluated in respect approval controls identifying transactions requiring of their potential impact and likelihood.
These risk approval by the Board or by the Approvals Committee.
assessments are updated and reviewed quarterly The Group Finance Director is responsible for the by the Group and business risk committees and functional leadership and development of the are reported to the Executive Committee and the Companys finance activities: Audit Committee: there is a comprehensive system for budgeting a Company risk assessment is also undertaken by and planning and for monitoring and reporting the the internal audit function, which considers all areas performance of the Companys business to the of potential risk across all systems, functions and key directors.
Monthly results are reported against business processes.
This risk assessment together budget and prior year, and forecasts for the current with the business risk assessment forms the basis financial year are regularly revised in the light of for determining the internal audit plan.
These cover profits, cash flows, in relation to areas reviewed are discussed and capital expenditure and balance sheets: agreed with the business risk committees and the the Company has established a uniform system Audit Committee: and of investment appraisal: Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 19 baCk to ContentS direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW executive management has defined the financial Business Recovery Plans exist to enable the business controls and procedures with which each business is to continue in the event of a disaster with minimum required to comply.
Key controls over major business disruption to customers.
risks include reviews against performance indicators and exception reporting, and the business is required auditor independence to prepare monthly management accounts: and On 1 December 2008, Deloitte & Touche LLP changed its name to Deloitte LLP.
The Board is satisfied that Deloitte routine reports are prepared to cover treasury LLP has adequate policies and safeguards in place to activities and risks, for review by senior executives, ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is and annual reports are prepared for the Board and maintained.
The external auditors report to the Audit Audit Committee covering treasury policies, Committee annually on their independence from the insurance and pensions.
Periodic rotation of key audit partners is also required.
The Audit Committee considers whether the b Non-financial controls audit should go out to tender but has taken the view The Company has established a wide range of that partner rotation at both the Group and operating non-financial controls covering areas such as health business level has been sufficient to maintain the and safety, environment, ethical trading, employment necessary independence.
There are no contractual and business continuity, the effectiveness of which restrictions on the Audit Committee as to the choice are regularly reviewed by the executive management of external auditors.
The key elements are as follows: The Board has also adopted a formal policy on the a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by the Companys relationship with its auditor in respect of Board, including objectives and targets to address the non-audit work.
The auditors may only provide such impacts that our activities have on the environment, services provided that such advice does not conflict workplace, marketplace and community: with their statutory responsibilities and ethical clear accountability for corporate responsibility issues guidance.
The Audit Committee Chairmans prehas been defined at Board and operational level: approval is required before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out annual updates are submitted to the Board on each in the policy.
The fees paid to the auditors in respect of aspect of corporate responsibility: non-audit services are shown in Note 3 to the Accounts.
the Board is committed to maintaining high standards In line with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee of health and safety in all its business activities.
undertakes a thorough assessment of the quality, These standards are set out in the Companys Health effectiveness, value and independence of the audit and Safety Policy which is regularly reviewed by the provided by Deloitte LLP on an annual basis, seeking the Board.
The Risk Management team works with the views and feedback of the Board, together with those of business to assess health and safety risks and Group and divisional management.
Following the most introduce systems to mitigate them.
All notified recent review, the Audit Committee has determined to accidents are investigated and targets are set to recommend to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte reduce the level of incidence: LLP at the Annual General Meeting on 27 January 2010. the Board has approved an Environmental Policy and sets environmental objectives and specific relations with Shareholders targets which are reviewed annually: The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders to ensure that the Board is committed to ensuring reasonable its strategy and performance is understood.
This is standards among its suppliers and has approved achieved principally through the annual report and an Ethical Trading Code of Conduct setting out the accounts and the AGM.
In addition, a range of corporate standards it expects its suppliers to adopt.
This policy information, including all Company announcements covers health and safety, child labour, working hours, and presentations, is available to investors on the discrimination and the environment: Companys website, www.
co. uk the Company is committed to ensuring that its Formal presentations are made to institutional personnel meet good standards of integrity and shareholders following the announcement of the competence.
The Companys systems cover the Companys full year and interim results.
The Board recruitment, training and development of personnel, recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for an appropriate division of responsibilities and the dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors communication of Company policies and procedures normally attend the AGM and are available to answer throughout the organisation: and any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 20 baCk to ContentS The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders at The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys least 20 working days before the meeting.
Those ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their shareholders who have elected to receive electronic holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles communications receive notice of the availability of of Association, a copy of which can be obtained from the annual report on the Companys website.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Shareholders vote on each resolution on a show of Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak hands, unless a poll is validly called, and after each at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies such vote the number of proxy votes received for, and to exercise voting rights, to receive a dividend against, and withheld is announced.
The proxy figures subject to the deduction of any sums due from the are made available in writing at the end of the meeting, holder of ordinary shares to the Company on account announced to the London Stock Exchange and of calls or otherwise.
Changes to the Companys published on the Companys website.
Articles of Association must be approved by special The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views resolution of the Company.
and concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief The Trustee of the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust Executive and Group Finance Director update the Board holds ordinary shares in the Company on behalf of the following meetings with major shareholders and beneficiaries of the Trust, who are the employees and analysts briefings are circulated to the Board.
When former employees of the Group.
If any offer is made to requested to do so, the Chairman and non-executive the holders of ordinary shares to acquire their shares, directors attend meetings with major shareholders.
the Trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time Compliance with the Combined Code subject to subsisting options, but will have regard to Throughout the year ended 31 August 2009 the the interests of the optionholders and can consult them Company has been in compliance with the provisions to obtain their views on the offer, and subject to the of the Combined Code.
foregoing, the Trustee will take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
dividends The directors recommend the payment of a final Purchase of own shares dividend for the year of 11.3p per ordinary share on At the 2009 AGM, authority was given for the Company 4 February 2010 to members on the Register at the to purchase, in the market, up to 23,135,555 ordinary close of business on 8 January 2010.
The Company did not use this This final dividend and the interim dividend of 5.4p per authority to make any purchases of its own shares ordinary share paid on 12 June 2009 makes a total during the financial year.
The Company announced on dividend of 16.7p per ordinary share for the year ended 15 October 2009 its intention to return up to 35m to 31 August 2009. shareholders via a rolling share buyback programme.
This authority is renewable annually and approval will Share capital be sought from shareholders at the AGM in 2010 to The authorised and issued share capital of the renew the authority for a further year.
Company, together with details of shares issued during the year, are shown in Note 27 to the Accounts.
issue of new ordinary shares During the financial year ended 31 August 2009, 6,766 The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 ordinary shares of the Company were issued under the August 2009 was 156,858,000.
The ordinary shares Sharesave Scheme at a price of 295.82p.
The Articles of 6 of 22 p are listed on the London Stock Exchange 67 Association of the Company provide that the Board may, and can be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
subject to the prior approval of the members of the The Company is not aware of any agreements between Company, be granted authority to exercise all the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities, transfer of securities and voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules whereby directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 21 baCk to ContentS direCtorS rePort and buSineSS reVieW Significant agreements change of control Companys shareholders A change of control of the Company following a The Company has been notified in accordance with takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial which the Company or its trading subsidiaries, WH Services Authority that as at the date of this report, the Smith High Street Limited and WH Smith Travel following shareholders own more than three per cent Limited, is party, such as commercial trading contracts, of the issued share capital of the Company: banking arrangements, property lease and licence agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
In Nature of addition, the directors service agreements and Holder Number % Holding employee share plans would be similarly affected on a Standard Life Direct change of control, including in the case of the directors, Investments Limited 15,549,531 9.91 Indirect compensation for loss of office.
In the context of the Legal & General Direct Company as a whole, these agreements are not Group PLC 8,694,007 5.54 Indirect considered to be significant.
Jupiter Asset Details of the change of control clause contained in Management Limited 7,787,536 4.96 Indirect the service contracts of the executive directors can Direct be found in the Remuneration Report on page 29.
7,554,312 4.82 Indirect Artemis Investment directors conflicts Management Limited 7,774,084 4.76 Direct The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board JP Morgan Chase & Co. 7,428,306 4.74 Indirect to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may Barclays Global Investors 4,809,497 3.05 Indirect possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a formal Except for the above, the Company is not aware of any system in place for directors to declare Situational ordinary shareholders with interests of three per cent Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those or more in the issued share capital of the Company.
directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a board of directors Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors must The names of the directors as at the date of this report, act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be together with biographical details, are set out on page most likely to promote the success of the Company, 25.
All the directors served throughout the period and they may impose limits or conditions when giving except as set out below: the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Any Situational Conflicts considered Alan Stewart, who served as a director from March by the Board, and any authorisations given, are 2005, resigned from the Board on 28 November 2008. recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of Robert Moorhead was appointed as a director on conflicts which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association give a power to the Board to appoint directors and, where notice is given signed by all the other directors, remove a director from office.
The Companys Articles of Association themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association require that directors offer themselves for re-election every three years and that new directors appointed by the Board offer themselves for election at the next AGM following their appointment.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 22 baCk to ContentS In accordance with good corporate governance, John The directors report that they have reviewed current Barton who was appointed to the Board as a nonperformance and forecasts, combined with expenditure executive director in November 1999 and has served commitments, including capital expenditure and on the Board for ten years will retire and, being eligible, proposed dividends and proposed share buyback, offers himself for election at the AGM.
John Barton and borrowing facilities.
After making enquiries the has been appointed for a fixed term until the Companys directors have a reasonable expectation that the AGM in 2011 and does not have a contract of service.
Group has adequate financial resources to continue The Chairman conducted a thorough review with John its current operations, including contractual and Barton to assess his independence and contribution commercial commitments for the foreseeable future to the Board and confirmed that he continues to be despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
For an effective independent non-executive director and this reason, they have continued to adopt the going continues to add value.
The Board believes that John concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Barton is an effective independent non-executive director notwithstanding the fact that he will have auditors served on the Board for ten years since the date he was Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to first appointed to the Board by the time of the AGM on continue in office as auditors of the Company.
John Barton has extensive financial resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors and retail experience which the Board continues to to the Company and a resolution to authorise the benefit from in managing the Company.
directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the Company, along disclosure of information to auditors with details of directors share options and awards, Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit 26 to 34. information as defined by Section 418 of the At no time during the year did any of the directors have Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors a material interest in any significant contract with the are unaware, and each of the directors has taken all Company or any of its subsidiaries.
steps he should have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and The Company maintains directors and officers liability to establish that the Companys auditors are aware insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal of that information.
action brought against its directors.
The Company has also provided an indemnity for its directors, which annual general meeting is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the The AGM of the Company will be held at JPMorgan purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Cazenove, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA on 27 January 2010 at 11.30am.
The Notice of Annual going concern General Meeting is given, together with explanatory The Groups business activities together with the notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
factors that are likely to affect its future developments, performance and position are set out in this Directors This report was approved by the Board on 15 October 2009.
The Directors Report and Business Review also describes the Groups financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, further by order of the board information on which is detailed in Notes 23 to 26 of the ian Houghton Accounts.
In addition Note 26 of the Accounts includes Company Secretary the Groups objectives, policies and processes for 15 October 2009 managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors Report and Business Review also highlights the main risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 23
