Report of the Directors Housebuilding profit from operations before Business review exceptional items was 38.8m 2008: 530.0m, giving an operating margin before exceptional items of 1.9% 2008: 15.5%.
After inventory The Group has been operating in an extremely impairments of 431.5m 2008: 157.2m and difficult market throughout the year.
The deteriorating other operating exceptional items of 14.9m economic outlook and customer confidence coupled 2008: 15.9m, housebuilding loss from operations was 407.6m 2008: 356.9m profit.
with constrained mortgage availability led to acceleration in the fall of house prices during the first The decrease in operating margin before exceptional items can be explained by a half of the year.
Whilst overall house prices remained number of factors.
First, underlying average relatively stable in the second half, mortgage finance selling prices, which exclude the impact of remained difficult to obtain for many customers.
mix changes, have decreased by around 22%, which has also reduced margins by approximately 22%, reflecting the significant fall in sales prices, particularly during the second quarter.
In addition, selling costs reduced margin by around 0.6%.
Cost reduction programmes, the reversal of land impairments, mix changes, land sales and other income benefited margins by approximately 9.0%.
The Group delivered a profit from operations Total housebuilding completions were 13,202 Throughout the year there has been a focus before exceptional items of 34.2m homes, a decrease of 29.0% on the prior year on build costs.
After inventory impairments 2008: 18,588, and housebuilding revenue has continued to reduce build costs through of 499.5m 2008: 208.4m and other net was 2,095.8m 2008: 3,414.2m.
Of the total changing specifications, improving build and operating exceptional items of 20.0m completions, private completions were 11,133, technical processes, renegotiating subcontractor 2008: 46.6m, the Groups loss from 24.8% lower than the prior year 2008: 14,803, rates and reducing the cost of materials.
and social completions were 2,069, 45.3% lower than the prior year 2008: 3,785.
Social In addition to reductions in construction costs, The key performance indicators of the housing completions represented 15.7% of there has been focus upon reducing the business are outlined in the table on the completions in the year, versus 20.4% in the number of stock units held by the business next page.
prior year, predominantly due to the decline and tight control of work in progress.
in the number of new sites being opened.
Unreserved roof to complete units reduced by Housebuilding 61.1% to 2,008 2008: 5,157 and unreserved The immensely difficult market in which the Over the year, total average selling completed properties reduced by 54.9% to housebuilding business was operating price decreased by 14.1% to 157,200 822 2008: 1,821. significantly affected the results for the year.
Private average selling Market conditions meant that fewer new sites prices decreased by 18.9% to 166,500 The option of part-exchange remains an were opened and accordingly the average 2008: 205,400.
The decrease in private effective selling tool, with 11.8% 2008: 12.3% number of sites from which the Group was average selling prices reflects the significant of the Groups completions in the year operating fell by 15.3% to 503 2008: 594. fall in realisable sales values in the first half supported by the use of part-exchange Across housebuilding sites visitor numbers per partially offset by a change in site and product incentives, but the housebuilding business site per week were down 4.0% from the prior mix.
Social average selling prices increased, continues to manage carefully its commitment year at 1.69 2008: 1.76.
Against the backdrop as a result of mix changes, by 11.7% to to part-exchange properties.
The number of of decreasing site and visitor numbers, the 107,100 2008: 95,900. unreserved part-exchange properties fell from private reservation rate per site per week 677 at 30 June 2008 to 150 on 30 June 2009, increased by 10.5% from 0.38 to 0.42. a reduction of 77.8%.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 09 Report of the Directors | Business review KPI Description 2009 Movement In this report Key performance indicator Operational Residential Number of residential 13,202 29.0% Discussed in the section completion numbers units legally completed 2008: 18,588 entitled Housebuilding Average selling price Revenue generated 157,200 14.1% Discussed in the section from the sale of homes 2008: 183,100 entitled Housebuilding divided by the number of completions Land bank plots Number of residential 68,000 13.6% Discussed in the section plots owned and 2008: 78,700 entitled Land controlled Customer satisfaction The percentage of 96% 9.1% Discussed in the section levels customers who would 2008: 88% entitled Quality recommend us to and service a friend Revenue 2,285.2m 35.7% Discussed in the Financial 2008: 3,554.7m Group Finance Directors review Loss profit from 485.3m 264.4% Discussed in the operations 2008: 295.2m Group Finance Directors review Loss profit 678.9m 594.5% Discussed in the before tax 2008: 137.3m Group Finance Directors review Loss earnings per Loss profit after tax 135.8p 643.2% Discussed in the share divided by the weighted Group Finance 2008: 25.0p average number of Directors review ordinary shares in issue Net debt 1,276.9m 22.6% Discussed in the 2008: 1,650.6m Group Finance Directors review Injury Incidence Rate The number of 522 20.4% Discussed in the Corporate responsibility IIR reportable under accidents reportable 2008: 656 section entitled Health The Reporting of under RIDDOR and Safety Injuries, Diseases regulations per 100,000 and Dangerous persons employed Occurrences Regulations 1995 RIDDOR Construction Skills Percentage of the 95.4% 6.0% Discussed in the section Certification Scheme workforce that is fully 2008: 90% entitled People and CSCS carded CSCS carded and expertise workforce qualified Carbon Dioxide Average kilogramme 1,782 kgCO2 Unit 0.6% Discussed in the Emission carbon dioxide 2008: 1,792 kgCO2 Unit section entitled Construction emitted per unit Environment and Process legally completed supply chain Brownfield Percentage of 70% 2.9% Discussed in the section development completions on 2008: 68% entitled Environment brownfield land and supply chain 10 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Business review Image left: Horizons, Allerton Bywater street scene.
Image right: The Magnolia, a five bedroom detached executive home at Clayton Mills in Hassocks, West Sussex.
The housebuilding business has continued to On industrial sites, the commercial Land additions during the year were 219m reduce its overhead cost base throughout the developments business completed the sale of 2008: 922m.
Central functions and certain operating a portfolio of land and commercial property completion rates, the Groups owned and divisions have been re-organised, and seven on nine sites in central England and the sales controlled land bank is sufficient for 5.2 years operating divisions have either been closed or of 73,300 square feet to Terex Pegson and 2008: 6.0 years.
The Group has continued merged.
During the year, restructuring costs 19,400 square feet to Volvo at the Interlink to invest in new land where contractually of 22.0m have been incurred 2008: 15.9m.
committed to do so or, more recently, where it has been able to secure attractively priced Commercial developments With regard to the office portfolio, in February opportunities on deferred terms.
Conditions in the commercial property market the commercial developments business continue to be extremely challenging, with completed construction of a forward-sold The average cost per plot in the Groups land pressure on rental incomes and, in turn, yields.
102,700 square feet development in the heart bank was 44,000 at 30 June 2009 Revenue from the commercial property business of Manchester.
2008: 44,400. in the year totalled 189.4m 2008: 140.5m and loss from operations before exceptional items Following the sales made during the year, the At 30 June 2009, detailed planning consents was 4.6m 2008: 20.2m profit.
Exceptional commercial developments business, which were in place on over 96.0% of land required items were 73.1m 2008: 81.9m, consisting of includes Wilson Bowden Developments as to meet forecast activity for the next year 68.0m 2008: 51.2m impairment of inventories well as a number of commercial properties in 2008: 97.2%.
In addition, the Group has and restructuring costs of 5.1m 2008: nil and Scotland, retains investment and development 10,400 acres of strategic land 2008: 10,900 impairment of goodwill and intangible assets of opportunities, including certain town centre acres which, until the necessary planning nil 2008: 30.7m.
retail schemes and certain city centre office consents are obtained, is carried at current opportunities, with a net asset value of use value minimising the Groups exposure During the year ended 30 June 2009, the 55.9m with a view to realising value when to risk from its strategic land holdings.
commercial developments business completed the market improves.
and sold the Eagles Meadow shopping centre During the year, the Group has impaired its in Wrexham, comprising 392,600 square feet Land inventories by 499.5m 2008: 208.4m, of of prime retail space, having secured lettings The Group land bank consists of both owned which 494.9m arose in the first half, further or offers for 90% of the scheme.
At 30 June 2009, the details of which are provided in the Group Group had 68,000 2008: 78,700 owned Finance Directors review on pages 20 and 21. and controlled plots.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 Report of the Directors | Business review Core strength The Group serves all sectors of the market, creating homes for sale and shared ownership.
Geographic and The Mews at Chestnut Grange, a retirement development of one and two bedroom apartments and two bedroom cottages in Wokingham product diversity below left.
First Time Buyer Sally Taylor, took advantage of the HomeBuy Direct scheme to buy a two bedroom apartment at Barratt Bristols Equinox The Groups housebuilding business development in Cheltenham below right.
operates throughout Britain, trading nationally under the Barratt Homes and David Wilson Homes brands.
Net of impairment, the Groups land bank has a capability, combined with the Groups replans to increase the proportion of houses carrying-value of 2,453.2m 2008: 3,117.5m.
strategic land portfolio, is designed to ensure available on its sites in future.
that the Group has sufficient land to meet Core strengths customer demand now and in the future as The provision of social housing remains a key The Groups core strengths of geographic and and when the market improves.
component of the Groups activities with product diversity, quality and service and 2,069 homes 2008: 3,785 homes completed people and expertise remain robust, despite The Group serves all sectors of the market, during the financial year ended 30 June 2009 the more challenging operating environment.
creating homes for sale and shared ownership at an average selling price of 107,100 2008: and works with Government agencies, housing 95,900.
In December 2008, the Group was Geographic and product diversity associations, and other agencies on a broad allocated approximately 3,000 units under the The Groups housebuilding business operates range of urban regeneration schemes.
The HomeBuy Direct scheme with an anticipated throughout Britain, trading nationally under Groups wide product range varies from homes sales value of approximately 500m.
As at the Barratt Homes and David Wilson Homes for first time buyers, large family homes and 30 June 2009, 138 units had been legally brands and in the South East under the local high rise apartments to social housing and completed, a further 172 had been reserved Ward Homes brand.
At 30 June 2009, the commercial development.
Private selling prices and there were 118 pending reservation.
The Group was selling from 434 sites 2008: 585 during the 2009 financial year ranged from Group is also pursuing other Government sites.
Following divisional closures and 47,500 to 2.3m, with an average selling price initiatives such as the Kickstart Housing Delivery mergers during the year, the Group now for the year of 166,500. programme announced in the 2009 Budget.
The Group, despite the cost reduction programme, has Throughout the year, there was a reduction Quality and service been careful to maintain both its product in the demand for apartments, particularly in The Group is committed to offering the range and geographical reach throughout areas outside of London and the South East.
highest standards of quality and customer the year in order to spread its risks.
The Group is currently replanning a number service.
The Group seeks to develop its of sites replacing apartments with houses, quality and service standards by listening to Each division has a dedicated land buying which require less initial capital investment, its customers, monitoring its performance team with local knowledge and experience.
During the year, and adopting best practice throughout the These teams identify land suitable for houses represented 50.5% 2008: 54.9% organisation.
The Group continues to make development and secure planning permission of the Groups completions, excluding central progress in improving customer service and to enable new homes to be built.
This London, although the Group expects site 12 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Business review during the year, 96% of customers independently Homes brand names as brands which allow sales staff to communicate with surveyed said they would recommend the Group customers will associate with homes that customers directly via e-mail.
I-Sales is to a friend, a satisfactory achievement against a they would want to live in, through the use expected to be extended to all sales outlets backdrop of considerable change in the business of a variety of media channels.
during the current financial year.
The sales and marketing team have increased The Group continues to use part-exchange as The Groups high quality homes have been their efforts to promote the Groups brands in a selling tool for those customers who are recognised independently by the recent response to the economic downturn.
More finding it difficult to find a purchaser for their achievement of Four Star builder status in focused marketing campaigns have been existing home.
The Groups ability to sell the Home Builders Federation 4th annual introduced through various media channels part-exchange units is demonstrated by the customer satisfaction survey and 76 Pride internet, radio and direct mail, targeted reduction in the number of unreserved in the Job quality awards from the National incentives and discounts have been offered to part-exchange properties from 677 as at House-Building Council.
customers and tools such as shared equity 30 June 2008 to 150 as at 30 June 2009. products, part-exchange and other innovative The Directors believe that it is important to offers have been utilised to support sales.
The Group also recognises the importance of build high quality products which meet the assisting customers to find suitable financial needs of the Groups customers in order to The Group also introduced new sales assistance to purchase their new homes.
make it a housebuilder of choice.
The Groups technology, I-Sales, in 90 of its sales centres The Groups Lender Relations Manager works sales and marketing teams continue to promote across Britain during the 2009 financial year.
closely with mortgage lenders in order to the Barratt Homes and David Wilson I-Sales combines website capability with the assure them that the homes built by the Groups computerised customer database to Group are of a high quality which they can Core strength The Group continues to make progress in improving customer service and during the year, 96% of customers independently surveyed said Quality and service they would recommend the Group to a friend, a satisfactory achievement against a backdrop of considerable change in the business and the market.
The Group continues to make progress to improve the design of its The Group is committed to offering products, internally, externally and for the development as a whole.
the highest standards of quality and The Group has been awarded its first ever Building for Life award for the development at City Point in Brighton below left.
Vince Cripps at his Barratt home at NU@D2 in Upton, Northampton, a development of 164 homes that features a range of green technologies below right.
Would recommend to a friend % 88 08 09 96 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Report of the Directors | Business review confidently lend on and to gain their support for affordable housing schemes such as the HomeBuy Direct scheme.
The Group has also introduced a transparency policy which requires all sales staff to determine the true identity of potential customers and to identify the true net price of properties sold to mitigate its and the mortgage lenders risk of inadvertently becoming involved in mortgage fraud.
The Groups procurement team negotiates national procurement agreements with all major suppliers and, as a result, it made further progress with its cost reduction programmes during the 2009 financial year, with improved efficiency and reductions in build costs, particularly in terms of technical specification.
The Group has also made progress by renegotiating terms and pricing Image above: Hortham Village in Almondsbury.
A development of two, three, four and five bedroom homes set in over 50 acres of open parkland.
with its subcontractors at a local level.
People and expertise The Group recognises that one of its key strengths is its people and that despite the current economic environment it is important development programmes in place to assist experiences up to 1,000 in value.
to continue to develop and invest in its people with the development of individuals as part The Group has also set key performance and their expertise.
The Group has a Personal of the succession plan.
indicators to measure the efficiency and Development Review process, which involves effectiveness of the Groups people strategies one-to-one formal reviews every six months The Group conducts an engagement survey and enable it to take appropriate action on with regular informal review meetings taking on an annual basis in order to gauge staff staff turnover, retention, sickness, absence place in between.
These meetings are used perception of working for the Group.
to deal with any issues that individuals may consisting of a number of questions on a variety have as well as identifying any training and of work-related topics such as work-life The Group continues to make progress development requirements and setting individual balance, support from line managers and towards its target of a fully carded CSCS achievement targets for the year ahead.
communication, is circulated to all members Construction Skills Certification Scheme of staff who complete the survey anonymously.
workforce, including its subcontractors, by The Group runs a Graduate Recruitment and The Groups HR team prepare an engagement 2010.
At present, 95.4% 2008: 90% of the Development Programme consisting of a two index based on the percentage of questions Groups workforce, including subcontractors, year multi-disciplinary programme of both achieving the highest score.
For the year ended has achieved this target.
Thirty graduates 30 June 2009 the engagement index increased have recently completed the first two year by 59% compared to the previous year.
Corporate Responsibility programme and have all secured full-time The Group is committed to the principles roles within the business.
Five graduates Get Recognised, the Groups motivational of Corporate Responsibility CR and has are currently entering their second year recognition programme, was developed and publicly stated this commitment in its CR programme.
On account of the downturn in launched across the Group in late September policy which is available on the Groups the sector, the Group decided not to increase 2008.
The scheme retains the best aspects of website, www.
the number of graduates in the programme previous awards schemes whilst adding new in the 2009 financial year but aims to recruit elements such as instant and peer group further graduates under the programme as recognition.
Instant recognition enables peers and when the sector recovers.
as well as managers to nominate a colleague or team member who has performed above Succession planning is in place across the and beyond expectations, and successful Group and there are currently four leadership nominations result in individuals winning 14 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Business review The Group has established a CR steering The Group publishes a CR report each year recently set a target for housebuilders to build group to oversee the development and that explains its approach to CR and its all new homes with zero carbon emissions implementation of CR objectives and targets.
management of CR governance and risk, by 2016.
In response to this the Group The steering group has identified and assessed and reports on the actions taken by the has established and follows a strong the key CR risks facing the business, which Group during the year to improve CR environmental agenda which emphasises include Environmental, Social and Governance performance.
CR disclosures in the Annual the provision of low cost solutions to meet ESG risks facing the business and has Report and Accounts and CR report, increasing environmental standards.
developed six charters that will be used to including disclosures on ESG matters, are manage these risks and deliver the Groups based on information collected annually from The Group has also been selected as the strategic CR objectives.
The six charters are the business and from regular management preferred developer of the Carbon Challenge based around Environment, Health and Safety, information.
This information is independently Development at Hanham Hall near Bristol.
Customers and People, Supply Chain and reviewed internally and sample information is This development, which is expected to be Communities.
Operational functions within the checked through the internal audit process.
completed in 2013, will become one of the business are responsible for each charter and first large scale zero carbon communities in integrate the Groups CR strategy into normal The Groups CR reports are available on its Britain and is being built in partnership with business operations.
This process ensures that website, www.
the Homes and Communities Agency.
Each adequate information in relation to ESG matters of the 195 units will also meet Level Six of the is available to the Board.
Significant ESG risks Environment and supply chain Governments Code for Sustainable Homes.
that could impact on the future of the business The Group operates in a regulatory are included in the Principal risks and environment which is continuously changing, The Group is committed to undertaking uncertainties section on pages 18 and 19. especially in respect of building regulations, research and development that will enable planning requirements and environmental and it to respond to the increasingly stringent sustainability requirements.
The Government design criteria for modern housing.
In 2008, Core strength The Groups construction teams won 76 Pride in the Job quality awards from the NHBC.
Graham Watson and Jane Grendall NHBC People and expertise quality award winners and Colin Smethurst Construction Director, David Wilson South West top right.
James Cleary, apprentice of the year for 2008 09, Barratt Southampton, with Mark Clare and Bob Lawson bottom right.
The Group recognises that one Ceri Rayson, 2009 Barratt Exeter sales negotiator of the quarter of its key strengths is its people and from Stockmoor Parade, Somerset main image.
that despite the current economic environment it is important to continue to develop and invest in its people and their expertise.
Staff fully CSCS carded and qualied % 07 62 08 90 09 95.4 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 Report of the Directors | Business review Image top left: Queens Park, Roundhay, Leeds Image bottom left: Fairways, Biddenham, Bedfordshire.
Image right: Squires Court, Lincoln.
the Group was the first major housebuilder chosen to monitor environmental performance implemented a comprehensive Safety, to build a home at the Building Research is the average amount of carbon dioxide the Health and Environmental Management Establishment in Watford, the Green House, Group emits during the construction process System across its business.
to Level Six, the highest level attainable, of per unit completed.
This metric increased the UK Governments Code for Sustainable from 1,429 kgCO unit in 2007 to 1,792 The Group has strategies and programmes, 2 Homes.
The Green House is currently being kgCO unit in 2008 as data collection not only to raise awareness, but also to 2 scientifically tested in order to provide valuable methods were refined and has now reduced ensure that it is applying effective systems information as to how the Group can design to 1,782 kgCO unit which provides to reduce injury and ill health across the 2 and construct zero carbon homes successfully a stable baseline from which to set targets business.
A Health and Safety Committee, and cost effectively.
The Group also monitors the including members of the Board, has been proportion of construction waste segregated formed in order to provide further focus to The Group has an environmental charter in for recycling on site, which this year improved the improvement strategy and to review place which is reviewed and updated on an to 73% 2008: 58%.
In addition, the Group overall Group performance.
The charter sets targets for the continually seeks to monitor the numbers of financial year ended 30 June 2009, the Group to manage its own environmental environmental complaints logged through its Groups commitment to health and safety impacts, including energy and waste environmental management system and the reduced its reportable Injury Incidence Rate reduction, help its customers to improve the number of developments with biodiversity IIR to 522 per 100,000 persons employed environment and improve the environmental action plans and flood risk assessments.
which is a 20.4% decrease on the rate of standards of the homes that it builds.
The IIR is a key performance indicator which the Average CO2 emitted in the Construction Process kgCO2 unit The Group continues to build the majority of its business uses to measure health and safety developments on brownfield sites, with 70% performance on a monthly and annual basis.
07 1,429 2008: 68% of its completions in the year being The Group is pleased to have achieved a 08 1,792 built on brownfield land, which significantly long-term objective to reduce the IIR below 09 1,782 exceeds the Governments target of 60%.
560 per 100,000 by 2010, one year ahead of target, and remains committed to reducing The Group assesses its performance against Health and Safety the IIR year on year.
its environmental objectives by monitoring The Group considers health and safety to be several performance indicators.
The key of paramount importance for its employees, performance indicator that the Group has customers and the public and has 16 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Business review Image above: Initial design concept of Hanham Hall, the Groups proposed zero carbon development.
Management and Assessment standard and housing affordability and aims to ensure that Injury Incidence Rate per 100,000 persons employed are able to undertake regular environmental standards of design are as high as possible.
audits on the Groups sites.
07 857 The Group serves all sectors of the market, 08 656 During the financial year ended 30 June 2009, creating homes for sale and shared 09 522 the Group continued to review and update ownership and works with Government Reported as 643 in 2007.
Restated to include management systems to mitigate certain key agencies, housing associations and other all Wilson Bowden reportable incidents.
risks previously identified, being fire in high rise agencies on a broad range of urban All divisions within the Group are certified to buildings, the integrity of reinforced concrete regeneration schemes and completed 2,069 the health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 structures and the operation of tower cranes.
social homes during the year.
In addition, in which is verified by a programme of internal December 2008, the Group was allocated and external auditing.
This demonstrates The investigation by the police and the Health approximately 3,000 units under the the commitment to have consistent and and Safety Executive into the incident at Bedfont HomeBuy Direct scheme, where the appropriate standards in place and is in February 2008, where carbon monoxide purchaser pays 70% or more of the value complemented by the Groups own Safety, poisoning from a gas heating installation caused of the home and the Government and the Health and Environmental Management the death of one person and left another Group pay the balance.
During the year the System which has been fully reviewed during seriously ill, continues.
The Group is working Group has also provided its own shared the year.
The Groups in-house team of closely with the authorities during the equity products, which include Dreamstart advisers has carried out over 4,000 monitoring investigation and awaits the outcome.
visits to its developments and this has contributed to a significant increase in Communities Customers and people standards and the awareness of the Groups The Group aims to ensure that the The Groups progress on customer and site teams.
In the year ended 30 June 2009, developments it builds have a positive social people related corporate responsibility areas divisions achieved an average of 96% and environmental impact on the people that has been covered in the relevant sections compliance with the Safety, Health and live in and around them, and has committed earlier in this review on pages 12 to 14.
In through the Community Charter to improve addition, a majority of the Groups Safety, its relationship with local people affected by Health and Environment managers are now new developments through consultation and certified to the Institute of Environmental engagement, tackling the issues around Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Report of the Directors | Business review Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups financial and operational performance is subject to a number of risks.
The Board seeks to ensure that appropriate processes are put in place to manage, monitor and mitigate these risks which are identified in the table below.
The Group recognises that the management of risk is fundamental to the achievement of Group targets.
As such all tiers of management are involved in this process.
Principal risks of the Group include, but are not limited to: Risk Mitigation Market Response to changes in the macroeconomic A weekly review is undertaken of key trading indicators, including reservations, sales rates, visitor levels, environment including unemployment, buyer confidence, levels of incentives, competitor activity and cash flow projections.
availability of mortgage finance for purchasers, interest The Group seeks to provide mortgage providers with complete transparency regarding house purchase rates and the impact of competitor pricing.
prices alongside any discounts or other incentives in order that they have appropriate information upon which to base their lending decision.
The Group works with key mortgage lenders to ensure that products are appropriate wherever possible for its customers.
Design and construction defects may lead to cost The Group has a comprehensive approach to quality, service and customer care encapsulated in the overruns including remedial costs, and may reduce selling Forward through Quality initiative and customer care code of practice.
prices and adversely impact the Groups reputation.
Liquidity Availability of sufficient borrowing facilities to enable The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and medium-term committed facilities that are the servicing of liabilities as they fall due.
designed to ensure that it has sufficient available funds for operations.
The Groups borrowings are typically cyclical throughout the financial year and peak in April and May and October and November of each year, as these are the points in the year when the Group has the highest working capital requirements.
Accordingly, the Group maintains sufficient headroom to cover these requirements.
On a normal operating basis the Group has a policy of maintaining headroom of 250m of available committed facilities.
The Group has in place a comprehensive detailed regular forecasting process encompassing profitability, working capital and cash flow that is fully embedded in the business.
These forecasts are further stress tested at a Group level on a regular basis to ensure that adequate headroom within facilities and banking covenants is maintained.
Inability to obtain surety bonds.
The Group actively maintains the number of surety facilities that are designed to ensure that it has sufficient bonds available.
The Group has a comprehensive detailed regular forecasting process for surety bond requirements.
Inability of the Group to refinance its facilities The Group has a policy that the maturity of its committed facilities and private placement notes in aggregate as they fall due.
is at least two years on average with a target of three years.
Inability of the Group to comply with The Group is in compliance with its borrowing covenants and at the date of approval of the financial its borrowing covenants.
statements the Groups internal forecasts indicate that it will remain in compliance with these covenants for the foreseeable future being at least twelve months from the date of signing the financial statements.
The Board is today announcing a fully underwritten Placing and Rights Issue to raise gross proceeds of approximately 720m, together with amended financing arrangements which will come into effect upon successful completion of the Placing and Rights Issue.
The amended financing arrangements will enable the Group to take advantage of opportunities that may arise in a recovering market, as well as to provide an appropriate alternative framework, should a further downturn arise.
As explained on page 58, while the existing financing arrangements apply, if conditions in the wider UK economy, as they relate to the housebuilding sector, were to decline below that which has been assumed in the Groups forecasts during the current financial year and notwithstanding further management actions to both conserve and generate cash, including, if necessary, by making land sales then there is a risk that the Group might generate lower than anticipated revenues, or cash, or require further write-downs in the value of the Groups assets.
This risk may result in the Group being unable to comply with its existing covenant package during the current financial year.
If the amended financing arrangements do not come into effect, the Group will need to renegotiate the terms of its existing financing arrangements during the current financial year in order to secure revolving credit facilities of an appropriate duration so as to give the Directors increased confidence that they will be able to prepare the accounts in respect of such a period on a going concern basis and also to secure a covenant package across all its financing arrangements that provides greater flexibility.
People Ability of the Group to attract, retain and develop The Group has a comprehensive Human Resources policy in place which includes apprentice schemes, a sufficiently skilled and experienced workforce.
a Graduate Recruitment Programme, succession planning and training schemes tailored to each discipline.
The Group has set itself the target of having a fully CSCS carded and qualified workforce by 2010.
Underfunding of the Groups obligations in respect An actuarial valuation is conducted every three years.
The Group reviews this and considers what of the defined benefit pension scheme.
additional contributions are necessary to make good this shortfall.
To limit the risk further, with effect from 30 June 2009, the scheme ceased to offer future accrual of defined benefit pensions for current employees and the link between accrued benefits and future salary increases was removed.
18 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Business review Risk Mitigation Subcontractors and suppliers Shortages or increased costs of materials and skilled The Group adopts a professional approach to site management and seeks to partner with its supply chain.
labour could increase costs and delay construction.
Failure of a key supplier or inability to secure supplies The Group has a policy of having multiple suppliers for both labour contracts and material supplies and upon appropriate credit terms.
contingency plans should key suppliers fail.
Land Securing sufficient land of appropriate size and quality Each division produces a detailed site-by-site monthly analysis of the amount of land currently owned, to provide profitable growth subject to the available committed and identified.
These are consolidated for regular review at Board level.
In addition, each borrowing facilities.
operating division holds weekly land meetings.
Every land acquisition is subject to a formal appraisal procedure and is required to achieve an overall Group defined hurdle rate of return.
The timing of conditional land purchase contracts Each division has a site-by-site detailed short-term and medium-term forecasting process including becoming unconditional is uncertain.
changes in contract status may result in additional cash outflow for the Group.
Falls in house prices or land values or a failure of The Groups internal systems clearly identify the impact of sales price changes on the margin achievable.
the housing market to recover could lead to further Biannual asset impairment reviews are performed.
impairments of the Groups inventories, goodwill and intangible assets.
The market for land can be illiquid and therefore it may The Groups internal forecasting process is able to identify the impact of these sensitivities explicitly.
be difficult to sell or trade land if required.
Where land is sold, there is a risk that the proceeds may not be received from the counterparty.
Government regulation Changes in Government policy towards the The Group consults with the UK Government both directly and through industry bodies to highlight housebuilding industry.
The housebuilding industry is subject to extensive and The Group has considerable in-house technical and planning expertise devoted to complying with complex regulations and an increasingly stringent regulations and achieving implementable planning consents.
regulatory environment including planning and technical requirements.
Consequence of changes in tax legislation.
The Group has adopted a low risk strategy to tax planning and potential and actual changes in tax legislation are monitored by both industry experienced in-house finance teams and external tax advisers.
Construction Failure to identify and achieve key construction The Groups weekly reporting identifies the number of properties at key stages of construction.
Projected milestones, including the impact of adverse weather construction rates are evaluated as part of the monthly forecasting cycle.
conditions, could delay construction or increase costs.
Large development projects, including commercial Development projects, including returns and cash flows, are monitored regularly by divisional developments, are complex and capital intensive management teams.
and changes may negatively impact upon cash flows or returns.
Failure to promptly identify cost overruns.
The total costs on every site in progress are evaluated at least quarterly and reviewed by the divisional management teams.
Cost reduction measures may adversely affect the In parallel to reducing costs during the downturn a Main Board level committee has developed a Planning Groups business or its ability to respond to future for Recovery programme.
Exposure to environmental liabilities and The Group regularly monitors a number of environmental impact indicators.
The results of this will appear consideration of the impact of construction schemes in the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
upon the environment and social surroundings.
The Group has an in-house legal department and consults with external lawyers as appropriate.
The Group maintains insurance cover for all main risks of the Group.
Health and safety Health and safety.
The Group has a dedicated health and safety audit department which is independent of the management of the operating divisions.
IT Failure of the Groups IT systems, in particular those The Group has a fully tested disaster recovery programme in place.
relating to surveying and valuation, could adversely impact the performance of the Group.
Details of the Groups management of liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk in relation to financial instruments is provided in note 26 on pages 89 to 94.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19
