09 Business review Our goals Our overriding long term strategy is to make excellent returns for our shareholders through a broadly based, diversified property business, which has access to a very wide range of opportunities.
We do this with a small, long serving management team who have a significant proportion of their own wealth invested in a 17% stake in the Group and have no competing interests.
We try to keep execution risk to a minimum, working with first rate joint venture partners when we move into new areas of property business.
Planning We are specialists in unlocking value by obtaining planning consents for more valuable uses.
The table below shows some of the changes of use we have achieved over the last few years.
Change of use residential student trade counter accommodation hotel retirement industrial offices accommodation car showroom retail leisure retail warehouse Business review Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 Retail development Our approach 10 We are currently focusing on our retail developments Our spread of activities gives us the flexibility to in Poland where we have circa 100,000 sq.
m deploy capital rapidly across our business and focus 1.1m sq.
ft.. of development planned in three projects.
on whatever opportunities offer the best returns at We have completed our first scheme in Wroclaw of different points of the property cycle 9,600 sq.
In Opole, site enabling works have commenced on our 38,000 sq.
ft. scheme anchored by Carrefour and Praktiker with funding from Standard Life.
Our Mixed use development largest scheme at Gliwice is 50,000 sq.
ft. and 40% is currently preleased with commitments In Wolverhampton we have converted a disused railway from Carrefour, Castorama, Media Expert and site station into a casino and sold a site for student housing having previously disposed of land parcels for residential, preparation is well under way.
m. hotel, car showroom and a public house.
ft. in lawyers hands and 9,500 sq.
m. We have a development agreement with the London 102,000 sq.
Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham in partnership with residential specialist Grainger plc to provide a Office development scheme of 120,000 sq.
ft. new civic offices, a food We are acting as development managers for the new store, restaurants and 300 flats.
ft. Man Group HQ at Riverbank House in At Parkgate, Shirley we are finalising land assembly the City for City of London and Pace Investments.
ft. Asda supermarket with 70,000 the West End we have completed the refurbishment sq.
ft. of retail and 100 residential units.
of Clareville House, SW1 which comprises 35,000 At Amen Corner, Bracknell, we are making good progress sq.
ft. of leisure and in planning terms on the sites allocation for residential restaurant space for National Grid UK Pension use but a deterioration in market conditions has resulted Scheme.
in site assembly issues which we continue to address.
At Mitre Square, EC3 we are preparing a revised planning application for a smaller scheme of circa Change of use 275,000 sq.
We continue to work with the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham and the GLA in the production Office refurbishment of an Opportunity Area Planning Framework for White In Battersea we have just completed a new 50,000 City which will set out a blueprint for the areas potential.
This follows the conversion of an empty The aspiration for us and our landowning consortium TV studio into offices with a communal bar and meeting Aviva, M&S, BBC and Land Securities is a major space which is now fully let to over 20 different mixed use scheme east of Wood Lane, London W12 businesses.
Three of our investment properties, Rex incorporating some 4.5m sq.
ft. of residential and House, SW1, Shepherds Building, W12 and 61 commercial floorspace with a creative industries bias.
Southwark Street, SE1 represent over 90m of The ownership interests of our consortium lie immediately buildings that we have refurbished in the past and opposite BBC Television Centre and just north of retained for their growth potential.
Our total London Westfields new shopping centre.
ft. of offices let Helical entered into a joint venture with National Grid to 72 tenants generating a rent roll of 10.5 million, UK Pension Scheme where we sought to pursue a an average of just 27 per sq.
ft. and an ERV of change of use, in planning terms, of an existing 12.4m, 28 per sq.
ft. industrial estate, at Vauxhall, London SW8, to a Thameside residential led scheme.
Good progress was made and the site sold in June 2008 for 80m.
The final stage payment is due at the end of June 2009. Business review Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 lndustrial development Governetz 11 In partnership with Chancerygate and Quadrant we Our Helical Governetz joint venture is proving most have built 120 units totalling over 570,000 sq.
ft. for exciting with potential demand for space of several onward sale to owner occupiers at two sites in Oxford million sq.
ft. spread between our three schemes at as well as at Southampton, Southall West London Waverley, Keele and Newport.
A number of further and Hailsham.
We have let or sold 46 of these units campuses are in negotiation with an aim to provide 300,000 sq.
These schemes in excess of 4m sq.
ft. of supply over a period of time.
include sales of parcels of land for car showrooms, The Government should be a major driver of occupier builders merchants and self-storage uses and the demand during these difficult times and, equally development of trade counter schemes.
importantly, one of the few covenants readily fundable with our institutional partners.
Whilst these initiatives will take time to come to fruition they will be a major Retirement villages plank of our future business.
We continue to be a major supplier of retirement village schemes.
Our successful scheme at Cawston, Quotient Rugby is now in its final stages and we retain a further 40 acres for future development.
At Bramshott Place, In January 2007 we acquired a research facility near Liphook we have built a 51 unit first phase and have Newmarket in a joint venture with the majority sold eight units with reservations on 18, leaving 25 shareholder of Quotient who occupy the buildings.
Schemes at Horsham 156 units and part of the transaction we acquired a minority stake in Cambridge 101 units have now received planning Quotient, a fast growing biosciences company.
During consent and we look to commence development next the year we sold a tenth of our shareholding and year.
Further projects in Exeter and Great Alne, recovered the cost of our initial stake, leaving us Warwickshire are the subject of recent planning with a 22% holding in the Company.
Student accommodation Despite the slowdown in the new build housing Completion of the sale of our site at Fieldgate Street, market, we are very pleased with the reception the villages receive in the market.
London, E1, which has planning consent for 340 student rooms, is due in August 2009.
At 200 Great Dover Street, London, SE1, currently an investment Outsourcing property, let to Conoco Phillips until June 2011, we The market positioning of The Asset Factor in property are at detailed planning negotiation stage for a new services outsourcing is an attractive one as an increasing development of 35,000 sq.
ft. of offices and 290 number of organisations look to save cost and meet student rooms.
Other schemes increasingly demanding compliance issues as the are under consideration.
The principal Asset Factor venture, NB Entrust a joint venture with NB Real Estate, two years after our major repositioning exercise, is now trading profitably and growing strongly and should be a major winner from this market trend.
Similarly the commercialisation business, Asset Space, is well placed to grow as an incremental cash generating service for property owners.
A new joint venture with Integral in the facilities management sector Mobius Support Services and the existing managed help desk service Asset OnCall should also benefit from the markets focus on costs.
Our service project in Reading has faced pressure on market rates but has now achieved sustainable occupancy albeit at a lower rate than originally budgeted.
From top to bottom Change of use at Vauxhall, London SW8 Retail development in Wroclaw, Poland Office refurbishment at Battersea Studios, London SW8 Office development at Riverbank House, London EC4 Retirement village at Bramshott Place, Liphook
