14 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 Business Review ouR maRket comPetitive and RegulatoRy enviRonment St. Modwen is proud to be recognised as the UKs leading In the recessionary post credit crunch market, the lack of readilyregeneration specialist, delivering complex schemes throughout available finance has restricted the appetite and ability to compete the country and within all sectors of the property market.
The dislocation of the residential market, combined with falling investment returns, and increasing levels Over the past two years we have experienced some of the of caution amongst occupiers has undermined the viability of worst property market conditions for decades.
There has been a number of proposed schemes.
As a result, development and a widespread lack of confidence and activity amongst acquisition activity has fallen to low levels.
housebuilders and commercial property occupiers, who are key to the profitability and growth of our business.
There has also been Following our refinancing in the summer, we are now able a well-documented valuation crisis, which together with a shortage to operate from a position of strength.
This new competitive of bank finance has restricted investor appetite and triggered a landscape is already beginning to provide us with opportunities, rapid and significant reduction in property values.
for acquisitions and for renegotiating schemes that have become unviable in present market conditions.
We do not see this It is with some relief that we are able to say that we believe that environment changing markedly in the short to medium-term.
the worst of these conditions is now behind us.
Although we have Consequently we have been in no rush to use our available funds not seen evidence within our portfolio of the strong recovery of on any but the most compelling transactions.
values recently reported for some prime assets, we are achieving transactions that underpin our current valuations.
This leads us Despite this backdrop, the regulatory environment remains to believe that future valuation movements are more likely to be restrictive, wasteful and expensive.
Planning process reforms positive than negative.
have not worked, and the cost and timescale involved in obtaining planning permission continue to escalate with every new initiative, In particular, we are pleased to have agreed four disposals of guidance and regulation.
However, as one of our key skills is being residential land at sites throughout the country, to a range of able to work our schemes through the planning system, the more housebuilders, at prices at or ahead of our previous carrying restrictive the system becomes, the more our skills are needed, values.
Before the credit crunch, our residential land disposal and the greater the value that is created by our marshalling programme was a major part of our development activities.
the gradual re-opening of residential markets, we expect to resume that activity and start to re-capture some of the value that Business model and stRategy has been written off our residential land holdings.
St. Modwens underlying purpose is to add value to the properties we control.
We do not acquire or retain property unless we believe Notwithstanding the depressed state of the economy, we have that we can add significant value to it by asset management, found a few bright spots within our various markets.
In particular, refurbishment or redevelopment.
we are currently on site with two sizeable colleges of further education at Rugby and Longbridge, with two foodstores at In a declining market, such as the one we have recently been Farnborough, Hampshire and Connahs Quay, Flintshire and with facing, new and different challenges have arisen, and our business several significant employment buildings at Taunton and model has been stress-tested to previously unthought-of levels.
These pre-sold transactions have enabled us It is with some satisfaction therefore that we are able to reflect on to continue to be relatively active and to maintain a degree of the past two years, and on the reaffirmation of many long-standing momentum with our key strategic projects.
elements of our business model: Although we believe that we have now reached the bottom of First and foremost our recurring income, generated from an the cycle, the pace and extent of recovery from this point will be extensive and diversified rent roll, enabled us to continue to determined mainly by macro-economic factors outside of our operate profitably despite at times the almost total absence of control: any investment market for our new developments.
Increasing unemployment and interest rate levels would Our long-standing emphasis on value creation enabled us represent significant threats to occupier and investor confidence.
to mitigate the worst effects of the deteriorating property investment market on our portfolio valuations, as we continued Future cuts in public spending may have a negative impact on to marshal our Hopper through the planning process to extract local governments ability or willingness to support large-scale maximum value.
Our prudent approach to financing and excellent relationships We have experienced extremely challenging markets in the with our key banks enabled us to address covenant issues past year, but are pleased that our business model has proved proactively and at a realistic cost.
sufficiently robust for us to emerge relatively unscathed and in a strong position to take advantage of improving conditions.
co. uk Below The 62,000 sq ft sainsburys foodstore which was completed during the year as part of the redevelopment of farnborough Town centre.
indd 15 02 03 2010 11:44 16 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 Below parkside Doncaster Business Review continued A 27 acre site which we acquired during the year.
co. uk Our network of regional offices, supported by a strong central Reducing our expenditure: management team, ensured that we had a broadly-based Seeking to drive down debt and gearing levels: programme of activity and that, even in very difficult market Selling assets to which we could no longer add value: conditions, we were able to pull out of the Hopper projects for which there was a current market opportunity.
Eliminating speculative development activity: and Our skills in brownfield land remediation and other aspects of Minimising any other non-funded commitments.
regeneration make us an attractive partner to landowners, local The success of these activities enabled us to be cash-generative authorities and central government agencies.
during the year, notwithstanding the absence of cash inflow from Nevertheless the past two years have provided us with some useful residential land sales.
lessons for the future evolution of the company.
We will set more But despite all of these actions, market conditions were so demanding hurdles before initiating speculative development adverse, and property values were falling to such an extent, that we schemes: and we will be more rigorous in exiting mature schemes were ultimately left with little alternative but to seek to refinance to which no further value can be added, other than by market yield the business in May, in order to address bank covenant limits.
subsequent renegotiation of our banking covenants and the issuing emPloyees of new equity reported on in more detail below, addressed the St. Modwens business model is based on a hands-on approach risk of a future covenant breach.
It also took away the need to sell in all areas: asset management: marshalling: construction and further assets into a declining market, and put the company into development.
As a result, the skill of our people is fundamental a position of financial strength from which we could benefit from to our success.
Therefore, particularly in these difficult times, we future opportunities.
have sought to retain and incentivise them, and to continue to grow The company is trading within all its banking covenants and its the abilities of the talented people who will be the drivers of the realistic forward projections show a continuation of that position.
With the current short-term financial constraints, this has been achieved by putting in place share Our key performance indicators are: options and deferred bonuses which seek to reward and lock-in key employees.
We have also maintained our programme of internal Actual promotion, with a number of staff taking on significant additional Target 2009 1 responsibilities during the year.
Gearing 75-100% 80% 2 Rental cover 100% 97% To avoid implementing any further enforced headcount reductions 3 since the 20% in October 2008, we consulted widely with staff Hopper replenishment 120% 569% during the year and agreed a cost-reduction package that would 4 NAV growth upper quartile upper quartile enable us to keep our core team together.
With effect from 5 Dividend growth in line with NAV growth n a September therefore, we put in place a company-wide salary 1 Gearing net debt as a percentage of shareholders funds freeze, closed the companys final salary pension scheme to future 2 Rental cover net rental income as a percentage of overheads and net accrual and also reduced employer contributions into the money interest excluding non-cash items such as mark-to-market of swaps purchase scheme until we are once again growing our net asset 3 Hopper replenishment land acquired for the hopper as a percentage of value and paying dividends.
land used in the year 4 NAV growth balance sheet total as a percentage of previous year.
Target financial oBjectives and key PeRfoRmance indicatoRs upper quartile performance compared with FTSE350 real estate index St. Modwens financial objectives over the past year have been over five years.
simple and obvious, namely: to manage through the downturn by 5 Dividend growth dividend per share as a percentage of previous year.
running the business for cash flow: and to be in the best possible shape to profit from the opportunities that will undoubtedly arise.
Both of these objectives required us to adapt our activities to the deteriorating market conditions.
indd 17 02 03 2010 11:44 18 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 Business Review continued develoPment and PeRfoRmance of tHe Business Firepool, Taunton we completed a development agreement the Hopper - assembly and acquisition with Taunton Deane Borough Council for the 270m regeneration Despite the financial constraints on the business, 2009 was another of this important town centre opportunity.
excellent year for acquisitions, and we were able to achieve this Weston Super Mare we also completed a development without significant cash outlay.
Obtaining control of opportunities agreement with South West Regional Development Agency and through self-financing transactions has always been part of our the Homes and Communities Agency for a new 200 acre mixed Hopper strategy, and this year our skills in deal structuring have use community at the former RAF Locking site, and expect to enabled us to continue to build for the future without compromising start work on site this spring.
the short-term requirements of the business.
Sunderland we acquired a seven acre parcel of land, formerly Our total expenditure on new acquisitions during the year was owned by glass manufacturer, Corning, adjacent to the only 13m.
However, we were able to add 705 acres of developable 10-acre former Pyrex factory site that we purchased in 2008. land to the Hopper.
As a result, our Hopper now stands at 5,604 The combined 17 acre site is now one of Sunderlands major developable acres.
The Hopper is very broadly based, comprising strategic development zones, earmarked for a 10m some 174 separate schemes, across all sectors of the property mixed-use development which will provide 65,000 sq ft of office market.
accommodation and 285, two-, threeand four-bedroom homes.
Doncaster we acquired a 27 acre site for 3m.
To be known as Hopper analysis acres Parkside Industrial Estate it comprises 600,000 sq ft of existing 2009 2008 buildings including a 250,000 sq ft warehouse and a 350,000 sq ft developable production building.
Retail and leisure 433 314 Weston Super Mare we acquired the 26 acre Westland Employment 2,735 2,324 Distribution Park site for 3.4m, reflecting a net initial yield of Residential 1,564 1,462 13%.
It currently comprises eight acres of open storage land and Unspecified 872 920 335,000 sq ft of distribution and production facilities.
5,604 5,020 marshalling The most significant acquisitions that we made during the period Our teams have continued to make very good progress in were: marshalling the schemes in our Hopper for future delivery, which BP Portfolio we acquired a portfolio of former BP sites is shown by the quantity and quality of planning permissions that with 566 developable acres, situated primarily in South Wales.
we have obtained in the year: Together with our existing Coed Darcy site, this acquisition provides us with an exciting and significant development Planning permissions obtained in the year programme for the long-term regeneration of an area extending No.
Sq Ft Units from Neath Port Talbot to Swansea.
Residential 9 932 Skypark, Exeter we entered into a partnership agreement Retail 4 332,000 with Devon County Council to develop the 107 acre Skypark Commercial 13 2,011,000 scheme in Exeter, which will include 1.4 million sq ft of office Office 2 183,000 and industrial manufacturing space.
We are currently working up the masterplan and the Section 106 agreement, with a view to starting construction in 2011.
co. uk Below whitley business park The completed first phase of a 1.1 million sq ft office and industrial development adjacent to jaguars research and development centre in coventry.
indd 19 02 03 2010 11:44 20 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 Below The first phase of the 90 Business Review continued million wembley Town centre was completed in 2009.
co. uk The planning position on our residential land bank is now: delivery During the year, a number of our usual markets were highly illiquid or, in the case of residential land disposals, closed altogether.
Planning status Investor confidence was low, as was the availability of finance, and Acres Units realistic prices were difficult to obtain.
Nevertheless, we adhered to Allocated in local plan or similar 242 6,134 our long-standing philosophy of disposing of those assets to which Resolution to grant permission 323 5,230 we could add no further value, and undertook a number of sales of Outline permission granted 519 7,887 mature properties or newly-completed developments in order to recycle cash for our other schemes.
Detailed permission granted 32 833 Sub-total with planning recognition 1,116 20,084 We therefore realised disposal proceeds of 101m, benefitting from the wide range, varied lot sizes, and realistic pricing of our products.
Some of the principal disposals in the period were: No planning recognition 448 4,956 TOTAL 1,564 25,040 The Vodafone call centre in Stoke-on-Trent, sold to a private investor for 10.7m, reflecting a net initial yield of 8.0%.
Although we have scaled back our construction programme in response to market conditions, and in particular have avoided Part of the site at Thurleigh Business Park in Bedfordshire, to starting any new speculative schemes, we have nevertheless MSV Group Ltd for 5.3m, reflecting a net initial yield of 8.5%.
remained active and have made significant progress on a number A foodstore, let to Tesco for a further 62 years, at our Catford of important schemes: Shopping Centre in Lewisham, sold to a private investor for We are making excellent progress with our mixed use town 9.1m, a net initial yield of 6.9%.
centre schemes at Farnborough with the completion of the A 39,000 sq ft cash and carry store let to Booker at Langford 62,000 sq ft Sainsburys foodstore and the 77-bed Travelodge Mead Business Park in Taunton, Somerset for 2.9m, reflecting Hotel and at Wembley Central with the completion of the first a net initial yield of 7.25%.
retail phase, anchored by TK Maxx, Peacocks and Bonmarch and the fit-out of the first phase of 32 apartments.
In the industrial distribution sector we completed over 750,000 sq ft of new buildings, including: We have recently begun building a pre-sold 52,000 sq ft foodstore for Morrisons and 20,000 sq ft of additional retail space A 26,150 sq ft supply and distribution centre for East Riding of at Connahs Quay, Flintshire, following demolition of a 1970s Yorkshire Council at Melton Business Park, Hull.
was pre-sold to the Council for 2.25m.
We have also continued to make excellent progress with the At the 200,000 sq ft Langford Mead Business Park in Taunton, construction of the 150,000 sq ft Warwickshire College at our part of our 100m redevelopment of a 65-acre former industrial Rugby site, despite the insolvency of the main contractor.
Using estate and MoD site, we have built: the skill and knowledge of our in-house construction team, we Two new bespoke buildings totalling 76,000 sq ft to form assumed direct responsibility for this construction programme a new Heritage Centre for Somerset County Councils thereby not only safeguarding numerous subcontractor jobs but Historical Artefacts with a specifically designed and controlled also keeping the project on programme and within the original environment which also allows wider public access: and budget.
An 11,000 sq ft unit for West Country Feeds, the supplier of We received planning consent and confirmation of funding for animal feeds and accessories.
the flagship 250,000 sq ft Bournville College at Longbridge, and began work on site in October on this two-year project which is of great strategic importance to the area.
The building of this six storey development will create hundreds of construction and associated jobs locally.
The College will create a dynamic new learning environment for over 10,000 students in both further and higher education, and will provide a significant impetus for the regeneration of the former MG Rover facility.
indd 21 02 03 2010 11:44 22 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 Below The new Heritage centre, built Business Review continued for somerset county council at our langford mead business park in Taunton.
co. uk A 22,400 sq ft facility for Staffordshire Fire and Rescue Service Experiences, however, vary across our portfolio.
For example, a and a 36,000 sq ft factory and head office building for Wade number of our secondary shopping centres including Edmonton Ceramics at our 400 acre Trentham Lakes Business Park Green, Elephant & Castle, and Catford have strongly underpinned development.
ERVs due to the competitive pressures brought about by near 100% occupancy levels.
On the other hand, certain centres including Substantial progress has been made during the year at RAF Basingstoke are troubled by significant voids to which a highly Northolt, where, as part of Project MoDEL, over 150m is being competitive rent reduction is our principal response.
These invested to provide service personnel with brand new living, factors are reflected in the yields and ERVs used in our year end working and dining accommodation.
This part of the project is valuations.
due to complete in the summer of 2010, and remains on plan and on budget, with more than 95% of the 600,000 sq ft of Rental income by sector buildings completed.
We also successfully completed a number of developments in the office and leisure parts of our business, including: The construction and fit-out of a pre-let call centre for Vodafone, an  80,000 sq ft building which secured Industrial 52% 2008: 53% jobs for about 1,100 people in Stoke-on-Trent.
This spacious and Offices 9% 2008: 8% modern building achieved BREEAM Very Good rating, and is the largest commercial office building we have ever built in Retail 39% 2008: 39% this region.
Encouragingly, we are now beginning to see signs of recovery in We anticipate that 2010 will continue to see pressure on our net the residential land market, with bids received, or contracts rents, as the macro-economic conditions continue to give rise to exchanged at or above current book values, on four disposals increased unemployment and a reduction in consumer spending.
However, our rents are at the affordable end of the scale, which we believe will provide some insulation from the effect of further Hands-on asset management remains a significant part of our tenant failures.
business model, and our regional teams have been very active during the period, as we seek to mitigate the impact on our rent Supplementing our traditional rent roll, our leisure activities at roll of the current difficult market conditions.
We are, of course, Trentham Gardens and Solihull Ice Rink, continue to perform mindful of the effect of rent reviews and lease renewals on asset strongly.
The gardens, in particular had a very successful year, valuations, but also very aware of the impact of void costs and loss attracting 216,000 visitors 2008: 108,000 and recording a trading of rent on our trading profit.
We have therefore sought to minimise profit before interest of 1.7m 2008: 0.8m.
voids wherever possible, taking a pragmatic view of passing [For further details of projects referred to in this business review, rents and seeking to work with those of our tenants who are and other projects, see our website www.
The benefit of our overall approach to asset management is shown by the fact that our like-for-like gross rent roll has increased by 2.0m to 43.0m since 30th November 2008.
This reflects our success in achieving 7.7m of new lettings to offset rent lost of 5.1m due to vacations and 0.6m due to tenant failures in the period.
