Business review Unsurprisingly, the global asset management industry has Introduction experienced a very difficult time.
With their natural high The global economy may now be emerging from recession, operational gearing to markets, firms saw revenues tumble.
but recovery is expected to be slow.
The US and UK appear Cost cutting has followed, including job losses.
Many have dependent on policy stimulus and the IMF anticipates that been forced to revise expansion plans, consolidate or in some the developed world will grow at a tepid pace in 2010, having cases, where balance sheets may be in trouble, withdraw from contracted this year: Asia and emerging markets are better the industry altogether.
McKinsey estimates the industry placed, albeit still reliant on exports.
contracted by 20% in 2008, with sustainable profits falling Although the point of maximum economic stress has by 40% in Western Europe.
passed, private demand in the US has been disabled, as Added to this, investors have been reconsidering their households repay their debt and as credit markets stay tight.
investment strategies, especially how they evaluate Furthermore, banks still need to repair their balance sheets performance and to whom they give their money.
Yet in despite huge government support.
Should current trends recent months, as equity and high yield markets have continue, leading to a structurally higher savings rate in the rebounded, the temptation is to see this whole financial crisis US, corporate profits and dividend growth may struggle as another cyclical, if acute, economic slowdown.
the problems are more deep-rooted and structural in nature, Elsewhere, the UK economy seems particularly vulnerable, and will not, of themselves, go away.
with its dependence on financial services.
Continental Europe has in the main weathered the storms better, apart from peripheral nations that over-borrowed and now confront a collapse in their property markets.
Most European economies have now stopped contracting.
14 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 This performance has occurred against a background refrain Market background for a return to back to basics, which followed a retreat from At the depth of the crisis, the S&P 500 fell to levels of ten structured and other complex derivative-based products as years ago: the past decade is now one of just two since 1900 the crisis unfolded.
Managers who tried timing these markets where cash has outperformed equities and bonds in real terms have risked being caught out both on the down and up.
and it has also witnessed two significant bear markets.
But, in the past six months, low global interest rates have Suddenly, equities no longer seem to be meeting their imposed a rising cost of staying away from markets.
Hedge promise of being the long-term asset of choice.
Moreover, funds have attracted fresh funds as weaker operators go to long-held assumptions about diversification of risk have the wall and some global investment banks wind down their been shaken as all asset classes fell together: property proprietary trading desks.
With less capacity in the market, was hit because of fide-gearing: fixed income spreads opportunities for remaining players have opened up.
widened as risk capital fled from over-valued credit markets.
At the same time surveys reveal that a majority The return of risk appetite, particularly since March, has of active equity managers have underperformed.
also driven demand again for conventional equity products, especially global emerging markets GEM.
Fund flows into With baby boomers in the US now reaching retirement, this area have picked up sharply and remain brisk.
Global changing needs and lack of confidence have seen new fund recession has affected emerging economies least and investors flows gravitate to index funds or those offering income.
hope that they will recover faster, led by China.
But it is Meanwhile an increasing number of institutions and pension mainly institutional investors who have been participating.
schemes are considering managing assets inhouse or shifting their allocations to passive vehicles, for example exchange In Europe, retail behaviour has mirrored volatile markets.
Investors there transferred some e30.0 billion into money market and near-cash funds after the Lehman collapse in We have watched these developments with equanimity.
Our September 2008: then, as sentiment improved through the performance across equities, at least, has stayed good in the summer of 2009, they withdrew a similar sum from those majority of strategies.
As the active versus passive debate funds, to invest once again in traditional European equity grows, we firmly believe that ETFs and their like, which oblige and bond vehicles.
investors to own underlying stocks regardless of their quality, will only create opportunities for those who are free to own stocks from conviction and in unconstrained portfolios.
How stock and money markets reacted to the unravelling credit crisis 1,800 MSCI World TED spread 1 Dec: US 1,400 in recession 18 Sep: US 17 Aug: Fed 21 Apr: Bank of cuts rates cuts rate to England 50bn 1,000 to 4.75% 22 Jan: 7 Jul: 5.75% bailout plan Fed cuts rates Fannie Mae to 3.5% and Freddie 14 Sep: 600 31 Jul: Two Northern Rock Mac assisted 13 Feb: Bear Stearns support Governments funds collapse 12 Jan: UK 200 intervene: stimulus in recession plans The liquidity squeeze Government involvement 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0.0 Jun 07 Sep 07 Dec 07 Mar 08 Jun 08 Sep 08 Dec 08 Mar 09 Jun 09 Sep 09 The MSCI World Index in blue is a stock market index of 1,500 stocks around the globe.
The TED spread in grey shows the difference between US interbank loans and short-term US government debt.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 Percentage Index BUSINESS REvIEW CONTINUED In non-Japan Asia, funds' evaluation by intermediaries has Distribution challenges grown more sophisticated, with similar choosiness in With global returns poor, buyer trust has suffered.
But this sophistication is absent among sellers or boom years, intermediaries and investors arguably failed to indeed buyers, who typically take a barbell approach, using scrutinise whether products were understood and appropriate.
funds to trade aggressively or as near-cash alternatives.
In many places, Europe and Asia in particular, product churn Still, rising wealth will change behaviour over time although in the asset management industry was widespread.
But so national markets move at different speeds and will make the long as markets were going up, potential conflicts of interest region the growth centre of fund distribution.
Our AuM by client domicile in Asia is currently just 7.0 billion The legacy of that today is fresh scrutiny of fees.
Regulators and we have the opportunity and resource in place to expand demand nothing less.
In the UK we are seeing one of the that in coming years.
In Japan, which is stand-alone, MUTB is most radical shake ups to affect financial advisers for a our conduit to institutions: our funds business, acquired from generation.
But even as new rules are being enacted, there Credit Suisse, is a more patchwork legacy.
On the upside we remain unanswered questions: for example, over the status have acquired experienced staff and longstanding distributor of electronic platforms, which serve as both portals for the relationships that we can capitalise upon.
buying public and as administration engines for the advisers themselves: over rebates, which are to be discontinued: and In Australia the terrain is different again: buyers are long term over whether the public is willing to pay for advice.
and pension-led, and gravitate to more traditional balanced, equity and income products.
Having established ourselves in In Continental Europe, the balance of power may be shifting niche regional and country funds, our intention is to compete the other way.
With revenues in decline, intermediaries are more in these core areas.
Our first consultant ratings on global discarding the supermarket approach of open architecture in equity may prove a turning point.
We are also consolidating favour of smaller, 'guided' ranges that they can oversee more our Credit Suisse products, where fixed income stands out for effectively.
In many instances this is inclining them to work performance and choice.
With staff numbers almost doubling with only a handful of fund providers in strategic partnerships.
to 70, we now have the reach essential for this highly Their fund selection process naturally looks at performance: intermediated market.
but also price, along with servicing.
After recession, a slow recovery Unemployment continues to rise % % Change Eurozone United Kingdom US UK Euro US 11 4 10 2 9 8 0 7 -2 6 5 -4 4 -6 3 2 -8 Dec 08 Mar 09 Jun 09 Sep 09 Sep 99 Sep 01 Sep 03 Sep 05 Sep 07 Sep 09 Source: Bloomberg, GDP growth, quarter on quarter.
16 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The US remains the world's largest fund market and while Consolidation we have consolidated our mutual fund range there, many The financial crisis has pressured many banks to rethink newer funds will need a little longer to consolidate three-year their business models.
Some have moved to divest asset track records, especially those arising from the Nationwide management arms, perhaps to raise capital or focus on transaction.
Our retail strategy is to maintain our investment distribution.
For the first time in a generation, it has been a approach, despite a market preference for rigid style boxes buyers market, therefore, with European banks at the heart into which we may not quite fit.
Separately, the Credit Suisse of the retreat and with many mid-size US operators also transaction has grown our closed end fund mandates from put in play.
three to eight, offering US investors a good range of specialist Asian and emerging market funds and raising our profile as a We moved quickly at the end of 2008 to capitalise on Credit result to the buyside community.
Suisses wish to streamline its asset management business, purchasing the bulk of its global long-only division.
This In the US institutional channel, we made significant inroads included a mixture of funds and businesses around the world.
with our international and global equity capability, including For the most part they presented an excellent fit, from both emerging market equity in the last year, as consultant a geographical and product slant.
In fixed income we took on familiarity has grown.
We enjoyed similar success in Canada.
substantial money market, Asian and Australian assets, with In general as we have grown to a size befitting a proper global teams joining in London and Sydney.
In equities, we added to business, we can offer effective servicing to the international global and UK funds, and also brought over a multi-manager bancassurers, commercial and private banks that dominate product in the UK.
However, we are finding that fund One key attraction of the Credit Suisse deal is the potential gatekeepers, product advisory and other internal specialists for distribution via its private banking network.
In Europe, our work in different ways, some in a centralised role, others in enlarged operations now include several new offices.
Since more geographically discrete ways.
the final closing of this transaction at the end of June, the The pressure is thus upon us to develop multiple points of majority of the acquired businesses have been integrated and contact and deeper relationships.
That, in turn, presupposes we by the year end all new staff are now working out of Aberdeen allocate more fund manager time to client meetings: and that offices.
Fund rationalisation may take another 12 months.
But we make a bigger commitment in terms of branding, in order the benefits are already becoming apparent.
Our main hurdle to create visibility with underlying investors.
Key messages now is to ensure we retain assets and leverage the better must be repeated across communication materials, requests distribution to cross-sell.
for proposals and product updates, and in many languages.
In our favour, contacts are often surprised at our size and resources: at our distinct product proposition: and our clear sense of how we position ourselves versus our competition.
Source: McKinsey Asset Management Surveys 200109.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 BUSINESS REvIEW CONTINUED volatility, and have now made up much of last years losses Investment performance review in US Core and Core Plus mandates, having outperformed The see-saw markets produced very different outcomes benchmarks in the year to date.
Our specialist teams for our portfolios.
Equities held up well despite early forced meanwhile are doing well.
selling: fixed income, by contrast, was savaged by poor relative performance, before clawing back much of the lost Still, we have recognised shortcomings and with the Credit ground: property was probably saved from big outflows by Suisse acquisition have introduced a more transparent and its very illiquidity.
In summary our strategy of running a accountable decision-making structure to our teams.
Paul balanced business across asset classes has provided downside Griffiths joined as global head of fixed income and his priority protection when most needed, and bought time to turn is to enhance top-down portfolio construction.
Alongside him around areas of relative underperformance and address any some 25 fund managers also transferred to key investment process or structural shortcomings.
centres, bringing skills in new areas such as money markets and convertibles.
Fixed income Fixed income markets experienced a roller-coaster We therefore expect to introduce new products in these year.
The collapse in credit in late 2008, led to areas as well as emerging debt and higher yield products massive global deleveraging, causing markets to that are gaining from the global search for yield.
Huge liquidity injections and public bailouts our priority is to restore our standing with consultants, who followed.
With most major economies in recession, naturally dislike change.
They will want to see the outcome of government bonds posted very high returns, while nonteam and process tweaks before restoring us to their buy lists.
Equities Like many asset managers last year, we were Our core equity products did well, outperforming for much overweight in credit and underweight in government of this year until markets saw buyers switch from defensives bonds.
Consequently our performance suffered, most into cyclicals and oversold financials.
This was due reward for noticeably in our US business where we held non-agency our discipline.
We never chased momentum and so had little mortgage-backed securities.
Although not sub-prime, cause to trim portfolios when markets plunged.
spreads here reached distressed levels, made worse With hindsight, markets were cheap only briefly.
As the rally as forced sellers, such as hedge funds, scrambled to has continued our scepticism has mounted, even though liquidate.
earnings forecasts have been revised gradually upwards.
For More recently those areas that sold off most, such as assetdespite inventory restocking, cost cutting and delays in capital backed and bank issues, have rallied strongly, as has European expenditure, actual topline sales growth has stayed muted.
We held our nerve through this extraordinary Developing markets have led equity rebound After spiking, corporate bond spreads remain wide % FTSE All-Share 6 1500 Global corporate bond spreads S&P 500 5 1200 MSCI Emerging Markets 4 Total Return DAX 100 3 900 Nikkei 225 2 600 CAC 40 1 S&P 500 - Total Return Index MSCI World 0 300 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 05 06 07 08 09 Source: Bloomberg, year to 30 September 2009, returns in GBP, Source: FactSet.
18 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 We feel that valuations are stretched.
Some institutional In the first half of 2009, some e24.5 billion was invested investors have had little choice but to invest and have used across European property markets which is just 20% of the the opportunity to allocate more to Asia and global emerging volume seen at the height of the market in the first half of markets.
In general that has been to our advantage.
Those investors with cash flow difficulties, or those in breach of bank loan to value covenants, have been the source Indeed, we won several new mandates as well as additional of much of the recent stock appearing on the market.
But funding into our largest accounts.
The influx led us to close prime yields are now stabilising in most markets, in the office to new global emerging market segregated mandates in sector in particular, as the decline in capital values slows.
October notwithstanding a long investor pipeline and brings that strategy into a similar position as Asia ex Japan, where Generally, we have been insulated against the market turmoil.
our pooled funds remain open and we command full fees.
This is primarily because institutional investors represent Our actions sent a strong signal that we will not dilute over 75% of our property AuM.
Such investors typically have our investment proposition for the sake of asset gathering.
a longer term investment horizon and a greater degree of Consultants have generally welcomed the move.
tolerance against market turbulence than retail investors.
In addition, our bias to the core and added value segments of the Lastly, we continued to pick up business for our highly market rather than more highly geared ones matched investor regarded global equity product and we are pushing hard for preferences and insulated fund performance.
consultant ratings where we do not yet have them.
One bonus has been strong performance numbers from our US equity We also lowered our costs by outsourcing where appropriate.
Having integrated a larger team Our model is to carry out all aspects of property investment from Nationwide and now amalgamated our offices, we can management ourselves, but it makes increasing sense to use now press the case for a stand-alone US strategy.
Realistically third parties for day-to-day facilities management.
This lets institutional acceptance will take another 18 months or so.
us focus on opportunities for maximising income and adding value.
Our staff count in property fell by 20% over the period.
Property However, lower valuations inevitably hit our AuM.
Although there was significant variance between single country returns, in general European markets deteriorated at We have been integrating our various property arms.
For an increasing pace over the period.
During the year, take-up example, we completed the integration of Goodman Property decreased, driving down prime rents, and vacancy rates rose.
Investors, with particular benefits to the UK business in terms With the collapse of debt-backed investment, transaction of distribution capacity and product support.
We also refrained levels have plummeted.
In addition equity investors expected from launching any new products and even closed one, our values to fall further and stayed away.
Russian fund, where we saw a rapid decrease in demand primarily as a result of changing market circumstance.
Flight to safety benefited industry's All regions have seen positive industry fixed income funds flows since Q2 US$bn US$bn Intl Europe US Asia 300 200 250 150 200 100 150 50 100 0 50 -50 0 -100 -50 -150 -100 -200 -150 -250 Equity Mixed Bond Other Money market Q4 08 Q1 09 Q2 09 Q3 09 Source: Strategic Insight Simfund, year to 30 September 2009.
Source: Strategic Insight Simfund, year to 30 September 2009.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 BUSINESS REvIEW CONTINUED With the exception of Continental Europe the business 14.1 billion in fixed income, about a half of which was performed well.
Within Continental Europe our German open invested in US and the balance in global, UK, European and Asia end funds have suffered, leading to the temporary suspension Pacific strategies.
On the plus side we raised a positive net 2.4 of three of our DEGI funds after the year end.
Earlier, in June, billion in global emerging markets GEM equities, our best concerns flared up publicly in Germany over potential losses ever year, and 2.0 billion in global equities.
There are further for their open end property fund sector overall.
This unease GEM commitments pending, outwith formal closure, and it is a in turn prompted indiscriminate outflows, which included the precondition that we will only accept these on full fees.
On top of this, domestic investors We chalked up some notable firsts, including institutional in Germany switched money out of open end property funds mandates from mainland China.
In Canada we have become into state-guaranteed deposit accounts, which, coupled with a front-ranked manager with almost 2.0 billion under strategic divestments from some advisory institutions has management.
To support this business we open an office in caused the DEGI funds difficulty, nothwithstanding the quality Toronto.
We also continued to garner assets in the Middle of their underlying investments.
East, both from new and existing clients.
Fund flows via MUTB Looking ahead, there is clear evidence of changing market have started promisingly.
And, testifying to our geographic sentiment as investors, primarily with equity, are returning reach, investment bank Celfin, which operates in Chile and to the market.
Particular areas of interest are currently the Peru, has begun distributing products.
This supplements UK market following its rapid repricing and, for European existing buying through Chiles pension system.
Meanwhile across the US we continued to attract new equity monies.
Our Dutch office also saw positive numbers.
In both Business development instances our success had origins in relationships built up over many years.
Further encouragement came in the Nordic We have made some strides in our coverage of key region, where our team is ahead in efforts to cross-sell assets, institutional clients this year.
On the other hand, we have having previously been known only for property.
had a mixed year in terms of sales in view of fixed income.
Retaining accounts was very challenging.
Fortunately the Although Europe and the UK have had a difficult time, UK revenue impact has not been as bad as it might appear wholesale inflows were up on the year.
Similarly in retail because of the better margins on equity-led new business.
all but one of our Asian offices outside Australia edged into In bald figures, we recorded gross sales of almost 20.0 billion positive territory by the end of the fiscal year, helped by good but net outflows of 10.6 billion.
The outflows included performance in our mainly Asian equity funds.
Index funds have dominated US fund flows Top 10 selling long term funds US, YTD 09 $bn Fund name Category Active passive Net flows, Jan - Sep 09 Assets, Sep 09 PIMCO Total Return Taxable Bd Short Intmd Active 35.1 185.7 vanguard Short Invst Grade Taxable Bd Short Intmd Active 9.6 30.0 vanguard Total Stock Mkt Index Total Return Passive 9.0 110.5 vanguard Total Bond Mkt Index Corporate Income Gen'l Passive 8.8 63.6 vanguard Tot Bd Mkt II Idx Corporate Income Gen'l Passive 7.3 25.1 vanguard Inflatn Protect Sec Govt Backed Gen'l Active 7.1 25.2 iShares Barclays TIPS Bond Govt Backed Gen'l Passive 7.0 16.4 TCW Total Return Bond Govt Backed Gen'l Active 6.7 10.0 Templeton Global Bond Global Bond Active 6.5 19.2 vanguard Emrg Mkts Stock Index Int'l Global Equity Passive 6.3 26.0 Source: Strategic Insight Simfund MF.
20 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The biggest trigger for expansion, however, was the Credit Second, outside Europe, we see North America, Japan and Suisse transaction, through which we acquired new offices Australia as priorities.
The Credit Suisse operations we have both in Europe Geneva, Milan, Budapest and further afield taken on in both countries means repositioning our existing Melbourne.
In places where both sides have offices, all businesses.
In Japan we must nurse a legacy retail funds transferring staff will come under one roof.
Forty new staff structure alongside the relationship forged with MUTB on the joined in distribution.
Doing this cost-effectively, when distributor servicing is resource-intensive, is a challenge.
MUTB has got off to a good start, though, in terms of assets raised.
Strategy Our priorities have become more explicit in the wake of Credit In Australia we now have a diverse business in terms of Suisse, now our largest client Groupwide.
There are five key local investment teams, products and clients.
Following the aspects to our global business development strategy in terms integration of Credit Suisses Australian assets, we are the of territories, channels and products.
fourteenth largest investment manager by assets under management.
AuM has climbed to A$20.4 billion up from Our primary task is to consolidate and increase the assets we A$7.0 billion prior to the acquisition.
Fixed income sales have manage on Credit Suisses behalf.
This is setting us an early been stronger following a difficult two-year period, while we test of our global financial institutions GFI framework, begun have high hopes for our newly-rated global equity product.
last year, which makes the servicing of our major financial If we can overcome our legacy businesses profile, we could institutions a priority.
These clients dominate cross-border become a significant force.
business and have globally recognised brands.
Their needs are Third, we aim to acquire further in the US.
While we have to have multiple points of local contact and uniform service.
gained huge strides in the US institutional market, by a long In Europe the GFI market is private bank-led, although way the worlds largest, our wholesale business has been it includes insurers and fund of funds and discretionary delayed by the integration of two Philadelphia offices, now institutional buyers.
To align ourselves better with these completed, and the lengthy lead times associated with fund clients we are integrating our property and newly-acquired rationalisation.
Unlike the institutional business, which is low Credit Suisse offices.
In Germany, for example, we have key and consultant-led, the wholesale one is high touch, consolidated three offices under a new holding company requiring skilled resource and talent to manage.
We can build Aberdeen Deutschland.
organically but, as noted, the financial crisis has made this a buyers market, even though acquisition franchise values are easily inflated.
GEM equities led net gains, US fixed income US led mandate losses, but geographically bore brunt of losses diversified gains continue 2.4 0.6 Emerging markets equities Canada 2.0 0.4 Global EAFE equities China A 0.6 0.4 Asia Pacific equities Luxembourg 0.4 0.3 Property South Africa 0.2 0.3 Money market Denmark -1.2 -0.8 Multi-asset Saudi Arabia -1.6 -1.1 European fixed income Australia -2.1 -1.2 UK fixed income Japan -2.9 -3.3 Global fixed income United Kingdom -6.8 -6.6 US fixed income US bn -8.0 -6.0 -4.0 -2.0 0.0 2.0 4.0 bn -8.0 -7.0 -6.0 -5.0 -4.0 -3.0 -2.0 -1.0 0.0 1.0 A Charts show the top five and bottom five asset classes by net inflows Luxembourg includes cross border fund range.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 BUSINESS REvIEW CONTINUED Fourth, we will take a hard look before entering some of the One important source of eventual savings will be our larger developing markets.
This strategy of omission concedes Luxembourg fund rationalisation project.
This will see the there are high barriers in the likes of China and India: both number of our funds post-Credit Suisse fall by a quarter to require one to partner local firms.
For us corporate control around 75, through mergers or outright closure.
Luxembourg would be a sticking point.
As well, these larger markets are will continue to be our main funds platform because of crowded out by local operators with a captive client base.
portability under the EUs UCITS directive, which in effect At this stage, then, the opportunities may not justify creates a single market.
Whether UCITS can become a more the resources.
genuine cross-border passport outside Europe remains to be seen.
Developing markets tend to give preference to local fund Fifth, our reputation today rests on our expertise mainly structures, which can add to our potential costs.
in higher risk equities, emerging and high yield debt and specialist areas such as property.
To gain market share In tune with the times, regulators have become more assertive across the risk spectrum we need to address our shortage of in protecting investors.
As well as more public efforts to products.
The money market and convertibles capability via tighten product disclosure, for example, this has resulted Credit Suisse holds promise, as do the inflation-linked funds in greater oversight of our operational risk management we inherited in Australia.
We anticipate building on areas structure.
By and large we welcome such scrutiny.
It is in our within emerging markets that remain open for example, interests that regulators understand how we work.
Besides, Asian fixed income, plus global equity and offshoots such as it can be to our advantage if we can evidence best practice EAFE mandates in North America.
We also want to gain more across our systems, risk and internal audit functions.
Clients exposure for UK property.
will fail asset managers whose risk architecture is weak.
Nonetheless, increased regulatory and political interest in Cost management financial services may deliver unintended consequences and unexpected additional cost burdens.
For example, in the EU, Growth opportunities are balanced by attention to costs.
the draft Alternative Fund Managers Directive has been widely We have been keen to cut overheads, for example by opposed for seeking to impose a burdensome disclosure continuing to outsource, embedding our global operating regime on hedge funds.
The draft directive understandably model and moving non-client facing activities to cheaper seeks to increase investor protection and regulation into the locations.
In the past year we have met operational cost hedge fund and private equity arenas, both perceived to be reduction targets, partly now offset by exceptional costs more weakly policed than other assets.
But current drafting associated with Credit Suisse.
But we expect synergies to unwittingly captures any non-UCITs 3 vehicles into its scope, lead to more savings as transition staff depart and we close regardless of risk attributes, such as investment trusts.
A number of fund managers were also let go on both sides after the transaction.
Equity new business gains outweighed by fixed income losses All regions saw net new business losses Inflow Outflow Net Inflow Outflow Net Equities EMEA Fixed Income Money Market Asia Pacific Property Multi Asset Americas Other bn -25.0 -12.5 0.0 12.5 25.0 bn -20.0 -10.0 0.0 10.0 20.0 Source: Aberdeen Asset Management, year to 30 September 2009.
22 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 compensation is deferred, through the award of company Conclusion stock, so our interests are aligned with investors'.
We declared the current financial and economic crisis has structural roots.
The past two decades have seen an As a uniquely organised pure asset manager, we have the basis unsustainable build up in debt.
Unwinding that could take for differentiation and hence growth in our brand or culture.
Both the supply and demand for credit - which has The caveats lie internally in whether we can turn around areas of underperformance and integrate new businesses.
Externally shifted from the private sector to government balance sheets it is a matter of using our new found scale to penetrate more in the form of fiscal deficits - must fall.
The danger is that stable distribution networks and learning to speak to clients when policy stimulus ends growth will remain weak.
With many of our competitors distracted by Inflationary pressures are at present almost absent and the current upheavals, we believe we can report good progress.
policy makers have signalled continued low interest rates.
Yet their stance may lead to renewed asset bubbles, as a Financial objectives weak dollar spurs a movement into real assets overseas such Our objective is to deliver long-term shareholder value by as commodities, property and stocks, underscoring how pursuing a strategy that involves an appropriate mix of global imbalances remain.
From a valuation perspective the organic growth and selective acquisitions.
main portfolio trades, be they into high yield bonds, say, or emerging market equities, appear to have closed out.
Our principal aims are to grow the recurring revenues generated from AuM and to maintain an efficient cost base from which to Weaker growth, including growth of incomes, will of course service this business.
The level of net new business flows is a key hamper efforts to rebuild savings.
That in turn will damage driver of the growth in revenues and profits.
demand for more risky investment products: certainly the cult of equity or a shareholder democracy looks dead in the UK Acquisitions The acquisition of certain fund management businesses and Europe.
But the situation is far from hopeless.
We think from Credit Suisse was completed on 30 June 2009, adding investor trust can be regained.
What fund managers must do approximately 35.1 billion to AuM and introducing is depreciate company size as a form of quality assurance, and significant additional revenue and profit streams to the Group.
put more emphasis on transparency and service.
Belonging to The transaction was completed in two stages: the Asia Pacific a bank is no longer a kite mark.
businesses, which brought approximately 7.4 billion of AuM, Performance will always matter but with fewer products closed on 30 April: and the rest of the world assets were able to deliver, we expect an industry cull.
In our favour we acquired on 30 June.
The transaction was structured such that have avoided hot products.
Our clients generally know what the full consideration was payable provided 90% or more of we stand for, which is predictable product behaviour over the run-rate revenues derived from the AuM were delivered the long term.
Less obvious is that our staff, especially fund on closing.
managers, are wide owners of our products: and the bulk of Assets by client type Assets by type of mandate Money market Open ended funds Pension funds 13.5bn 29.2bn 40.9bn Multi asset Equities 7.7bn 50.7bn Other Insurance institutional 16.6bn 11.3bn Property Closed end 22.6bn funds Central banks, government 8.8bn Fixed income agencies 51.7bn Third party distribution 14.0bn 25.4bn Total 146.2bn 2008: 111.1bn As at 30 September 2009 Total 146.2bn 2008: 111.1bn As at 30 September 2009 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 BUSINESS REvIEW CONTINUED This target was achieved, with approximately CHF202.0 operating costs and we identified additional efficiencies over million 113.0 million of annualised revenues transferred.
and above the reductions we had announced at the time Approximately 28.0 million of new income has been of our 2008 results.
We will continue to pursue further cost recorded for the period between closing and the year end, efficiencies through 2010. with additional operating costs of 11.0 million also reflected Against this background, the results for the year to in the 2009 results.
30 September 2009 disclose underlying profit before taxation The purchase of Goodman Property Investors GPI, which of 85.1 million, which is approximately 10% lower than was completed in May 2008, included a provision under the previous year.
Overall net new business flows have been which additional deferred consideration of up to 12.5 negative although the position has improved significantly in million may become payable, contingent upon GPI meeting the second half of the year, following an extremely difficult agreed new business targets over the two years to 31 May first half, but AuM and revenues have been supplemented by 2010.
The level of new business generated in the first year the benefits of the Credit Suisse acquisition.
following completion was insufficient to trigger any payment At the gross level, new business flows have held up very of deferred consideration but there is a possibility that new well, delivering 19.1 billion of new AuM during the year business flows in the second year may result in a deferred 2008: 21.8 billion.
However, during a difficult period for the consideration payment: the Board estimates that the whole sector, we have seen an increased level of withdrawals maximum deferred consideration which may become and redemptions as the reduction in clients risk appetite payable will be 3.1 million and provision has been made continued.
Outflows for the year were 29.8 billion, a 43% for this amount.
increase on the 20.8 billion of outflows reported for 2008. Review of results As a result, net new business flows turned negative for Global market conditions have been extremely volatile during the year at -10.6 billion 2008: 1.0 billion.
The new the year under review, with the first nine months of the business flows have improved throughout the year, with period seeing benchmark indices dip to significantly lower 72% of the gross inflows introduced in the second half levels, before experiencing a fairly rapid bounce thereafter.
The year and the net outflows reduced to 2.2 billion for Groups AuM, albeit boosted by acquisition activity, followed the second half, compared to 8.5 billion in the first a similar pattern, with a consequent impact on revenues: half.
A further 3.9 billion of new mandates had been while income has rebounded strongly in our final quarter, this awarded at 30 September 2009 for which the funding happened too late in the year to offset the negative impact was not received from clients until after the year end.
Much of the focus has been on reducing Assets by client domicile Property assets by domicile Other UK & Channel Americas 0.4bn 22.1bn Islands Asia 41.9bn 0.5bn UK Asia Pacific 5.8bn 7.0bn Australia Nordic 10.1bn 6.6bn Middle East & Africa Europe 11.2bn ex UK & Continental & Channel Islands Eastern Europe 53.9bn 9.3bn Total 146.2bn 2008: 111.1bn As at 30 September 2009 Total 22.6bn 2008: 25.4bn As at 30 September 2009 24 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 We envisage that net outflows will continue within our fixed Consistent with the approach we adopted in previous years, income division, albeit at a slower pace, while we anticipate this business review discusses the results on the basis of healthy net inflows from equities.
Indeed, such is the interest presentation adopted for management purposes, which we currently being shown by investors we have taken the decision refer to as the underlying basis.
The Board considers that the to close temporarily our global emerging market capability to separation of recurring and non-recurring items in this way new segregated mandates to allow us to manage the quality will provide more helpful information to investors.
and flow rate of assets we take on.
The following table summarises the principal differences between the IFRS and underlying numbers.
Reconciliation of results on an underlying basis to IFRS Underlying Reclassifications IFRS '000 '000 '000 Revenue 421,897 421,897 Losses on investments 282 282 Total income 421,615 421,615 Operating expenses 325,900 74,634 400,534 Operating profit 95,715 74,634 21,801 Net finance costs 10,611 10,611 Profit before taxation 85,104 74,634 10,470 Tax expense 14,605 10,831 3,774 Profit after taxation 70,499 63,803 6,696 Exceptional costs 44,498 44,498 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 30,136 30,136 Tax on exceptional items, amortisation and impairment 10,831 10,831 Profit for the year 6,696 6,696 Revenue for the year fell by 2% to 421.9 million, while resulted in reduced operating margins.
The effect on each underlying operating expenses were 2% lower at 325.9 of the two divisions will be discussed in more detail below million, resulting in the underlying operating profit being but the Groups overall operating margin, which is defined as 4% lower than 2008 at 95.7 million.
Net finance costs the operating profit divided by total income, reduced from amounted to 10.6 million 2008: 4.9 million, resulting in 23.2% in 2008 to 22.7% this year.
However, the recovery in an underlying profit before taxation of 85.1 million, a 10% markets and completion of the Credit Suisse transaction have decrease on 2008. contributed to an improvement in the operating margin to 25.1% for the second half year and we expect considerable The Group, in common with the wider asset management further improvement in this ratio in 2010. sector, has experienced challenging markets during the year, with the impact of weaker markets reflected in lower Underlying earnings per share, which takes account of revenues.
Whilst cost reduction has been an ongoing focus, the increased number of shares in issue as well as the it was not possible to match the pace of the decline in change in profits, declined by 30% to 6.3p per share on revenues during the early part of the year and this has a diluted basis.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 BUSINESS REvIEW CONTINUED Key performance indicators 2009 2008 2007 Change in underlying profit before taxation -10% 1% 18% Change in underlying EPS diluted -30% -19% 53% Operating margin 22.7% 23.2% 28.5% Gross new business - funded in year 19.1bn 21.8bn 22.6bn Net new business - funded in year -10.7bn 1.0bn 8.7bn New business awarded but unfunded at year end 3.9bn 1.9bn 3.1bn Exceptional expenses of 44.5 million were incurred during Financial Review the year.
The largest element, 18.3 million, was in respect of Revenue costs associated with the Credit Suisse acquisition.
A further Revenue decreased by 2% to 421.9 million, with the 17.8 million of one-off costs arose from the cost reduction adverse impact of markets and new business outflows being programme previously communicated to investors including offset by the benefits brought by the Credit Suisse acquisition.
rationalisation of acquisitions completed in 2008.
We also The investment management division has seen revenue rise made provision for 7.0 million of future costs and writemarginally from 312.8 million in 2008 to 313.3 million downs associated with office premises which have become in 2009.
Revenue from the property management division vacant as a result of rationalisation.
fell by 7%, from 117.3 million in 2008 to 108.6 million in the current year, partly as a result of closing or disposing of certain low margin activities.
26 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Operating profit and margin Underlying operating profit for 2009 was 4% lower at 95.7 million, representing an operating margin of 22.7% 2008: 23.2%.
In a period characterised by challenging market conditions, the movement in operating margins for the two operating segments were as follows: Operating profit and margins 2009 2008 m m change Operating profit Investment management 79.4 83.8 -5.2% Property 16.3 16.2 0.6% Operating margin Investment management 25.6% 26.8% Property 15.0% 13.8% Net finance costs Earnings per share The main elements of net finance costs are interest paid on As discussed above, the Board believes that the most the bonds issued by the Group and on bank borrowings drawn appropriate measure of the Groups profitability is the from time to time, less interest earned on cash balances.
Net underlying EPS number, which excludes from its calculation finance costs have increased from 4.9 million in 2008 to exceptional costs, exceptional income and gains and the 10.6 million this year.
This increased cost was due to having amortisation and impairment charges on intangible assets.
On a full years charge for the bank debt drawn in March 2008 to this measure the Groups EPS has decreased by 30% to 6.3p finance the e110.0 million acquisition of the DEGI property per share.
Coupon on 7.9% perpetual subordinated capital securities Tax The coupon payable on these securities, which were issued in The effective tax rate, defined as the tax charge divided by 2007 to introduce additional flexibility to the capital structure, profit before taxation, was 17.2% in 2009.
This relatively low is fully deductible for UK tax purposes, so that the post-tax rate is achieved because significant elements of the Groups cost is approximately 5.7% pa.
This is considerably less than profits are earned in jurisdictions which charge tax at lower the cost of ordinary share capital, currently estimated at rates than the UK corporation tax rate of 28%.
The effective around 11.5% pa. tax rate is expected to increase slightly going forward, as the Dividends Credit Suisse transaction will change the profit mix, but the An interim dividend of 2.8p per share was paid to ordinary general pattern of a lower than standard tax rate is expected shareholders in June 2009 and the Board is recommending to continue: the effective tax rate is likely to be in the payment of a final dividend of 3.2p per share, resulting in a 20%22% range for the foreseeable future.
total payment for 2009 of 6.0p, a 3.4% increase on 2008.
This dividend is fully covered by recurring earnings per share.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 BUSINESS REvIEW CONTINUED Financial position Total equity increased by 278.7 million to 1,022.0 million at 30 September 2009.
The main components of this increase were as follows: Changes in equity '000 Profit for the year 6,696 Net expense recognised directly in equity 1,118 Issue of ordinary shares 302,496 Preference dividends paid 4,445 Coupon paid on perpetual capital securities 14,769 Ordinary dividends paid 42,333 Minority interest arising on certain Credit Suisse businesses acquired 6,932 Release from reserves to match charge for share-based payments in Income Statement 25,555 Purchase of own shares 328 Increase in total equity 278,686 Net borrowings at 30 September 2009 were 174.5 million, the schemes although a small increase is due to the inclusion equivalent to a gearing ratio of 17.1% of total equity.
During of small schemes introduced by the Credit Suisse acquisition.
the year the holders of 3.0 million of convertible bonds The increase in the liabilities is due to the requirement of elected to convert their holdings to ordinary shares, as did IAS 19 to use a discount rate calculated by reference to the holders of 39.9 million of convertible preference share units.
yield on AA-rated corporate bonds: the discount rate used Because of the more difficult conditions in the banking sector this year is 5.5%, compared to 7.0% in 2008 and, as a result, we decided to advance the refinancing of our revolving credit the aggregate liabilities of the schemes have increased facilities during the year: the new facilities have maturity considerably.
The Groups ongoing cash contribution to these dates through to July 2011. schemes is approximately 6.0 million per annum, and there is no expectation of any material change in this figure in the At the year end the Group had access to approximately 17.0 near term.
million of committed but undrawn bank facilities and an overdraft facility of 15.0 million.
These facilities are used for Capital increases the management of working capital requirements including The principal element of capital issued during the year was the the provision of seed capital to enable fund launches.
issue to Credit Suisse of 240 million new ordinary shares in consideration for the acquisition of certain fund management Following the year end we have announced the issue of a businesses.
These shares were issued in two tranches: 32.5 90.0 million convertible bond which has a five year term million on 1 May 2009 at a price of 132.5p per share and and will incur interest at a fixed rate of 3.5% per annum.
The a further 207.5 million on 1 July 2009 at a price of 124.0p proceeds of this issue will be used to repay bank debt: the per share.
The aggregate value of this issue was therefore level of committed bank facilities available to the Group will 300.4 million.
remain unchanged, thus increasing the available headroom.
42.4 million new ordinary shares were issued on the Pension deficits conversion of 39.9 million of the 6.75% Convertible The net deficit on the Groups legacy defined benefit pension preference share units and 2.8 million new ordinary shares schemes has increased to 33.4 million at 30 September were issued on conversion of the final 3.0 million of the 2009, compared to a net deficit of 11.9 million at the 4.5% Convertible bonds 2010.
A further 943,000 new ordinary previous year end.
This increase arises principally from lower shares were issued pursuant to the exercise of share options asset values and a higher value attributed to the liabilities of by employees.
28 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Cash flow Operating cashflow before interest and tax has recovered strongly in the second half year, after a more difficult first half, with 95.7 million of underlying operating profit delivering 84.4 million of core cash inflows.
The Groups cash flow performance over the last three years is summarised below.
Cash flow performance 2009 2008 2007 '000 '000 '000 Operating cashflow before interest and tax 79,636 106,276 51,663 Interest and tax paid 37,328 27,416 14,512 Cash flow from operating activities after interest and tax 42,308 78,860 37,151 A Maintenance capital expenditure 6,813 2,959 6,345 Dividends and coupons paid 61,547 54,959 39,409 Free cash flow 26,052 20,942 8,603 Exceptional costs and gains 25,244 10,229 67,077 Acquisitions and disposals 19,914 202,296 58,432 Issue of perpetual capital securities 196,465 Debt drawn repaid 31,802 98,209 2,736 Issue of share capital 841 95,206 1,571 Purchase of own shares 328 29,473 Exchange fluctuations 50 351 845 Movement in cash and cash equivalents 799 1,481 32,560 A Maintenance capital expenditure represents the purchase, less disposals, of property, plant and equipment used in the Groups ongoing activities.
The convertible bond issue which was announced recently, the Financial risk management proceeds of which will be received in mid-December, will bear Interest rate risk interest at a fixed rate throughout its five year life.
We finance our activities from a combination of equity, including perpetual capital securities and preference shares, The Board believes that the balance between floating rate and debt.
Coupon payments on the perpetual capital securities and fixed rate borrowings is appropriate to the Groups and preference dividends are payable, at the discretion of the business needs and will continue to monitor this position Board, at fixed rates.
Bank borrowings under the Groups multi-currency revolving credit facilities are drawn in the desired currency at variable interest rates.
Interest on the US dollar subordinated loan is charged at a fixed rate for five years from the date of issue, July 2006.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 BUSINESS REvIEW CONTINUED Liquidity risk Principal risks and uncertainties The Group's approach to managing liquidity risk is to ensure, In common with many businesses, the Group is exposed to as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity a range of risks.
Some of these risks are an inherent part of to meet its liabilities when due under both normal and the business, such as taking investment decisions on behalf stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or of clients and our energies are focused on managing this risk, risking damage to the Group's reputation.
Details of the bank as opposed to eliminating it.
There is also regulatory and facilities available to the Group are provided in note 27.
The compliance risk which we actively seek to manage.
headroom between available facilities and amounts drawn The management of risk is embedded in the culture of will be increased in December as a result of the convertible the Group and the way we conduct our business.
The risk bond issue and receipt of proceeds from the sale of certain management committee together with the risk, compliance contracts to Premier Asset Management Group Limited.
and internal audit departments are responsible for overseeing Foreign currency risk the implementation of our risk strategies and this involves the Revenues are earned principally from fees which are calculated provision of regular reports to the Board.
on the basis of the value of AuM managed for clients and In order to mitigate risk, the Group manages risk in a variety many mandates include investments valued in currencies of ways depending on the nature of the risk and the areas of other than sterling.
Fluctuations in the rates at which overseas potential impact.
The key risks for the Group include: currencies are convertible to sterling can therefore affect the value of the Groups revenues on an ongoing basis.
Investment performance risk The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from The fact that we operate on a global basis, with offices in management fees which are calculated on the basis of the a number of countries worldwide, means that a proportion value of AuM from time to time.
The value of AuM will be of operating costs is also incurred in foreign currencies and affected by general movements, positive or negative, in the interest on the Groups US$125 million subordinated debt markets in which the assets are invested but, more specifically, and coupons on the 7.9% perpetual capital securities is will be affected by the actual investment performance incurred in US dollars.
variations in the sterling value of these achieved by the asset managers.
operating costs and interest cost will, to an extent, offset any similar impact of fluctuating exchange rates on revenues and Our investment performance will, from time to time and the Board has therefore decided that it is not appropriate measured over various time periods, exceed or lag general to undertake any specific hedging of the Group's US dollar market or benchmark performance - referred to as relative exposure.
A limited amount of hedging was undertaken in performance.
We deliberately adopt a long term investment 2009 on the Group's Euro-denominated profit streams.
style, founded on a robust investment process which involves detailed research of individual stocks, both before Fair value of financial instruments and following investment.
This investment style is designed As explained in note 29 to the accounts, there is no material to deliver superior returns over the longer term but it may difference between the book value and fair value of financial result in below benchmark returns in periods when markets instruments as at 30 September 2009. generally are driven forward by positive and often shorter Client relationships term sentiment.
Our relationships with clients are fundamental.
Our client We seek to mitigate this risk by ensuring that both clients relations teams keep in regular contact with them to ensure and investment consultants are kept fully aware of the nature that we address their changing needs.
More widely, we aim to of our investment philosophy and by openly discussing the provide a high level of information to our customers, through drivers of such performance, supported by relevant analysis a variety of means.
of the components of performance, and comparing this with benchmark performance.
30 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Employee risk Project risk We operate internationally and the Group's most important We are reliant on the smooth and efficient delivery resource is its staff.
Their knowledge and abilities are central to of key projects and manage the risks involved in these meeting clients needs and expectations.
Retention of key staff through a clearly defined process which is overseen by a is vitally important in maintaining this focus on client service.
This Group projects committee The Group runs a graduate recruitment program and provides ensures prioritisation and allocation of resources across ongoing training and development courses.
incentive packages are in place to encourage and reward strong performance.
Business continuity risk We have an obligation to ensure that the business can operate at all times.
We have continuity plans which are tested regularly.
Our main back office is outsourced to third parties.
We monitor these providers closely.
As well, we have offsite back up to our systems in place for each of the Groups principal operating sites.
We are insured in the event of loss of revenue through business interruption.
Martin Gilbert Bill Rattray Chief Executive Finance Director Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
