Business review Highlights Kevin Chidwick, 04 Chairmans statement Admiral Group Finance 06 Chief Executives statement 10 Business review Director, answers 10 Q&A on Admirals UK Car Insurance some frequently 12 Group review 13 UK Car Insurance 17 Price Comparison asked questions 19 Non-UK Car Insurance 22 Other Group Items on Admirals UK Car 24 Principal risks and uncertainties 26 Corporate responsibility Insurance Business 32 Governance 51 Financial statements Kevin Chidwick Finance Director UK Growth How have you managed to grow the number of The ongoing PC distribution shift and expected UK customers by 17% in 2009?
Do you expect increases in premiums across the market is likely to this growth to continue?
Another potential source of growth is our ability to innovate In 2009 the share of new business sales from price and stay at the forefront of distribution changes, comparison PC websites increased by a fi fifth to maintaining our strong track record e. g. multi-brand around 45%.
In the last strategy, fi first internet only brand, fi first car insurance couple of years weve focused on PC distribution price comparison website... We will let you know and have built around 15% market share of PC when we think weve got a new winning innovation!
Compare this to our current 7% share of the whole market and you can see why this was a helpful driver of Admirals growth.
Price comparison What impact does the growth of price 2 It makes good risk selection a mor e powerful comparison, the resulting transparency of differentiator, a purer determinant of relative prices and frequent selection of the lowest loss ratio performance.
price, have on your underwriting advantage?
Price transparency exposes less effi cient insurers The fact that PC sites increase transparency of with higher costs, who might otherwise make a prices plays to our strengths in two key respects: good living off over-priced business.
1 In a market for a commoditised product bought predominantly on price, being the lowest cost provider is a powerful competitive advantage.
For more information visit: www.
co. uk Admiral Group plc 10 Annual Report 2009
