20 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors While the Company will mainly invest in international equities The directors present their report and the there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as audited financial statements for the Group convertibles, corporate bonds or sovereign debt, if it is for the year ended 31 October 2009. deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance of the Company in the Business Review pursuit of its objectives.
The use of any derivative instruments The following review is designed to provide information such as financial futures, options and currency hedges will primarily about the Companys business and results for the only be for the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
The business review should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on pages The Company will not invest more than 15% of its investment 3 and 4 and the Portfolio Managers Report on page 5, which portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it gives a detailed review of the investment activities for the year invest more than 15% of its investment portfolio in any other and an outlook for the future.
UK listed investment trusts or investment companies.
a Status The Company will at times borrow money, both short and The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and long term, in order to enhance performance.
The draw down domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is an investment company of borrowings may be in currencies other than Sterling, as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and provided that the borrowings do not exceed the assets in that operates as an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 particular currency.
The gearing range is between 0% and of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is required to 20% and gearing will not exceed 20% of Net Asset Value at seek HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approval of its status as the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
an investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 842 The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
HMRC risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio which at approval of the Companys status as an investment trust has 31 October 2009 contained over 200 individual investments.
been received in respect of the year ended 31 October 2008 At 31 October 2009 the largest single investment was BP although this approval is subject to there being no subsequent which accounted for 4.4% of total investments, while the top enquiries under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The directors 25 holdings totalled 33.6% of total investments.
Investment are of the opinion that the Company has continued to conduct risk may be further reduced through the use of currency its affairs in a manner that will enable it to continue to gain hedging, foreign borrowings and derivatives.
The Company has no employees.
Information regarding the Companys investment exposures The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so can be found on page 18, and performance attribution that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares against our composite benchmark is contained on page 17. component of an ISA.
Further information regarding investment risk and activity b Investment objectives and policy throughout the year can be found in the Managers Review The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset growth and accompanying regional pages.
in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular dividend growth c Financial review in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices Index.
To achieve Assets these objectives the Companys investment policy is to invest its Total net assets at 31 October 2009 amounted to assets in a portfolio primarily composed of international equities.
448,863,000 compared with 385,661,000 at 31 October The portfolio is broadly diversified by both geography and sector 2008 and the net asset value per ordinary share increased in order to reduce investment risk.
The Manager has the flexibility by 16.4% from 340.8p to 399.9p.
to invest in any geographic region and has no set limits on individual country or sector exposures, although the Board Revenue regularly monitors the Companys investments and the Managers Group net revenue return after taxation for the year was investment activity.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom up 13,374,000, a decrease of 7.6% from the previous year.
value based investment process to identify suitable opportunities and pays particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 21 Report of the Directors continued 2009 2008 % Change Going Concern The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to Net assets as at adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 31 October 448.9m 385.7m 16.4 statements as the assets of the Company consist mainly of Revenue return for securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, that the year 13.4m 14.5m -7.6 the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in Dividend payable per operational existence for the foreseeable future.
share for the year 11.50p 11.06p 4.0 d Performance measurement and key performance Dividend indicators The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting AGM, will be paid on 26 February 2010 to shareholders on its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the the register at 5 February 2010.
The Companys shares go Manager, the directors take into account the following key ex-dividend on 3 February 2010. performance indicators: Payment of Suppliers Performance measured against the Benchmark It is the payment policy for the financial year to 31 October The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the 2009 to obtain the best possible terms for all business and, performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset value therefore, there is no single policy as to the terms used.
In and share price for the Company and its benchmarks.
general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on Discount to Net Asset Value NAV which business will take place and it is the Companys At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the policy to abide by such terms.
There were no trade Companys discount premium to NAV and reviews the creditors at 31 October 2009 2008: nil.
average discount premium for the Companys relevant Bank facilities Association of Investment Companies AIC sector.
The Board has in place a facility which allows the Company The Board considers the use of share buy-backs to enhance to borrow as and when appropriate.
During the year 109,653 shares were the Company had a committed short term facility of 5m.
The Company publishes a NAV per share figure The facility is subject to regular review.
on a daily basis, through the official newswire of the Gearing London Stock Exchange.
This figure is calculated in Gearing is defined as the difference between the values of accordance with the AIC formula.
investments and equity shareholders funds, divided by Performance against the Companys peer group equity shareholders funds x 100.
There was gearing of In addition to comparison against the benchmarks and 0.9% at 31 October 2009. various indices, the Board also considers the performance The Company also has two debentures, details of which of its AIC peer group at each Board meeting.
can be found in note 16 on page 48.
Total expense ratio TER Future developments The TER is a measure of the total expenses incurred by the While the future performance of the Company is Company, including those charged to capital, expressed as a dependent, to a large degree, on the performance of percentage of the average shareholders funds over the international financial markets, which, in turn, are subject year.
The TER is defined here as the total annual pre tax to many external factors, the Boards intention is that the operating expenses management fee and other Company will continue to pursue its stated investment administration costs expressed as a percentage of average objectives in accordance with the strategy outlined earlier.
shareholders funds over the year.
The TER, before Further comments on the outlook for the Company for the performance fees and borrowing costs and excluding the next twelve months are set out in both the Chairmans VAT reclaim, amounted to 0.50% 2008: 0.47% of the Statement on pages 3 and 4 and the Managers Review on assets of the Company.
No performance fee was paid page 5.
22 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued during the year.
The Board regularly monitors all Company The notice period for termination of the management expenses.
e Related party transactions All publications of the Companys NAV take account of any Investment management, accounting, company secretarial and performance fee owing or potentially owing.
administration services are provided to the Group by wholly During the year under review the Manager used certain owned subsidiary companies of Henderson Global Investors services which were provided by or paid for by various Holdings plc Henderson.
Global custody services are brokers.
In return it placed business, which may have included provided by BNP Paribas Securities Services.
These are the only transactions relating to the Company, with these brokers.
related party transactions currently in place.
There have been no material transactions with these related parties, other than g Principal risks and uncertainties the investment in the Henderson Liquid Assets Fund a money The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company market fund see note 12 on page 48, which have affected and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and the financial position or performance of the Company in the restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment financial year.
objectives and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified and f Management arrangements the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: Investment management, accounting, company secretarial and administrative services are provided to the Group by wholly Portfolio and market owned subsidiary companies of Henderson.
Under the terms Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities of the management contract: that are quoted on recognised markets, share prices may move sharply.
The companies in which investments are The basic annual management fee is 0.30% of gross assets made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
the market value of the Companys portfolio would have The Manager is eligible for a fee based on the degree of an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The Board outperformance, calculated on the basis of the average net reviews the portfolio each month and mitigates this risk asset value total return over a rolling three year period through diversification of investments in the portfolio.
compared to a composite index representing in equal Investment activity and performance proportions the FTSE All-Share Index and the FTSE World An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms ex UK Index.
of asset allocation or the level of gearing may result in The payment of a performance fee in any year is subject to an underperformance against the Companys benchmark outperformance hurdle rate of 1.5% per annum.
index and the companies in its peer group.
The Board monitors investment performance at each Board meeting For the first 1% of outperformance in excess of the hurdle and regularly reviews the extent of its borrowings.
rate, a performance fee of 0.15% of average gross assets will be paid, and in respect of each further 1% of Tax and regulatory risks outperformance, a fee of a further 0.2% of average gross A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation assets up to a maximum performance fee in any one year of Taxes Act 1988 could lead to a loss of investment trust 0.55% of average gross assets, so that the maximum total fee status, resulting in capital gains realised within the portfolio payable in any one year is 0.85% of average gross assets.
being subject to corporation tax.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could result in suspension of the Companys No performance fee will be paid in any year if either the shares, while a breach of the Companies Act 2006 could Companys net asset value or its share price is lower at the lead to criminal proceedings, or financial or reputational end of the financial year than at the end of the previous damage.
The Company must also ensure compliance with financial year.
the listing rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
The No performance fee will be paid if in any financial year Manager has contracted to provide investment, company distributable income plus revenue reserves is lower than the secretarial, administration and accounting services through gross dividends payable in the previous financial year.
The Board receives internal control
