Business Review Inves tment Management Report Financial Performance By D W McCorkell Executive Director Head of Investment Total Operating Total Operating Management Income Profit Income Profit 2009 2009 2008 2008 million million million million It is a pleasure to report a record year for the Investment Management Division in what has proved to be one of the most Discretionary Portfolio Management 128.8 19.4 123.0 18.9 Advisory Portfolio Management 75.2 11.2 70.7 10.8 interesting years for global stock markets.
204.0 30.6 193.7 29.7 Investment Managements operating profits excluding redundancy excluding redundancy costs and amortisation of client relationships.
costs and amortisation of client relationships rose to 30.6 million from 29.7 million, an increase of 3.1%.
Total income rose to Fees, interest and other recurring income has increased by 4% in 204.0 million, an increase of 5.3% over the 2008 figure of the year, with commission income increasing by 7%.
Recurring 193.7 million, an excellent performance considering market income is 54% 2008: 55% of total income.
The trend towards an conditions during the year.
increasing level of Discretionary Management continues but the exceptionally high level of activity seen during the year has resulted Indices and Values of Funds under Management FUM in this modest increase in the proportion of non-recurring income.
At 27 At 28 The Bus iness September September Indices 2009 2008 % Change During the year, we have added six new Investment Management teams to the Group.
Four of these teams joined our offices in FTSE APCIMS Private Investor Series London, Teesside, Leeds and Guernsey.
The largest team, Balanced Portfolio 2,640 2,586 2.1% consisting of four Divisional Directors and three staff joined us in FTSE 100 5,082 5,089 -0.1% Brighton where we have opened a new office.
In January 2010, our Eastbourne office will relocate to join this new team in Brighton.
The Funds Under Management billion billion other new branch opening during the year was in Truro, where the Discretionary funds 11.8 10.2 15.7% total number of staff is six, including two Divisional Directors.
In Advisory funds 8.7 8.5 2.4% addition, we have relocated part of our business support Total managed funds 20.5 18.7 9.6% operations from London and Leicester to new and much more efficient premises in Edinburgh.
Total funds under Discretionary Management at the year end were 11.8 billion against 10.2 billion last year, a rise of 15.7%, which Following the retirement of a number of Senior Investment compares to a fall of 0.1% in the FTSE100 Share Index and a rise Managers, we now have a total of 643 Client Executives and of 2.1% in the FTSE APCIMS Private Investors Services Balanced Investment Managers.
We thank all of them for their contribution Portfolio Index.
Funds under Advisory Management were over many years and wish them a long and happy retirement.
We 8.7 billion, a rise of 2.4% over the year, giving total funds under have developed our Graduate Trainee Programme, with the largest management of 20.5 billion, a rise of 9.6% overall.
The figures ever number of Graduates starting the programme this September.
include 127 million of new funds brought in by new teams who All of last years graduates completed the programme and have joined in the year.
The teams who joined us in 2008 have now joined teams around the Group.
introduced 1.3 billion of Discretionary funds and 0.7 billion of Advisory funds since they arrived.
Financial Planning continues to be an important area of our business.
Economic uncertainty has resulted in many clients undertaking a full financial review with our Financial Planning teams and their usual Investment Managers.
We have 61 qualified Financial Planners across the Group, with clients of all branches having access to their advice.
06 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC The Financial Services Authority FSA will publish the Retail Investment Ban king Report Distribution Review RDR early next year and after a final period By G Summers Director of Brewin Dolphin Limited Head of of consultation, it will be implemented at the end of 2012.
The RDR Investment Banking will affect the way we do our business and will require Investment The financial period under review was extremely challenging, with a Managers to have a minimum level of qualifications and to enter our further deterioration in conditions in capital markets around the continual professional development programme.
The UK small and mid cap market place suffered more than enhanced our training and competence systems so that all our most with a further significant drop in corporate activity and trading, Investment Managers meet these requirements.
as access to both debt and equity capital became severely We have continued to grow our Business Development Team which constrained.
introduces Brewin Dolphin services to Independent Financial However, it is pleasing to report despite these testing conditions Advisors IFAs and other Professional Intermediaries in the UK.
In that the Investment Banking team managed to come through the the period, this team has introduced 235 million of new FUM.
year making a small profit, maintaining its unbroken track record of Further enhancement to the services we provide for intermediaries profitability.
Though it is still early days there are signs that capital and their clients, particularly in light of the RDR, will be introduced markets have begun to recover.
We are cautiously optimistic that in 2010. this will be sustained.
Management of charities assets is a growing part of our business.
The Investment Banking division has a team of sixty professionals At the year end charitable FUM had risen to 1.5 billion from specialising in six core sectors: Consumer: Healthcare: Industrials: 1.3 billion in September 2008.
A specialist Charity Investment IT: Resources and Support Services.
Our Research, Sales and Management Team now provides services throughout the UK.
We Trading team is well regarded in the City and team members enjoy have also seen a significant increase in our FUM in various tax independent recognition in surveys such as Extel and Starmine.
wrappers with 2.3 billion now in Offshore Bonds, SIPPs and other Our Corporate Broking and Advisory team continues to offer self invested pension schemes.
innovative solutions and best advice to our corporate clients.
We are delighted to report that we have won several awards this We have recruited two more experienced analysts during the year year, importantly, the Shares Magazine Award for Best Discretionary and a new director in corporate finance to complement our existing Stockbroker 2009.
At the Daily Telegraph Wealth Management teams.
We have appointed a new Head of Equities and a new Awards we were very proud that a senior member of our operations Head of Corporate Finance.
team won the Award for exceptional performance in Business Support and our Perspective newsletter the Best Market Newsletter The business is firmly committed to our core values of diligence category.
and integrity which together help us deliver a valued service to our clients.
This approach has enabled us to come through the recent We have developed our web presence and will improve it further to difficult markets with an enhanced reputation and should ensure increase the variety and depth of our online services for clients and that we continue to build on our very solid foundations, into the intermediaries.
It is important for us to ensure that our basic online medium term and beyond.
services are always stable and reliable prior to considering additional functionality.
We are working to increase the online access and range of reports we provide for our clients.
The strength of our business model has been demonstrated throughout this difficult period.
We have seen significant inflows of new business and clients often tell us how important it is to be able to talk to a real person whom they know and trust.
I would like to thank all our Investment Managers and support staff for the enormous efforts they have made in looking after our clients so well during one of the most extraordinary years in stock market history.
