Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report growth.
The Board of Directors recognises that investing together with the audited financial statements of the in equities is a long term process and that the Companys Company for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The returns to shareholders will vary from year to year.
Unlike Company was incorporated in England and Wales as a equivalent open-ended investment vehicles, the public limited company on 16 August 1991 under the investment trust structure offers investors a portfolio which name of Legistshelfco No.
112 PLC with the registered may be geared.
The Board takes the view that long term number 2638812.
The name was changed to Fidelity returns can be enhanced by the use of gearing.
European Values PLC in September 1991.
Investment policy BUSINESS REVIEW The Company invests principally in continental European This section of the Directors Report provides a review of securities with a view to achieving long term capital the Companys business and describes the principal risks growth for shareholders.
The portfolio is selected by and uncertainties it faces.
the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual situations.
Business of the Company Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual The Company carries on business as an investment trust countries and industry sectors is monitored, the portfolio and was approved as such by HM Revenue & Customs is not structured primarily on a country or industrial under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes weightings basis, although certain investment restrictions Act 1988 ICTA for the accounting period ended 31 apply in an attempt to diversify risk.
HM Revenue & Customs has granted provisional approval for the accounting period ended 31 A maximum of 20% of gross assets may be invested in December 2008, although this approval may be subject companies of countries which are not included in the to review should there be any subsequent enquiry under benchmark Index the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Directors are of of which a maximum of 5% of gross assets may be the opinion that, since that date, the Company has invested in other companies of non-European countries conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the which have some European exposure or connection.
conditions for continued approval as an investment trust The geographical and sector breakdown of the portfolio under that Section.
compared with the Index may be found at pages 7,9 and 10.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets The Company is registered as an investment company may be invested in the aggregate of: a securities not as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 listed on a recognised stock exchange and b holdings and operates as such.
It is not a close company and in which the interest of the Company amounts to 20% has no employees.
or more of the equity capital of any one listed company.
Objective, strategy and principal activity A maximum of 5% of the Companys gross assets may The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital be held in unquoted securities in aggregate at any growth from the stockmarkets of continental Europe.
The Company aims to achieve this with an actively managed portfolio of investments, consisting primarily The maximum level of gross gearing is an amount of continental European securities.
As part of this of twice the adjusted capital and reserves pursuant strategy the Board has delegated the management of to the Companys Articles of Association.
In normal the portfolio and other services.
The principal activity circumstances a gearing level of below 20% of net is to pursue the objective through operating as an assets will be maintained.
Details of the levels of investment trust company.
Both the objective and gearing at the year end may be found on page 2. principal activity have remained unchanged throughout the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets of up to 10% of the Companys assets.
The Board also The Board has reviewed the summary of the years reserves the right to hedge the portfolio.
The Board activities and is in agreement with the indications of has not used this right during the life of the Company.
likely future developments and the factors likely to affect these which are given in the Chairmans Statement on A maximum of 15% of the Companys total assets pages 3 to 5 and in the Managers Review on pages may be invested in the securities of other investment 6 and 7. companies including listed investment trusts which themselves do not have stated investment policies to The Board believes that individuals and institutions invest no more than 15% of their total assets in other choose to invest in the Company because the stock listed investment companies.
As at 31 December 2009 selection approach adopted by the Portfolio Manager there were no such holdings in the Companys portfolio is considered to be well suited to achieving its objective.
Although there has been income received by way of dividend payments the emphasis is placed on capital The current investment approach is detailed in the Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
Page 16 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Directors Report The full portfolio listing as at 31 December 2009 is KPIs detailed on pages 51 and 52.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the progress and performance of the Fidelitys investment management philosophy, Company over time and which are comparable to those style and process reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
The portfolio is primarily built on a stock by stock basis The first three KPIs, namely NAV, share price and following the Portfolio Managers assessment of the benchmark, are concerned with change, whereas the fundamental value available in individual securities, with remaining KPIs deal with absolute amounts.
geographical weightings largely the result of stock Year ended Three years selection, rather than macro-economic considerations.
31 Dec ended 31 The charts and graphs provided in this annual report 2009 2008 Dec 2009 should therefore be read with this in mind.
The %% % portfolios geographical weightings may vary 1 significantly from the weightings within its benchmark NAV 11.3 -17.5 4.1 Index and the concentration on the identification of 2 Share price 21.3 -25.9 0.7 fundamental value in individual stocks within continental Europe may result in investments made against prevalent FTSE World Europe trends and local conventions.
The value investor seeks to ex UK Index 19.1 -24.6 3.4 be amongst the first of his peers to recognise the Discount to NAV 9.3 16.4 n a potential in individual stocks and hence returns are only properly assessed on the basis of long term results.
The Actual gearing ratio 1.0 nil n a Portfolio Manager invests in securities of companies 3 Total expense ratio 0.92 0.89 n a which are considered by the Portfolio Manager to have fundamental value.
Securities of interest may fall under All figures are calculated on a total return basis ie, cum income 1 Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines the following categories: 2 Calculated on a bid to bid basis with income reinvested an industry anomaly: 3 Excludes the performance fee charged to capital for the year a turnaround or recovery situation within a certain ended 31 December 2008 company: Source: Fidelity, Datastream and Fundamental Data as at 31 unrecognised growth relative to the price of the December 2009 shares: Past performance is not a guide to future returns an undervalued asset situation: the potential for some merger and acquisition activity.
The Summary of Performance graphs on pages 12 and 13 indicate the relative historical performance of Corporate activism the Company against its benchmark Index since launch The Board believes that the Company should, where and the discount to NAV over that period.
Some of appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the the Companys KPIs are considered to be beyond the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise Boards control, however they are measures of the its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there Companys absolute and relative performance and the are any particularly controversial issues which are then Board monitors them regularly.
Indices and ratios which referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for assist in managing performance and compliance are also corporate activism and shareholder voting to Fidelity.
reviewed, including the total expense ratio.
Expenses are These activities are reviewed annually.
considered regularly at Board meetings and this enables the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and Premium discount management: enhancing consider any expenditure outside that of its normal shareholder value operations.
In addition to the KPIs set out above the The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year Board regularly reviews the Companys performance to issue new shares at a premium or repurchase shares against its peer group of five investment trusts: The for cancellation at a discount to the net asset value.
It will European Investment Trust PLC, JPMorgan European only use these authorities to enhance the net asset value Investment Trust plc, JPMorgan European Fledgeling and to protect or improve the premium discount rating Investment Trust plc, Gartmore European Investment of the shares.
Details of share repurchases may be found Trust PLC and TR European Growth Trust PLC.
on page 20 and the Chairmans Statement provides further information on page 3.
The principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 18 and 19 includes descriptions of other performance Performance indicators, their monitoring and management which Over the period the net asset value of the Company rose are key to the business of the Company.
Long term by 11.3% compared with the increase by the Companys performance is also monitored and the Summary benchmark Index of 19.1% on a total return basis.
of Performance graphs on pages 12 and 13 show this information.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 17 Directors Report Attribution analysis 1.
Market risks The attribution analysis table which follows enables The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities contributions from various sources of income and and the principal risks are therefore market related such costs to be determined.
as market recessions, interest rate movements, deflation inflation, terrorism and protectionism.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect and Analysis of change in NAV increase the Companys assets against this background during the year pence per share are core to the Companys continued success.
Other factors affected by market forces, such as exchange and Starting NAV 1 January 2009 1,183.61 bond rates, contribute to risks which have to be taken as Impact of : part of the Companys normal business.
Index 349.94 Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form Stock selection -94.68 part of the market risks category are included in Note 18 to the financial statements on pages 46 to 50 together Exchange rate -120.74 with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
Gearing -6.29 These comprise: market price risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and Share repurchases 10.31 credit risk.
Charges -10.82 The Company has fixed term, fixed rate loan facilities Dividends paid -36.50 in place, the first of which is due for repayment later Cash and residual -5.31 in 2010.
The extent to which any loan facilities will be retained or renewed will be kept under the most careful Closing NAV 31 December 2009 1,269.52 scrutiny.
At the present time, cash is being held against the loans held by the Company to reduce the level of Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns net gearing.
However, should good opportunities for investment arise, these funds are readily available.
In Investments were valued at 658,771,000 as at 31 addition a revolving credit facility currently nil drawn December 2009.
Shareholders funds amounted to down and a day to day overdraft facility can be used 648,935,000 resulting in a net asset value per share if required.
The impact of limited finance from of 1,269.52p.
Changes to investments are shown in counterparties including suppliers has not impacted Note 9 to the financial statements on pages 42 and 43. the Company to date, however there are alternative suppliers available in the market place should the Principal risks and uncertainties need arise.
Due to the uncertain economic climate, shareholders will have greater concerns about the way their investments The Company relies on a number of main counterparties, are managed.
The Board confirms that there is an namely the Manager, Registrar, Custodian and Auditor.
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and The Manager is the member of a privately owned group managing the principal risks which fall under the general of companies on which a regular report is provided to the headings of strategic, operational and management.
The Manager, Registrar and Custodian are subject With the assistance of Fidelitys internal audit team the to regular audits by Fidelitys internal controls team and the Board has constructed a risk matrix which identifies the counterparties own internal controls reports are received key risks to the Company under these broad headings.
by the Board and any concerns investigated.
The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained unchanged since the beginning of the 2.
Performance risk accounting period, for managing risks and summaries The achievement of the Companys performance of these are set out below.
objective relative to the market requires the application of risk.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in might lead to underperformance of the benchmark accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Index and target.
Management of the risks set out above Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Risks is carried out by the Board which, at each Board meeting, are identified, introduced and graded.
This process, considers the asset allocation of the portfolio and the risk together with the policies and procedures for the associated with particular countries and industry sectors mitigation of risks, is updated and reviewed regularly in within the parameters of the investment objective.
The the form of internal controls reports considered by the Portfolio Manager is responsible for actively monitoring Audit Committee.
the portfolio selected in accordance with the asset allocation parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
Page 18 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009
