Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report an annual assessment of the Companys progress and which incorporates the Business Review together with so both sets of KPIs have been provided.
the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 August 2009.
While making money is the most important objective, the Board is aware that shareholders invest in the shares The Company was incorporated in England and Wales of Fidelity Special Values PLC because FIL Investments as a public limited company on 27 September 1994 International is the Manager and it therefore monitors under the name of Fidelity Special Values PLC with the returns against those of competing investment trust registered number 2972628. companies.
Finally, it is aware that shareholders invest in the Companys shares because of the belief that they will ACTIVITIES AND STATUS earn better returns than those of the stock market as a A review of the years activities and an indication of whole.
So returns are also monitored against an index likely future developments are given in the Chairmans which reflects the performance of the stock market, the Statement on pages 4 to 7 and in the Managers Review FTSE All-Share Index.
ACTIVITY The Company carries on business as an investment The Companys activity is to pursue the objective trust and was approved as such by the Inland Revenue through operating as an investment trust company.
under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation A review of the years activities and an indication of likely Taxes Act 1988 ICTA for the accounting period future developments and the factors likely to affect this ended 31 August 2007.
HMRC has granted provisional are given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 7 approval for the accounting period ended 31 August and in the Managers Review on pages 8 and 9.
The 2008, although this approval may be subject to review Board supports these views.
should there be any subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Directors are FIDELITYS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT of the opinion that, since that date, the Company has PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND PROCESS conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the Fidelitys distinctive investment approach is bottom conditions for continued approval as an investment up stock picking investing in companies on the basis trust under that Section.
of their underlying strengths, facilitated by extensive research capabilities.
Fidelity has over 140 analysts The Company is registered as an investment company and research associates with a hands-on approach to as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 knowledge accumulation.
Fidelitys analysts evaluate and operates as such.
It is not a closed company and companies, meet their management and workforce and has no employees.
interpret the effects of international and local events.
They contact hundreds of companies every week.
This first hand research is fundamental to Fidelitys ability to BUSINESS REVIEW seek the success stories of the future.
Fidelity has over 90 portfolio managers.
Portfolio managers work closely INTRODUCTION with the Fidelity analyst team and also have access to a The Company is required to present a Business wide range of research produced by third parties.
Review, which provides a fair review of the Company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties SUMMARY REVIEW OF RESULTS FOR 2009 faced and includes an analysis of the performance of the As outlined and explained in the Chairmans Statement, Company, both during the financial year and the position in the Managers Review and in the financial statements, at the year end, taking into account its objective, the shareholders net assets increased by 4.5% to 334.5 strategy and risks and how these are measured using million, having a net asset value per share of 587.5p.
As Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
a consequence of the income generated in the portfolio and of the expenses incurred during the year the income OBJECTIVE & STRATEGY available for paying a dividend amounted to 8.76p per The primary objective of your Company is to enhance share.
The Board is recommending to shareholders a shareholder value, achieved through long term capital dividend of 9.00p per share.
Actual gearing was at the growth.
The Company aims to achieve this with an year end at 5.7% 2008: 3.4%.
actively managed portfolio of special situation investments, consisting primarily of securities KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs listed or traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Given the identification of the Companys objective and strategy, the Board has identified KPIs against which As is stated in the Boards Policies, which precede returns can be compared.
the Directors Report, the Board considers five years to be the most appropriate time span over which to make assessments.
However, the Business Review requires Page 22 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Directors Report KPIs ADDITIONAL KPIs The primary objective of enhancing shareholder value is Discount premium 2009 2004 measured by the total returns of the share price: the KPI as at 31 August % % against which it is compared is the return on a deposit account at a bank or building society regarded as a low Fidelity Special Values PLC -6.4 1.8 risk investment alternative.
4 Peer group -9.6 n a The KPIs for the secondary objectives of higher returns Total Expense Ratio 2009 2004 % % than the competition and the market are the comparisons with their returns.
Fidelity Special Values PLC 1.32 1.42 1 Total return including net dividend reinvested There are three components to the returns involved in 2 UK Interbank 3m Bid rate the primary objective of enhancing shareholder value: 3 FTSE All-Share Index the net asset value, dividends and the change in the 4 AIC UK Growth sector discount premium at which your shares trade to net asset value.
ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS Analysis of change in NAV % of The components of the change in the net asset value in the year pence per share NAV include the movements in the level of the stock market, the contribution of stock selection, gearing, currencies, NAV at 31 August 2008 562.13 share buybacks share issues, income and costs.
These Index Total Return -46.11 -8.2 are analysed by the Board and the relevant KPIs involve comparisons of the net asset value against competing Portfolio Management Equities 77.98 13.9 investment trusts and the FTSE All-Share Index the Portfolio Management Derivatives 15.00 2.7 Companys benchmark, shown below.
Gearing -10.69 -1.9 A further component part of the net asset value Other Operational Costs -11.51 -2.1 that the Directors monitor is that of the expenses of Share Repurchases 0.07 0.0 managing the Company.
Those expenses, expressed as a proportion of the net asset value known as the Cash Residual 0.63 0.1 total expense ratio or TER are compared with the NAV at 31 August 2009 587.50 4.5 net asset value returns.
The increase decrease in the discount premium is a component of the enhancement Sources: Fidelity and Datastream as at 31 August 2009 of shareholder value and the KPI compares it with that of investment trusts generally and of competing ones specifically.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND RISK MANAGEMENT SHAREHOLDER TOTAL RETURNS Due to the current economic climate, shareholders will have concerns about the direction of some markets.
Share price 1 year 5 years The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for total return return % return % identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks 1 faced by the Company.
The Board, with the assistance of Fidelity Special Values PLC 19.4 70.1 the Manager, has developed a risk matrix which, as part 2 Low risk investment 2.4 25.3 of the internal control process, identifies the operational 3 Benchmark -8.2 35.8 risks that the Company faces.
The matrix has identified strategic, marketing, investment management, statutory 4 Peer group -8.7 39.9 and administrative and operational and support function risks.
The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have COMPANY TOTAL RETURNS remained broadly unchanged since the beginning of the accounting period, for managing these risks.
The process Net asset value 1 year 5 years is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the total return return % return % FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Risks are identified, introduced Fidelity Special Values PLC 9.0 84.9 and graded in this process, together with the policies Benchmark -8.2 35.8 and procedures for the mitigation of risks, and are 4 Peer Group -12.1 37.2 updated and reviewed twice a year in the form of a comprehensive internal controls report considered 1 Total return including net dividend reinvested 2 by the Audit Committee.
The key risks identified UK Interbank 3m Bid rate 3 FTSE All-Share Index within this matrix are: 4 AIC UK Growth sector Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 23
