ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 22 BUSINESS REVIEW DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE Voice broking Results for 2009 Headline Underlying growth growth The Group reports a record profit of 346 million m % % before tax, amortisation and impairment of Revenue 1,225 24 4 intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional Operating profit 212 4 9 items: this represents an increase of 5% over the Our voice broking division had strong revenue growth, particularly prior year.
On a statutory basis, profit before in EMEA, as the dislocations in global financial markets and extreme tax was 281 million, an increase of 2% over volatility made the price discovery mechanism and the depth of the liquidity pools provided by our voice brokers more valuable.
There has been a structural shift in the markets back to basics, The majority of ICAPs revenue is dollar denominated and as such with the focus of global trading moving to plain vanilla products.
has been positively affected by the strengthening of the dollar ICAPs voice broking businesses benefited strongly from this shift, against sterling.
The impact of this was to increase operating the traditional flow businesses interest rate swaps, options, profit by 42 million.
Should sterling and the euro continue to government bonds, FX and commodities were the primary drivers trade at $1.50 1 and 1.10 1, the year-on-year impact in of growth.
The interest rate markets have been affected by 2009 10 would be an increase in operating profit of 65 million.
historically low short-term interest rates, steep yield curves and a substantial increase in corporate and government bond issuance.
Longer maturity interest rate products, such as swaps, have seen particularly strong growth and spreads in general widened.
Corporate bonds reported a strong performance as market uncertainty about companies credit positions continued and spreads widened.
This offset weaker volumes in the credit derivative market in Europe.
In the Americas, we have been investing in building our credit derivative business and saw a good revenue performance.
Equities and equity derivatives continued to experience difficult conditions and our growth in this market was driven primarily by ICAPs acquisition of equity derivatives broker Link and the development of our cash equities business.
Equity derivatives was one of the businesses that we identified as having strong structural growth potential and the acquisition of Link was an important further step in building our overall capability in the equity market.
Commodities had a record performance, particularly in the oil, natural gas and carbon emissions markets, and ICAP expanded into soft commodities.
In the emerging markets, the European business reported good growth through the year, however this was offset by softer markets in Asia.
Revenue per voice broker is a key performance indicator in this division and our average annual revenue per broker rose 12% to 560,000 2008 499,000. i RECORD YEAR Record revenue, profit and EPS.
Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Underlying additionally excludes the impact of FX and acquisitions.
23 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Electronic broking To give an indication of scale of ICAPs post-trade services, including ICAPs 39% share of its associate TriOptimas revenue Headline Underlying growth growth and operating profit, ICAPs proforma revenue and operating m % % profit relating to post-trade services amounts to 87 million and 43 million respectively.
Revenue 324 19 2 Operating profit 126 18 5 TriOptima, the leading provider of portfolio compression and reconciliation services, has been at the forefront of the reduction Electronic broking, including post-trade services, had another of risk in the CDS and interest rate swap market.
In 2008 strong year in terms of revenue and operating profit.
Despite TriOptimas portfolio compression service, triReduce, eliminated seeing a short-term fallout from the dislocations in the credit $30.2 trillion of CDS contracts.
In the first three months of 2009, markets as hedge funds deleveraged and bank proprietary trading TriOptima eliminated a further $5.5 trillion in CDS contracts.
was reduced, the business performed well.
The fixed income and FX businesses remain very strong and are well positioned to In March 2009 derivative dealers reduced $3.27 trillion benefit from increased government and corporate bond issuance in interest rate swap contracts using TriOptima.
With the largest and currency volatility.
ICAP has retained its market share in both elimination in interest rate exposure so far, the 20 participating the spot FX and US Treasury markets: market participants are banks demonstrated that they were meeting their commitments focusing their trading activities on the ICAP platforms as the to the regulators to accelerate compression activity for interest central source of liquidity in each market.
Average daily electronic broking volumes for the 12 months Information ended 31 March 2009 were $736.4 billion, down 14% from the Headline Underlying previous 12 months which were exceptional.
From November growth growth m % % 2008 onwards volumes in electronic broking began to slow from the very high levels of the prior year, but overall have stabilised Revenue 52 30 13 since then.
Average daily volume in fixed income products US Operating profit 23 5 0 Treasury products, US repo and EU repo for the first three months of 2009 was $406.6 billion and average daily electronic ICAP is also the source of market information, research and broking volume on the EBS platform was $149.9 billion.
While commentary for professionals in the global financial markets.
absolute volumes have declined, the proportion of total volume ICAP Information Services offers real-time, end-of-day and accounted for by customers using prime broking has increased.
historic market data sourced from our global interdealer broking platforms and post-trade businesses, providing authoritative and To support our customers evolving trading requirements and comprehensive market information across a broad range of asset desire for new trading opportunities, ICAP Electronic Broking classes.
A significant part of the revenue of this division is sourced continues to be committed to ongoing product innovation and has from ICAPs electronic broking business.
During the year there has rolled out new currency pairs and trading connectivity.
We also been significant investment in the information divisions systems continue to invest in the expansion and development of the and processes to improve the efficiency and breadth of its Groups electronic systems.
offering, resulting in reduced margins.
Demand for improvements in the efficiency of post-trade ICAP Information Services has continued to build out its offering, processing and for reductions in the capital allocated to existing expanding its data distribution relationship with Thomson Reuters positions continued to provide opportunities for ICAPs range of by offering data including EBS Ticker data, historical data and post-trade processing, portfolio compression and reconciliation real-time content.
In 2008 ICAP also signed an agreement and risk management services Traiana, TriOptima and Reset.
integrating ICAP market data into the Xinhua product and service Pressure from global regulatory authorities to ensure the offering.
Xinhua is the Peoples Republic of Chinas largest news robustness of the infrastructure behind the OTC markets and information provider.
increased dramatically and the banks responded positively to that pressure.
Under IFRS TriOptimas results are not included in ICAPs revenue and operating profit as TriOptima is accounted for as an associate.
As such ICAP includes only its share of TriOptimas post-tax profit.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 24 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED MARKETS Credit The diversity of ICAPs market coverage is a key The global credit markets also saw a return to simpler products, strength of the Group.
with the strongest performance coming from corporate bonds.
With corporate bond spreads widening, the price discovery To provide investors with a broader understanding of the growth mechanism provided by our voice brokers has risen in value.
In drivers to its business, ICAP provides an additional analysis of EMEA we have brought in a new high-yield bond desk to work its revenue by market.
These markets are interest rates, credit, alongside our successful high-yield CDS desk, strengthening the commodities, FX, equities, emerging markets and information service provision to our clients.
Credit derivative volumes remain and reflect the way ICAPs customers manage their businesses.
subdued, particularly at the structured end.
However, this only As a result ICAP is able to explain the drivers of performance accounts for a small percentage of ICAPs business.
The revenue and growth rates per market are and Asia we have been building our credit derivative desks to outlined below.
The CDS market continued to be 2009 2008 the focus of considerable regulatory scrutiny.
The move towards Revenue Revenue Growth centralised clearing of CDS products both in the US and Europe m m % gathered pace.
We expect clearing to benefit the CDS market Interest rates 654 546 20 greatly, provided it is delivered on an open-access basis and not tied to any one provider at the execution level.
The International Credit 194 159 22 Swaps & Derivatives Association introduced a new auction Commodities 159 131 21 settlement protocol designed to standardise payouts on corporate FX 215 197 9 and sovereign CDS in April 2009, which has established uniform Equities 202 108 87 settlement terms in the event of a default.
We expect this to have a positive impact on CDS volumes as the market integrates Emerging markets 125 123 2 these standardisation initiatives.
Information 52 40 30 Commodities Total 1,601 1,304 23 Global commodity markets have been extremely volatile, resulting Interest rates in record revenue for ICAPs commodities business in EMEA and The interest rate markets have gone back to basics, with dealers the Americas.
Oil and fuel products saw record volumes on the embracing plain vanilla flow products such as interest rate swaps back of the increased volatility in the oil price and uncertainty and government bonds.
Near zero short-term interest rates, about global economic growth.
We continued to expand our increased government and corporate bond issuance and a steeper market leading position in European natural gas following early yield curve created favourable trading conditions and deeper investment in this sector.
There was extremely strong growth liquidity, particularly for interest rate swaps in Europe.
We have in European emissions trading with our market leading carbon seen significantly increased business in longer maturities which, and environmental products desk achieving record revenue.
combined with widening spreads, has increased revenue considerably Trading in the various US environmental and emissions schemes in this market.
The dislocation in the credit markets also led also increased and is expected to grow further under the Obama to more hedging of basis risk and the development of single Administration.
ICAP Energy also expanded into soft commodities currency basis swaps as a new asset class.
with the establishment of the first OTC sugar desk, broking the first ever cleared agricultural swap transaction.
ICAP has also The US interest rate market continued to grapple with structural expanded into base metals broking.
issues within the dealer community: mergers, compensation issues, balance sheet issues, all factors which contribute to lower In the shipping market dry bulk rates and volumes collapsed with participation.
However, we expect these issues to be more than the fall in the Baltic Dry Index, however these are beginning to offset by increased activity from newer players and the increased rebound slowly.
Tanker rates were more resilient due to the government issuance in the medium to longer term.
Electronic stronger market position of tanker clients principally major oil broking of US Treasuries on the BrokerTec platform was subdued companies, although these softened as the oil price fell further.
throughout the year after the very high levels of the prior year ICAP Shipping continues to gain market share in physical but volumes have started to rise.
shipbroking and sale and purchase.
25 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Foreign exchange FX Emerging markets FX continued to grow as an asset class as trading volumes in ICAP is active in many emerging markets across Asia, Latin perceived safe haven assets increased.
Spot FX traded America and Africa.
We are active in supporting emerging electronically on the EBS platform is one of ICAPs key flow economies with trading and development of their FX, interest businesses and as such has benefited from the high levels rate, government bond and corporate bond markets.
of volatility that continued this financial year.
Average daily Emerging market activity has seen some slowdown following electronic spot FX volumes for the 12 months ended 31 March many years of very strong growth, however ICAP has been 2009 were $193.1billion, following a record year.
EBS has seen investing selectively in the market, notably in Brazil.
ICAP market share gains from smaller FX portals as the market agreed to acquire Arkhe, a leading independent broker in Brazil, consolidates and market participants seek a central pool of in November 2008.
We expect to complete this transaction in liquidity.
In addition, the proportion of total volume accounted mid 2009. for by algorithmic trading increased to record levels.
ICAP also launched a new internet service offering access to EBS, leveraging We also entered into a joint venture with the Banco the global architecture without the need for dedicated hardware, Centroamericano fide Integracion Economica, a multilateral and increased access to the EBS platform by introducing a new bank in Honduras formed by Central American governments.
i-Cross provides a highThese actions have strengthened ICAPs presence in Latin bandwidth, low latency connection to ICAPs EBS platform to America, where it has offices and staff in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, customers trading spot FX in Europe and in the New York area.
ICAP also introduced new Latin American NDF FX contracts in the Argentine peso, Chilean peso, ICAP also continued to promote innovation with new currency Colombian peso and Peruvian nuevo sol.
pairs, adding South African rand Japanese yen and USD Israeli shekel, as well as basket rouble.
Basket rouble is a sequence of The Central European economies have slowed in line with the trades used to construct a hedged position that is in line with global economy but we are seeing positive development in the weightings prescribed by the Central Bank of Russia.
ICAP also Russian rouble market as well as increased trading in Gulf expanded EBSs non-deliverable forward NDF offering to include Cooperation Council currencies in the Middle East.
There are currently more than In Africa, we successfully concluded bond transactions in several 120 NDF counterparties who access the system trading Latin countries, including Nigeria, Kenya, Zambia and Mauritius, and American and Asian NDFs, in addition to the long-established we are developing the business throughout Africa from our office voice-broking markets.
Equities Equities and equity derivatives continued to experience difficult conditions and our growth in this market was driven primarily by ICAPs acquisition of equity derivatives broker Link and the development of our cash equities business.
Equity derivatives was one of the businesses that we identified as having strong structural growth potential and Link was an important further step in building our overall capability in the equity market.
This market has grown strongly in the past five to seven years as a result of the search for yield, the demand for absolute returns and the emergence of volatility as a traded asset class in its own right.
The increased volatility in the global financial markets has benefited ICAP as business is migrating from illiquid index, exotic, single stock and emerging markets options to the main European index products in which ICAP is particularly strong.
In 2008, ICAP identified the opportunity for a global, nonconflicted, agency only cash equity broker and has continued to build out this market in Europe, the Americas and Asia.
ICAP has hired 76 staff in this area, including teams focused on electronic i execution and block crossing.
DIVERSITY The scale and diversity of our business are key sources of our strength.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 26 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED GEOGRAPHIC PERFORMANCE TECHNOLOGY As a global business, ICAPs operations are Our technology is pivotal to our success.
distributed across more than 50 countries.
In order to remain competitive, our technology The two largest regions in terms of revenue and developers must not only ensure that our operating profit are EMEA and the Americas.
electronic, voice and post-trade platforms meet the needs of our customers but also that Geographic breakdown we are able to anticipate their needs in a rapidly % of Group operating profit changing environment.
1 3 1 EMEA 48% The ability to transact at ever faster deal speeds, with instantaneous 2 The Americas 38% response times, on systems with the highest level of stability 3 Asia Pacific 14% and security is pivotal to our customers success and, by extension, our own.
The extreme volatility caused by the crisis in the financial markets has meant that our technology and, in particular, our OTC broking platforms, has been put to the test more than ever before.
Our platforms performed well in these more challenging 2 conditions.
Global average deal completion time on the EBS platform for spot FX continues to drop and is down 80% from two years ago.
EMEA was once again ICAPs most profitable market with the highest operating profit margin.
The region delivered a very To maintain the highest standards, we make continual, strong strong performance driven primarily by interest rates, equities and investment in our technical infrastructure to improve our key commodities.
Markets in the Americas remained unsettled as banks performance metrics of: restructured and reallocated leverage and government fiscal easing R stability continued.
Reset, our post-trade business based in Singapore, R availability has performed very well.
This has offset the impact on our Asian voice broking business of the global reduction in risk appetite.
R recoverability R operational control ICAP has been investing selectively in the emerging markets, notably in Brazil.
In November 2008, ICAP agreed to acquire R security Arkhe, a leading independent broker in Brazil.
R performance EMEA R capacity Headline Underlying R latency reduction growth growth m % % This is done through a strategic planning process for managing our Revenue 729 20 8 technology portfolio.
We define our IT strategy over a three-year Operating profit 173 4 3 time horizon and maintain it iteratively by engaging in ongoing discussions with customers to gain their feedback.
Strategic The Americas initiatives include broader adoption of standards based messaging, such as FIX FAST, platform and networking technologies.
Headline Underlying growth growth m % % During the year we spent 11% of our revenue on our technology.
Revenue 644 22 -4 This is a significant investment but is essential to ensure that our technology both voice and electronic remains competitive.
Operating profit 138 7 -13 We achieve significant economies of scale by leveraging internally developed and externally acquired trading platforms.
ICAP now Asia Pacific has a global IT network of over 630 IT professionals based in Headline Underlying EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
growth growth m % % Revenue 228 37 12 Operating profit 50 39 9 Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
27 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE By our estimates, the size of ICAPs available market, excluding Key performance indicators global cash equities and the financial futures markets, but In this section we describe the key financial including shipping and post-trade services, has grown by 3% to performance indicators and other important $12.6 billion.
On this basis, our overall share of global OTC market by revenue was 21%23%, up from 20%22% in the previous measures that management uses to measure the financial year.
progress we are making towards our strategic 1 In 2008 09, 35% of our operating profit came from our goals: to be the leading global intermediary and electronic broking business, including post-trade services, post-trade services provider in the wholesale an increase of three percentage points.
OTC markets with at least a 35% share of overall ICAP continues to innovate and diversify its business organically market revenues and 50% of our profit derived and by acquisition.
In order to measure our performance in this area we measure the percentage of our revenue derived from from electronic broking.
businesses acquired or started during the previous three years.
During the year 28% of our revenue was derived from new businesses, up from 20% in the previous financial year.
As EBS Share of the global OTC market and Reset will no longer be in this category we expect a decline in Target 35% this indicator in 2009 10.
2008 20%22% In our voice broking division we consider revenue per voice broker a key performance indicator.
In the past financial year this 2009 21%23% increased from 499,000 to 560,000.
1 2 Overall staff compensation increased to 59% of revenue, from Operating profit split between voice, electronic and information 56% in the prior year, largely due to our investment in new Target 50% of profit derived from electronic broking Voice Electronic Information business areas.
As we continue to invest in new areas we do not 2007 69% 22% 9% expect this to decrease in 2009 10.
Voice brokers work on a commission basis, with an extremely high percentage of their 2008 61% 32% 7% remuneration variable with performance.
This variable commission 2009 59% 35% 6% as a percentage of overall remuneration decreased slightly from 63% to 62% compared to the previous year.
3 New business ICAP is a provider of electronic broking platforms so it is essential that we continue to invest in our technology in order to remain 2007 16% competitive.
Accordingly we measure our technology spend as a 2008 20% percentage of revenue.
During the year this percentage decreased 2009 28% from 12% to 11% and we expect this to remain at similar levels going forward.
We achieve significant economies of scale by Voice revenue per voice broker leveraging internally developed and externally acquired trading platforms in a global IT network of over 630 IT professionals 2007 454,000 based in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
2008 499,000 2009 560,000 Staff compensation as percentage of revenue 2007 57% 2008 56% 2009 59% Technology spend as a percentage of revenue Notes: 2007 12% 1 Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
2008 12% 2 60% of ICAPs information divisions operating profit is derived from electronic broking.
2009 11% 3 Revenue derived from businesses acquired or started in the previous three years.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 28 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED MANAGING RISK Risk appetite The directors believe that robust risk management Risk appetite is the broad-based amount of risk i. e. including is a fundamental part of ICAPs business.
The all types of risk that the Group is willing to accept in pursuit significant risks of the Group are continually of its mission and financial objectives.
At the Group level, ICAP benchmarks its actual capital base against an economic monitored, assessed and managed at the capital model to ensure that it is sufficient to absorb losses relevant level.
at a very high level of confidence.
Risk management during the financial crisis The board examines the risk tolerance of the Group along multiple The Group has classified its exposures into eight risk types: dimensions, combining both quantitative and qualitative indicators.
operational, credit, market, liquidity, financial, regulatory, The board governs the Group with the over-arching objective reputational and strategic.
of maintaining an investment grade debt credit rating at the corporate level.
By construction, this metric incorporates the key As a broker, intermediating flow between trading counterparties, financial and risk drivers of the business including, in particular, the Group does not take proprietary risk positions and is therefore earnings stability, levels of liquidity and gearing.
not structurally exposed to either significant market or related credit risk.
The principal risks which it identified and for which At the executive management level, ICAP maintains a set of it prepared have indeed proven to be the ones it faced during principles which implicitly define how much risk the Group is ready the worst dislocation of financial markets in recent years.
to bear to achieve its objectives.
These principles are embedded in The effective management of these risks resulted in ICAP the Groups global policies and delegations of authorities updated suffering no significant loss during this exceptional period.
and distributed at least twice a year, and include mandatory limitations to the types of business ICAP can engage in.
While ICAPs approach to risk has been proven over the past 18 months, it nevertheless constantly seeks to improve the At the operational level, the risk appetite of the Group is maturity, robustness and sustainability of its Group-wide risk translated into broad risk tolerances through credit and liquidity management framework and to promote enhanced risk management limits which further constrain the risks for day-to-day operations.
discipline across all businesses and supporting functions.
The Group is regularly examining scenarios that could seriously reduce earnings, impair its liquidity position or create legal, Risk framework regulatory or reputational damage.
These scenarios are mitigated The Group-wide risk management framework of ICAP is to the greatest extent possible.
built on four complementary and dynamically related pillars: risk governance, risk management, risk measurement and risk Risk governance infrastructure.
The Group aims to apply industry best practices ICAP has established an overall robust risk governance structure across all aspects of its framework.
under the leadership of the global head of risk, which helps ensure the independence of risk management responsibilities from the The Group is committed to maintaining a strong control commercial side of the Group, and strengthens the influence of environment, both geographically and across product lines.
To the risk function in strategic and tactical decisions of the Group.
better align its risk capabilities with its strategic objectives, the Group has made substantial progress in the past year by: R establishing a regional risk management structure independent of the business: R creating additional levels of business oversight and governance at the regional and legal entity levels: R improving its risk monitoring systems and reporting infrastructure: R expanding the reach and influence of the risk function by increasingly embedding the risk management approach in the business decision-making processes: and R reinforcing the discipline around new business approvals.
i Business managers are held accountable for the level of risk in their activity, however the risk function proactively helps ensure that activities remain within the Groups risk tolerances at all times.
RISK MANAGEMENT Robust risk management is a fundamental part of ICAPs business.
29 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements The board is responsible for setting the overall risk strategy It is a policy of the Group to ensure that the important and and risk appetite of the Group.
It has delegated the day-to-day significant operational risks and their controls are continually risk management of the Group to the group risk committee reviewed and assessed using a variety of tools including risk which meets at least six times a year.
Details of the committees control self assessments, key risk indicators and process maps.
responsibilities are shown on page 49.
The global head of risk, As a consequence of this process, corrective action plans are reporting to the Group Chief Operating Officer, is accountable introduced to mitigate the impact of a risk when it occurs and for managing the risk framework of the Group across all ICAPs reduce the probability of it occurring.
The main responsibilities include: Many of the Groups operating processes are dependent on R ensuring that the risk policies of the Group are up-to-date, the integrity and robustness of its information technology and understood and enforced: operational systems and significant resources are devoted to protecting the resilience of these systems.
This includes formal R ensuring that the risk limits are communicated and enforced business continuity plans and appropriate remote data back-up and any breaches are quickly resolved: and disaster recovery facilities for each of our key locations.
R ensuring that the risks are measured and that risk mitigation Business continuity for our core activities is regularly tested actions are in place: to maintain effectiveness.
R enabling the risk management processes: Credit risk R reporting risks to executive management and the board: and The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance R maintaining and developing the business continuity plans by counterparties in respect of its agency, matched principal and of the Group.
To manage credit risk, the group risk function sets global limits for Risk management each counterparty based on indicators of credit quality internal The Group has classified its exposures into eight risk types: ratings in order to limit the potential loss which the Group could operational, credit, market, liquidity, financial, regulatory, suffer as a result of a counterparty default.
Where appropriate, reputational and strategic.
country limits are also applied to limit the exposure of the Group to that country.
Operational risk Operational risks are the most important source of potential In name give-up transactions, ICAPs role is to bring together buyers unexpected losses that the Group faces across all of its businesses and sellers and, where appropriate, to assist in the negotiation of worldwide.
Operational risks cover instances where the Group the price and other material terms of the transaction in return may suffer a loss directly or indirectly from inadequate or failed for a commission.
internal processes, people activities, systems or from external At the point at which the parties agree to terms, ICAP leaves events.
They are intrinsic in all the Groups activities and comprise the buyer and the seller to clear and settle directly with one a wide and diverse range of risk types.
In particular losses can another through the appropriate market mechanism.
Credit risk result from: relating to the name give-up business is monitored by regional R significant and extended failure of IT systems and applications: accounts receivable teams, with risk limited to non-recovery of commission income.
R breakdown of information security, including corrupt data due to network intrusion, breach of network gateways or security systems failure: R project risk in relation to critical IT development: R the loss of key members from a broking desk: R broker errors: R external events including failure of external settlement clearing systems: R failure or disruption of operational or businesses process flow: R natural or man-made business disruptions: and R introduction of new products and markets and the related tax, legal, accounting, regulatory, settlement and technology issues.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 30 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED MANAGING RISK CONTINUED In certain markets, ICAP facilitates its clients by acting as the A similar risk exists for exchange traded transactions which executing broker of exchange products.
In these transactions, are entered to facilitate client orders.
While trades are normally ICAP executes the client order on the exchange as principal taken up by the underlying clients clearing brokers within a few and then novates the trade to the underlying clients respective minutes, if take-up is delayed or ultimately does not happen, clearing broker for settlement.
In the vast majority of cases ICAP is left with a position facing the exchange and is exposed to such trades are given up intra day, usually within a few minutes.
short-term price movements in the underlying asset temporarily In circumstances where novation is delayed, ICAP is left with a held by the Group.
Policies and procedures are in place to reduce position facing the relevant exchange clearing house and, until the likelihood of such trade mismatches or failed give-ups and, subsequent give-up is achieved, may be required, in line with in the event that they arise, the Groups policy is to liquidate clearing house rules, to post margin.
ICAP maintains liquidity these principal positions as soon as reasonably practicable.
to manage these short-term requirements.
In certain parts of its businesses, the Group, acting in its interdealer In contrast to name give-up transactions, matched principal broker capacity, occasionally engages in complex and sometimes transactions involve ICAP acting as counterparty for identified very substantial structured matched principal transactions buyers and sellers in matching, in whole or in part, reciprocal developed by its highly-rated counterparties.
The Group undertakes back-to-back trades.
To mitigate the potential credit risk implicit significant tax, legal and regulatory due diligence before entering in matched principal transactions, ICAP applies a disciplined these transactions.
These transactions do not involve the Group approach to new client approval, undertakes transactions on taking proprietary positions.
a  basis and, through the group risk Only a very small proportion of ICAPs transactions result in function, monitors limits and their utilisation on a global basis.
any exposure to market risk and compliance with ICAPs policies In some cases, exceptions do occur but these are approved prior is monitored by the risk and compliance functions and by to the transaction taking place and are reported to the group senior management.
Liquidity risk Processes and controls are in place to limit and monitor the The ongoing financial crisis has seriously disrupted the flow Groups exposures to any of its trading partners or to concentrations of capital and the ability and willingness of banks to lend money of clients.
In particular the risk team continuously evaluates the even to companies with strong balance sheets and solid revenue financial soundness, liquidity and solvency of ICAPs counterparties.
As a result, capital continues ICAP suffered only minor financial consequences from the to be scarce and more expensive and unsecured funding failure of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers and the indirect more constrained.
consequences of these events on other financial organisations.
ICAP seeks to ensure that it has constant access, even in periods Credit risk related to the Groups treasury activities cash of corporate or market turmoil, to an appropriate level of cash, investments and derivative financial instruments is limited by other forms of marketable securities and committed funding the Groups policy of requiring its treasury transactions to be lines to enable it to finance its ongoing operations, proposed undertaken with financial institutions which have been approved acquisitions and other reasonable unanticipated events on by the group risk committee and which are investment grade rated.
The Group strives to Market risk continuously improve its access to diversified funding sources ICAP does not engage in proprietary trading activities.
As a result, and maintains an investment grade rating from Moodys and however, of providing its clients with matched principal brokerage, Fitch.
The Groups liquidity could however be impaired due to using debt to finance acquisitions and having a truly global franchise, circumstances beyond its control, such as a worsening of credit it is exposed to a variety of market risks including price, interest markets or a perception that ICAP or similar market participants rates and currency.
are subject to greater uncertainties.
Details of ICAPs borrowing arrangements are set out in note 21 to the financial statements.
The Groups matched principal brokerage business involves ICAP acting as counterparty for identified buyers and sellers in matching, When investing its cash balances, the Group considers the in whole or in part, reciprocal back-to-back trades.
In order to protection of principal instruments liquidity characteristics facilitate customer transactions and provide liquidity, the Group and bank counterparty risk, as well as the optimisation of return.
may, however, participate in certain marketplaces by posting With the exception of small, local cash management balances, quotations.
The act of posting quotations in pursuit of customer surplus cash is invested with financial institutions which have orders can result in ICAP becoming principal to an unmatched an equivalent credit rating of A or better.
The Group invests cash trade.
In such situations, or where one or both counterparties in balances in a range of instruments including money market an OTC matched principal transaction fail to fulfil their obligations deposits, AAA liquidity funds, government bonds and other e. g. an unsettled transaction or through trade mismatches more structured, capital protected instruments.
or errors, ICAP is exposed to market risk.
In these circumstances, to mitigate risk, ICAPs policy is to liquidate or hedge and liquidate these principal positions as soon as reasonably practicable.
31 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Counterparty limits are set and monitored by the group risk Regulatory risk committee and, through the recent financial market turmoil, Regulatory risk is the risk of a financial loss or opportunity cost a number of changes have been made to reduce further the arising from either the failure to meet the requirements set by the Groups exposure to institutions perceived as higher risk.
Groups regulators or the impact that legislation has on the markets in which the Group carries out its business.
Financial risk Interest rate risk Since the market disruption leading up to and following the collapse The Group finances itself through a combination of fixed and of Lehman Brothers, regulators worldwide have been under floating rate debt obligations and maintains cash on its balance substantially greater pressure to increase both active tactical sheet to meet a combination of local regulatory capital rules, level scrutiny and macro-prudential oversight.
Compounding the clearing house deposits and other commercial requirements, pressure, the effect of the huge market dislocations of recent including margin calls which arise through the provision of certain months has been to reveal the conduct, or misconduct, of markets of clearing services to brokerage clients.
The existence of businesses, such as the allegations levelled at certain hedge these cash and debt positions exposes the Group to interest rate funds.
This, in turn, has led to intense criticism of even the risk which, from time to time, it manages with derivative most experienced regulatory agencies, and has precipitated instruments with the objective of minimising interest cost and the government level rethinks on the methodology of regulation, impact of interest volatility on the Groups income statement.
which perhaps finds their most coherent expression in the Details of the Groups sensitivity to changes in interest rates are statement of collective intent issued by the G20 after its set out in note 23 e of the financial statements.
meeting in London in April 2009.
Currency risk The Group is supervised by the FSA and is required to meet the The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in systems and controls requirements of the CRD and has, during sterling and conducts business in a number of other currencies, the past year, reviewed these and where necessary taken action principally the dollar and the euro.
As a result the Group is exposed to ensure compliance.
The FSA adopts a risk-based approach to FX risk due to exchange rate movements which affect the to supervision and does this in various ways including the review Groups transactional revenues, and the translation of the earnings of prudential returns, visits to the Group and meetings with and net assets of its overseas operations.
The table below shows the anticipated impact for the year In the US, the Groups activities are primarily regulated by FINRA ended March 2010 on operating profit of a 10 cent movement and the SEC.
The Groups operations in other countries are subject in the dollar and euro on ICAP in terms of transactional and to relevant local regulatory requirements.
Adherence to these translational exposure.
regulations is monitored, where applicable, via the group general counsel who reports regularly to the board.
Dollar Euro Total Operating profit m m m Although much of the recent scrutiny has been aimed at banks, it is with this background that the Group anticipates a general Transactional 6 13 19 increase in both the burden of regulation and the activism of Translational 12 1 13 regulators.
The risk that the current environment therefore presents to the Group is one in which greater scrutiny over the Further details of the Groups hedging strategy and the level of whole industry, at a time when rules and regulatory approach are cover in place at 31 March 2009 are contained in note 23 d to in flux, increases the likelihood and probable impact of regulatory the financial statements.
enquiries and the potential for fines or censure.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 32 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED MANAGING RISK CONTINUED Longer term, regulatory changes could present a risk to the Strategic risk Groups business, making it more difficult to expand into new Strategic risks, as set out below, are inherent for companies markets and services and could limit flexibility regarding capital operating in the financial markets and constitute a key element structure.
To mitigate this risk, the Group maintains an active of the growth engine of the Group.
The potential downside of dialogue with each of its regulators and monitors proposed growth is mitigated through the overall management processes changes.
of the Group including, in particular, the new business initiative process: Reputational risk As the world leader in financial intermediation and post-trade R increasing competition disintermediation: existing or potential services, ICAP relies on its reputation to maintain its market competitors might be able to exploit their size, expertise, standing and pursue its strategic objectives for growth.
A number access to better funding, superior technology or other types of initiatives are dedicated to the avoidance of reputational of leverage to change the economics or the mechanics damage by ensuring ethical and transparent corporate behaviour, of our business to their advantage and hence reduce ICAPs fair and consistent conduct of business and corporate and social market share or profitability: responsibility.
These initiatives include, for example, the proR significant change in the structure of markets as a result of active management of conflict of interest, anti-money laundering, operational changes imposed by regulation and or legislation: and data security.
These processes are embedded in the day-toR variability in economic and financial markets: the volume of day management of the Group through education, training and business flow transacted by the Group is affected directly by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Despite the specific conditions in the global financial markets.
Factors influencing steps taken by the Group, ICAP remains exposed to the general ICAPs daily volumes include levels, volatility and correlations perception of the financial industry.
In times of market uncertainty, of asset prices, credit quality of counterparties, changes in a single large negative event at one of our clients or competitors economic activity, political and market events, product may be widely advertised and commented on and, as a result, innovation and indicators of market confidence: and create the impression of wider operational or organisational R diversification into new markets, with performance risk deficiencies in the industry.
This risk of reputational contagion characteristics different to plan.
is acute in the markets in which ICAP operates due to increased regulatory and press scrutiny following the turmoil of the past 18 months.
ICAP is well aware of this situation and routinely Risk measurement and infrastructure monitors events at other companies and constantly upgrades Daily risk management and mitigation is the responsibility of its preparedness.
the Groups business and desk leaders.
The risk function provides support to the businesses with a wide range of tools adapted to the size and complexity of the Group.
These tools include: R credit risk limits based on an internal scoring system: R group and risk policies: R controls: R procedures: R process maps: R risk and control self assessments: and R insurance contracts.
The risk team monitors an array of qualitative and quantitative measures to ensure that the business risks remain within acceptable parameters.
More emphasis is given to the relevance of these measures than to their mathematical sophistication.
Metrics that are robust, easy to explain to the businesses and directly related to their risk profiles are preferred.
Examples include key risk indicators and credit exposure metrics.
Using these measures, the Group produces a number of market, credit and operational risk and intelligence reports which are disseminated widely among the Groups managers and up to executive management level and the board.
33 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Internal control The key elements of the internal control system are: The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control R the establishment of an organisational structure with clearly and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system of internal control defined levels of authority and division of responsibility: is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to R a comprehensive budgetary process, with both annual and achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and regular forecasts being considered and approved by the board: not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
R the formulation of policies and approval procedures in key areas: On a regular basis, ICAPs global head of risk reports directly R daily monitoring of revenue as well as frequent reviews of to the audit committee his assessment of the Groups risk balance sheet and cash flow against budget and prior periods management capabilities.
The assessment is one of the tools with significant variances being investigated and appropriate used by the board to exercise its duty of risk supervision and to action taken: provide executive management with directions on improvements.
These target improvements are in turn delegated to the group R formulation and review of specific policy covering credit, risk committee acting on behalf of the board for day-to-day market, operational and treasury risks faced by the business: responsibilities.
R regular visits to Group operating companies by executive board The effectiveness of the internal control system is also reviewed members and senior management: regularly by an independent internal audit function.
Internal audit R all transactions authorised in accordance with delegated reports to the audit committee of the board and functionally authority limits approved by the board: to the Group Finance Director and provides assurance to R regular internal audit visits to Group operating companies to executive management and the board that the system of internal carry out reviews of systems and procedures and compliance control achieves its objectives and highlights gaps and areas for with Group policies: improvement.
The internal audit function is outsourced to Ernst R accountability of senior management within each region for the & Young.
Internal audit establishes an annual plan of desks and establishment of appropriate control frameworks within their functions to be examined based on discussions with management operations to ensure compliance with Group policies, procedures and the perception of the level of risk in the Groups activities.
They are also responsible for ensuring that risks Following audits, internal audit provides management and the within their businesses are identified, assessed, controlled and board via the audit committee with conclusions of their analysis monitored on an ongoing basis: and and with a monthly report of internal audit activity.
The monthly R regular reports from both the external and internal auditors report includes the current year plan progress, updated activity on the internal control systems operating within the Group.
schedule, outstanding issues, issues overdue, as well as issues added and closed during the month.
The board, through the audit committee, has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and associates.
Where the Group is not directly involved in the management of the investment it can influence, through board representation, but not control the internal control systems present in those entities.
The boards review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in those entities is consequently less comprehensive than in its directly-owned subsidiaries.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 34 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As an interdealer broker, our principal contribution to society at As a global business ICAP aims to conduct its large is to help ensure the smooth functioning of global financial business in a socially responsible manner, to markets.
We do this by using our voice brokers and electronic contribute to the communities in which it broking platforms to facilitate liquidity in the OTC markets, enabling our customers to achieve their business objectives operates and to respect the needs of its and to hedge risk exposure, and offering a range of post-trade employees, customers, investors, suppliers, services, which help our customers reduce the overall level regulators and stakeholders.
The global wholesale OTC markets are critical to the effective functioning of the worldwide financial system.
The vast majority of financial asset classes exist only in the OTC environment and, consequently, the efficient functioning of these markets is essential for the free flow and availability of capital, the mitigation of risk and investor choice.
These markets have played a major role in global economic development and have been the hub of developments that benefit savers, investors, businesses i and governments for decades.
There is no doubt that an overhaul of some areas of the regulatory framework supporting the OTC markets is necessary but serious 11MILLION and perhaps unintended and unfortunate consequences may well follow if a wrong diagnosis of the problem is reached and or the wrong actions are taken in response to recent market turmoil.
RAISED The impact of these consequences would fall on many bystanders outside wholesale OTC markets, including governments and Charity Day is an annual event each December when the corporate and retail investors.
All market participants are working Group donates a whole days revenue to a selection of to alleviate this situation and ICAP is playing an important role in charities worldwide.
This very significant sum has contributed greatly to alleviating We believe that our role as a key participant in the OTC markets suffering and improving the lives of thousands of people.
best positions us to contribute to society, while maximising shareholder returns.
Staff In a competitive environment, an interdealer brokers key asset is its people both the brokers and the staff that support them.
Our brokers and their managers comprise the largest group of our overall staff and they are required to have very specific skills.
They are highly entrepreneurial, dynamic, team-spirited individuals with extremely strong networking and interpersonal skills and the ability to excel in a pressurised environment.
ICAPs ability to attract and retain the highest quality staff and leverage their intellectual capital is one of the key factors driving the success of its business.
Management is committed to the advancement and training of talented individuals and to providing an environment that is intellectually challenging, motivating and supportive.
ICAP has more than 4,300 staff worldwide, with over 1,800 employees based in EMEA, over 1,700 in the Americas and more than 750 staff in Asia Pacific.
Of these employees, 2,300 are broking staff, 630 are involved with the development and maintenance of our technology and 260 are involved in the sales, marketing and support of our electronic broking platforms.
35 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements In order to ensure a continuing flow of intellectual capital into our Health and safety business, ICAP is committed to maintaining an active graduate ICAP has a health and safety policy which is approved by the recruitment programme, even in these more difficult market board and owned by the Group Chief Operating Officer.
First launched in 2006, ICAPs global graduate health and safety committees oversee structures for policy recruitment programme aims to provide a steady flow of young, compliance.
All managers have a responsibility for ensuring developing talent into the business.
Since its launch, a total of a healthy and safe working environment.
The greater majority 81 graduates have joined ICAP, with 36 graduates joining in the of ICAP employees work in an office environment and, as such, past year.
there are no significant areas of risk to report.
The number of staff grew rapidly in the past year due to the Charity Day acquisition of Link and the expansion of selected focus areas of Corporate philanthropy and charitable giving have always been our business, such as cash equities.
Recent financial market an important part of ICAPs corporate culture and ICAPs annual dislocations have provided the opportunity to hire highly skilled Charity Day has played a special role in employee motivation individuals.
However, ICAP continues to monitor staff efficiency since its inception in 1993.
Charity Day is an annual event each and productivity closely.
We consider revenue per voice broker December when the Group donates a whole days revenue to a to be a key measure of this performance and this figure increased selection of charities worldwide.
This revenue would otherwise to 560,000 in 2008 09 from 499,000 in the prior year.
contribute directly to the broker commission pool and, as such, These brokers work on a commission basis, with an extremely our staff are contributing directly to these worthy causes.
In high percentage of their remuneration variable with performance.
2008 ICAPs Charity Day raised 11 million for more than 100 This variable commission as a percentage of overall remuneration charitable organisations, bringing the total sum raised since the decreased slightly from 63% to 62% compared to the previous creation of Charity Day to 53 million.
This very significant sum year.
Overall staff compensation increased to 59% of revenue, has contributed greatly to alleviating suffering and improving the from 56% in the prior year, largely due to our investment in new lives of thousands of people.
There is significant employee and business areas.
customer involvement in Charity Day and the charities are selected by ICAPs staff in each region in which it operates.
Employee involvement and employment practices ICAP is committed to achieving and maintaining the highest Environment standards in the workplace.
This commitment is underpinned by ICAPs environment policy is approved by the board and owned policies on equal opportunities, harassment and discrimination, to by the Group Finance Director.
which all employees are required to adhere and which are regularly As a financial institution, the nature of ICAPs operations means monitored and enforced.
The Group undertakes diversity training that its environmental impact is relatively low and is limited to designed to prevent harassment and discrimination and retaliation the emission of greenhouse gases through running offices and against individuals who report problems in the Groups workplace.
ICAP seeks to reduce emissions by purchasing The Group recognises the importance of effective internal electricity from renewable sources where possible, minimising air communication in promoting employee engagement and uses travel and recycling waste.
ICAP has worked with Carbon Neutral a variety of methods, including ICAPs new global intranet, to Limited, an environmental consultancy, to estimate the residual keep staff informed about developments in the business, policies emissions of the Group in terms of carbon dioxide equivalents.
and procedures and training and advancement opportunities in a Worldwide, the Group is estimated to emit the equivalent timely manner.
of 15.9 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide or 3.8 tonnes 2008 4.1 tonnes per employee per annum.
ICAP continues to Incentive and share ownership schemes are also run for the benefit monitor electricity output and overall emissions output.
Further information on these schemes can be endeavour to further reduce this footprint, however the expansion found in note 26 to the financial statements.
of our global office network is likely to impact our footprint in the Equal opportunity and diversity policy medium term.
Where it is not possible to reduce this footprint, ICAP is committed to employment policies that provide and ICAP purchases Certificates of Emission Reduction CER under the promote equal employment and advancement opportunities United Nations sponsored Clean Development Mechanism.
and to providing an environment that ensures tolerance and Furthermore, one of ICAPs principal business divisions is actively respect for all employees.
ICAPs policy is that no employee, involved in reducing emissions output by offering broking services contract or temporary worker will be treated less favourably, in emissions credits as part of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme victimised or harassed on the grounds of their disability, gender, and CER.
ICAP is the largest OTC broker in this market and an marital or civil partnership status, race, nationality, colour, estimated 60%-70% of all volume in these products is traded ethnicity, religion or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, in the OTC markets.
ICAP is also active in the nascent emissions age, or any other class protected by applicable law.
trading markets in the US.
Based on World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute Protocols, relevant Scope 3 activities mainly business travel and commuting have been included as recommended by these organisations.
Using only Scope 1 and 2 emissions minimum recommended reporting level would reduce ICAPs reported emissions by approximately 80%.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 36 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED FINANCIAL REVIEW Cost management Exceptional items During the year, net operating expenses increased by 28% to The Group has not recognised any exceptional items in the period, 1,240 million primarily as a result of the impact of exchange however integration and reorganisation costs of 17 million have rates which increased costs by 95 million, acquisitions which had been taken through operating profit.
The integration costs relate an annual impact of 94 million and investments in new initiatives to the Link and Capital acquisitions, rationalisation of surplus totalling 44 million.
property assets and the reorganisation costs required to deliver the annual cost savings referred to above.
The efficient and effective management of the cost base is one of the key components of the Groups operational strategy.
During the prior year, the Group incurred net exceptional costs During the year, the Group maintained its focus on costs and of 11 million, as discussed further in note 5 to the financial has taken advantage of a number of opportunities in both statements, and a related net tax credit of 4 million was also voice and electronic broking to reduce costs.
The impact of recognised in respect of these items.
these cost reductions is expected to result in annual cost savings Prior-year adjustment of 38 million: costs were reduced this year by 15 million and in Since adopting IFRS on 1 April 2004, the Group has accounted for 2009 10 will be reduced by a further 23 million.
Costs of acquisitions under IFRS3 at fair value and has created a number of 12 million have been incurred in securing these savings in additional assets, such as customer relationships, on consolidation.
the current year but we do not expect to incur further material These assets have a finite life and generally have no base tax cost.
costs for the savings anticipated in 2009 10.
Following a review of the accounting treatment adopted for recent Staff costs represent the largest single expense of the Group and acquisitions, the Group has determined that additional deferred are variable, in part, with performance in voice broking and, to a tax liabilities should have been recognised in respect of the lesser extent, electronic broking.
The investment in new business temporary differences arising on certain intangible assets and areas, which are initially less productive than established businesses, as such has made a prior-year adjustment to recognise this.
together with the impact of acquiring businesses in sectors with The consequence of recognising such deferred tax liabilities is to higher payout ratios have resulted in staff costs as a percentage recognise goodwill of an equivalent amount.
Further details of the of revenue rising from 56% to 59% and, while the Group continues prior-year adjustment, which has no impact on the Groups cash to focus on reducing these costs, ongoing investment is likely flow, are contained in note 1 a to the financial statements.
to see these levels remain for the foreseeable future.
Tax The Group estimates that approximately 50% of its cost base The overall objective continues to be to plan and manage the varies with revenue which is in line with the prior year.
tax affairs of the Group efficiently within the various local tax Operating profit margin jurisdictions of the world so as to achieve the lowest tax cash The Groups operating profit margin for the year ended 31 March cost consistent with compliance with local tax regulations.
2009 was 23%, down 2% on the prior year mainly as a result of The Groups effective tax rate, excluding amortisation and lower margins reflecting the start up nature of new initiatives and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional the investment businesses, as well as integration costs associated items, has reduced to 34% 2008 35% primarily as a result of with acquisitions.
a higher percentage of the Groups voice profit being generated in The electronic division continued to perform strongly with the UK where Corporation Tax rates have fallen from 30% to 28%.
revenue up 19% on the prior year and operating profit margin A tax credit of 22 million 2008 16 million as restated has maintained at 39% as strong post-trade performance offset flat been recognised in the income statement column entitled electronic brokerage revenue.
amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on The operating profit margin of the voice business declined consolidation to reflect the impact on deferred tax of amortising from 20% to 17% primarily as a result of the aforementioned intangible assets.
investment in new initiatives with the slowdown in North American The Groups tax charge is affected by the varying tax rates in and Asia Pacific markets offset by a strong performance in EMEA.
different jurisdictions applied to taxable profits and the mix of Through the combination of the implementation of the cost those profits, by the rules impacting deductibility of certain costs, saving initiatives mentioned above and the anticipated benefit such as finance costs, and by the rules relating to double taxation from new initiatives, we expect voice margins to improve on the relief.
The Group continues to take a prudent approach to the current position over time.
However, a combination of competitive management of its tax affairs and provisions are set to cover pressures and the need for continued investment will limit our any tax exposures the Group may have.
ability to significantly improve voice margins in the near term.
37 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Earnings and earnings per share EPS While the Groups low risk business model does not involve it in We continue to believe that the most appropriate EPS measurement taking proprietary risk positions, its trading subsidiaries are required ratio for the Group is adjusted basic EPS, which better reflects to hold cash balances of approximately 360 million to meet a the Groups underlying cash earnings.
Adjusted basic EPS excludes combination of local regulatory capital rules, clearing house amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation deposits and other commercial requirements including margin and exceptional items.
The calculation of EPS is set out in note 12 calls which arise through the provision in certain markets of to the financial statements.
clearing services to brokerage clients.
These local cash balances have increased by 100 million since 2008 primarily as a result Adjusted EPS increased by 9% to 34.1p.
The Groups basic EPS of the impact of weaker sterling on the translation of the balances increased from 26.4p restated to 27.6p.
and the acquisition of the Link business in the UK, North America Dividend and Asia.
Subject to shareholder approval, a final dividend of 12.35p is Balance sheet proposed.
This compares to 11.95p in the prior year and, when Net assets increased by 284 million during the year and, as at taken in conjunction with the interim dividend of 4.7p per share, 31 March 2009, were 1,140 million, primarily as a result of the results in a full-year dividend of 17.05p, up 9% on the prior year.
effect of FX and retained profit.
Dividend cover at two times adjusted basic EPS is consistent with Intangible assets arising on consolidation the past two years and reflects the boards desire to balance The Group accounts for those assets and liabilities which arise distributions to shareholders against the wider capital demands on acquisition at fair value and recognises goodwill and other of the Group.
At 31 March 2009, intangible In order to give shareholders greater flexibility and the opportunity assets arising on consolidation stood at 1,404 million, up to elect to receive new ordinary shares in ICAP, we will be seeking 445 million on the prior year as a result of the amortisation authority at the annual general meeting to introduce a scrip charge related to those assets with a finite useful life, such as dividend scheme.
The scrip dividend scheme gives shareholders customer relationships, being more than offset by the assets the opportunity to elect to receive a share alternative to any cash arising on the acquisition of Link and revaluation of dollar dividend declared by the Company including this years final dividend.
denominated assets, principally EBS and Reset.
Interim dividends are calculated as 30% of the previous years The Group is required to consider the carrying value of these full-year dividend.
This approach will continue for the 2009 10 assets on an annual basis against their value in use and, if financial year.
appropriate, to impair the carrying value.
Details of the approach adopted to review the assets are set out in note 14 Operating profit cash conversion to the financial statements and resulted in a further The Groups consolidated cash flow statement is set out on 7 million impairment to the carrying value of First Brokers page 64 of the financial statements.
The table below demonstrates the strong cash generative nature Matched principal gross-up of the Groups business, where free cash flow once again Certain Group companies are involved as a matched principal in exceeded the Groups post-tax profit.
the process of broking securities between third parties.
Such Free cash flow increased from 232 million to 296 million of trades are complete only when both sides of the deal are settled which 106 million was distributed to shareholders via dividends and so the Group is exposed to risk in the event that one side of and 77 million utilised to finance a combination of small bolt-on the transaction remains unsettled.
Substantially all the transactions acquisitions and deferred consideration arising from previous settle within a short period of time and, as such, the settlement acquisitions, principally Reset.
risk is considered to be minimal.
All amounts due to and payable by counterparties in respect of Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March matched principal business are shown gross, except where a 2009 2008 legally enforceable netting agreement exists and the asset and Calculation of free cash flow m m liability are either settled net or simultaneously.
At 31 March Cash generated by operations 455 362 2009 matched principal business resulted in the balance sheet being grossed up by 30.4 billion.
Interest and taxation 101 94 Cash flow from operating activities 354 268 Capital expenditure 63 43 Dividends from associates and investments 5 7 Free cash flow 296 232 This figure includes the impact of initially unsettled matched transactions.
Usually, in a matched principal transaction, both sides settle on the same day.
Occasionally, for various reasons, only one side of the transaction may settle giving rise to a temporary Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation cash position which reverses on the completion of the other side of the transaction, and exceptional items.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 38 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Contingent deferred consideration Access to liquidity A number of the Groups recent acquisitions have been structured The recent turbulence in global financial markets, while positively to include an element of deferred consideration which is impacting the Groups business, has resulted in an overall contingent on the business performance.
These arrangements contraction in the number of lenders servicing the non-bank take a variety of forms and may involve part of the purchase financial sectors, leading to borrowers struggling, even at consideration being deferred and linked to future performance or significantly higher spreads, to diversify their sources of the vendors retaining a minority interest which they may have the finance and to maintain or increase the quantum.
right to put and ICAP call after a pre-agreed period.
While not immune from this wider trend, through a combination Overall, the objective of these arrangements is to reduce the of leveraging strong existing lender relationships and demonstrable risk inherent in acquiring smaller owner-managed businesses and resilience to wider market shocks, the Group has increased the to align the vendors, many of whom remain with ICAP, to both quantum of its credit facilities and also extended the tenor.
integrate and develop the business further.
At 31 March 2009, In April 2008, the Group raised 150 million of new debt from the present value of these obligations was 46 million down The Royal Bank of Scotland through a 364-day term loan to 4 million on 2008 principally as a result of payments made finance the acquisition of Link and, in May 2008, entered into a to acquire Reset.
75 million 364-day revolving credit facility with Lloyds TSB Further details of these arrangements are set out in note 13 of Bank plc to provide incremental headroom.
The tenor of both of the financial statements.
these facilities was extended in late 2008 to January 2011 and June 2010 respectively, with the result that ICAP ended the Net debt and cash financial year with its debt portfolio having an average maturity in At 31 March 2009, the Group had net debt of 126 million excess of two years.
up 67 million on the prior year as a result of the borrowings to finance the acquisition of Link being partially offset by strong To provide protection against unexpected events the Group has cash generation in the year.
Further details of the Groups net debt, traditionally maintained minimum core liquidity, in the form of cash and cash equivalent and borrowings are set out in notes cash and undrawn debt facilities, of 75 million, and while the 32 c, 32 b and 21 respectively of the financial statements.
Group has never accessed this liquidity pool, the combination of more volatile markets, increased uncertainty surrounding the impact of volatility on clearers margin requirements and tightening liquidity supply, prompted the Group to increase headroom to 150 million in May 2008 through the addition of a Lloyds TSB Bank plc facility.
The headroom facility remained undrawn throughout the year.
At 31 March 2009, the Group had committed headroom under its core credit facilities of 336 million 2008 192 million.
The Groups strategy remains to diversify its sources of debt when market conditions improve and, through a combination of the launch of a Global Medium Term Note Programme and a European Commercial Paper Programme, investment grade ratings from Fitch Ratings Limited and Moodys Investor Services Inc and a series of investor meetings, ICAP believes that it is well positioned to react quickly to market opportunities.
39 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Capital structure and regulatory capital The settlement of matched principal and exchange traded ICAP is an international business which provides brokerage, businesses requires access to clearing houses either directly or information and post-trade services in a wide range of products through third party providers of clearing and settlement services.
The business is subject to In North America the Group is a member of the FICC and NSCC consolidated supervision by the FSA under the terms of the CRD.
through which it clears US Treasury products, agency, mortgage and equity trades for its client base.
In Europe and Asia Pacific, In March 2007, ICAP obtained a waiver from the consolidated with the exception of base metal clearing on LCH.
Clearnet Group capital adequacy tests which have the effect of excluding goodwill Limited, the majority of the Groups clearing activities are from the capital computation and, in so doing, allows the Group outsourced to a third party where ICAP seeks to partner with to undertake acquisitions using debt rather than equity finance.
one of the leading clearing providers in each market.
The terms of the waiver, which runs until the end of March 2012, prohibits the Group from undertaking proprietary trading activities.
As more fully described in note 21, the Group relies on a small number of international banks to provide it with access to The Groups Pillar 1 regulatory capital surplus calculated in liquidity, of which approximately 53% of its committed credit accordance with the waiver is relatively stable and at the year end facilities is provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds was in excess of 700 million.
While higher levels of market Banking Group.
volatility have resulted in increased demand for the Groups brokerage and post-trade services, the fact that much of this Post-balance sheet events incremental business has occurred in markets which operate on a On 8 April 2009, the Group paid 14 million of deferred name give-up basis or are cleared through a central counterparty consideration to the former shareholders in Link and expects to has had limited impact on the Groups capital resource make a final payment to be determined by the financial results requirement and, as such, absent a material acquisition or change of Link for the year ending 31 March 2010. in the basis of computation, existing capital resources are viewed On 23 March 2009, the minority shareholder of Reset exercised as sufficient to both operate and grow the business.
its option to sell its 15% stake of the Reset business to the Group Contractual arrangements for a total consideration of up to $43 million of which $41 million During the past year the Groups total cost base was 1,240 was paid in April 2009. million of which approximately 76% was represented by staff, Despite challenging market conditions, ICAP has 8% information systems and communications and16% other costs including premises, travel, entertainment and clearing.
demonstrated that its business model is robust The Group places reliance on a number of key suppliers to and is capable of delivering strong financial effectively carry out its business and has put in place procedures performance and cash flow.
With a strong to ensure that purchasing decisions balance cost against other balance sheet and control environment, ICAP factors including service quality, global reach and resilience.
remains well positioned to continue to grow its The success of ICAPs voice brokerage business is reliant on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified staff.
A number of voice, electronic and post-trade businesses legal arrangements including rolling contracts and non-compete by attracting high quality people and acquiring arrangements are employed to mitigate the risk of key producers some assets at attractive prices.
Information systems and communications are key to the delivery of both voice and electronic products and in this area, the Group seeks to ensure that its systems have full redundancy and are capable of operation from business continuity sites.
