BuSineSS Review cHAiRmAnS StAtement Gerald Corbett Independent Non-Executive Chairman Britvics profit before tax, in our fourth year as a public Britvic Ireland, in its second full year as part of the Britvic company, rose 23.4% to 86.5m, before exceptional group, has coped remarkably well in a difficult environment.
This was in It has been a year of change, with a reduction in the workforce, spite of the deepest recession the UK has seen since the the implementation of new systems, closure of a factory and 1930s and in spite of an adverse trading environment in further integration into our supply chain and back office.
Earnings per share rose 20.6% to 29.9p, and cash drinks market in Ireland, particularly in the licensed on-premise flow was again strong with free cash flow generation of channel, again suffered from the sharp decline in the economy.
We are proposing a final Importantly the business held share across key categories, and dividend of 10.9p per share, which will make a full year now commands over 40% of the licensed on-premise market.
dividend of 15.0p per share, an increase of 19.0%.
These market positions, together with a well-invested sales and supply chain infrastructure, mean that Britvic Ireland is well This was another powerful set of results, with the business placed to take advantage of future recovery in the market.
The now developing a track record of solid growth, built from a total synergies we will achieve with the acquisition will total healthy top line.
Our objective is to make steady progress 27.0m.
This will underpin our financial performance.
Indeed on all measures every year.
our experience in Ireland and the value we have been able to add to the business give us encouragement to continue, albeit In sales terms, we again outperformed the British soft drinks at a prudent rate, our international expansion.
market, building on the strength of our brand portfolio, our innovation and our in-market execution.
We again gained The resilience of our financial performance during this recession, market share in every major category in which we compete.
our portfolio of leading brands, and our innovation and throughThe launches of Juicy drench and Robinsons Be Natural the-line execution give us confidence as we face 2010, which were delivered in line with our expectations and promotion will be another challenging year.
This confidence and our cash management and product pack mix helped boost our average flow underpin the boards decision to propose a 24% increase in realised price.
Our approach is to keep costs tight, whilst the final dividend.
The new year has begun strongly in a market maximising margins and cash.
We expect to be able again to demonstrate the inherent strength of our business.
The further collaboration with PepsiCo, our major commercial partner, is a demonstration of the strong and growing We have a management team which has successfully driven relationship that now goes back over 20 years.
We are the business forward in the four years since we floated, in committed to their success, and they to ours.
We pride what has not been an easy environment.
On behalf of the board ourselves on being their leading partner in Europe.
We hope I would like to thank them and all Britvic employees for their to build further on this relationship to our mutual benefit.
hard work and commitment during the year.
This strong result is to their credit, and gives us all confidence in a positive future.
