6 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Chairmans statement This decision to increase the dividend Performance reflects our confidence in the future Turnover increased by 14% in 2009 to prospects of JLT.
612.9 million, or 8% at constant rates of exchange CRE, comprising 5% organic Share buy-back growth and 3% due to acquisitions.
We will be seeking renewal of our standing Underlying trading profit increased by 28% share buy-back authority at the forthcoming to 97.1 million, or 15% at CRE, to 87.5 Annual General Meeting.
The trading margin increased to 16% compared to 14% in 2008.
Group Board and senior The improved trading performance reflected management changes the strong organic growth.
Brian Carpenter will retire from the Board at Underlying profit before tax and the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
He will remain with the Group as exceptional items was 104.8 million, representing a 10% increase on the Chairman of JLT Australia and New Zealand.
This follows the appointment to previous year.
This was achieved in spite of a 9.4 million decrease in investment the Group Executive Committee of Warren Geoffrey Howe Merritt, CEO of JLT Asia, Leo Demer, CEO income to 6.4 million in 2009.
Chairman of JLT Australia and New Zealand and Net exceptional costs were 2.8 million Mike Methley as Group COO, all with in 2009, comprising mainly business effect from 4th January 2010.
I concluded my statement last year by transformation project costs of 6.9 million, saying that, notwithstanding the difficult The Board is grateful to Brian for the offset by curtailment gains of 1.6 million economic outlook, I expected JLT to make on closure of overseas pension schemes to valuable contribution he has made over the further progress in 2009.
I am delighted to years and we are pleased that he will future accrual, 1.0 million deferred be able to report that 2009 was indeed consideration from the disposal of our US continue to support the future development another very successful year for JLT.
of the business in his role as Chairman of retail business in 2006 and a 1.3 million Significant progress has been made in all gain on restructuring in Latin America.
JLT Australia and New Zealand.
parts of the business and we have been After deducting net exceptional costs, profit Patrick Snowball, who joined the Board in able to announce a strong set of financial 2008, resigned in July last year to take up before tax was 102.0 million compared results.
to 92.8 million in 2008. an executive position outside of the Group Furthermore, this progress was achieved in in Australia.
On behalf of the Board, I Profit after tax and minorities increased by the face of poor overall economic would like to thank him for his contribution 7.3 million to 70.9 million while conditions, the failure of insurance rates to and we wish him well in his new role.
We underlying profit after tax and minorities harden progressively through 2009, as had are delighted to welcome to the Board increased by 7.1 million to 72.4 million.
been anticipated, and a major reduction in Richard Harvey, who was appointed in Diluted earnings per share were 33.1 our investment income as a result of the low December 2009 and will serve on the pence per share compared to 29.6 pence prevailing interest rates.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations in 2008.
Excluding the exceptional items, Committees.
I would highlight particularly our organic underlying diluted earnings per share revenue growth which was substantially increased to 33.8 pence from 30.4 pence Strategy and corporate ahead of our principal competitors.
developments In addition, we have made significant The report of the Chief Executive, review of While the overall strategy of the Group progress in implementing our strategy operations and Finance Directors review remains unchanged, there have been two across all areas of our business and we are cover the performance of the Group in areas of the Group where there are now seeing real benefits flowing from the more detail.
targeted acquisitions and selective recruitment that we have undertaken.
Employee Benefits Dividends Overall, I believe that all our businesses are Our Employee Benefits business has I am pleased to report that after six years of in good shape, morale is high and we substantially strengthened its resources in unchanged dividend payments, the have a strong foundation for the future.
I am actuarial and investment consulting with the directors have resolved to recommend an very confident therefore that we will acquisition in December 2009 of HSBC increased final dividend of 12.5 pence per continue to grow in 2010 and beyond, Actuaries and Consultants for a cash share for the year to 31st December 2009 notwithstanding current economic conditions consideration of 27.2 million.
which will be paid on 4th May 2010 to and soft insurance markets.
Furthermore, the business has strengthened shareholders on the register at 9th April its private client operations through the 2010.
This brings the total dividend for the acquisition in January 2010 of iimia year to 21.0 pence per share, an increase Wealth Management, introducing of 2.4%.
