American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 19 Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended Investment Limits and Restrictions 31st December 2009. all at time of investment The Company will not normally invest more than 8% of its Business Review gross assets in any one individual stock 31st December 2009: 4.2% largest individual stock.
Business of the Company The Company carries on business as an investment trust and The Company will normally limit its 5 largest investments to was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment 40% of its assets.
trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31st December assets in liquidity funds in normal market conditions 2008.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has 31st December 2009: 2.5%.
subsequently conducted its affairs so that it continues to qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval under The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 in companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of each year.
gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
Approval for previous years is subject to review should there The Company will not invest more than 15% of its assets in be any subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self other UK listed investment companies 31st December Assessment.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of The Company will use gearing when appropriate to Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a increase potential returns to shareholders: the Companys close company for taxation purposes.
policy is to use gearing for tactical purposes in a range of 95-120% in normal market conditions 31st December A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in 2009: 111.3%.
the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and the Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 8.
The Company only hedges its currency risk in respect of the geared portion of the portfolio.
Objective The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and North American investments by out-performance of the guidelines is monitored by the Manager and is reported to the Companys benchmark, the S&P 500 Index expressed in Board on a monthly basis.
Performance Investment Policies and Risk Management In the year ended 31st December 2009, the Company produced In order to achieve its investment objectives and to seek to a total return to shareholders of 13.5% and a total return on manage risk, the Company mainly invests in a diversified net assets of 11.6%.
This compares with the return on the portfolio of quoted companies including, when appropriate, Companys benchmark index, in sterling terms, of 12.2%.
At exposure to small and micro-capitalisation stocks.
The 31st December 2009, the value of the Companys investment Company currently has separate portfolios dedicated to portfolio was 366.6 million.
The Investment Managers Report large-capitalisation and small micro-capitalisation exposure.
on pages 5 to 8 includes a review of developments during the The number of investments in the large-cap portfolio will year as well as information on investment activity within the normally range between 60-100 stocks representing between Companys portfolio.
80-100% of the Companys equity portfolio.
The number of Total Return, Revenue and Dividends investments in the small micro-cap portfolio will normally Gross total return for the year amounted to 38.9 million range between 100-120 stocks representing between 0-20% of 2008: 15.3 million loss and net total return after deducting the Companys equity portfolio.
The Company may invest in interest, administrative expenses and taxation, amounted to pooled funds to achieve these aims.
Distributable income for As at the year end, the Company was invested in 90 the year totalled 4.5 million 2008: 4.9 million.
large-capitalisation stocks and 118 small micro capitalisation The Directors recommend a final dividend of 11.0p per share stocks, representing 88.4% and 7.7% of the Companys equity 2008: 11.0p, payable on 6th May 2010 to shareholders on the portfolio respectively.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19 American pp19 31 11 3 10 11:55 am Page 20 Directors Report continued register at the close of business on 9th April 2010.
This Performance against the Companys peers distribution totals 4.7 million 2008: 4.7 million.
After The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative payment of the final dividend the revenue reserve will amount to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors to 10.0 million 2008: 10.2 million.
performance relative to a broad range of appropriate competitor funds both in the UK and the US.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and Performance attribution assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess how the Company achieved its performance relative Performance against the benchmark index to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the This is the most important KPI by which performance is Companys relative performance of the various judged.
components such as asset allocation, gearing and stock selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year Performance Relative to Benchmark Index ended 31st December 2009 are given in the Investment Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st December 1999 Managers Report on page 6.
140 Share price discount to net asset value NAV The Board has adopted a share repurchase policy that 130 seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for 120 the Companys shares in the market and thereby minimise the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV at 110 which the Companys shares trade.
The Boards intention is to use its share repurchase powers with the aim of 100 establishing a reasonably stable long term level of discount.
JPMorgan American Share price total return.
Discount Performance JPMorgan American Net asset value.
80 JPMorgan American Discount using capital NAV with debt at fair value.
70 60 Total expense ratio TER 50 The TER is an expression of the Companys management 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 fees and all other operating expenses excluding interest, Source: Morningstar.
VAT recoverable and performance fees payable, as a JPMorgan American Share price total return.
percentage of the average of the opening and closing net JPMorgan American Net asset value per share.
The TER for the year ended 31st December 2009 Benchmark.
The Board reviews each year the Companys TER and its main component expenses with those of its peers.
A performance fee amounting to 20 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 21 311,000 2008: 419,000 becomes payable this year due determined by market movements in US equities, the rate to outperformance in prior years.
The total expense ratio of exchange between US Dollars and Sterling pounds and including the performance fee payable was 0.78% interest rate changes.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an Share Capital investment trust, the Company must comply with The Company has authority to both purchase shares for Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 cancellation and issue new shares in the market for cash.
Details of the Companys approval are given under Business of the Company above.
Were the Company The Company did not repurchase any shares for cancellation to breach Section 842, it might lose investment trust status during the year 2008: nil.
However, Special Resolutions to and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys renew the authority to issue and repurchase shares will be put portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
842 qualification criteria are monitored by the Manager The Company did not issue any shares during the year and the results reported to the Board each month.
The 2008: nil and has not issued or repurchased any shares Company must also comply with the provisions of the since the year end.
Companies Act 2006 and, as its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach Principal Risks of the Companies Act 2006 could result in the Company With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could result These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: in the Companys shares being suspended from listing, Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment which in turn would breach Section 842.
The Directors seek strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of to comply with all relevant regulation and legislation in the gearing, may lead to underperformance against the UK, Europe and the US and rely on the services of its Companys benchmark index and peer companies, Company Secretary and Manager to monitor compliance resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider with all relevant requirements.
The Board manages this risk by diversification of Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details investments through its investment restrictions and of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance guidelines which are monitored and reported on regularly best practice, including information on relations with by the Managers.
J. P. Morgan Asset Management JPMAM shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance provides the Directors with timely and accurate report on pages 25 to 29. management information, including performance data and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians implementation and results of the investment process with records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the Investment Managers, who attend the majority of Board the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board meetings, and reviews data which shows statistical monitors the services provided by JPMAM and its measures of the Companys risk profile.
The Investment associates and the key elements designed to provide Managers employ the Companys gearing tactically, within a effective internal control are included within the Internal strategic range set by the Board.
Control section of the Corporate Governance report on page 28.
Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the future prices of the Companys investments.
This market Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest market price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, rate risk and other price risk.
The Board considers asset liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further details are disclosed in allocation, stock selection and levels of gearing on a note 22 on pages 49 to 55. regular basis and has set investment restrictions and Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax guidelines, which are monitored and reported on by legislation, including in the European Union, may JPMAM.
The Board monitors the implementation and adversely effect the Company.
The Manager makes results of the investment process with the Manager.
recommendations to the Board on accounting, dividend However, the fortunes of the portfolio are significantly JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 22 Directors Report continued and tax policies and the Board seeks external advice terms.
The performance fee due in respect of any single year is where appropriate.
In addition, the Company is subject to divided into equal parts payable over three years.
political risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the Any negative fee resulting from underperformance is deducted free movement of capital.
from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior years with Future Developments any remaining amount of the negative fee carried forward to The future development of the Company is much dependent be absorbed in future years.
upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the The performance fee payable in any one year will not exceed light of economic and equity market developments.
The 0.25% of the fully diluted net asset value at the previous Investment Manager discusses the outlook in his report on 31st December, with any unpaid excess being carried forward page 8. until paid in full.
Management In the year ended 31st December 2009 the Companys net asset value capital return underperformed the capital return of The Manager and Secretary is J. P. Morgan Asset Management the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling terms, by 0.24 UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is employed under a contract percentage points on the above basis.
This results in a negative terminable on six months notice, without penalty.
If the performance fee calculation of 108,000.
This amount when Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, deducted from the 838,000 provision brought forward, gives the balance of remuneration is payable by way of an amount of 730,000 of which 311,000 falls due compensation.
The balance of 419,000 is carried forward to JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank 2011, to be paid or offset against underperformance.
which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, dealing and custodian services to the Company.
Going Concern The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager The Directors believe, having considered the Companys and confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing investment objectives see page 19, risk management policies appointment of the Manager is in the interest of shareholders see note 22 on pages 49 to 55, capital management policies as a whole.
In arriving at this view, the Board considered the and procedures see note 23 on page 55, nature of the investment strategy and process of the Investment Manager, portfolio and expenditure projections: that the Company has noting consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and last five years and the quality of the service that the Company suitable management arrangements in place to continue in receives from JPMAM.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider there is reasonable evidence to Management and Performance Fees continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The basic management fee is calculated monthly and paid quarterly in arrears and is charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum Payment Policy of the Companys assets less current liabilities.
Investments in funds on which JPMAM or any of its associated companies earn It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all a management fee are excluded from the calculation and business and therefore it has no standard payment terms.
In therefore attract no fee.
In addition, a performance fee may be general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on payable.
which business will take place and it is the Boards policy to abide by these terms.
As at 31st December 2009, the Company The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% of the had no outstanding trade creditors 2008: nil.
difference between the net asset value capital return and the capital return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling 22 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 23 Directors Section 992 Companies Act 2006 The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the The following disclosures are made in accordance with Section year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys 992 Companies Act 2006: share capital, are shown below: Capital Structure 31st December 1st January The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside 2009 2009 cover of this report.
Voting Rights in the Companys shares Hamish Buchan 10,000 10,000 Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the Sarah Bates 5,000 5,000 date of this report are given in note 15 to the Notice of AGM on Kate Bolsover 1,113 1,113 page 59.
James Fox 35,800 35,800 Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights James Williams 6,000 6,000 At the date of this report, the following had declared a notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: Other than as disclosed above, no changes in the above holdings have been recorded to the date of this report.
Shareholders Number of voting rights % In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual Rensburg Sheppards Investment General Meeting will be James Fox and James Williams who, Management Limited 3,005,591 7.0 being eligible, offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Brewin Dolphin Limited 2,156,281 5.0 Hamish Buchan, having served as a Director for a period of JPMorgan Asset Management more than nine years stands for re-election annually.
UK Limited 2,152,326 5.0 During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by Chase Nominees 1,908,143 4.5 the Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company Legal & General Group plc 1,688,968 4.0 against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and Disclosure of information to Auditors powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Companies Act 2006.
Company at the time when this report was approved: There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant in the Company: no special rights with regard to control audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of attached to securities: no agreements between the holders of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought agreements which the Company is party to that affect its to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that loss of office.
Independent Auditors The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of S418 2 of the Companies Act Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in 2006. office as auditors to the Company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment and authorising the Directors to JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23 American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 24 Directors Report continued determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be put Board and will only be made in the market at prices below the to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares as and when market conditions are Annual General Meeting appropriate.
NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR ii Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action pre-emption rights resolutions 9 and 10 you should take, you should seek your own personal financial At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek renewal advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other of the authority to issue up to 2,136,297 new ordinary shares financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 534,074.
Such Markets Act 2000. amount being equivalent to 5% of the present issued share capital.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Resolutions relating to the following items of special business Meeting on page 57.
This authority will expire at the conclusion will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: of the AGM of the Company in 2011 unless renewed at a prior i Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation general meeting.
Resolution 8 It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new At the Annual General Meeting held on 7th May 2009, shares to participants purchasing shares through the JPMorgan shareholders gave authority to the Company to purchase up savings products and also to other investors when the to 14.99% of its then issued share capital.
At that time, Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders shareholders were informed that this authority would expire to do so.
As such issues are only made at prices greater than on 5th November 2010 and could be renewed by the net asset value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share shareholders at any time at a General Meeting of the and spread the Companys administrative expenses, other than Company.
The Directors consider that the renewal of the the management fee which is charged on the value of the authority is in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the Companys assets, over a greater number of shares.
The issue repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying net proceeds are available for investment in line with the asset value NAV enhances the NAV of the remaining shares Companys investment policies.
The Company currently does and helps to control the discount and its volatility.
Resolution not hold any shares in the capital of the Company in Treasury.
8 gives the Company authority to buy back its own issued shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act iii Adoption of New Articles of Association Resolution 11 2006 the Act.
The authority limits the number of shares The Company proposes to adopt new articles of association.
that could be purchased to a maximum of 6,404,619 shares These incorporate amendments to the current articles of representing approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued association to reflect the changes in company law brought shares as at 10th March 2009 being the latest practicable about by the 2006 Act which came into effect on 1st October date prior to the publication of this document.
The authority 2009 and changes made to the 2006 Act in August 2009 to also sets minimum and maximum prices.
implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK, as well as some minor technical or clarifying changes.
The If resolution 8 is passed at the AGM, shares repurchased might principal changes in the new articles of association proposed to not be cancelled but rather held as Treasury shares and may be adopted at the 2010 AGM relate to shareholder meetings subsequently be re-issued at a premium.
The Company does and resolutions, the Companys constitution and share capital.
not have authority to re-issue shares from Treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any reissue of shares from Treasury In August 2009, changes were made to the provisions in the would be at a premium to the prevailing NAV.
As at 10th March 2006 Act on company meetings by The Companies 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholders Rights of this document, there were no warrants or options over Regulations to implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive shares in the capital of the Company.
The new articles incorporate amendments in relation to meetings to ensure consistency with the 2006 Act as The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion of the 24 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
