7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 24 24 25 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Business review Business review We report good progress in development and in our underlying financial performance.
Overview proof of concept studies: if they demonstrate positive BTGs business is the development and efficacy and safety data, we intend to find partners commercialisation of new and improved medicines to complete development and commercialise the that meet the needs of patients and physicians.
Our focus is on niche products that are prescribed Most programmes in our current pipeline by specialist physicians in the hospital setting, often should reach data and commercialisation points over to treat relatively rare, serious disorders.
When licensing programmes, we seek fair returns on investment and product Core activities of the Group are: success by negotiating upfront, development and identifying and acquiring promising drug commercial milestones, together with a royalty on programmes and marketed products from other sales.
For polyclonal antibody products, we may also biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies enter into manufacture and supply agreements in developing the programmes to show efficacy return for an additional royalty on sales.
Currently and safety in target disease indications there are eight programmes under clinical stage commercialising the programmes, either by development by partners.
partnering with other companies to complete Going forward, our focus is on acquiring development and market the products or by later-stage programmes that we can develop and taking them to market ourselves market ourselves in the US.
A major focus for the Group during the current year is to establish commercial operations We do not conduct basic research but instead license in the US in preparation for the contractual return or acquire programmes from biotechnology and of rights to CroFab and DigiFab.
These are pharmaceutical companies worldwide.
Our in-house established, approved critical care products that professionals design and manage development we manufacture and are currently marketed by programmes, with input from external scientific Nycomed in the US.
We intend to sell these and other advisers as required, and conduct development suitable products we are able to acquire ourselves.
activities through networks of external contract The Groups current revenues are principally research organisations.
royalties from marketed products we have licensed to Our current internal development pipeline other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies comprises programmes targeting oncology, and sales revenues from CroFab and DigiFab.
We plan to take Other revenues include milestones when licensees most of these programmes through Phase IIa or IIb successfully progress products still in development 55.3m 21.6m Gross recurring revenues in the 2008 09 Research and development expenses financial year in the 2008 09 financial year 07 08 42.4m 07 08 12.9m 06 07 41.3m 06 07 9.7m 05 06 39.5m 05 06 9.1m 7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 25 We have a solid financial platform on which to build our growth strategy.
Dr Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer Rolf Soderstrom Chief Financial Officer
