GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:28 Page 208 Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the audited accounts for Following approval at the General Meeting held on 15 December 2009, the year ended 31 December 2009.
RBS joined the Asset Protection Scheme, set up by HM Treasury, which provides additional protection to the Groups capital ratio and financial Capital restructuring position.
In November 2008, HM Treasury announced the establishment of UK Financial Investments Limited UKFI, a company wholly owned by the Results and dividends UK Government which will manage, on an arms-length basis, the UK The loss attributable to the ordinary and B shareholders of the company Governments shareholding in the company and other banks that for the year ended 31 December 2009 amounted to 3,607 million subscribed to the governments recapitalisation fund.
compared with a loss of 24,306 million for the year ended 31 December 2008, as set out in the consolidated income statement on On 19 January 2009 the company announced, in conjunction with HM page 241.
Treasury and UKFI, that the 5 billion non-cumulative sterling preference shares held by HM Treasury would be replaced with new ordinary The company did not pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2009. shares.
Eligible shareholders were able to apply to subscribe for approximately 5 billion of new ordinary shares pro rata to their existing The Group has undertaken that, unless otherwise agreed with the shareholdings at a fixed price of 31.75 pence per share by way of an European Commission, neither the company nor any of its direct or open offer.
Any shares not taken up by shareholders in the open offer indirect subsidiaries excluding companies in the ABN AMRO Group or otherwise placed on behalf of the company were subscribed for by will pay external investors any dividends or coupons on existing hybrid HM Treasury at a fixed price of 31.75 pence per share and the capital instruments including preference shares, B shares and upper aggregate proceeds of the open offer were used to fund the and lower tier 2 instruments from a date starting not later than 30 April redemption of the preference shares held by HM Treasury, together with 2010 and for a period of two years thereafter the deferral period, or the redemption premium on the preference shares, accrued dividend, exercise any call rights in relation to these capital instruments between and commissions payable to HM Treasury on the offer.
The preference 24 November 2009 and the end of the deferral period, unless there is a shares were redeemed on 14 April 2009 at 101% of their issue price.
legal obligation to do so.
Hybrid capital instruments issued after 24 This resulted in HM Treasurys shareholding increasing by November 2009 will generally not be subject to the restriction on 16,791,036,376 ordinary shares to 70.3% of the enlarged ordinary share dividend or coupon payments or call options.
Business review On 27 November 2009 the company announced, in conjunction with HM Activities Treasury and UKFI, that it would issue 25.5 billion of new capital to HM The company is a holding company owning the entire issued ordinary Treasury.
This new capital, issued on 22 December 2009, took the form share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the principal direct of B shares, which do not generally carry voting rights at meetings of operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group ordinary shareholders but which are convertible into ordinary shares comprises the company and all its subsidiary and associated and count as Core Tier 1 capital.
Whilst the B shares themselves are undertakings, including the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Details of the entitled to the same dividends as ordinary shares, a Dividend Access principal subsidiary undertakings of the company are shown in Note 16 Share was issued in conjunction with them.
The combined effect is that on the accounts.
HM Treasury will enjoy preferential but non-transferable dividend rights on the new capital it provides.
Although the capital issue of 25.5 billion The Group is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking, is expected to be sufficient to provide RBS with robust capital ratios insurance and other financial services.
Further details of the according to the Groups current base case forecasts, the FSA also organisational structure and business overview of the Group, including requires banks to have enough capital to maintain a minimum Core the products and services provided by each of its divisions and the Tier 1 ratio of at least 4 per cent.
even in a severely stressed scenario in competitive markets in which they operate, is contained in the Business which economic conditions deteriorate well beyond consensus review on pages 53 and 54. forecasts.
To enable RBS to meet this test, HM Treasury has agreed to subscribe for up to an additional 8 billion of capital in the form of Following the conclusion of a strategic review, the Group has realigned additional B shares if RBSs Core Tier 1 ratio falls below 5 per cent.
the its Core divisions, in particular the separation of RBS UK into UK Retail Contingent Subscription.
This Contingent Subscription will enable and UK Corporate.
A Non-Core division has also been established to RBS to maintain its capital resilience even if such a severely stressed manage and run off or dispose of a number of assets and businesses scenario were to occur.
that do not meet the Groups target criteria.
208 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:28 Page 209 Governance Risk factors Employees The Groups future performance and results could be materially different As at 31 December 2009, the Group employed over 160,000 employees from expected results depending on the outcome of certain potential full-time equivalent basis throughout the world.
Details of employee risks and uncertainties.
Details of the principal risk factors the Group related costs are included in Note 3 on the accounts on page 261. faces are given in the Business review on pages 55 to 71.
The Group offers an appropriate remuneration and benefits package to The reported results of the Group are also sensitive to the accounting all employees which seeks to balance the interests of employees, policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its shareholders and the long-term needs of the businesses and reflects financial statements.
Details of the Groups critical accounting policies banking bonus reforms.
and key sources of accounting judgments are included in the Accounting policies on pages 255 to 257.
The Group is committed to leading the way in implementing reforms to bank remuneration as agreed by the G20 in Pittsburgh and is The Groups approach to risk management, including its financial risk implementing enhancements in disclosure, deferral and clawback of management objectives and policies and information on the Groups bonus awards with effect from 1 January 2010 for the performance year exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk, is discussed in the 2009.
A large amount of focus has been placed on achieving Risk, capital and liquidity management section of the Business review compliance with the emerging regulatory developments on a global on pages 72 to 116. scale.
This has had a large impact on the Group's culture, and changes have affected all levels of the organisation.
Financial performance A review of the Groups performance during the year ended Employee learning and development 31 December 2009, including details of each division, and the Groups The Group maintains a strong commitment to creating and providing financial position as at that date is contained in the Business review on learning opportunities for all its employees through a variety of personal pages 86 to 107. development and training programmes and learning networks.
Employees are encouraged to do voluntary work with community Business developments partners.
RFS Holdings B. V. a company jointly owned by the company, the State of the Netherlands and Banco Santander and controlled by the Employee communication company, is implementing an orderly separation of the business units of Employee engagement is encouraged through a range of ABN AMRO with the company retaining the following ABN AMRO communication channels, at both a divisional and Group level.
These business units: channels provide access to news and information in a number of ways, including the intranet, magazines, video, team meetings led by line Continuing businesses of Business Unit North America: managers, briefings held by senior managers and regular dialogue with employees and employee representatives.
Business Unit Global Clients and wholesale clients in the Netherlands including former Dutch wholesale clients and Latin America The Group Chief Executive and other senior Group executives regularly excluding Brazil : communicate with employees across a range of channels.
Business Unit Asia excluding Saudi Hollandi : and Employee consultation Each year, all employees are invited to complete the global employee Business Unit Europe excluding Antonveneta.
The survey is confidential and independently managed by Towers Perrin-ISR now Towers Watson.
The survey provides a On 6 February 2010, the businesses of ABN AMRO acquired by the channel for employees to express their views and opinions about the Dutch State were legally demerged from the RBS acquired businesses.
Group on a range of key issues.
As a result, there are now two separate banks within ABN AMRO Holding N. V. The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. and the new entity named The 2009 survey took place in September 2009 and the final response ABN AMRO Bank N. V. each licensed separately by the Dutch National rate was 87%.
This represents over 144,000 employees participating in Bank.
Both banks will be governed by the current managing and the survey, from more than 50 countries.
supervisory boards of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. until the legal separation of the new ABN AMRO Bank N. V. from ABN AMRO Holding The Group recognises employee representative organisations such as N. V. which is expected to take place within two months of the legal trade unions and work councils in a number of businesses and demerger and is subject to approval by the Dutch Central Bank.
The Group has two European Employee Forums that provide that point RBS will cease to consolidate the Consortium Members elected representatives with an opportunity to understand better its interest in ABN AMRO in its statutory results.
Engagement with its employees and such bodies remains important to the Group.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 209 GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:28 Page 210 Report of the directors continued Diversity and inclusion Corporate sustainability The Group renewed its commitment to the principles of diversity and Sustainability sits at the heart of how the Group is being re-shaped and inclusion during 2009.
The Group recognises that the diversity of its RBS maintains a strong commitment to meeting high standards of workforce is a considerable asset to the business and believes that an environmental, social and ethical responsibility.
inclusive environment will enable all employees to develop to their full potential and enable RBS to attract and retain the best talent.
Corporate sustainability issues are governed by the Group Corporate Sustainability Committee GCSC, which was established in 2009.
The The Group already has a range of policies and processes that extend GCSC is supported by the executive-led Environment Working Group through the employee life-cycle including recruitment, flexible working which has representatives from across the Group and reports to the and support for ill-health and disability-related absence.
The Environment Working Group monitors environmental risk, performance is monitored and reviewed at Group and divisional commercial opportunities, operational impacts and communications and executive level.
This commitment extends beyond the Group as part of engagement.
the community support and supplier relationships.
The Microfinance Advisory Board comprises senior members from a Safety, health and wellbeing range of stakeholder groups and provides independent oversight and The Group recognises that performance in safety, health and wellbeing support for the Microfinance and Supporting Enterprise programmes adds value to employees and to the Groups businesses globally.
across the Groups international business.
Industry leading expertise, innovative tools, products and services and a practical approach to implementation are combined to ensure Throughout the development of MoneySense, RBS has continuously improved performance continues to be delivered.
This has now been formalised through the formation of the MoneySense Advisory Board which draws on the skills During 2009, the Group continued to focus on compliance, governance of independent, impartial experts, to provide strategic input to the and managing risk across all jurisdictions.
Enhanced mechanisms were MoneySense programme.
implemented to support the health and wellbeing of employees, particularly given the impact of the economic environment.
Further details of the Groups Corporate Sustainability policies are available on www.
com sustainability and in the annual Corporate Pre-employment screening Sustainability Report.
The Group has a comprehensive pre-employment screening process to guard against possible infiltration and employee-related fraud for all BBA draft disclosure code direct and non-direct staff engaged on Group business.
In October 2009, the British Bankers Association BBA published a draft code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
The draft code sets out Code of conduct five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
The The Code of conduct applies to all employees globally and to all those principles are that the Group and other major UK banks will provide engaged by the Group, but who are not employees, such as contractors high quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures: review and and those engaged through external agencies.
enhance their financial instrument disclosures for key areas of interest to market participants: assess the applicability and relevance of good The Code exists to promote honest and ethical conduct, including the practice recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal importance of such guidance: seek to enhance the comparability of and professional relationships.
The Group recognises that personal financial statement disclosures across the UK banking sector and conduct, business integrity and the Group's security are crucial, and the clearly differentiate in their annual reports between information that is Code serves to inform employees of the Group's expectations of their audited and information that is unaudited.
The Group and other major UK banks have voluntarily adopted the draft code in their 2009 financial statements.
The Groups 2009 financial statements have therefore been prepared in compliance with the draft codes principles.
210 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:28 Page 211 Governance Going concern On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder The Groups business activities and financial position, the factors likely of ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares present in person to affect its future development and performance and its objectives and or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to capital are discussed in the Business review.
The risk factors which vote shall have one vote for every share held.
On a poll, holders of could materially affect the Groups future results are set out on pages 55 cumulative preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to 71.
The Groups regulatory capital resources and significant to vote shall have four votes for every share held.
The Notices of Annual developments in 2009 and anticipated future developments are detailed General Meetings and General Meetings specify the deadlines for on pages 120 to 126.
Pages 154 to 160 describe the Groups funding exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in and liquidity profile, including changes in key metrics, the build up of relation to resolutions to be passed at the meeting.
liquidity reserves and the outlook for 2010.
The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.01% of the total Having reviewed the Groups forecasts, projections and other relevant voting rights of the company, the remainder being represented by the evidence, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group ordinary shares.
and the company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements of the Group There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the and of the company have been prepared on a going concern basis.
company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Corporate governance Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
employees of the company require the approval of the company to deal Details are given on pages 214 to 222.
The Corporate governance in the companys shares.
statement forms part of this Report of the directors.
A number of the companys share plans include restrictions on transfers Ordinary share capital of shares while the shares are subject to the plans, in particular the In April 2009, the company issued 16,909,716,385 ordinary shares of Employee Share Ownership Plan.
25p by way of a placing and open offer on the basis of three new shares for every seven existing shares, raising 5.37 billion.
The rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative preference shares are set out in Note 27 on the accounts on pages 325 to 327.
In December 2009, the company issued 51 billion B shares of 1p to HM Treasury at 50p per share, raising 25.5 billion.
Except in relation to the Dividend Access Share, the company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in During 2009 any option exercises were satisfied using market purchase restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Therefore there was no increase to the ordinary share capital in no persons holding securities carrying special rights with regard to respect of any option exercises.
Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital at Under the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible employees are 31 December 2009 are shown in Note 27 on the accounts.
entitled to acquire shares in the company, and shares are held in trust for participants by The Royal Bank and Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Preference share capital Company as Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on Following the placing and open offer in April 2009, the company receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an redeemed the five million non-cumulative sterling preference shares of instruction to the Trustee no vote is registered.
1 issued at 1,000 each 5 billion in total held by HM Treasury at 101 per cent of their issue price, the dividend accrued on the preference The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee Share Trust, The Royal shares from 1 December 2008 to the date of redemption and the Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Trust and The Royal commissions payable to HM Treasury under the Second Placing and Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee Share Trust hold shares Open Offer Agreement.
on behalf of the Groups employee share plans.
The voting rights are exercisable by the Trustees, however, in accordance with investor Details of the authorised and issued preference share capital at protection guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees 31 December 2009 are shown in Note 27 on the accounts.
would take independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of their shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
Additional information Where not provided previously in the Report of the directors, the Awards granted under the companys employee share plans may be following provides the additional information required to be disclosed by met through a combination of newly issued shares and shares acquired Part 6 of Schedule 7 to the Report and Accounts Regulations 2008. in the market by the companys employee benefit trusts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares and preference shares are set out in the companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or at www.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 211 GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:28 Page 212 Report of the directors continued The rules governing the appointment of directors are set out in the Archie Hunter, who has served as a director since September 2004 and Corporate governance section on page 215.
The companys Articles of chairman of the Group Audit Committee since April 2005, will retire from Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general the Board at the end of his existing term at the conclusion of the Groups meeting of shareholders.
Annual General Meeting in April 2010.
A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may cause The appointment of a successor to Archie Hunter as chairman of the a number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, Group Audit Committee is well advanced and is subject to final alter or terminate.
In addition, a number of executive directors service regulatory approval.
An announcement will be made in due course.
agreements may be affected on a change of control.
All of the companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a Group General Counsel and Group Secretary change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and Miller McLean will retire as Group General Counsel and Group become exercisable on change of control, subject where appropriate to Secretary on 30 April 2010, after 40 years with the Group.
the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and prorating of awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, these Directors interests agreements are not considered to be significant.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 December 2009 are shown on page 237.
None of the directors held Directors an interest in the loan capital of the company or in the shares or loan The names and brief biographical details of the directors are shown on capital of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the company, during pages 8 and 9. the period from 1 January 2009 to 24 February 2010.
Colin Buchan, Stephen Hester, Archie Hunter, Joe MacHale and Gordon Directors indemnities Pell served throughout the year and to the date of signing of the In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, Qualifying Third financial statements.
Party Indemnity Provisions have been issued by the company to directors, members of the Executive and Management Committees of Philip Hampton was appointed as a director and Chairman-designate the Group and FSA Approved Persons.
on 19 January 2009 and as Chairman on 3 February 2009.
In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, Qualifying Pension Sir Tom McKillop ceased to be Chairman on 3 February 2009.
Scheme Indemnity Provisions have been issued to all pension trustees of the Groups pension schemes during 2009.
Jim Currie, Bill Friedrich, Bud Koch, Janis Kong, Sir Steve Robson, Bob Scott and Peter Sutherland all ceased to be directors on 6 February Directors disclosure to auditors 2009.
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Sandy Crombie was appointed as Senior Independent Director on a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information 1 June 2009. of which the companys auditors are unaware: and Guy Whittaker ceased to be a director on 30 September 2009. b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit Bruce Van Saun was appointed as a director on 1 October 2009. information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Philip Scott was appointed as a director on 1 November 2009.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with Penny Hughes was appointed as a director on 1 January 2010. the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Gordon Pell will retire from the Board on 31 March 2010.
Post balance sheet events There have been no significant events between the year end and the Sandy Crombie, Penny Hughes, Philip Scott and Bruce Van Saun, all of date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or whom have been appointed since the 2009 Annual General Meeting, will disclosure in the accounts.
offer themselves for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In addition, Philip Hampton and Joe MacHale will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
212 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:28 Page 213 Governance Shareholdings The table below shows the shareholders that have notified the Group that they hold more than 3% of the voting rights in the undernoted classes of shares as at 31 December 2009.
Number of shares % held Number of shares % held 1 Ordinary shares 5 2% cumulative preference shares Solicitor For The Affairs of Mr P S and Mrs J M Allen, Her Majestys Treasury Miss C L Allen and Miss J C Allen 112,949 28.23 As Nominee for Commercial Union Assurance plc 91,429 22.86 Her Majestys Treasury 39,644,835,194 70.33 Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited 1 46,255 11.56 B shares E M Behrens Charitable Trust 20,000 5.00 Solicitor For The Affairs of Trustees of The Stephen Cockburn Her Majestys Treasury Limited Pension Scheme 19,879 4.97 As Nominee for Mrs Gina Wild 19,800 4.95 Her Majestys Treasury 51,000,000,000 100.00 Miss Elizabeth Hill 16,124 4.03 11% cumulative preference shares Mr W T Hardison Jr. 13,532 3.38 Guardian Royal Exchange Assurance plc 129,830 25.97 Windsor Life Assurance Company Limited 51,510 10.30 Cleaning Tokens Limited 25,500 5.10 Mr S J and Mrs J A Cockburn 15,520 3.10 Mr Stephen J Cockburn 15,290 3.06 Note: 1 1 Notification has been received on behalf of Mr A W R Medlock and Mrs H M Medlock that they each have an interest in the holding of 5 2% cumulative preference shares registered in the name of Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited noted above and that there are further holdings of 5,300 and 5,000 shares, respectively, of that class registered in each of their names.
Charitable contributions Policy and practice on payment of creditors In 2009 the Groups overall community contribution was 63.9 million The Group is committed to maintaining a sound commercial relationship 2008 66.3 million.
The total amount given for charitable purposes by with its suppliers.
Consequently, it is the Groups policy to negotiate and the company and its subsidiary undertakings during the year ended agree terms and conditions with its suppliers, which includes the giving 31 December 2009 was 34.7 million 2008 24.8 million.
of an undertaking to pay suppliers within 30 days of receipt of a correctly prepared invoice submitted in accordance with the terms of To ensure it makes its community investments as effective as possible, the contract or such other payment period as may be agreed.
the Groups policy is to focus its resources on a small number of substantial strategic programmes.
These are issues most relevant to a At 31 December 2009, the Groups trade creditors represented 30 days financial institution and relate broadly to financial education, supporting 2008 30 days of amounts invoiced by suppliers.
enterprise and microfinance and the charitable endeavours of employees.
Auditors The auditors, Deloitte LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in Political donations office.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditors At the Annual General Meeting in 2006, shareholders gave authority, for will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
a period of four years, for the company to make political donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 500,000 By order of the Board as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, the provisions of which are largely restated in the Companies Act 2006.
This authority has not been used and will be refreshed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Miller McLean Secretary No EU political donations were made, nor EU political expenditure 24 February 2010 incurred, during the year and it is not proposed that the Groups longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc be changed.
is registered in Scotland No.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 213
