GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 51 Business review Pro forma results Restatements Pro forma results have been prepared that include only those business Divisional results for 2008 have been restated to reflect the Groups new units of ABN AMRO that will be retained by RBS.
The financial review organisational structure that includes a Non-Core division comprising and divisional performance in the Business review include the pro forma individual assets, portfolios and lines of business that the Group intends results.
The basis of preparation of the pro forma results is detailed on to run off or dispose.
The Non-Core division is reported separately from page 113. the divisions which form the Core Group.
In addition, separate reporting of Business Services formerly Group Manufacturing and Centre results Given the significant write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets has changed and, with the exception of certain items of a one off in 2008, and in order to provide a basis for comparison of underlying nature, costs incurred are now allocated to the customer-facing performance, these write-downs and other one-off items are shown divisions and included in the measurement of the returns which they separately in the pro forma income statement.
The changes do not affect the Groups results.
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Statutory results RFS Holdings is jointly owned by the consortium members.
It is IAS 1 Revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements has required controlled by the company and is therefore fully consolidated in its the Group to present a third balance sheet 31 December 2007 as a financial statements.
Consequently, the statutory results of the Group result of the restatement of the Groups income statement following the include the results of ABN AMRO.
The interests of Fortis, and its implementation of IFRS 2 see below.
A fourth balance sheet successor the State of the Netherlands, and Santander in RFS Holdings 31 December 2006 has not been presented as there is no material are included in minority interests.
The pro forma and statutory results for 2008 have been restated for the amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
This has resulted in an increase in staff costs amounting to 169 million for 2008 with no material effect on earlier periods.
Glossary A glossary of terms is detailed on pages 383 to 387.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51
