GRA 2 Business Report 09 048-116. qxp:GRA 2 Business Report 09 15 3 10 09:20 Page 53 Business review Business review Description of business UK Retail offers a comprehensive range of banking products and Introduction related financial services to the personal market.
It serves customers The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company of a large through the RBS and NatWest networks of branches and ATMs in the global banking and financial services group.
Headquartered in United Kingdom, and also through telephone and internet channels.
Edinburgh, the Group operates in the United Kingdom, the United States and internationally through its two principal subsidiaries, the Royal Bank UK Corporate is a leading provider of banking, finance, and risk and NatWest.
Both the Royal Bank and NatWest are major UK clearing management services to the corporate and SME sector in the United banks whose origins go back over 275 years.
In the United States, the Kingdom.
It offers a full range of banking products and related financial Groups subsidiary Citizens is a large commercial banking organisation.
services through a nationwide network of relationship managers, and The Group has a large and diversified customer base and provides a also through telephone and internet channels.
The product range wide range of products and services to personal, commercial and large includes asset finance through the Lombard brand.
corporate and institutional customers in over 50 countries.
Wealth provides private banking and investment services in the UK Following placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April 2009, through Coutts & Co and Adam & Company, offshore banking through HM Treasury currently own approximately 70.3% of the enlarged RBS International, NatWest Offshore and Isle of Man Bank, and ordinary share capital of the company.
international private banking through RBS Coutts.
In December 2009, the company issued 25.5 billion of new capital to Global Banking & Markets GBM is a leading banking partner to major HM Treasury.
This new capital took the form of B shares, which do not corporations and financial institutions around the world, providing an generally carry voting rights at general meetings of ordinary extensive range of debt and equity financing, risk management and shareholders but are convertible into ordinary shares and qualify as investment services to its customers.
The division is organised along six core tier one capital.
principal business lines: money markets: rates flow trading: currencies and commodities: equities: credit markets and portfolio management & Following the issuance of B shares, HM Treasurys holding of ordinary origination.
shares of the company remained at 70.3% although its economic interest rose to 84.4%.
Global Transaction Services ranks among the top five global transaction services providers, offering global payments, cash and liquidity HM Treasury has agreed not to convert its B shares into ordinary shares management, and trade finance and commercial card products and to the extent that its holding of ordinary shares following the conversion services.
It includes the Groups corporate money transmission activities would represent more than 75% of the companys issued ordinary share in the United Kingdom and the United States as well as Global capital.
Merchant Services, the Groups United Kingdom and international merchant acquiring business.
The Group had total assets of 1,696.5 billion and owners equity of 77.7 billion at 31 December 2009.
The Groups capital ratios, which Ulster Bank is the leading retail and commercial bank in Northern included the equity minority interest of the State of the Netherlands and Ireland and the third largest banking group on the island of Ireland.
It Santander in ABN AMRO, were a total capital ratio of 16.1 per cent.
a provides a comprehensive range of financial services through both its core Tier 1 capital ratio of 11.0 per cent.
and a Tier 1 capital ratio of Retail Markets division which has a network of branches and operates 14.1 per cent.
as at 31 December 2009. in the personal and bancassurance sectors, and its Corporate Markets division which provides services to SME business customers, Organisational structure and business overview corporates and institutional markets.
Following a comprehensive strategic review, changes have been made to the Groups operating segments in 2009.
A Non-Core US Retail & Commercial provides financial services primarily through division has been created comprising those lines of business, the Citizens and Charter One brands.
US Retail & Commercial is portfolios and individual assets that the Group intends to run off or engaged in retail and corporate banking activities through its branch sell.
Furthermore, Business Services formerly Group Manufacturing network in 12 states in the United States and through non-branch offices is no longer reported as a separate division and its costs are now in other states.
It ranks among the top five banks in New England.
allocated to the customer-facing divisions along with certain central costs.
UK Retail & Commercial Banking has been split into three RBS Insurance sells and underwrites retail and SME insurance over the segments UK Retail, UK Corporate and Wealth.
Ulster Bank has telephone and internet, as well as through brokers and partnerships.
The remaining elements of Europe & brands include Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, which sell general Middle East Retail & Commercial Banking, Asia Retail & Commercial insurance products direct to the customer, as well as Green Flag and Banking and Share of shared assets form part of Non-Core.
Through its international division, RBS Insurance sells general segment measure is now Operating profit loss before tax which insurance, mainly motor, in Germany and Italy.
The Intermediary and differs from Contribution used previously: it excludes certain Broker division sells general insurance products through independent infrequent items and RFS Holdings minority interest, which is not an brokers.
operating segment of the Group.
Comparative data have been restated accordingly.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53
