22 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 BuSineSS Review eMeRging MARKetS Emerging Markets covers 21 For Large and Complex risks, we are further the economic downturn in a number of our developing our hub and spokes model, through markets.
Emerging Markets premiums are up countries across Latin America, which regional centres of excellence support by 13% to 833m 2% at constant exchange.
Asia and the Middle East and operations in meeting customer needs that Including associates, premiums are 954m.
they could not service in isolation.
This has The underwriting result is strong, up by 26% to significant cost advantage over employing 29m 2008: 23m, due to early action taken Key StRAtegieS technical experts in all locations.
The COR is 95.1%, an Emerging Markets remains focused on improvement of 1.3 points on the prior year.
delivering profitable growth through expanding At 44%, Motor is a significant proportion of distribution, disciplined underwriting and our portfolio.
We are continuing to leverage Latin America increased premiums by 8% improving operational performance.
the Groups overall technical capability to 2% at constant exchange, driven by good We continue to focus on markets where we improve our pricing and claims offering.
growth in Brazil, Colombia and Uruguay.
To can establish a meaningful presence, either support our SME strategy, we have recruited in overall market share or in segments where For SMEs, we are streamlining sales processes around one thousand Small and Medium we have a competitive advantage.
We are and developing simplified standard products, brokers across the region.
committed to strong governance and control, enabling this segment to be served more cost as well as close co-operation across the effectively and providing greater choice to Asia and the Middle East increased premiums businesses to develop customer solutions SMEs themselves.
by 47% 24% at constant exchange, driven by which can be replicated cost effectively.
several large contract wins by our Construction Affinity continues to represent a significant and Engineering hub in the region.
We also saw Our organic strategy is supported by targeted growth opportunity, where we leverage our good growth in Singapore and Oman, where acquisitions which bring us scale or enhanced partners distribution to efficiently access large we have recently announced the acquisition technical capability in a market segment.
We work with utilities, of Al Ahlia, making us the largest insurer in the retailers and banks to offer simple, low cost market by net written premiums.
Our IPO We continue to focus on the four key segments products such as Personal Accident to customers in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is progressing of Large and Complex Risks, Motor, Small who often have not previously been able to successfully, with the offering being seven and Medium Enterprises SME and Affinity, purchase appropriate insurance cover.
developing and improving single solutions which can be rolled out across all our regions, PRogReSS AgAinSt Key StRAtegieS In India, our associate continues to perform increasing our speed to market and reducing Our results are strong, demonstrating the strongly, with premiums up 18% to 86m, investment requirements.
success of our strategy despite the impact of NWP with associates % NWP with associates m Emerging markets U W m LATIN AMERICA 45% ASIA & 24% MIDDLE EAST 29 954 CENTRAL & 878 18% EASTERN EUROPE 23 688 18 ASSOCIATES 13% 9% 26% GROWTH GROWTH 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 BuSineSS Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 23 OUR EMERGING MARKETS HAVE HUGE POTENTIAL AND WE REMAIN ON TRACK TO ACHIEVE OUR 1BN PREMIUM TARGET By THE END OF 2010.
OVER TIME, WE ExPECT TO RETURN TO DOUBLE DIGIT GROWTH.
Paul whittaker Chief Executive, Emerging Markets 10% at constant exchange, with Personal m 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Motor growing at 14% on the back of buoyant new car sales.
Net written premiums 833 738 615 531 440 In Central and Eastern Europe, premiums are Underwriting result 29 23 18 11 6 down by 6% 16% at constant exchange.
As Combined operating ratio 95.1% 96.4% 95.3% 97.3% 96.4% expected, the Baltics were particularly impacted by the economic downturn, with Latvia and Lithuania worst affected, however, we have maintained our market leading position.
outlooK In targeting profitable growth, we will maintain In Latin America the economies in our markets our focus on underwriting discipline and One of the opportunities created by the credit are picking up with an immediate impact on continue to take action on rate and expenses.
crunch was the acquisition of the remaining insurance and in Asia and the Middle East we We remain on track to achieve our 1bn 50% of Intouch across Poland, the Czech are seeing a move from private to governmentpremium target by the end of 2010.
Republic and Russia, earlier than anticipated and funded infrastructure projects.
These are exciting markets and Emerging Markets have huge potential, as our focus on direct Motor through call centres In Central and Eastern Europe, the Baltics has insurance penetration remains lower and, and the Web is proving successful as Intouch been particularly impacted by the economic over the longer term, GDP growth will be continues to grow.
These operations have downturn, however, we continue to maintain higher than in more mature markets.
Although benefitted from strong support from MORE our market leading position.
short term conditions remain challenging, over TH N to upgrade Motor pricing capability.
time, Emerging Markets will return to double We have also appointed a new Technical On 27 February 2010, an earthquake measuring digit growth and we will continue to invest in Director in Poland from our Canadian business 8.8 on the Richter scale hit Chile, causing large the region.
to drive further operational improvements in scale damage.
All our employees are safe and Motor underwriting and claims.
the majority of our network was up and running within hours, supporting our We continued to build our Affinity capability and customers, despite a lack of power in some reputation across Emerging Markets and signed branch offices.
I would like to thank all our staff 33 new deals in the year.
13 of these deals were for their dedication in such trying circumstances.
in Latin America including Citibank in Colombia, Claro in Argentina and Santander in Mexico with a further 17 deals across the Baltics.
MARKet conditionS Short term conditions remain challenging, especially in the Baltics and, in response to the economic downturn, we have taken a number of actions to protect profitability including: Reducing headcount by around 600 across Asia and the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe Taking strong action on rating, and Selectively withdrawing capacity where we cannot achieve target returns.
24 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 eMeRging MARKetS he hAS 96 houRS to tRAnSPoRt liFe-SAving PhARMAceuticAlS AcRoSS continentS.
we enSuRe theRe ARe no eMeRgencieS en Route.
BuSineSS Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 25 This driver is in a race against time.
They know that in this business timing is crucial.
The  pharmaceuticals he The team immediately carried out a forensic carries are allowed a maximum of 96 hours for examination looking at all aspects of the transit.
He drives this cargo thousands of miles process, from production through to delivery.
across some of the worlds most difficult We advised on everything, from route planning terrain, sometimes even through war zones.
and packaging to transportation methods and third-party contracts.
If he is delayed, or the storage temperature deviates, even just a few degrees, the entire As a global company with local knowledge, consignment could be scrapped at a we were also able to help with security and significant cost.
contingency measures on the ground.
More importantly, patients would be deprived Our efforts have paid off.
There are now of life-saving treatments.
considerably fewer disruptions to the supply chain and were working hard to reduce the Transporting this kind of cargo requires number even further.
expertise and precision, so when a major pharmaceuticals manufacturer asked us to help, our Risk Managers set to work.
RSA was instrumental in the we had a presence in india foundation of Shanghais first from 1852 until nationalisation, fire service which was crewed re-opening for business in 2000. by volunteers.
