18 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 BuSineSS Review uK We are the UKs second largest We continue to target an expense ratio of To support growth in Specialty lines, and around 14% by the end of 2012, which we following the opening of a new office in Madrid Commercial and fourth largest believe is an appropriate level for our mix of in February 2009, we now have a presence in Personal insurer with a reputation business.
As part of this, in February 2009, six European countries.
We have invested in for technical excellence.
we announced a cost savings programme capability, recruiting a number of experienced of 70m to be delivered by mid 2010. underwriters and country managers and Key StRAtegieS supported the business with a dedicated The UK remains one of our toughest markets.
PRogReSS AgAinSt Key StRAtegieS marketing campaign.
We are maintaining our strategy of targeting We have delivered a good result despite profitable growth, taking the right action on challenging economic conditions.
We have taken We introduced Broker Promise giving selected rate and withdrawing capacity from product a conscious decision to focus on those target brokers direct access to decision makers.
lines where we cannot achieve target returns, segments where we can achieve profitable This facilitates rapid decision making and such as Professional Indemnity and Construction, growth and hold the overall top line flat.
enables brokers to better understand which have been particularly impacted by the our risk selection criteria.
Although this is economic downturn.
Net written premiums were stable at 2.6bn in its early stages, the results are promising, as we continued to take the right action on with a 35% increase in new business from In Commercial we are focused on segments rate and overall retention remains strong at the targeted brokers.
where we see profitable growth opportunities around 80%.
The underwriting result of 75m such as Marine and Risk Solutions, which 2008: 99m and COR of 98% demonstrate Across all lines, we have continued to take the provides risk management solutions for large our ability to continue to deliver sustainable right action on rate and achieved renewal rate businesses worldwide.
increases of 8% in Liability, 3% in Property and 6% in Motor.
This action is reflected in the In Personal, we continue to focus on customer coMMeRciAl COR for Commercial of 98.5%.
segmentation and targeted pricing to attract Net written premiums for Commercial lines and retain customers who meet our were down by 5% to 1.5bn, as exposures PeRSonAl preferred risk criteria.
We continue to build a declined with the impact of the economic In Personal, premiums were in line with 2008 strong reputation for delivering quality Affinity downturn.
Commercial Motor in particular at 1.1bn.
Household premiums were adversely propositions to our partners and their retail was hit by a fall in new business sales.
Mitigating impacted by the reduction in mortgage customers.
In Personal Broker we are focused on this decline we have delivered strong growth in origination yet, despite the reduction in new the mid-net worth market and have strengthened Specialty lines such as European Risk Solutions, car sales, Motor grew by 5% driven by strong our product and service proposition.
growth in Broker Panels and new Affinity deals.
Growth in 2009 NWP % Net written premiums % Rating movements in December % EUROPEAN BROKER CASUALTY 11% 47 PERSONAL RISK SOLUTIONS COMMERCIAL 8 COMMERCIAL MARINE AFFINITY LIABILITY 16% MOTOR COMMERCIAL PERSONAL COMMERCIAL 6 PET PROPERTY MOTOR MOTOR 22% 21 PERSONAL COMMERCIAL 3 19% MOTOR 17 PROPERTY PERSONAL 11 PERSONAL 20% HOUSEHOLD 7 9 MOTOR 5 OTHER 12% PERSONAL 3 HOUSEHOLD 2009 BuSineSS Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 19 THE UK HAS AGAIN DELIVERED A GOOD PERFORMANCE IN CHALLENGING ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.
LOOKING AHEAD, WITH THE ACTIONS WE HAVE TAKEN TO REFOCUS AND REORGANISE THE BUSINESS, WE ARE WELL PLACED AND WE ExPECT THE TOP LINE TO MOVE TO POSITIVE TERRITORy.
Adrian Brown Chief Executive, UK MORE TH N net written premiums were m 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 472m, 2% down on 2008.
However, Pet again grew strongly, with premiums up by 17%.
Net written premiums 2,632 2,711 2,688 2,618 2,632 We continue to build MORE TH N through our We Do More advertising campaign and Underwriting result 75 99 65 160 154 new propositions such as Premier for mid-net Combined operating ratio 98.0% 97.6% 97.6% 92.3% 93.1% worth customers and an iphone application to assist car claims.
In Affinity, we signed two new deals with MARKet conditionS outlooK HomeServe and the West Browmich Building Within Commercial, the mid-market sector Our disciplined approach in the UK, targeting Society and retained four existing partnerships.
remains competitive as customers look to profitable growth, taking the right action on control costs.
In Personal, competition rate and selectively withdrawing capacity will We continue to push rate where required and remains strong due to aggregators and the continue in 2010. have achieved renewal rate increases of 7% in number of players in the market and we Motor and 3% in Household.
We also continue expect this to continue.
We see targeted growth opportunities in to push rate hard on Motor new business and Commercial in Specialty lines such as Risk have achieved double digit rate increases.
The UK experienced severe snow and flooding Solutions and Marine and in Personal lines, we The Personal COR was strong at 97.4%.
in 2009, however, the impact on our result was will continue to grow Affinity and strengthen limited by our prudent underwriting and our high and mid-net worth offerings.
Action on exPenSeS conservative reinsurance policy.
Improved large We are on track to deliver the 70m of savings losses and benign subsidence conditions were Weve made a good start to 2010, with announced in February 2009 ahead of schedule also positive factors.
growth in Specialty lines in January and new and expect to complete this programme in the business wins in Personal.
Looking ahead, first quarter of 2010.
We have already achieved Our strong balance sheet and reputation for with the actions we have taken to refocus the target headcount reduction of 1,200 technical excellence have proved crucial to us, and reorganise the business we are well and generated 64m of annualised savings.
as clients and brokers continue to put great placed and whilst maintaining our underwriting We remain confident of achieving our target importance on the security and quality of discipline we expect the top line to move expense ratio excluding commissions of companies where they place business.
around 14% by the end of 2012. technicAl cAPABilitieS Building on our reputation for technical excellence, we aim to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and continue to develop the sophistication of our claims handling, with enhanced fraud detection capabilities.
In 2009, we won the Training Award at the British Insurance Awards in recognition of our Underwriting Excellence course.
20 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 uK he MAKeS the PRoduction line Run liKe clocKwoRK.
without ouR helP it would hAve StoPPed FoR good.
BuSineSS Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 21 Potato crisps need to be light and golden, Weeks after the new system was fitted, the not black and burnt.
deep fat fryer caught fire.
The blaze was gaining momentum, threatening to burn the whole Thats what our Risk Assessor, Kumu Kumar, factory to the ground.
was thinking during a routine visit to one of our clients who is a major manufacturer of snack But just then, the Production Line Manager foods.
While he was examining the different manually activated the new system and the fire processes he noticed that one area was was put out in seconds.
Hardly any damage particularly susceptible to fire.
was caused, but more importantly, no lives were put at risk.
The fat fryer was cleaned and Kumu knew that sprinklers were a bad idea as back running again within a matter of hours.
the water would react and actually fuel a fire.
Instead, he suggested a much more effective All this shows that while the initial visit may solution, water mist technology.
have been routine, the attitude of Kumu, our Risk Assessor, was anything but.
Luckily our client quickly implemented our recommendation.
Sun insurance company we provided charles darwins started in causeys coffee home and contents cover for house, which was in St Pauls his house in Kent.
