14 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 BuSineSS Review inteRnAtionAl International, our largest region, a strong platform for growth and driving performances in Personal Motor, Personal operational efficiencies.
consists of leading positions in the attractive markets of Scandinavia, Customer focus continues to be central In Commercial, net written premiums were Canada and Ireland and a niche to our propositions and we are optimising in line with 2008 at 725m down 7% at business in Italy.
customer reach through Intermediary, constant exchange.
This reflects continued Affinity and Direct channels.
strong growth in Norway, particularly in Key StRAtegieS Property and Motor, 30% growth in Renewable International remains committed to delivering PRogReSS AgAinSt Key StRAtegieS Energy in Denmark and the benefit of foreign sustainable profitable performance and focuses International continues to drive the Group exchange offset by capacity withdrawal and on four key areas to drive the business forward forward and has again delivered an outstanding exposure reduction as a result of the economic and outperform the competition: performance.
Net written premiums are up by downturn.
8% to 3.2bn in line with 2008 at constant Delivering profitable growth in target exchange, reflecting continued action on rate, In Personal lines, premiums are up by 8% to segments through expanding distribution targeted growth and the benefit of new deals 944m 4% at constant exchange, as a result and selected acquisitions offsetting the impact of the downturn.
The of our rating actions across all portfolios and Leveraging our market leading capabilities COR was an excellent 91.7% and International continued good performance in Norway in underwriting and claims again contributed the majority of the Groups Affinity and Personal Accident.
In Denmark, Driving continuous operational efficiencies underwriting result at 282m 2008: 262m.
bancassurance continues to perform well, across the business, and growing at 10%.
In Sweden, we have recently Promoting a high performance culture, ScAndinAviA strengthened our bancassurance proposition where people want to give their best We are the third largest insurer in both with the acquisition of Sveland, announced in every day.
Denmark and Sweden, with a growing January 2010. presence in Norway.
Our geographic spread and segmented cAnAdA approach enable us to target growth in In 2009, whilst the Scandinavian economies In Canada, RSA is one of the fastest growing profitable segments where our technical contracted, premiums increased by 4% to and most profitable insurers and has doubled expertise gives us competitive advantage.
in size over the last five years.
In 2009, we The ability to share best practice quickly The COR improved by 2.1 points to an delivered another strong performance with and easily across the businesses provides excellent 86.2%, primarily driven by strong net written premiums up by 15% to 1,021m Rating movements in December % Net written premiums split % Growth in 2009 NWP % SCANDINAVIA CANADA SCANDINAVIA SCANDINAVIA 52% PERSONAL RENEWABLES DK RISK SOLUTIONS 7 HOUSEHOLD CANADA 30 31% NORWAY 28 PERSONAL JOHNSON AFFINITY 4 MOTOR OTHER EUROPE COMMERCIAL 17% BANCASSURANCE DK MID-MARKET CANADA 16 PERSONAL 10 HOUSEHOLD 10 8 PERSONAL 5 4 MOTOR 2009 BuSineSS Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 15 INTERNATIONAL CONTINUES TO DRIVE THE GROUP FORWARD, DELIVERING A VERy STRONG TOP AND BOTTOM LINE PERFORMANCE IN CHALLENGING CONDITIONS.
Simon lee Chief Executive, International 5% at constant exchange.
Net written premiums 3,249 2,998 2,513 2,334 2,221 Commercial net written premiums increased Underwriting result 282 262 206 149 122 by 12% to 243m 2% at constant exchange, Combined operating ratio 91.7% 91.2% 91.3% 93.1% 93.9% reflecting strong growth in our Risk Solutions business and rate, offsetting the withdrawal of capacity in those sectors most impacted by the downturn.
The new management team has dealt with the outlooK move to Direct Indemnification and continued We have built a track record of delivering Personal net written premiums increased to take remediation action on our Motor book.
strong top and bottom line performance.
by 17% to 778m 6% at constant exchange, We expect to see the benefit of these actions Although economic conditions will continue with Personal Intermediated up by 14% on the underwriting result during 2010. to present some challenges in 2010, particularly 4% at constant exchange and Johnsons, in Commercial, we are sticking to our strategy our direct business, up by 19% 8% at constant MARKet conditionS of increasing rates where required.
In Italy, we exchange, driven by excellent retention In Scandinavia, we continue to achieve single digit expect to see our actions on the business start of 90%, rate and the addition of 20 new rate increases across most lines.
The economies to impact the underwriting result.
With our sponsorship groups during the year.
are currently forecast to return to growth in ongoing actions on expenses and our strong 2010 and the market remains attractive.
portfolio, we are confident that we will otheR euRoPe continue to deliver mid-single digit premium In Other Europe, premiums are up by 9% In Canada, the economy has weathered the growth and strong profitability in 2010. to 559m down 2% at constant exchange.
global downturn well and we have continued to In Ireland, where the economy shrank by 10% push mid-single digit rate across Personal lines in 2009, premiums have increased by 17% and low single digit rate increases in Commercial.
5% at constant exchange driven by action on rate, new Affinity wins and acquisitions.
In Ireland, economic conditions remain These include Tesco and the largest Irish nurses challenging, although we have achieved double scheme, with access to over 80,000 members digit rate increases in Personal Household.
and the acquisition of Benchmark Insurance.
2009 has been a challenging year in Italy as The COR for Other Europe was 105% a result of changes in regulation and market 2008: 97.1% with Ireland achieving a very practices in Personal Motor, which accounts strong 91%, which included a 10m charge for around 60% of the market.
Our new for the November floods.
CEO and his strengthened management team are tackling these issues.
In Italy, premiums are up 2% down 9% at constant exchange reflecting the impact of reduced Motor premiums following actions on rate and discount management.
Our response to the LAquila earthquake demonstrates what typifies the Group.
When the worst happens, we help keep people moving and we were able to play a significant role in getting life back to normal quickly.
16 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 inteRnAtionAl thiS PARt oF the woRld iS well Known FoR itS RuinS oF PASt civiliSAtionS.
we helPed BRing it BAcK to liFe.
BuSineSS Review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | RSA | 17 Living just 60 miles 100km northeast of The community urgently needed medical Rome, the residents of LAquila take great treatment, but the local hospital had been pride in the continuation of their traditions badly damaged by aftershocks and had and way of life.
It hasnt always been easy for closed.
We sent a team of 20 claims them as earthquakes mark the history of the specialists, engineers and lawyers to help.
town which sits on a hillside in the middle of Their brief was simple, to get the hospital a narrow valley.
up and running again as quickly as possible.
Important medical documents that were There hadnt been a serious tremor for well buried were recovered and we made an over 50 years, when in the early hours of advance payment of 5 million to aid the 6 April 2009, while people slept in their beds, process.
In May 2009 the hospital opened a powerful earthquake struck.
its doors to patients again.
Hundreds We are proud to have played our part of properties including houses, businesses, in helping the families of LAquila to start hospitals and churches were destroyed.
Some to rebuild their town and their lives, its 15,000 people lost their homes and were something theyve had to do many times forced to seek shelter in tents or alternative over the centuries.
we insured the construction codan underwriters were of the confederation Bridge instrumental in lightning in canada, which is the longest protection measures that are bridge in the world crossing now standard in every wind ice-covered water.
