Business review 10 The Business review provides shareholders with an overview of SVG Capitals: Introduction Investment objective and policy page 10 Investment portfolio review page 14 SVG Capital is an international private Key Performance Indicators page 10 20 Largest underlying companies page 17 equity investor and fund management business with offices in London, Boston Strategy page 11 SVG Advisers page 20 and Singapore.
Marketplace page 12 Contractual arrangements page 20 The Group invests from its own balance Financial review page 12 Risks and risk management page 20 sheet as well as on behalf of third-party investors through funds that it manages and or advises.
At 31 December 2009, total assets and Key Performance Indicators commitments under management were 7 The Groups Financial Key Performance Indicators are: 4.7 billion, including 3.2 billion managed or advised on behalf of third-parties.
Shareholder total return Investment objective 42.7 % 2.4 % p. a.
The investment objective is to achieve capital appreciation by investing principally Year to 31 December 2009 Since 1996 in private equity funds that are managed or advised by Permira, a leading international Net asset growth private equity specialist.
In addition, the Company invests in private 1.1 7.1% % p. a. equity funds that invest in Japan, North Year to 31 December 2009 Since 1996 America, Asia and the life sciences sectors, and in unquoted and quoted businesses Source Bloomberg through specialist funds and co-investments Including the 31 December 2009 Directors unaudited valuations of SVG Advisers alongside these funds.
The Company may also invest in other private equity related The Company had previously used a key performance indicator of the long-term assets and alternative asset classes.
net IRRs of the former Schroder Ventures and Permira private equity funds since To complement this investment objective their inception on 1983.
The Board no longer believes that this is an appropriate and create capital and income for the measure of performance as the majority of the funds in the data set no longer Company, its fund management business form a meaningful part of SVG Capitals portfolio.
structures, markets, manages and advises More information on non-financial KPIs are contained in the Corporate social products for investment in private equity responsibility report on page 44. related asset classes and in public equity using private equity techniques.
Investment policy The Company invests principally in private equity funds managed or advised by Permira, which provide it with exposure to a portfolio of companies that are diversified by vintage year, size, geography and industry sector.
Under current legalisation, the Company operates so as to ensure that, at the point of acquiring or adding to its investment in any company or group, its holding in that company or group does not exceed 15% by value of its overall investments.
The Company has a desired average level of gearing of approximately 20% over time and has an absolute maximum limit on borrowings of two times its adjusted capital and reserves, as set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.
7 This figure excludes SVG Capitals commitments to SVG Advisers funds.
