DIRECTORSREPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2009.
BUSINESSREVIEW Principal Activity and Investment Status The Company is registered as a public limited company in terms of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has directed its affairs so as to be able to continue to seek approval as an investment trust from the HM Revenue & Customs under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
Investment Policy The objective of the Company is to provide long-term capital appreciation for its shareholders through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
No material change will be made to this policy without shareholder approval.
The Investment Manager employs a bottom-up, value oriented, long-term approach to investing.
It focuses on the market price of a companys securities relative to the Investment Managers evaluation of the companys long-term earnings, asset value and cash flow potential.
As it looks for investment, it focuses on specific companies and undertakes in-depth research to construct an action list from which it makes its buy decisions.
Before a purchase is made, it looks at the companys potential earnings and growth over a five-year horizon.
During its analysis, it also considers the companys position in its sector, the economic framework and political environment.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, some of which themselves are diversified companies.
Where possible, investment will generally be made directly in the stock markets of emerging countries.
Where the Investment Manager determines appropriate, for example to gain access to markets closed to foreign portfolio investors, investment may be made in emerging markets through collective investment schemes, although such investment is not likely to be substantial.
In addition, investment in companies listed on more developed countries stock exchanges may also be made where those companies have a significant source of their revenue from emerging countries.
The Investment Manager does not anticipate investing a significant part of the Companys assets in such companies.
In any event, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML or the Investment Manager, as the Investment Manager to the Company, will invest directly only in countries where it is satisfied that acceptable custodial and other arrangements are in place to safeguard TEMITs investments and in companies with perceived satisfactory procedures.
It is intended that the Companys funds will normally be invested in equity investments: the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles where there are perceived to be advantages to so doing.
The portfolio will frequently be over-weight or under-weight against the index.
This is consistent with its investment approach of long-term value investing.
The Investment Manager evaluates investment opportunities with updated financial ratios on a daily basis, and adjusts the portfolio to seek optimal exposures to stocks which are assessed to be best bargains in global emerging markets.
The Investment Manager searches for well-managed companies assessed as undervalued, especially those that are outof-favour among investors.
On the other hand, the Investment Manager sells companies that, in its opinion, are overvalued, typically when the earnings prospects or underlying net asset values are fully recognised by other investors.
The Investment Managers investment research and portfolio construction processes may be summarised in five steps: 1 Identify Opportunities A master list is compiled which is screened for securities that meet certain market capitalisation and liquidity criteria as determined by the Investment Manager: TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED 2 Analyse Companies A detailed analysis of the stocks industry and financial accounts is undertaken along with a visit to the company to interview management, assess its quality of product or services, analyse customers and competitors and ascertain competitive advantage: 3 Construct Action List Each stock on this list has a specified buy and sell target.
This selection list is a dynamic list that is monitored continually: 4 Allocate Portfolio On a weekly basis, the portfolio is reviewed for consistency and to ensure that it complies with the Investment Managers investment committee guidelines: and 5 Evaluate and Monitor Portfolio Once the portfolio has been constructed, each investment within the portfolio is reviewed against price targets set for the securities.
These targets are continually updated, with comparisons made with the sector that the security operates in.
Contact is also maintained with the company and its suppliers and staff.
The general policy of the Board is to be fully invested.
In response to market conditions, the Investment Manager may hold funds temporarily in cash or other appropriate assets.
Key Performance Indicators The following are considered key performance indicators for the Company: the return in net asset value per share compared to its benchmarks: the movement in share price and discount: and the total expense ratio.
Performance The Investment Manager employs a value investing strategy and purchases stocks trading at less than their assessed value.
In the year to 30 April 2009, the Companys net asset value per share produced a negative total return of 23.5%.
This was broadly in line with the Companys benchmark, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which decreased by 23.4%.
The graph below shows the return of TEMITs NAV and share price relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index over the last 10 years: The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 7 and the Managers Report on pages 11 to 15 include a review of the main developments during the year and the investment outlook.
24 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC  Share Capital and Discount The Board is aware that discount volatility is unwelcome to many shareholders and has powers to buy back the Companys shares as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
The share price of TEMIT decreased by 22.3% to 340.5p as at 30 April 2009 from 438.0p as at 30 April 2008.
Since the completion of the tender offer in June 2008, the Companys discount has generally been in the range of 3% to 9%.
During the year volatile market conditions have resulted in large short term fluctuations in the discount from a high of 14.1% to a premium of 3.3%.
As at 30 April 2009, the discount had narrowed to 6.9% from 9.6% at 30 April 2008.
Following the tender offer, which was approved at the EGM on 13 June 2008, the Company bought back and cancelled 141.8 million Ordinary Shares of 25p each, 30% of the share capital, for a total cost of 611.2 million, at a discount of 4% to the NAV.
During the year a further 0.4 million Ordinary Shares of 25p each were repurchased and cancelled, representing 0.1% of the issued share capital, at a cost to the Company of 1.4 million.
In the period from 1 May 2009 to 5 June 2009, no shares were bought back and cancelled.
Cancellation of Reserves The shareholders gave approval, subject to Court approval, at the AGM of the Company on 25 September 2008 to cancel the Companys share premium account and capital redemption reserve.
The Court of Session subsequently gave its approval on 5 December 2008.
The cancellation of the Companys share premium account and capital redemption reserve has increased the Companys distributable reserves.
Expense Ratio The Total Expense Ratio has risen from 1.33% at 30 April 2008 to 1.34% at 30 April 2009.
This is due, in the main, to the additional expenses of 1.3 million, which were incurred as part of the June 2008 tender offer and were charged wholly to exiting shareholders.
These expenses were deducted from tender proceeds paid to exiting shareholders.
The Total Expense Ratio would have fallen to 1.25% if these exceptional, one-off tender offer costs are excluded.
The reduction is due, in part, to the receipt of VAT and interest from HMRC for previously overcharged VAT.
Results and Dividends The loss for the year was 458.9 million 2008: profit 626.3 million but the revenue profit was 28.1 million 2008: 19.8 million.
The full results for the Company are disclosed in the Income Statement on page 42.
The Directors propose an ordinary dividend of 3.75 pence per Ordinary Share 2008: 3.50p.
This is an increase of 7.1% on the previous years ordinary dividend.
The Company has an obligation to retain no more than 15% of gross income to maintain Investment Trust status.
Accordingly, the Directors propose an additional special dividend of 2.50 pence per Ordinary Share.
This special dividend includes the income accrued from the start of the period up to the tender offer date attributed to the shares then cancelled.
The tender payment was a return of capital only and the income was retained within the Company.
The special dividend also includes the VAT and related interest recovered in the year, as a result of the European Court of Justice case.
This makes a total dividend for 2009 of 6.25 pence per share 2008: 3.50 pence per share.
If approved by shareholders at the AGM, to be held on 17 July 2009, the ordinary dividend and the special dividend will be payable on 22 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 19 June 2009.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED Gearing The Board has agreed that in exceptional circumstances, and for short periods, TEMIT may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
During the period, the Company utilised a short term overdraft facility with JPMorgan.
This was used during the tender offer to facilitate the settlement of trades and resulted in the Company being overdrawn on its sterling account.
The maximum borrowing was 8.2 million in June 2008.
The company does not currently borrow to fund long term investments.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risks facing the Company are summarised below.
The number and spread of investments in TEMITs portfolio is intended to reduce the degree of risk.
Nevertheless, investors should be aware of the risks associated with TEMITs investment objectives.
The Board monitors market, investment and currency risk and information is provided on a quarterly basis as part of the Board papers.
Specific information includes benchmark and performance attribution, risk analysis, contributors and detractors, major overweight and underweights and portfolio information including purchases and sales.
Market risk Many of the companies in which TEMIT does or may invest are, by reason of the locations in which they operate, exposed to the risk of political or economic change.
In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests may affect its income and the value and marketability of its investments.
Currency fluctuations may also affect the value of its investments and the income derived therefrom, and investors in emerging markets can face settlement and custodial problems.
Furthermore, companies in emerging markets are not always subject to accounting, auditing and financial standards which are equivalent to those applicable in the United Kingdom and there may also be less government supervision and regulation.
These risks can increase the potential for losses in the Company and affect its share price.
For these reasons, a long-term approach to investing in emerging markets is taken.
Emerging markets have, in the past, been subject to greater price volatility and rapid and severe re-pricing than developed markets.
In periods of pronounced volatility, the differential between emerging market stocks, markets and countries decreases.
In such times, the benefits that diversification generally provides are reduced.
Investment risk In addition, the Company may invest a greater portion of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry group than other types of fund investments.
As a result, it may be more sensitive to economic, business, political or other changes affecting similar issues or securities, which may result in greater fluctuation in the value of the portfolio.
Currency risk It is important to recognise the effect of currency movements on TEMITs performance.
In general, if the value of sterling increases compared with a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign currency will decrease in value because it will be worth fewer UK pounds.
This can have a negative effect on fund performance.
Conversely, when, in general, sterling weakens in relation to a foreign currency, investments traded in that foreign currency will increase in value, which can contribute to an improvement in the Companys performance.
Regulatory risk It is also worth noting that the Company operates in a complex regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 would result in the Company being subject to capital gains tax on portfolio investments.
Breaches of other regulations such as the UKLA Listing Rules, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
26 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
