THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors The directors present the audited accounts of the Group The results and performance of the two share classes are and their report for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Full details of each portfolio and the Group comprises TR Property Investment Trust plc the Managers views on the outlook for the coming financial Company and its subsidiaries.
In July 2007 a second year for each share class are covered in the Managers share class was introduced.
The Company therefore had Report for the Ordinary share class on pages 17 to 21 two share classes at 31 March 2009, the Ordinary share and for the Sigma share class on pages 31 to 36. class and the Sigma share class.
The review of the business Ordinary share class of the Company, recent events and outlook are contained Objective and Strategy within the Chairmans Statement, on pages 6 to 10, which The objective of the Ordinary share class of TR Property forms part of this Report of the Directors by reference.
Investment Trust plc is to maximise the shareholders total Status returns by investing in property shares and property on an The Company is an investment company, as defined in international basis.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and operates as As at 31 March 2009, 70.1% of the Ordinary share class an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the net assets were invested in Pan-European listed property Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is required to securities, 14.8% in directly owned UK real estate and the seek HM Revenue & Customs approval of its status as an balance in cash.
investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 842 every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
The Ordinary share class portfolio is total return focused HM Revenue & Customs approval of the Companys status and future growth and capital appreciation potential is as an investment trust has been received in respect of the generally regarded more highly than immediate initial year ended 31 March 2008.
The directors are of the yield or discount to asset value.
The investment selection opinion that the Company has subsequently conducted its process seeks to identify well managed companies of all affairs in a manner which will enable it to continue to gain sizes, especially those with a focus on a particular type of such approval.
The Company has no employees and the real estate business.
The investment policies are close company provisions do not apply.
Share capital The Ordinary share class is a dedicated investor in real At 31 March 2009, the Company has two classes of share: estate and real estate securities and will continue to Ordinary shares of 25 pence each and Sigma shares of adhere to this strategy.
The Ordinary shares represent 80.5% Revenue and Dividends and the Sigma shares represent 19.5% of the total issued 2009 2008 Change share capital.
The shares are in registered form.
Revenue earnings Business Review per share 6.49p 5.79p 12.1% The following review is designed to provide information Dividends per share 5.75p 5.60p 2.7% primarily about the Companys business and results for Total losses per share, which include capital losses on the year ended 31 March 2009 and covers: investments, amounted to -88.22p per share.
Objective and Strategy The capital loss of 94.71p per share was reflective of the Revenue and Dividends performance of the property equity market through the Capital Return period which is covered in detail in the Managers Report.
Property Valuation Performance Measurement KPI Revenue earnings have increased by 12.1%.
A significant Share Buy-back Activity contributor to this was the one-off refund of VAT Financial Instruments and Management of Risk incorrectly charged on prior year management fees, full Management Arrangements and Fees details of this are given in note 13 to the accounts on Basis of Accounting and IFRS pages 80 and 81.
Environmental Policy 48 TR Property Investment Trust
