Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review This Business Review provides shareholders and other readers with information about the Companys business and results in 2009 and looks forward to the year ahead.
It is divided into two sections: Corporate and Investment.
CORPORATE SECTION Management Arrangements Corporate Section Objectives and Strategy As already mentioned, the Witans objective is to be the first management of Witans portfolio is Objectives and Strategy choice for wealth creation through outsourced to third party fund Management Arrangements equity investment.
From an managers around the world.
Witans The Witan Benchmark investment perspective this means in-house executive management Dividend Policy that Witan will seek to outperform team manages and controls these Share Buy-Backs and Discount the global stock markets represented relationships, selects new managers Policy by its benchmark consistently, when a change is appropriate, runs Debt and Gearing Policy adding value in the long term for its Witan Investment Services and Key Performance Indicators investors.
In addition Witan seeks to advises the Board on all relevant Management Team Changes attract new investors to buy the investment and business matters.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Trusts shares in order to provide Witan Investment Services ongoing liquidity for shareholders.
Changes to the investment manager Refund of VAT line-up during the year are referred Priorities for 2010 Witan aims to outperform by using to in greater detail in the a multi-manager investment Investment Section on pages 10 to Investment Section page 10 structure.
This allows us to select 16, along with other investment Investment Policy fund managers from around the issues.
Our chosen managers are Portfolio Review world often where the fund summarised on pages 18 and 19, Investment Managers manager is not otherwise available with a brief description of each.
Manager Review to the UK investor.
Outlook Witan has also appointed third Witans Multi-Manager Approach Your Board pays close attention to parties for the various supporting Our Current Managers the control of risk and this is clearly services it requires including: An Evolving Process particularly relevant given recent years economic and market BNP Paribas Securities Services SA uncertainties.
However, the Board is BPSS for global custody and at the same time mindful that risk for investment accounting and needs to be embraced in order to administration, and plan generate investment return and administrator for the Jump CTF enhance performance.
We will Henderson Secretarial Services therefore consider employing Limited for company secretarial innovative investment techniques services and diverse asset classes if, and Equiniti Limited as plan when, these are deemed appropriate.
administrators of Witan Investment trusts can borrow in Wealthbuilder order to improve performance in Towers Watson for manager rising markets and Witan has research and performance analysis.
110 million of long term debt including preference shares which From time to time, and as required, it can deploy or neutralise with cash Witan also procures professional balances according to our view of advice in the areas of legal, the future outlook for markets.
compliance, investment consulting, financial and tax advice.
6 Annual Report 2009 Witans aim is to provide the best 40% FTSE All-Share Index The level of share buy-backs during possible return to shareholders.
20% FTSE All-World North America 2009 is referred to in detail in the With this in mind, your Board Index Chairmans Statement.
This activity applies strict controls to costs.
20% FTSE All-World Europe ex UK not only generated an increase in net Expenditure is only undertaken Index asset value per share of 0.8% but also when necessary and relevant or 20% FTSE All-World Asia Pacific helped to reduce our discount which when a specific project has been Index.
Our identified which is likely to achieve average discount during the year a profitable return for the original The benchmark does not drive the was 11.2%.
Although, along with other portfolio structure nor the specific funds, we have seen our TER allocation of mandates to managers In addition to share buy-backs, increase as a result of falling asset but it does provide a marker for the Witan operates an ongoing values, at 0.98% it is below the long term performance of the marketing programme designed average for the investment trust Company.
Over shorter periods, to stimulate demand for, and sector.
performance can be expected to encourage new investment into, the vary, sometimes considerably, from Companys shares.
This programme Since November 2005 the Company that of the benchmark.
reaches out to private and has had a lease on office premises at professional investors and to 14 Queen Annes Gate, London Dividend Policy financial advisers and intermediaries SW1H 9AA.
The Companys The Board has declared a second using a blend of targeted marketing registered office is at 201 Bishopsgate, interim dividend of 6.2 pence per disciplines.
share, to be paid to shareholders on about our marketing programme 1 April 2010, making a total can be found on pages 78 and 79.
The Companys policy towards its distribution for the year of 10.5 employees is to attract and retain pence 2008: 10.2 pence.
This is the Debt and Gearing Policy staff with the particular skills and 35th consecutive year that the As already mentioned, Witan has expertise required to manage the annual dividend has increased and long term debt consisting of affairs of an investment trust underlines the Companys ongoing debentures, secured bonds and company.
The Group has no specific intention to increase dividend preference share capital which is policies in respect of environmental income for shareholders at least in detailed in note 13 on page 57.
We or social and community affairs.
can deploy or neutralise the gearing effect of this debt with cash balances The Witan Benchmark Share Buy-Backs and Discount Policy according to our view of the future Your Companys benchmark is a Your Board places great importance outlook for markets.
In March we quantitative representation of what on the need to provide liquidity in took up a special opportunity to buy shareholders can expect in the long Witans shares to the market place.
back 30 million of our long term term from an investment in Witan Shareholders should be able to sell debt at a relatively low premium both in terms of the underlying Witan shares at a price that reflects cost of 2 million.
Although this investment structure of the prevailing market value while involved a one-off charge to net portfolio and in performance.
It potential new shareholders should assets, there was an immediate enables the aims of your Company be able to invest when they wish to reduction in our interest bill which to be encapsulated succinctly do so.
Shares are bought back when is evidenced by the decrease in the without the need for a detailed they stand at a significant discount finance charge from 9.9 million in description.
It is an equity with the objective, subject to market 2008 to 8.3 million in 2009. benchmark, although your Board conditions, of keeping the discount reserves the right to invest in other to net asset value at less than 10%.
Key Performance Indicators assets if it deems it to be This policy has the impact of Your Board assesses its performance appropriate, for better performance improving net asset value per share, in meeting the Companys objective or capital preservation.
Since improving liquidity and bringing the against the following key 1 October 2007 the benchmark share price closer to that of net asset performance indicators: has been: value all other things being equal.
7 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued net asset value total return financial services and savings market.
strategy for example, in terms of total shareholder return These issues are reviewed at least asset allocation or the level of investment performance annually by the Board and include gearing may lead to compared with the benchmark scrutiny of investment policies, the underperformance against the annual dividend growth role of marketing and the Witan Companys benchmark index and discount to net asset value Wealthbuilder savings schemes as compared with the companies in its the level of buy-back activity well as wider industry trends.
It may also result in the total expense ratio Companys shares trading on a growth in the number of private The Groups key risks fall broadly wider discount.
The Board seeks to investors.
under the following categories: manage these risks by setting an appropriate asset allocation, Witans performance in 2009 against Market and portfolio ensuring a diversification of the above parameters is shown on Witan is essentially a vehicle for UK investment managers and page 2.
Most of the parameters are and overseas equity investment.
The investments and a regular review of addressed in the Chairmans Board is unlikely, in normal these aspects, alongside the extent Statement on pages 3 to 5.
The Board conditions, to allow the invested of borrowings.
also reviews both absolute and level to drop below 80%.
Therefore relative volatility and risk statistics the prime risk of investing in Witan During the year Robert Clarke and for the portfolio and evaluates is a fall in equity prices.
Mark Lynam managed the overall employee performance.
business and investment portfolio The other generic risks associated in accordance with limits and Management Team Changes with any international equity restrictions determined by the The Chairmans Statement on pages portfolio are those of strategy and of Board.
These include limits on the 3 to 5 explains the management country, currency, industrial sector, extent to which borrowings may be changes which have taken place.
The Board reviews regularly Robert Clarke has been Chief risks associated with the choice of the matters delegated to executive Executive Officer CEO managers.
Your Board seeks to management and the CEO confirms throughout the financial year and manage these risks through: compliance at each Board meeting.
in 2010 until Andrew Bell started Directors are provided with as CEO on 8 February 2010.
Mark appropriate decisions regarding comprehensive management Lynam was Chief Investment asset allocation information covering many aspects Officer CIO in 2009 until regular reviews of the competency of the business including 1 November, since when he has and stock selection skills of fund investment performance data, continued to advise the Company managers financial reports and shareholder on a consultancy basis.
The Board reviews outlook, geo-political investment strategy at each Board Principal Risks and Uncertainties environment and stock market meeting and monitors the The Board has summarised the key conditions around the world implementation and results of the risks to the Group in a risk matrix the application of relevant policies investment process with the CEO.
The risks relating to on gearing and liquidity.
The CEO regularly reviews reports Witans subsidiary company, Witan and data which monitor the various Investment Services Limited WIS, The multi-manager structure of the risk factors in respect of the are separately recorded.
The portfolio means that from a risk point portfolio.
respective documents are reviewed of view we are less dependent on one and updated regularly by the relevant investment manager than with a Corporate governance and shareholder Board of directors.
relations Details of the Companys compliance The Board is conscious that it must Risk issues are further referred to in with corporate governance best regularly review the nature of its note 14 on pages 57 to 63. practice, including information on objective and corporate strategy to relations with shareholders, are set ensure that both remain relevant and Investment activity and strategy out in the Corporate Governance appropriate in a rapidly changing An inappropriate investment Statement on pages 28 to 34.
8 Annual Report 2009 Operational and regulatory risks are comply with the UK Listing control, are explained further in the regularly and extensively reviewed Authoritys Listing Rules and internal control section of the by Witans Audit Committee.
WIS Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
A Corporate Governance Statement on and its marketing activities are breach of the Companies Act could pages 33 and 34. regulated by the Financial Services result in the Company and or the Authority and the subsidiary is directors being fined or becoming the Witan Investment Services WIS subject to its own operating rules subject of criminal proceedings.
Witan Investment Services Limited and regulations.
Your Board takes Breach of the UKLA Rules could is a wholly owned subsidiary of its own regulatory responsibilities result in the suspension of the Witan Investment Trust plc.
It was very seriously and reviews the main Companys shares which would in established in March 2005 and is points of compliance against turn lead to a breach of section 842. authorised and regulated by the requirements on a quarterly basis.
The Board relies on the CEO, the FSA to provide investment products Your Board also takes corporate, Company Secretary and the Groups and services.
legal, accounting and tax advice as professional advisers to ensure appropriate.
compliance with the Companies Act WIS has two discernible channels of and the UKLA Rules.
WIS is income by which its performance Operationally, the multi-manager regulated by the Financial Services may be judged.
These are firstly structure is a robust one as each of Authority for the marketing and revenues from transaction fees and the investment managers, the administration of savings plans.
annual management charges custodian and the fund accountants These plans are administered on relating to its savings plan business keep their own records which are behalf of WIS by Equiniti Limited and, secondly, executive reconciled on a monthly basis.
The operation of the management and marketing fees Management monitors the savings plans is monitored closely by paid by its corporate clients, Witan activities of all third parties and the Board of WIS and by the member Investment Trust plc and Witan reports any significant issues to the of staff appointed as Compliance Pacific Investment Trust plc.
obligations and indemnification The platform provides savings plans provisions have been put in place The Company continues to monitor to WIS clients and is marketed under with each of the third party the progress of the draft Alternative the Witan Wealthbuilder and Jump service providers.
It currently has over 29,611 Directive through the European customers with assets of some 192 Accounting, legal and regulatory policy making process.
The major costs In order to qualify as an investment directly and via membership of the incurred by WIS are its fees to trust the Company must comply Association of Investment Equiniti Limited, the administrators with section 842 of the Income and Companies AIC, the Company is of the Witan Wealthbuilder platform, Corporation Taxes Act 1988 section working to ensure that any adverse and to BPSS for the Jump CTF.
842, to which reference is made on effects on the closed end funds page 22 under the heading Status.
Administration A breach of section 842 could result We have recently taken the decision in the Company losing investment Operational to change our arrangements for the trust status and, as a consequence, Many of the Groups operations are administration of Witans savings capital gains realised within the outsourced to third parties, schemes.
This will involve a Companys portfolio would be principally BPSS.
Disruption to, or significant migration project to a new subject to Corporation Tax.
The failure of, the accounting, payment administrator during 2010.
Once the section 842 criteria are monitored by systems or custody records operated process has been completed we the CEO.
The Company must by BPSS could prevent the accurate believe that the standard of service comply with the provisions of the reporting and monitoring of the will be greatly enhanced.
Companies Act 2006 the Companys financial position.
Details Companies Act, and, as the of how the Board monitors the WIS overall aim is to stimulate Companys shares are listed for services provided by BPSS and its demand for the shares of Witan and trading on the London Stock other suppliers, and the key elements Witan Pacific.
Exchange, the Company must designed to provide effective internal 9 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued Its objectives are: us in February 2010, as referred to these can offer the scope for to operate a reliable and efficient elsewhere in this report.
investment savings platform for Company has also enlisted the Witan and Witan Pacific investors services of a leading firm of INVESTMENT SECTION to minimise the operating costs investment consultants to strengthen Investment Policy for Witan Investment Trust our performance analysis and Witan invests primarily in global to seek sources of revenue to investment manager research equities: the minimum equity level generate a profit.
The Board is prepared to consider alternative Refund of VAT Witans portfolio is well-diversified investments when appropriate.
During the year we received from both geographically and at the stockHM Revenue & Customs all the VAT selection level, with our range of The Company has the power under on management fees borne by the managers giving a spread of styles as its Articles of Association to borrow Trust in the period 1990 to 1996 well as protecting against undue up to 100% of the adjusted total of and the balance of the VAT on volatility if a particular managers capital and reserves.
Essentially management fees borne by the Trust performance departs significantly this allows the Board to seek to in the period 2000 to 2007.
In 2010, the issues improve performance through recovered amounts in total to that will remain our principal focus gearing by borrowing amounts 3,264,000.
We also received simple include: equivalent in value to interest of 1,191,000 on this shareholders funds.
In summary, the total having an appropriate strategic Board would not, other than in recognised over three years in the asset allocation to reflect themes exceptional circumstances, allow Income Statement, and now received and opportunities arising from gearing as defined on page 2 to rise in full, amounts to 4,455,000, of changes in the world economy to more than 20%.
Over the past which 2,233,000 was included in selecting and monitoring suitable five years it has varied between 0% the year under review.
managers to deliver our strategic and 15% while, occasionally, the objectives while taking proper Company has held a small net cash Priorities for 2010 account of risk control position.
At the end of 2009, the 2009s major challenge was how to responding to tactical Company had in place 110 adapt to a rapidly changing opportunities that may arise to million of long term debt economic environment and ensure improve returns or to moderate equivalent to 10.8% of that Witan was positioned to capture risk shareholders funds, although fully the recovery in equity markets.
aiming to maintain dividend effective gearing was less than this, The objective in 2010 is to continue growth ahead of inflation owing to offsetting cash.
to navigate through the current Improving the style and content rough but at least economically more of our website which has been Investment risk is managed through: predictable waters to add value for newly launched, with regular the selection of diverse our shareholders.
investment comment from our investment managers with CEO different mandates During 2009, the Company took the delivering a good service to Witan the adoption of a global decision to shift the balance of Investment Services clients, both geographic benchmark, ensuring resources in the executive team more corporate and individual diversity in the direction of investment seeking business development monitoring of investment management, reacting to the opportunities where Witans manager performance and increased volatility in the economic multi-manager expertise can be portfolios and market environment since applied beneficially.
monitoring of asset allocation, summer 2008.
This shift took the currency exposures and gearing form of the recruitment of a new In summary, we aim to retain the levels.
Chief Executive, Andrew Bell, whose advantages of our diversified and 22 years in the City have been spent risk-controlled approach to equity During the year the Company specialising in investment strategy markets while adapting to strategic invested its assets with a view to and asset allocation.
Andrew joined and tactical opportunities where spreading investment risk and in 10 Annual Report 2009 accordance with the investment concessions.
With hindsight a key importantly, across a range of policy as set out above.
In turning point was the Central managers.
As expected in a multiparticular it has maintained a Banks combined and co-ordinated manager portfolio, individual diversified portfolio in terms of intervention, including the Bank manager returns vary: however stocks, sectors and geography.
The of England announcing on more than half the managers portfolio has been actively 5 March a 75 billion asset outperformed their respective managed by the investment purchasing programme what we benchmarks and, along with the managers, under the direction of now know as quantitative easing, decision to gear the portfolio from Witans executive team.
The while cutting base rates to 0.5%, February onwards, the overall result directors have received regular the lowest level since 1695.
From is that the Company enjoyed a reports on investment activity and this point all markets staged NAV total return of 25.9%, portfolio construction, both at and substantial recoveries but it is outperforming the Witan outwith the regular meetings of interesting to note that most benchmark which returned 24.5%.
emerging markets outperformed developed markets and the Witan is predominantly equity based Portfolio Review dominance of the biggest countries but the remit does also allow 2009 was a remarkable year as by stock market capitalisation, investment in other areas when markets confounded the majority namely the US, Japan and the UK, considered appropriate.
Corporate of commentators and, after a has diminished further.
These bonds, specifically the higher quality depressing first quarter during three combined represented 73% investment grade credit bonds, were which global stock markets fell as of the MSCI AC Index seven years one such investment we made in much as 20%, the direction was ago, but by the end of 2009 this early 2009 via the PIMCO Global relentlessly upwards, culminating had shrunk to 59% source: SG Credit Bond Fund.
Our judgement in a return of 19.6% for the FTSE Research.
The counterbalancing was that the corporate bond market World Index.
The widely feared effect is that China and Brazil have had been overly depressed during the depression did not materialise and both seen big increases in their credit crisis.
As credit conditions during the second half of the year weight, along with commodity improved through the year and some earnings reports were positive, rich countries such as Australia.
normality returned, prices did indeed mainly due to deep cost cutting by recover substantially.
As the year progressed In order to capture these changing decision to sell the holding in the investors risk appetite returned global dynamics your Witan PIMCO fund in December 2009, and markets were supported by portfolio is well diversified across benefiting from a rise of 19.1% low interest rates and fiscal regional stock markets and, during the period held.
Performance for 2009 Performance since multi-manager inception 140 180 130 160 120 140 110 120 100 100 90 80 80 Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Dec Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 Share price total return Share price total return Benchmark total return Benchmark total return NAV total return at par NAV total return at par Source: Lipper from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2009 Source: Lipper from 30 September 2004 to 31 December 2009 11 Indexed Performance Indexed Performance Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued The table below shows the current investment management arrangements: Equity mandate Investment manager Benchmark total return Investment style UK mid-large Henderson Global Investors FTSE 350 ex investment Enhanced index companies UK Artemis FTSE All-Share Recovery special situations UK Marathon FTSE All-Share Capital cycles UK smaller companies Henderson Global Investors Hoare Govett Smaller Growth at an attractive Companies ex investment price companies Global Southeastern Asset FTSE All-World Value Management Global MFS International FTSE All-World Growth at an attractive price Global Thomas White International FTSE All-World Fundamental research Continental Europe Wellington Management FTSE World Europe Fundamental research Company ex UK Europe inc UK Varenne FTSE All-World Value Developed Europe North America Henderson Global Investors FTSE World North America Enhanced index Japan Brandes Investment Partners FTSE Japan Value Asia Pacific ex Japan Comgest FTSE All-World Asia ex Fundamental Japan Australia New Zealand research Australasia Orbis Investment Management FTSE Australia Value Amongst the individual managers strategies do not benefit from shorter are subject to a cap in respect of each Orbis, managing some 2% of assets, term volatility.
Each agreement can in Australia, was the best performing, be terminated on one months up 76.2% in sterling terms, whilst Investment Managers notice, with one exception.
Two of the biggest manager contribution to As listed above, the portfolio consists the investment mandates are fund overall portfolio performance was of 13 separate mandates managed by vehicles.
One of these is not subject produced by one of our global 11 different fund management firms.
to a specific investment management managers, Southeastern Asset agreement as it is in effect a direct Management, who account for 15% Each of the managers is entitled to a investment.
However, the relevant of assets, up 28.9% in sterling terms.
base management fee, calculated terms are similar to what is described Both these managers are value according to the value of the assets above.
investors whilst the quality growth under management, and or a managers such as MFS and Comgest performance fee, calculated The base management fee rates range posted respectable absolute returns, according to investment from nil to 0.94 per cent per annum of 20% and over 30% respectively, performance, over a rolling three year and the performance fees range from but failed to match their regional period, relative to the benchmark nil to 25 per cent per annum of the benchmarks.
These latter managers applicable to the relevant investment relevant outperformance.
All the fees tend to underperform during swift mandate.
With three exceptions, the are payable quarterly in arrears.
The market upswings that follow fees for each of the segregated performance fees are payable on a exaggerated falls as their investment investment management agreements pro rata basis, after a minimum 12 Annual Report 2009 initial period of one year, and after The investment managers may use tide of doom and gloom, three years are calculated on a rolling certain services which are paid for, or Henderson was able to take three year basis.
In advantage of the bounce in cyclical return they may place business, companies such as the engineering The average aggregate base including transactions relating to the company Weir Pumps and Hays the management fee, including the Company, with these brokers.
The portfolio investments in pooled vehicles, benefited from this exposure but as calculated on a size-weighted basis Manager Review the recovery came through and according to the value of the funds The table below shows the valuations normalised Henderson under management, was 0.30 per performance of the individual gradually reduced this bias.
They are cent as at 31 December 2009 and equity managers for 2009 and also mindful of the risks facing the UK 0.28 per cent as at 31 December since inception compared with their economy but also believe there will 2008.
The investment in the fund respective benchmarks.
Our UK continue to be opportunities across covering Australasia is subject to managers in aggregate outperformed a wide spectrum of stocks.
Artemis uncapped performance fees of 20% the FTSE All-Share Index with did especially well in the first half of of outperformance.
Excluding this Hendersons Enhanced Index the year as the manager repositioned investment, the maximum approach and Artemis active the portfolio towards oversold performance fees payable, if each management both comfortably stocks, especially in the financial of the other investment mandates ahead.
Henderson UK Enhanced and oil sectors.
They also moved performs to at least the extent that Index Portfolio produced a very down the market capitalisation scale the relevant cap applies, would creditable return some 2% ahead of and bought some distressed smaller result in total fees of 1.12 per cent the index.
However a lack of being paid based on the value of themselves at the beginning of 2009 confidence in the commodities rally the funds under management at with more risk than most, led Artemis to a zero weighting in 31 December 2009. swimming against the prevailing mining stocks which was a negative Performance Performance Benchmark Benchmark for the year ended 31 December 2009 and from Value of % of Witans in the period Performance Performance Performance inception to 31 December 2009 funds under assets under 31.12.08 to 31.12.08 to since inception since inception management management 31.12.09 31.12.09 to 31.12.09 to 31.12.09 Investment Manager m at 31.12.09 at 31.12.09 % % % annualised % annualised Henderson Global Investors UK mid-large 169.6 15.5 31.7 29.6 8.0 7.5 B Artemis Investment Management UK 87.4 8.0 32.0 30.1 3.7 -4.1 F Marathon Asset Management UK 80.3 7.3 26.7 30.1 -2.5 -4.1 F Henderson Global Investors UK smaller 34.4 3.1 48.2 60.7 8.7 9.3 A Southeastern Asset Management Global 165.1 15.0 28.9 21.2 6.3 8.5 B MFS International Global 131.8 12.0 20.0 21.2 10.8 8.5 B Thomas White Global 104.6 9.5 17.9 21.2 -0.4 -0.6 D Wellington Management Company Europe 94.1 8.6 30.8 21.8 9.6 11.3 B Varenne Capital Europe 27.8 2.5 18.7 23.5 -7.8 -3.4 E Henderson Global Investors North America 56.0 5.1 15.5 14.8 5.8 5.6 A Brandes Investment Partners Japan 62.2 5.7 -8.8 -5.8 5.0 3.6 B Comgest Asia Pacific ex Japan 65.8 6.0 34.5 54.9 7.4 7.4 C Orbis Australasia 19.1 1.7 76.2 58.0 8.3 6.5 C excluding cash balances held centrally by Witan and the unquoted investments.
13 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued for the portfolio as the cyclical rally 2008.
The Henderson North In contrast companies in the and the China effect led to strong America Enhanced portfolio Varenne portfolio performed well share price gains in this sector.
By investment strategy seeks to add with none of them needing bail the close of the year the Artemis value through a mix of fundamental outs or public aid.
portfolio was ahead of the FTSE Alland technical strategies and all four Share Index but the margin had of their investment strategies Japan has been a most disappointing been reduced.
Artemis continues to contributed positively.
For example market and in fact was the only be cautious about the more cyclical fundamental stock picking focused major market to fall adjusted in areas of the market.
It favours on companies that would weather 2009.
Brandes, being a bottom up overseas earners expecting growth the economic crisis and emerge with stockpicker seeks to buy and hold in the emerging economies to be enhanced prospects, such as undervalued companies on a 3 to 5 somewhat greater than the UK over Dreamwork Animation and year view, over which time they almost any period.
Current Artemis Emerson, an industrial company expect the intrinsic value to be investments include Sterling Energy, with exposure to key areas such as recognised by the wider market an oil exploration company with energy efficiency and emerging resulting in capital appreciation.
In interests in Kurdistan and markets.
Elsewhere the event driven 2009 the portfolio benefited from Cameroon.
strategies benefited from several holdings in semi-conductors and cash deals such as Pfizers $65bn equipment industry such as Tokyo Marathon had a poor 2009 by its acquisition of Wyeth.
standards but remains ahead since Elsewhere declines in consumer being appointed.
Lack of exposure The European portion of the finance stocks such as Promise to cyclical companies and a portfolio portfolio is managed by two Company and Okumura more defensively positioned in separate investment houses.
construction and engineering stocks which had performed well in Wellington had a very strong year resulted in an overall return the downturn was the main factor.
A contrarian approach marginally below the Japan index Marathon continues to be which emphasises trawling the over the course of the year.
concerned about upside risks in markets for misunderstood interest rates at a time when there is companies and mispriced stocks In Asia Pacific ex Japan, Comgests also likely to be a depressing impact was rewarded with a return some conservative style was beneficial in of rising taxes on the economy.
2008 but not in 2009 as the regions Their portfolio positioning retains a Whilst valuations are not as extreme markets rallied strongly.
In absolute bias towards defensive stocks at the as in early 2009 they believe terms a return of 34.5% lagged expense of cyclicals.
opportunities still remain in certain the broader index return of over cyclical areas such as media, 50%.
We have already The exposure to UK smaller including stocks such as Havas, mentioned Orbis, which produced a companies via a specialist small cap Lagardere and Mondadori.
Their return of 76.2% reflecting a portfolio managed by Henderson preference for strong balance sheets bounce back from depressed was positive for the portfolio allows them to take some cyclical valuations of 2008.
Describing itself returning 48.2%, despite the fact risk while taking less financial risk.
as contrarian and therefore tending that the manager underperformed Witans other European manager, to buy shares that are disliked and his dedicated small cap benchmark.
Varenne, is a very different type of out of favour has proved very Late in the year we reduced our manager, running a concentrated rewarding with stocks such as Caltex, exposure to UK smaller companies portfolio of 10 stocks.
Its stock the largest holding in the Orbis in recognition of their strong run selection process is very close to the portfolio, being a strong performer.
and the fact that their valuation due diligence of a private equity characteristics relative to larger investor, seeking out only Our trio of global managers are free UK companies had become less companies with, in their opinion, to pick stocks actively on a attractive.
After Varenne performed solidly but in a disappointing period for Turning overseas and firstly to the the second half lagged the broader Southeastern Asset Management US market our manager, Henderson, index which was led by highly SEAM, its style and patience were enjoyed a successful 2009, cyclical stocks in industries, many rewarded in 2009.
This Memphis mitigating the underperformance of of which had received public aid.
based manager had expressed 14 Annual Report 2009 confidence in the stocks it held Chesapeake Energy, and Dell.
Only underexposed to the more highly during difficult times and the result NipponKoa and Sompo materially volatile stocks that benefited from in 2009 was a portfolio that detracted from returns.
Whilst the the US authorities aggressive materially outperformed the FTSE returns of 2009 reflected excessively intervention policies during this All-World benchmark for the year.
cheap prices moving to more period.
As the risk of further At the beginning of 2009, SEAM normal levels, we are encouraged disruption to the financial system faced a decision of whether or not to that SEAM believe the underlying subsided and the global economic hold onto companies whose prices holdings in the Witan portfolio are outlook improved, the portfolio was were acutely punished in the macrowell positioned for significant value rebalanced.
For example, the driven market crisis of 2008.
It growth over the next several years.
emerging market exposure rose to reassessed the cases for all of its 16.2% at the end of the year from a holdings and held onto those long Thomas White is a global manager starting level of 9.8%.
term business franchises that they based in Chicago and follows a more believed were competitively broadly diversified approach than Our third global equity manager, positioned to endure the economic SEAM.
Its portfolio moderately MFS, was substantially ahead of the slowdown.
The result was that most lagged the FTSE All-World benchmark index in 2008 thanks to of the stocks in the Witan portfolio benchmark, largely because it did not its preference for high quality stocks.
added to returns this year.
Among fully participate in the swift rally in Whilst 2009 was not an ideal the largest contributors were the the US and Asia in the second backdrop for its style, it performed very names that drove quarter.
As a consequence of creditably and was only marginally underperformance in 2008, concerns about further downside risk shy of the FTSE All-World index.
including: Sun Microsystems, following 2008, the Thomas White Liberty Media, Ingersoll-Rand, portfolio was deliberately Portfolio Weighting Name Sector minus Benchmark Weighting Top 10 Overweight positions at 31 December 2009 DirecTV Consumer Services 1.63 Walt Disney Consumer Services 1.34 Fairfax Financial Financials 1.31 Accor Consumer Services 1.08 Yum!
Brands Consumer Services 1.01 Cheung Kong Financials 0.95 ACS Actividades Industrials 0.89 Chesapeake Energy Oil & Gas 0.87 Dell Technology 0.83 Philips Electronics Consumer Goods 0.78 Top 10 Underweight positions at 31 December 2009 HSBC Financials -1.43 BP Oil & Gas -1.10 Royal Dutch Shell Oil & Gas -0.80 Vodafone Telecoms -0.79 Anglo American Basic Materials -0.48 British American Tobacco Consumer Goods -0.47 Rio Tinto Basic Materials -0.44 Total Oil & Gas -0.44 Telefonica Telecoms -0.42 Banco Santander Financials -0.41 Source of both tables: BNP Paribas Securities Services and Style Research as at 31 December 2009 15 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued Stock selection in basic materials and Despite the risks, there is an weighing machine.
We are seeking energy along with an underweight encouraging theme running through managers who can capture the position in financial services were our managers commentaries.
This is longer term growth rewards from negatives.
Conversely, stock selection founded on developing economies equity investment while mitigating in retailing and industrial goods and experiencing robust recoveries which the shorter term volatility that services contributed positively to are likely to exert a positive influence periodically afflicts markets.
relative performance, as did an on the global economy.
Their growth underweight position in utilities and is not inhibited by Western style Central to this approach is the idea of communications.
MFS has been high levels of government and balance.
Just as exposure to a single closely monitoring shifts within the private debt.
Given this latter market or a small number market and taking advantage of positive influence and the likelihood of investments can lead to volatile relative valuation opportunities as that the era of low interest rates will performance, so can investing with they emerge.
Early in the year it persist for some time, militating a single manager or a group of purchased some economically against holding cash, we currently managers with the same philosophy.
sensitive companies that had expect to remain fully invested and Witans approach aims to balance underperformed due to short term continue to make use of our ability different factors such as value and earnings concerns but continued to to gear.
growth, geographical diversification, have attractive long term prospects concentrated versus widely diversified and valuations.
Examples of those Witans Multi-Manager Approach portfolios or secular growth versus were computer networking company As referred to elsewhere in this cyclical trends with the intention of Cisco Systems and medical report, Witan manages the portfolio smoothing out stylistic fashions and technology companies Alcon and using a multi-manager approach.
profiting from the managers ability Dentsply.
This was adopted in 2004, in the to outperform over time.
belief that no single investment The table on page 15 provides manager was likely to excel in all Our Current Managers information about the portfolios asset classes over economic cycles or The tables on pages 12 and 13 give top 10 overweightings and longer time periods.
Therefore, a summary of the range of styles underweightings.
seeking to employ managers to amongst our current investment invest in their areas of greatest managers, the proportion of Witans Outlook competence has the potential both portfolio they manage and their 2010 is expected to unfold with a to improve returns and to reduce risk performance over the past year and muted recovery in the developed relative to using a single manager since appointment.
On pages 18 and economies, which are debt laden to across the investment waterfront.
19 further information is given record degrees.
For example, in the about the managers history, the UK it is now predicted that the The Board and the executive total amount of investments they public sector borrowing requirement team are responsible for setting the manage and their investment PSBR will exceed 170 billion portfolios asset allocation, approach.
These are intended to give this financial year and national debt choosing a suitable range of a sense of the investment will rise to over 77% of GDP by 2015 managers to use their stock infrastructure and dynamics source: HM Treasury.
The big selection skills to implement the underlying the management of the question is how this debt in the strategy, designing appropriate portfolio.
Western economies will be serviced, incentives and monitoring especially once Central Banks end performance against targets.
An Evolving Process quantitative easing policies that Witans multi-manager approach has have purchased substantial Witan selects its managers from evolved in stages from its pre 2004 quantities of government debt.
amongst those whose processes, model as a Company with a single Although rising yields would be a principles and performance manager.
Our investment processes negative for markets, governments commend them as long term are focused on continuing to adapt and central banks seem likely to custodians of investors wealth.
This to structural changes and themes in continue to adopt policies to fits with a fundamental dictum of the global economy while being nurture the nascent economic equity investment, that in the short resilient against the shorter term recovery.
term markets are a voting machine influences of economic cycles and but in the long term they are a investment fads.
