Business Chief Executives Review Review A year of transformation Centricas underlying operating performance in 2009 demonstrated resilience in a year of sustained economic downturn and weak commodity prices.
Sam Laidlaw, Chief Executive The liberalised UK energy market has proved central to the delivery 2009 was a year of significant of secure energy supplies over the past 20 years, while ensuring the UK benefits from the lowest domestic gas prices in Western Europe.
achievement for Centrica with The strength of this model was demonstrated when the market coped British Gas now transformed well with days of record demand through the winter of 2009-10. and the completion of the Venture However, there is no room for complacency.
Since 2004, the UK has been a net importer of gas, and imports accounted for approximately and British Energy transactions.
50% of this past winters demand.
That figure is likely to reach 75% by 2015 and securing sustainable sources of energy supply for our Our existing strategic priorities UK customers is one of our key priorities.
Many in the industry predict an energy gap in the middle of the have now been achieved, and in decade when coal-fired and oil-fired power stations close because February 2010 we announced new of European pollution laws and as ageing nuclear power stations are phased out.
We must bridge that gap by moving quickly to build priorities to build on the robust, new gas and nuclear power stations and gas storage facilities.
vertically integrated business Ofgem, the energy regulator, has acknowledged the 200 billion investment challenge the UK faces, if we are to maintain energy model that we have in place.
security and start to decarbonise our economy to meet global 2050 Centrica is well positioned to carbon targets.
That will inevitably have an impact on the cost of energy for consumers, though higher bills can be eased by pursue growth opportunities continuing to invest in improving the energy efficiency of our homes and businesses.
and lead the drive to a low carbon The energy industry is ready to play its part in delivering the world, whilst maintaining the investment needed, as long as the Government and regulator can financial discipline to secure establish the right market frameworks.
Centrica, for example, has invested more than 4 billion in the last year alone in new sources strong returns on our investments.
of energy for our customers and we expect to spend a further 15 billion by 2020 on new sources of gas, power generation and gas storage facilities that will help underpin the UKs energy future.
Energy industry overview Centricas performance Our strong performance over the last year has come against a very 2009 was a year of significant achievement for Centrica.
The challenging backdrop of severe recession and continuing volatility in acquisition of Venture in August and the transaction with EDF to wholesale energy prices.
acquire a 20% equity stake in British Energy in November means that we now have a more robust and integrated business model, which Eighteen months ago, high oil, gas and power prices provided a enables us to meet a greater proportion of our customers energy strong signal to producers to continue investment in energy needs from our own sources.
These are long-term acquisitions, infrastructure.
It was a time of high energy usage by retail consumers concluded in a low commodity price environment, creating an and gas-fired power generation due to global economic growth.
upstream division that is now a growth business in its own right.
The impact of the recession led to a fall in demand for gas and Downstream, we have continued to make improvements to the electricity in both Europe and North America, an excess supply of service and propositions we offer to our customers.
We are focusing gas and a resultant weakening of spot prices, leading to a reduction on delivering a range of new propositions and energy efficient in upstream investment.
solutions to help customers manage their energy bills.
We will lead the transformation to a low carbon world through the installation of 4 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information To see more online, go to www.
com ceo2009 2009: The key events Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 British Gas first to announce British Gas acquires 19% Centrica acquires Venture Centrica acquires 20% stake gas price cuts for over stake in Econergy, a leader in British Energy, adding Centrica signs agreement on 7.5 million homes in biomass heating nuclear to the portfolio Trinidadian exploration gas block Centrica acquires 70% stake British Gas cuts electricity Centricas 885MW gas-fired Centrica ranked top UK utility in a project to develop the prices by 10% power station at Langage and one of the top utilities UKs second largest gas begins operations Direct Energy secures worldwide for carbon disclosure storage field Massachusetts State energy supply contract smart meters and new technological solutions and energy efficiency transaction to acquire our stake in British Energy.
Our network of highly trained service engineers are well at the time of the interim results in July, we plan to exit the small positioned to deliver this growing range of services.
positions we have in The Netherlands and Spain and we are making progress towards this.
This will allow us to focus our attention on Centricas underlying operating performance in 2009 demonstrated markets where we already have strong positions and where we see resilience in a year of sustained economic downturn and weak good growth prospects.
commodity prices, with the reduction in upstream earnings being offset by a greater downstream contribution.
Strategic progress The completion of the Venture and British Energy transactions, The reduction in wholesale gas prices from their peak in 2008 led together with the improvements made across the organisation, mean to a substantial reduction in operating profit for our upstream UK that we have delivered against the strategic priorities we laid out three business, Centrica Energy, in 2009.
Gas production volumes were years ago: 29% lower year-on-year, as we decided to preserve the value of our gas reserves by reducing production from the Morecambe fields.
Transform British Gas This short-term earnings impact was partially offset by a strong 2.
Sharpen the organisation and reduce costs financial performance from our combined cycle gas turbine CCGT 3.
Reduce risk through increased integration fleet, which benefited from favorable clean spark spreads.
Build on our growth platforms CCGT power station at Langage is now operational and including In our downstream UK business, British Gas has undergone the investment in British Energy, Centricas UK power generation considerable change.
We have dramatically improved our service capacity has increased from 4.2 gigawatts GW to 7.1GW.
Centrica levels and operational efficiency, and have significantly reduced Storage continued to perform well, with Rough achieving the highest costs.
As a result, our competitive position is much improved, level of utilisation since it was acquired in 2002. particularly in residential energy, and we have increased profitability Downstream in the UK, British Gas recorded a strong performance, in all parts of the business.
We have combined our downstream underpinned by higher service levels and improved price activities into a single business, and with our unique services competitiveness which led to customer account growth.
Our market capability, strong brand and leading position in energy efficiency leading price reductions in the first half of 2009 for residential energy we are well placed to deliver further growth.
customers, combined with continued strong growth from the services product range, helped us to increase our total product Upstream, the acquisitions of Venture and a 20% equity stake in holdings by 550,000.
We were also able to grow the number of British Energy fundamentally change the shape of the business, customers who take both an energy and a services product from us aligning us more closely with our downstream competitors in the by 164,000, deepening these customers relationship with us which UK.
These acquisitions provide us with further options in our should result in higher retention rates.
Within business energy our investment programme building on our leading positions in offshore retention rates remain high, as we focus on those customers who wind and gas storage.
value the high level of service we provide.
In North America we have a strong downstream position in key deregulated markets and we have materially grown the scale of our The North American business experienced difficult operating business energy division.
We have added gas assets to support the conditions.
The downstream residential energy results were downstream and these, combined with our services presence, give impacted by one-off adjustments totalling 61 million in the year us a strong base to invest for incremental growth and value with the and lower gas and power prices impacted our upstream business.
aim of building an integrated energy business over the medium term.
However, the underlying performance of both our downstream residential and business operations was strong, the latter benefiting As a result of these achievements we have an integrated, well from the Strategic Energy acquisition in 2008.
We continue to see financed business that is positioned to pursue future growth significant growth potential for our North American business and will opportunities.
We will consider a range of investment options across consider opportunities upstream and downstream to build on our our businesses, targeting an appropriate return on investments made.
Our vision remains unchanged To be the leading integrated energy In Europe, we completed the sale of our 51% stake in the Belgian company in our chosen markets.
We have however introduced new business SPE to EDF for 1.2 billion in November, as part of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 Business Chief Executives Review Review continued Our new strategic priorities: 1.
D eliver value from our growing upstream business leading the transition to low carbon homes and businesses by: securing sustainable energy for our customers by: optimising the business to leverage scale for further efficiency being a leading consolidator of mature and orphaned assets in and to deliver best-in-class service: the UK continental shelf: taking the lead in new energy service propositions, online optimisation of the power generation fleet: and capability and servicing multi-premise sites: and o ur unique pipeline of low carbon investment choices including capturing new markets by leading on smart meters, driving wind, new nuclear, gas development and gas storage.
microgeneration adoption and focusing on community segments.
strategic priorities, which will enable the business to move forward initiatives, these give us a strong platform for growth.
We have also and deliver growth.
put in place initiatives to deliver cost reductions in excess of our previously announced target of 100 million, allowing us to re-invest 1.
Grow British Gas in the business as we build on the strength of the British Gas brand.
leading the transition to low carbon homes and businesses And our price reduction in February 2010 made us the cheapest 2.
Deliver value from our growing upstream business major domestic supplier of both gas and electricity to UK customers.
securing sustainable energy for our customers 3.
Build an integrated North American business The current low commodity price environment in 2010 represents with leading positions in deregulated markets a challenge to our upstream UK business, however our flexible 4.
Drive superior financial returns business model remains well placed to capitalise on market through operating performance and our investment choices opportunities and 2010 will see the first full year of contribution from both Venture and British Energy.
Venture has been combined with By capitalising on the distinctive capabilities we have built, these our existing upstream business to create an organisation that has the strategic priorities will help each of our businesses to realise their technical and operating capability to work across a wide range of full potential, as Centrica strives to become the leading integrated geologies and technologies in offshore oil and gas in and around UK, energy company in its chosen markets.
We are now well placed to become Our business model is highly cash generative, enabling us to support the leading consolidator and operator of mature and orphaned gas a capital investment programme of around 1.5 billion per annum from assets in the UK continental shelf.
The operational performance of internally generated resources.
Centrica is therefore well positioned to the British Energy nuclear fleet has been strong, benefiting from the pursue targeted growth opportunities, with options for potential investment made in the plant in recent years and we are already investment across each business.
Strict financial discipline will be engaged with EDF on pre-development studies for the next maintained to secure strong returns on our investments.
generation of nuclear power stations in the UK.
Having brought 15 LNG cargoes to the UK in 2009 we already have Business outlook seven contracted for delivery during 201011.
LNG is likely to provide 2010 has seen a cold start to the year, leading to record demand for an increasing amount of gas to the UK over the next decade as local gas in the UK.
The countrys infrastructure has coped well following production declines, helping to ensure security of supply for the UK.
recent investment by the industry, with demand being met by a In this respect our announcement of an agreement to acquire a combination of local production, pipeline gas, liquefied natural gas share of both existing LNG production and substantial undeveloped LNG and gas from storage.
Our Rough storage facility performed gas reserves in Trinidad and Tobago is significant.
In gas storage, extremely well, supplying around 10% of UK gas demand on each of work continues on our three potential projects, totalling 85 billion the three days in January when National Grid Gas Balancing Alerts cubic feet bcf which would increase existing UK capacity by around were issued.
However, in order to secure the countrys future 50%.
Final investment decisions are planned for the Caythorpe and requirements, we believe that significant further investment and more Baird projects in 2010 and for Bains early in 2011.
Subject to long-term gas contracts are required as local production declines investment approval, Caythorpe is expected to be operational in the and an increasing proportion of gas demand is met through imports.
storage year 201213 with both Baird and Bains operational in the We expect to see continued benefits from bringing our UK residential, storage year 201314. services and business divisions together.
We will seek to increase During 2009 we successfully implemented innovative and efficient further the number of households that hold both an energy and financing structures for a number of our wind farm developments.
related services product, through the selling of bundled propositions, In October we agreed the sale of a 50% equity stake in the Lynn, whilst also expanding our product range as the energy industry moves Inner Dowsing and Glens of Foudland wind farms, together with towards a low carbon future.
We announced our intention to build a the provision of non-recourse financing facilities for these assets.
major smart metering business in July 2009 and in February 2010 we In December we announced a transaction to sell 50% of the announced the creation of 1,100 new green collar roles, through the 270 megawatt MW Lincs offshore wind farm to Siemens Project building of an insulation business.
Combined with the new energy Ventures and Dong Energy and secured enhanced turbines for this technologies we have built up over the past two years and a growing development project.
Going forward it will continue to be important capability of working with local authorities on joint energy saving to ensure that we put in place efficient financing structures for all our 6 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information To see more online, go to www.
com ceo2009 Our new strategic priorities: 3.
B uild an integrated North American business 4.
Drive superior financial returns with leading positions in deregulated markets by: through operating performance and our investment choices by: improving returns from existing business: achieving returns significantly above our cost of capital: developing leading positions in deregulated markets by capturing large profit pools and leveraging services capability: m aintaining a strong balance sheet and leveraging flexibility in our investment portfolio, supported by: investing for incremental growth and value: and a health and safety focused culture, best-in-class service further developing the integrated energy model to reduce levels, focus on costs, leading technology and strong commodity price exposure and deliver value through lower organisational capability.
cost procurement and asset optimisation.
We have submitted planning consent applications for prices, production volumes and downstream consumption levels, we our further projects at Docking Shoal and Race Bank in the Greater have confidence in the robustness of our business model and in the Wash area which combined would add a total of 1.1GW to our wind forward momentum we have created.
In January 2010 we also secured a Round 3 wind farm In difficult trading conditions, set against a backdrop of the most development zone, in the Irish Sea, with a potential capacity of 4.2GW.
serious recession for decades, the commitment and skills of our On the current forward curve coal remains at the margin, with clean employees have helped establish a strong foundation on which to spark spreads remaining above clean dark spreads for much of the build and grow our business.
The Executive team and I have asked year, although spreads have narrowed from the levels seen in 2009. a great deal from our employees in 2009 and they have responded magnificently my thanks to them for the part they have played in The macroeconomic environment in North America is improving, delivering such a strong performance.
with the US economy now out of recession and unemployment beginning to fall, although the wholesale forward prices of gas and In conclusion, I am delighted with the transformational progress that power remain substantially below levels seen at their peak in 2008. we have made during 2009, having successfully delivered against In our North American business, Direct Energy, a new management our strategic priorities laid out three years ago.
Our new priorities team has been appointed and we will focus on improving our returns take the Group forward, building on the robust, vertically integrated from the existing business and assessing further opportunities.
business model that we now have in place.
Centrica is well positioned to deliver growth and lead in a low carbon world with new Direct Energy is well positioned in key deregulated markets and we propositions and services for our customers backed up by new see the potential to build the scale and efficiency of the business.
We will deliver value to shareholders by maintaining will invest for growth and value and further develop the integrated strict financial discipline to secure strong returns on our investments.
Our objective is for Direct Energy to achieve a leading position in deregulated markets, to deliver an increasingly material contribution to Group earnings over the medium term and diversify our geographic earnings profile.
Overall the outlook for 2010 is positive and we are trading in line with expectations, with strong downstream performance offsetting the Sam Laidlaw impact of low gas prices on our upstream businesses.
Whilst the final Chief Executive outturn will depend on a number of factors, including commodity 25 February 2010 Throughout the Operating Review and Group Financial Review, reference is made to a number of different profit measures, which are shown in the table below: 2009 2008 Term m m Explanation Adjusted operating profit : Downstream UK 1,011 712 The supply of gas, electricity and services for UK residential and business customers Upstream UK 525 881 The production, generation, optimisation and trading of energy in the UK Storage UK 168 195 Gas storage in the UK North America 153 215 Downstream and upstream activities in North America Total adjusted operating profit 1,857 2,003 The principal operating profit measure used by management and used throughout the Operating Review Impact of fair value uplifts 27 Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment of Strategic Investments Interest and taxation on joint ventures and associates and other costs 16 11 Group operating profit 1,814 1,992 Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and certain re-measurements Group profit 1,104 964 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and certain re-measurements Statutory profit loss 856 136 Profit loss including discontinued operations, exceptional items and certain re-measurements including joint ventures and associates stated gross of interest and taxation, and before other costs and depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments and exceptional items and certain re-measurements including joint ventures and associates stated net of interest and taxation, and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
