Auditors statement Independent auditors statement to the members of BT Group plc We have examined the Summary financial statement which comprises the Summary group income statement, Summary group cash ow statement and Summary group balance sheet as set out on pages 4 to 5 and the Summary report on directors remuneration as set out on pages 6 to 7.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting in accordance with United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary financial statement within the BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting with the full annual financial statements, the Report of the Directors and the Report on directors remuneration and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made under that section.
We also read the other information contained in the BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the companys full annual financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements and the Report on directors remuneration.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, the Report of the Directors and the Report on directors remuneration of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made under that section.
 LLP, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London, United Kingdom 13 May 2009 Important note and explanations of the Companies Act 1985 and the auditors statement in that Annual Report under section 235 3 whether This Summary financial statement is only a summary of the information contained in BTs consolidated financial statements, directors report is consistent with accounts of that Act was Report of the Directors and Report on directors remuneration as set unqualied.
out in the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2009 Annual Forward-looking statements caution advised Report.
It contains additional information derived from the Report of the Directors in the Annual Report, and does not contain the full text Please see the cautionary statement about forward looking of that Report of the Directors.
It does not contain sufficient statements on page 148 in the 2009 Annual Report, available as information to allow for as full an understanding of the results of the described in the previous note.
group and state of affairs of the Company or the group and of their policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration as Takeover Directive disclosure would be provided by the Annual Report.
It is not the companys As a result of the EU Takeover Directive, we have to make additional statutory accounts as required to be delivered to the registrars under disclosures in the Annual Report please see page 71.
There we set out where this information can be found elsewhere in the Annual section 242 of the Companies Act 1985.
Those statutory accounts are expected to be delivered to the registrar on 28 May 2009.
Report eg the structure of BTs share capital, including rights and A copy of the Annual Report can be viewed online at obligations attaching to the shares or provide details on the matters www.
com annualreport Shareholders may obtain a copy of the not covered elsewhere, including: BT has two employee share ownership trusts, the trustees of which full Annual Report for 2009 and future years, free of charge, by calling our Shareholder Helpline on Freefone 0808 100 4141 if have specified duties in respect of voting and takeover bids: overseas on 44 121 415 7178 or by e-mailing bt@equiniti.
com the powers of the directors are determined by UK law and the The auditors report on the Annual Report for the year ended 31 articles of association: BT is not party to any significant agreements that are triggered on a March 2009 was unqualied and does not contain any statement under section 237 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or takeover: and accounts or directors remuneration report not agreeing with records there are no provisions for director or employee compensation that or returns or section 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information are triggered on a takeover.
8 BT GROUP PLC SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT & NOTICE OF MEETING 2009 U06580 pp09 pp14.
qxd:BT 18 5 09 20:17 Page 9 Notice of meeting The 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM of BT Group plc will be held at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS at 11am on Wednesday 15 July 2009 to consider the following: Resolution 4 Ordinary business That Clayton Brendish be re-elected as a director.
Resolutions 1 to 8 will be proposed as ordinary Clay Brendish was appointed to the Board on resolutions.
He is a member of the Audit and Nominating Committees, and the Committee for Resolution 1 Responsible and Sustainable Business.
He is nonThat the accounts and reports of the directors and the executive chairman of Anite, Close Beacon Investment auditors for the year ended 31 March 2009 be received.
Fund and Echo Research and a non-executive director By law, the directors have to present these accounts and of Herald Investment Trust.
He is also a trustee of reports contained in the Companys Annual Report to Economist Newspapers.
Prior to his retirement in May the meeting.
2001, Clay was executive deputy chairman of CMG having joined the board when it acquired Admiral.
Clay Resolution 2 was co-founder and executive chairman of Admiral.
He That the directors remuneration report for the year also acted as an adviser to the Government on the ended 31 March 2009 be approved.
efficiency of the Civil Service.
The directors have to ask shareholders to vote on the report on directors remuneration.
It is summarised on Resolution 5 pages 6 and 7 of this document.
You can nd it in full, in That Phil Hodkinson be re-elected as a director.
com annualreport Phil Hodkinson was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a Resolution 3 member of the Nominating and Pension Scheme That the final dividend of 1.1 pence per share Performance Review Committee, and the Committee for recommended by the directors be declared to be Responsible and Sustainable Business.
He is a nonpayable on 7 September 2009 to holders of ordinary executive director of HM Revenue & Customs, Travelex, shares registered at the close of business on 14 August Resolution, Christian Aid and Business in the Community.
A Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, prior to his The final dividend declared cannot exceed the amount retirement in 2007, Phils former roles included group recommended by the directors.
finance director of HBOS, chairman of Insight Investment and Clerical Medical, and chief executive of Zurich Life and Resolutions 4 to 6 Directors Eagle Star Life.
Under our articles of association articles all directors have to retire every three years at an AGM.
This is to Resolution 6 comply with the Combined Code on Corporate That Tony Chanmugam be elected as a director.
As a result, Matti Alahuhta, Maarten van Tony Chanmugam was appointed to the Board on den Bergh, Clay Brendish and Phil Hodkinson must 1 December 2008 as Group Finance Director and is a retire at this years AGM.
The directors propose their member of the Operating Committee.
He was formerly re-election, except for Matti Alahuhta who wants to Chief Financial officer of BT Retail and Managing retire and is leaving the Board on 31 May 2009, after Director of BT Enterprises and, from 1997 to 2004, he serving for just over three years: and Maarten van den was Chief Financial officer and then Chief Operating Bergh, who has decided not to seek re-election after officer at BT Global Solutions.
He is a Chartered serving on the Board for almost nine years.
He will step Management Accountant.
Aged 55. down at the end of the AGM.
The articles also require any director appointed by the Board to retire at the AGM following appointment, which applies to Tony Chanmugam, who joined the Board on 1 December 2008.
BT GROUP PLC SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT & NOTICE OF MEETING 2009 9 U06580 pp09 pp14.
qxd:BT 18 5 09 20:17 Page 10 NOTICE OF MEETING Resolution 7 meaning of Section 94 of the 1985 Act entirely paid for That  LLP be reappointed in cash auditors of the Company, to hold ofce until the end of a under the authority given by paragraph a of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid Resolution 9: before the Company.
in connection with a pre-emptive offer: except in connection with a pre-emptive offer, Resolution 8 up to an aggregate nominal amount of That the directors be authorised to decide the auditors 20 million: and remuneration.
b under the authority given by paragraph b of This resolution follows standard practice.
Resolution 9 in connection with a rights issue as if Section 89 1 of the 1985 Act did not apply to any Special Business such allotment.
This power expires at the end of the The following resolution will be proposed as an ordinary next AGM but the Board can make offers, or enter into resolution.
agreements which would, or might, need equity securities to be allotted after that expiry.
In this Resolution 9 Resolution all the words dened in Resolution 9 have That the directors are authorised generally and without the same meaning and: conditions under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 1985 Act to allot relevant securities: pre-emptive offer means an offer of equity a up to an amount of 127 million: securities open for a period xed by the Board to b comprising equity securities up to a further amount holders other than the Company of ordinary shares of 127 million in connection with a rights issue.
in proportion to their holdings, subject to the limits or These authorities supersede any previous ones under restrictions which the directors think are necessary: Section 80 of the 1985 Act and expire at the end of the references to an allotment of equity securities include next AGM.
The Board can make offers, or enter into a sale of treasury shares: and agreements which would, or might, need relevant in working out any maximum amounts of securities, securities to be allotted after that expiry.
In this the face value of rights to subscribe for shares, or to Resolution relevant securities and equity securities convert any securities into shares, will be taken as the are as dened in the 1985 Act: amounts refer to the face value of the shares which would be allotted if face value which is the nominal value of the relevant the subscription or conversion takes place.
securities: and rights issue is as dened in Article 74 of the Companys articles of association.
This resolution renews the powers given to the Board to allot equity securities without needing to offer these Paragraph a above gives a general authority to the shares to existing shareholders first: Board to allot new shares up to a nominal value of for cash up to an amount representing approximately 127 million, which is equivalent to approximately 33% 5% of the issued share capital including treasury of the Companys issued share capital excluding shares at the date of this Notice, approximately treasury shares at the date of this Notice.
Paragraph b 407 million shares: and gives an authority to the directors to allot new shares in connection with a rights issue.
only in connection with a rights issue up to a further There are no current plans to undertake a rights issue or face value of 127 million, which is equivalent to to allot shares except in connection with the Companys approximately 33% of the Companys issued share employee share plans.
Resolutions 9 and 10 ensure that capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of this the directors retain the exibility to act in the best Notice.
These authorities will lapse at the end of the interests of shareholders, when opportunities occur, by AGM in 2010.
See the notes to Resolution 11 for more allotting shares.
Over a three year rolling period, except information on treasury shares.
in a rights issue or pre-emptive offer, this disapplication will not exceed 7.5% of issued share capital.
The following four resolutions will be proposed as special resolutions.
Resolution 11 That the Company has general and unconditional Resolution 10 authority to make market purchases as dened in That subject to the passing of Resolution 9, the directors section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of shares of have power to allot equity securities within the 10 BT GROUP PLC SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT & NOTICE OF MEETING 2009 U06580 pp09 pp14.
qxd:BT 18 5 09 20:17 Page 11 5p each in the Company, subject to the following At 13 May 2009 there were options outstanding over conditions: 178 million shares of which options over 136 million a the maximum number of shares which may be shares were in respect of options granted under the purchased is 774 million shares: savings related share option plans, representing 2.3% b the minimum price excluding expenses which may of the Companys issued share capital excluding be paid for each share is 5p: treasury shares.
If the authority given by this resolution c the maximum price excluding expenses which the were to be fully used, these would represent 2.6% of Company may pay for each share cannot be more the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury than the higher of: shares.
There are no warrants outstanding.
i 105% of the average market value of a share in the Company for the five business days prior to Resolution 12 the day the purchase is made: and That with effect from 1 October 2009 the Company: ii the value of a share in the Company calculated a amends its articles of association Current Articles on the basis of the higher of the price quoted for: by deleting the provisions of the Companys a the last independent trade of: or b the memorandum of association Memorandum highest current independent bid for, any number which, due to section 28 Companies Act 2006 of shares in the Company on the trading venues 2006 Act, would be treated as provisions of the where the purchase is carried out: and Current Articles: and d this authority will expire at the end of the next AGM b adopts new articles of association New Articles.
of the Company held in 2010, or if earlier, We are adopting New Articles so that we can update 14 October 2010, except in relation to the purchase our Current Articles to take account of the 2006 Act.
We of shares, the contract for which was concluded explain the main differences between the New Articles before the expiry of this authority and which might and the Current Articles on pages 13 and 14.
You can be executed wholly or partly after that expiry.
inspect the New Articles, which show all the changes to This resolution renews the Companys authority to buy the Current Articles, as noted on pages 13 and 14, and its own shares on similar terms to previous years you can nd them at www.
It would be limited to 774 million ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital Resolution 13 excluding treasury shares at the date of this Notice.
That the Company may call a general meeting but not The directors would exercise this authority only after an AGM on at least 14 clear days notice.
considering the effects on earnings per share and the We are proposing this resolution because of the EU benets for shareholders generally.
Shareholder Rights Directive Directive, which will Shares purchased by the Company out of take effect in August in the UK.
The Directive requires distributable profits could be held as treasury shares, that general meetings are held on 21 days notice unless which could then be cancelled, sold for cash or used to shareholders have approved a shorter notice period.
meet the Companys obligations under its employee The resolution means we would give you two weeks or share plans.
more notice of a general meeting.
It will only be During the 2009 financial year, 143 million shares effective until our next AGM, when we may propose a were purchased 1.75% of the share capital for a similar one.
consideration of 307 million, at an average price of 2.15 per share.
At 13 May 2009, 235 million treasury The following resolution will be proposed as an ordinary shares had been transferred to meet the Companys resolution.
obligations under its employee share plans and at that date, the Company still held 406 million treasury shares Resolution 14 which is equal to 5.2% of the issued share capital That British Telecommunications plc, a wholly-owned excluding treasury shares in issue at that date.
subsidiary of the Company, be authorised to make The Companys current intention is to hold any shares political donations to political: purchased as treasury shares but it retains the exibility a parties and or independent election candidates not to cancel them or sell them for cash if it considers this to exceeding 75,000 in total: and be in the best interests of the Company.
b organisations other than political parties not The authority sought by this resolution will end by exceeding 25,000 in total during the period 14 October 2010, although the directors intend to seek beginning with the date of the 2009 AGM and renewal of this power at each AGM.
ending at the conclusion of the day on which the 2010 AGM is held.
BT GROUP PLC SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT & NOTICE OF MEETING 2009 11 U06580 pp09 pp14.
qxd:BT 18 5 09 20:17 Page 12 NOTICE OF MEETING The Companys continuing policy is that no company in the group will make contributions in cash or kind If you are not coming to the meeting including loans to any political party.
However, the Webcast denition of political donations used in the 2006 Act is The speeches by the Chairman, very much broader than the sense in which these words Sir Michael Rake, and our Chief Executive, are ordinarily used.
It covers activities such as making Ian Livingston, will be broadcast live on the internet MPs and others in the political world aware of key at www.
com btagm2009 industry issues and matters affecting the Company Questions and voting on the business of the which make an important contribution to their meeting will not be broadcast.
If you intend to view understanding of BT.
These activities have been carried the webcast, you should visit this site before the out on an even-handed basis over a five-year period, meeting to check that you will be able to view it on related broadly to the major political parties electoral your computer, and also whether you need any strength.
The authority we are requesting in this additional software.
After the AGM you will be able to resolution is not designed to change the above policy.
It view a recording of the speeches.
will, however, ensure that the group acts within the provisions of the 2006 Act.
If you are uncertain about your rights or about your During the 2009 financial year, the Companys investment you should contact the person or wholly-owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications organisation that administers that investment.
plc, spent 17,658 on expenditure related to last years political donation resolution.
Shares The total number of issued and fully paid ordinary Register of Members and proxies shares of 5p each at 13 May 2009, the latest practicable Only shareholders on the Register of Members at business date before the publication of this document, 6.00pm on 13 July 2009 are entitled to attend and was 8,151,227,029.
The total number of voting rights vote at the AGM.
As a shareholder entitled to attend in the Company at that date was 7,744,791,902 and vote, you can appoint another person as your proxy excluding treasury shares.
to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
You may appoint more than one By order of the Board proxy in relation to the meeting, provided you appoint Andrew Parker each proxy to exercise the rights attached to a different Secretary share or shares held by you.
A proxy need not be a 81 Newgate Street shareholder of the Company.
On a poll, the number of London shares held by you as a shareholder at 6.00pm on EC1A 7AJ 13 July 2009 will decide the number of votes that you 13 May 2009 may cast.
Documents Nominated Persons Copies of: Unless you are a shareholder you do not have a right to appoint any proxies under the procedures set out all service contracts and contracts of appointment above, or referred to under the heading AGM between the directors and the Company: and information below.
the proposed New Articles and the Current Articles You may nevertheless have a right under an marked to show the changes being proposed, agreement between you and a shareholder of the are available for inspection during business hours at the Company who has nominated you to have information registered ofce of the Company on any weekday but rights Relevant Shareholder : not on public holidays.
They will also be available for to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, inspection at the AGM venue from 10.00am on the day as a proxy for the meeting: or of the meeting until the end of the meeting.
to give instructions to the Relevant Shareholder on Your directors believe that the proposals in the exercise of voting rights.
resolutions 1 to 14 are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all these resolutions.
They intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
12 BT GROUP PLC SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT & NOTICE OF MEETING 2009 U06580 pp09 pp14.
qxd:BT 18 5 09 20:17 Page 13 Summary of differences between the Current and New Articles General the termination of the appointment of proxies will Most of the differences are minor, technical or clarify need to be in writing, which would include email and points, or reect changes made by the 2006 Act, e. g. fax or telephone as this can be recorded.
extraordinary resolutions and shareholders written resolutions will no longer be possible for BT under the Other changes due to the 2006 Act the differences 2006 Act, so are not included in the New Articles.
The between the New Articles and the Current Articles New Articles continue the policy we have had for a long include: time to use plain English as much as possible.
They also An extraordinary general meeting to consider a reect the 2006 Act communications provisions.
We can already communicate with you by electronic and or special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice rather than 21 days notice: website communications, and take as full advantage as we can of the latest legislation on this subject.
Other The time limits for the appointment or termination of amendments bring the New Articles in line with current a proxy appointment have been altered slightly and market practice, such as on the appointment of proxies now weekends and bank holidays can be excluded through CREST, when BT holds shares in treasury, and to from the calculation of the necessary length of slightly increase the limit on fees per director from notice: 50,000 a year, increasing by the UK Retail Prices Index The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a from 1999, to 65,000, increasing on the same basis as company to have an authorised share capital and the before.
We do not intend to raise the fees paid in New Articles reect this.
Directors will still be limited practice signicantly at present, or in the near future.
as to the number of shares they can allot because Where we would not comply with new regulations, we allotment authority continues to be required under have changed our Current Articles, e. g. we have the 2006 Act, except in respect of employee share removed a provision making us disclose a directors age schemes: if he or she is 70 when proposed to be elected or If a company wishes to issue redeemable shares, it re-elected.
must include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The 2006 Act enables directors to Our objects decide these matters as long as the articles allow this, BTs Memorandum contains objects clauses which set which the New Articles do: out the wide activities we can undertake.
Under the 2006 Act, unless a companys articles provide Under the 2006 Act share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the otherwise, its objects are unrestricted.
This stops us needing objects clauses.
So Resolution 12 a will Current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement, so this remove our objects clauses together with any other parts of our Memorandum which, because of the 2006 power has been removed: Act, would be treated as forming part of our Articles.
Under the 2006 Act, directors must avoid a situation The New Articles contain a statement about the limited where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect liability of shareholders as this Resolution removes this interest that conicts, or possibly may conict with statement from the Memorandum.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, e. g. if a director becomes a The Directive director or a trustee of another organisation.
The This has caused us to make two changes in the New 2006 Act allows Boards to authorise some of these Articles: conicts and potential conicts in their articles, so we have brought the New Articles nearer the 2006 Act in the chairman of the meeting will no longer have a this respect.
There are safeguards which will apply, so casting vote: and BT GROUP PLC SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT & NOTICE OF MEETING 2009 13 U06580 pp09 pp14.
qxd:BT 18 5 09 20:17 Page 14 SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE CURRENT AND NEW ARTICLES only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision.
The New Articles also contain provisions about condential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conict of interest or potential conict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply following authorisation of the potential conict by the Board.
It is the Directors intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that their powers of authorisation of conicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed: and We follow most major UK companies by slightly widening the indemnity for directors in the Current Articles.
The New Articles take advantage of the 2006 Act provision that allows a director of a company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme to be indemnified in some circumstances.
They allow the indemnification of BTs directors and directors of its associated companies in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, covering both legal costs and the financial costs of any adverse judgement.
This will not include the legal costs of the unsuccessful defence of criminal proceedings, fines imposed in criminal proceedings or penalties imposed by regulatory bodies, such as the Financial Services Authority.
BT may also pay the defence costs including in respect of regulatory proceedings of a director or a director of an associated company as they are incurred, even if the action is brought by BT itself.
If the directors defence is unsuccessful, the director will still be liable to pay any damages awarded and to repay defence costs except where proceedings have been brought by a third party and BT chooses to indemnify the director.
14 BT GROUP PLC SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT & NOTICE OF MEETING 2009 U06580 pp15 pp16.
qxd:SFS NOM 09 18 5 09 20:17 Page 15 AGM information If you are on the BT Group Register of Members at Questions 6.00pm on 13 July 2009: Shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions before voting on a poll.
If you wish to ask a question, you have the right to attend, speak and vote at the please make your way to a question point where Annual General Meeting: and someone will help you.
if you are not attending the meeting, you may appoint someone else as your proxy or proxies to If you are coming to the AGM attend the meeting and or vote on your behalf by If you will be attending our AGM please can you call our post, fax, over the internet or by telephone.
Shareholder Helpline in advance on Freefone 0808 100 The number of shares you hold at the above register 4141, 44 121 415 7178 from outside the UK or deadline will decide how many votes you or your proxy e-mail bt@equiniti.
com using a subject header of BT ies will have on a poll.
For more information about AGM 2009, and quoting your shareholder reference appointing a proxy, please read the notes on the number.
We will send you details of how to get there.
This year votes on all matters except procedural issues Joint shareholders will be taken on a poll.
If you are joint shareholders, all of you can attend and speak at the meeting.
However, you will be entitled to Time and Place of meeting vote there only if you are the first shareholder listed on Time 11.00am on 15 July 2009.
Doors open at the Register of Members.
10.00am to the shareholder helpdesk, for questions and queries and to the reception area which will include Corporate representatives a display of BTs services.
If you are a corporate shareholder, and you are Place The Barbican Centre located at Silk Street, considering appointing a corporate representative, London EC2Y 8DS.
please refer to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA on Please note that those attending will not be permitted proxies and corporate representatives see to hand out leaets or pamphlets in the venue.
uk The guidance includes a sample form For security reasons and to speed up admission, it of representation letter to appoint the Chairman as a would be helpful if you did not bring suitcases, large corporate representative.
Otherwise, you can contact bags, a camera, laptop computer or tape recorder.
If you our Registrars, Equiniti see page 2. do, you may be asked to deposit them in a secure property store for collection after the meeting.
Refreshments will not be served during the meeting.
Shareholders with disabilities The following facilities will be available: sound amplication induction loop sign language interpretation Palantype speech-to-text transcription The Barbican Centre is wheelchair accessible.
Parking spaces are available for disabled drivers.
For advice and to book a space, call 020 7638 8891.
Anyone accompanying a shareholder in need of assistance will be admitted to the meeting.
BT GROUP PLC SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT & NOTICE OF MEETING 2009 15 U06580 pp15 pp16.
qxd:SFS NOM 09 18 5 09 20:17 Page 16 Contact BT Telephone Useful links Shareholder Helpline for general enquiries call: The Annual Report for 2009 is available on our website Freefone 0808 100 4141 44 121 415 7178 from at www.
com annualreport You can request a printed outside the UK Textphone 0800 169 6907 copy of the Annual Report for 2009 and future years, 44 121 415 7028 from outside the UK.
free of charge, by getting in touch with us see Contact BT.
You may also nd the following links useful: E-mail Sign up for on-line communication bt@equiniti.
com this is the only e-mail address www.
com signup you can use for this purpose.
On-line shopping with BT www.
com shop forwardjune Post please include a daytime telephone number BTs shareholder magazine, Forward Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, www.
com forward West Sussex, BN99 6DA BTs Sustainability report www.
com  Information for shareholders www.
com sharesandperformance shareholders BT news and media www.
com thegroup Data Protection Statement BT Group plc The Company references to Company include BT Group plc and British Telecommunications plc collects and processes information provided by you, or Registered ofce: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ on your behalf, which relates to you as an individual shareholder or as a Registered in England and Wales No.
4190816 participant in EasyShare or other scheme or plan.
This information which is your personal data includes your name and contact details, the votes you cast Produced by BT Group and the Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The Company may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the Printed in England by Pindar Graphics Company records, fullling its legal obligations, processing the shareholder Printed on Revive 50:50 Silk, which is produced using 50% recovered waste rights you exercise, and contacting you with shareholder information and bre and 50% virgin wood bre.
All pulps used are elemental chlorine free related communications.
The Company may engage a third party to do this for ECF.
example our Registrars, Equiniti who may process your personal data on the Companys behalf.
com PHME 57863 Please recycle BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2 Financial summary 3 Chairmans message 4 Chief Executives statement 5 This is BT 6 How we are structured 8 Business review 26 Other matters 32 Financial review BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2009 50 Board of Directors and Operating Committee 52 The Board 54 Report of the Audit Committee 56 Report of the Nominating Committee 56 Report of the Committee for Responsible and Sustainable Business 57 Report on directors remuneration 70 Directors information 71 Business policies 74 Shareholders and Annual General Meeting 76 Statement of directors responsibilities 77 Report of the independent auditors consolidated financial statements 79 Consolidated financial statements 136 Glossary of terms and US equivalents 137 Report of the independent auditors parent company BT Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London and New York stock 138 Financial statements of BT Group plc exchanges.
It was incorporated in England and Wales on 30 March 2001 as Newgate Telecommunications Limited with 141 Subsidiary undertakings and associate the registered number 4190816.
Its registered ofce address is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
The company 142 Quarterly analysis of revenue and profit changed its name to BT Group plc on 11 September 2001.
Following the demerger of O2 in November 2001, the continuing activities of BT were transferred to BT Group plc.
143 Selected financial data British Telecommunications plc is a wholly owned subsidiary of BT Group plc and encompasses virtually all the 145 Financial statistics businesses and assets of the BT group.
The successor to the statutory corporation British Telecommunications, it was 146 Operational statistics incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company, wholly owned by the UK Government, as a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between November 1984 and July 1993, the UK Government sold all of its shareholding in British Telecommunications plc in three public offerings.
This is the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2009.
It complies with UK regulations and is the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the US Securities and Exchange Commission to meet US regulations.
This Annual Report has 148 Information for shareholders been sent to shareholders who have elected to receive a copy.
A separate Summary financial statement & notice of 160 Cross reference to Form 20-F meeting 2009 has been issued to all shareholders.
In this Annual Report, references to BT Group, BT, the group, the company, we or our are to BT Group plc 163 Glossary of terms which includes the continuing activities of British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries and lines of business, or 166 Index any of them as the context may require.
References to a year are to the financial year ended 31 March of that year, eg 2009 refers to the year ended 31 March 2009.
Unless otherwise stated, all non-financial statistics are at 31 March 2009.
Please see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 148.
A number of measures quoted in this Annual Report are non-GAAP measures.
The Directors believe these measures provide a more meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group and are consistent with the way financial performance is measured by management.
These include EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before taxation, adjusted earnings per share, net debt and free cash ow.
The rationale for using nonGAAP measures and reconciliations to the most directly comparable IFRS indicator are provided on pages 33 to 35, 39, 41, 47 and 48.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS OVERVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL SUMMARY 2009 2008 m m Revenue 21,390 20,704 a EBITDA c b, adjusted 5,348 5,784 reported 3,301 5,245 profit loss before taxation b, c adjusted 1,877 2,506 reported 134 1,976 Earnings loss per share c b, adjusted 18.4p 23.9p reported 1.1 p 21.5p Full year proposed dividend 6.5p 15.8p Key performance indicators b, c c Customer service Adjusted earnings per share Free cash ow pence 23.9 22.7 19.5 18.4 18.1 17% 737m group-wide right first time 2008: 1,503m performance increase in 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Key points Revenue growth of 3% EBITDA decline due to the unacceptable performance of BT Global Services The rest of the business delivered a good performance in spite of the economic downturn BT Global Services contract and financial review charges of 1.6bn and a specic item restructuring charge of 280m Pension deficit payments of 525m per annum for the next three years Full year proposed dividend of 6.5p per share a EBITDA: Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
b Items presented as adjusted are stated before contract and financial review charges recorded within BT Global Services and specic items.
c Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted profit before taxation, adjusted earnings per share and free cash ow are non-GAAP measures.
The rationale for using non-GAAP measures and reconciliations to the most directly comparable IFRS indicators are provided in the Financial review on pages 33-35, 39, 41, 47 and 48.
2 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS MESSAGE Sir Michael Rake Chairman The world looks a very different place than it did a year ago.
Global A sustainable business trade has contracted for the first time in many decades.
Financial BT has a proud record of contributing to the communities in which we markets have been in turmoil and trading conditions worldwide remain work and of building a sustainable business.
We believe our services extremely challenging.
Against this background, the importance of are an important part of the solution to climate change.
defending free trade and ghting for regulation that promotes Thousands of our people are involved in voluntary work and I am investment and encourages competition has never been greater.
keen to build on this heritage and make sure that as a global Our management team not only understands the challenges, but business BTs Better World Campaign takes a genuinely global view.
also sees the opportunities that lie ahead.
Three out of our four principal divisions BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach are Your Board delivering well.
Managements highest attention is now directed In December 2008, we welcomed Tony Chanmugam to the Board towards returning BT Global Services, our one under performing as Group Finance Director in succession to Hanif Lalani who had division, to profitable growth.
become Chief Executive, BT Global Services.
We have agreed with the Trustee of the BT Pension Scheme the Since joining BT I have been extremely fortunate to have as my pension contributions for the next three years, enabling the Board Deputy Chairman, Maarten van den Bergh who is stepping down to announce a sustainable dividend policy.
from the Board at the conclusion of this years AGM in July.
The proposed final dividend of 1.1p gives a full year dividend of Maarten has been a tremendous asset to the Board having served 6.5p which rebases dividend payments to a level which we are as senior independent director since 2006 and as Chairman of both confident is sustainable.
The Board is committed to delivering the Boards Pension Scheme Performance Review Group and attractive returns for shareholders and believes that the operational Remuneration Committee.
I would like to thank him for almost nine improvements in the business will generate sufficient cash ow to years of distinguished service.
allow the dividend to grow at the same time as investing in the I would also like to express my gratitude to Matti Alahuhta who business, reducing debt and supporting the pension scheme.
has decided to step down at the end of May having served as a non executive director for just over three years.
His telecommunications Regulation industry and international experience have been of great value to It is clear how important the 2005 Telecommunications Strategic the Board and we wish him well.
Review by Ofcom has been in establishing the UK as the most I am working with the Nominating Committee to strengthen your competitive telecommunications market in the world.
While the Board following these departures and we will announce new price of other utilities has soared, the price of communications has appointments shortly.
New market entrants have ourished, encouraged by My thanks also go to the rest of the Board for their extremely low wholesale prices and incentives to invest in unbundled local hard work during the last challenging months.
I would also like to loops.
Britain has more companies competing in the same space pay tribute to the BT staff.
Everywhere I go I have been struck by than any comparator country.
I am confident in their ability to Now a healthy debate is underway about the investment needed build on BTs many strengths in the future.
to deliver the next generation of broadband services.
These will be carried largely over bre optic cables able to deliver speeds of up to The future 100Mb compared with a typical speed of 4-5Mb today.
This BT is in business for the long-term.
We invest billions of pounds into investment will provide the UK with the world class IT infrastructure the UKs IT infrastructure for the long-term.
We are seeking the it will need to thrive as a knowledge-based society.
regulatory certainty which will support long-term business It is essential that the regulatory environment encourages decisions.
And we want long-term relationships with our customers investment.
This means that BT and others must have the potential to that are based on excellent service, and on our enduring make a return for shareholders that is commensurate with the risk commitment to helping them thrive in this fast changing world.
We need a level playing eld in the UKs fast moving market which allows every company to compete on equal terms and makes sure that new monopolies are not allowed to emerge.
We also need regulation to move at the same speed as the market is evolving.
In our overseas markets, particularly in the rest of Europe and in North America, regulators must do more to encourage fair competition.
BT should be able to invest and compete in any other country, in the same unrestricted manner that overseas companies can invest and compete in the UK.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman 13 May 2009 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 3 OVERVIEW OVERVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Ian Livingston Chief Executive Theres no doubt about it, this has been a tough year.
A tough year The actions we have taken will enable BT for BT Group, a tough year for the economy and a tough year for to come out of this recession a stronger our shareholders.
But there are good reasons to look forward with optimism.
together, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach have delivered a resilient performance.
That despite the economic downturn.
However this success was overshadowed by the performance at BT Global Services.
Because of this we have had to take a number ofces and mobile workers a significant saving.
Over a million of very substantial charges.
These have not been comfortable, but business lines are now using this service and more than 2,500 new were necessary to establish the solid foundations from which we customers sign up each week.
In our consumer business the new BT can now build a profitable business.
Home Hub has been ordered by over 800,000 customers since its launch last June.
It has the best wireless range on offer, and allows customers to save power by programming it to switch off when its Meeting our customers needs not being used.
The markets in which we operate are changing fast and we need These are just a few examples of BT seizing opportunities and to move with them.
In the UK we have the most competitive delivering great service in the UK and around the globe.
I was communications market in the world.
Thanks largely to BTs particularly pleased that Telemark Services, an industry analyst, has investment, the UK now has some of the highest broadband just rated BT Global Services the best operator in the world in its availability and take up in the world as well as some of the lowest Customer Satisfaction Index with the highest score ever awarded.
Speeds are improving all the time, and our new bre based services will deliver a next generation of super-fast broadband, A better business, a better future bringing speeds of up to 100Mb to peoples homes.
We have made real improvements in customer service, and we In order to transform the company, we need to drive significant cost are going to do much more.
Let me give you a couple of examples.
Regretfully this has meant a reduction in our workforce.
Three years ago you could expect a fault on your telephone line However, we have sought to retrain and redeploy permanent staff once every nine years.
Thats now improved to once every 13 years.
That has meant that in the past year only a third By the end of the financial year, 97% of our customers were getting of the reduction came from our permanent staff, with the rest made through on their first call, complaints were down and customer up of contractors and third-party resource.
And on Christmas Day 2008 So in the past year we have taken some tough decisions and we we recorded our lowest ever number of outstanding network faults.
have taken some bold decisions too.
Like investing 1.5bn in bre When our service improves, our customers are happy, more based super-fast broadband.
There are certainly plenty of people want to do business with us, and also we can reduce our challenges, but I believe that the actions we have taken will enable costs.
Thats because when we get our services right first time, the BT to come out of this recession a stronger and better business.
number of people phoning our call centres falls and the number of engineers we need to send out to x things declines.
Thats just as true for the biggest customer of BT Global Services or BT Wholesale as it is for a family buying a broadband service from us.
We have made significant progress, but this is most definitely not the end of our journey to make BT a leader in customer service.
New opportunities Even in the most difficult economic circumstances a diverse and agile business will nd opportunities to grow and improve the Ian Livingston service it delivers to its customers.
A really good example is BT Chief Executive Conferencing which is strongly growing both revenues and profits 13 May 2009 and is now the worlds biggest provider of videoconferencing.
Using the latest technology we are meeting the needs of companies all around the world.
Helping customers save money by cutting travel costs and reducing their carbon footprint.
Another example is our Business One Plan service, which is the UKs first triple play of landline, mobile and broadband for small and medium-sized businesses.
It launched three years ago and in 2009 added free calls within an organisation even between 4 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F OVERVIEW THIS IS BT BT is one of the worlds leading communications services companies.
In the UK, we are the largest communications service provider to the residential and business markets.
The BT brand is one of the most trusted in the UK.
Around the world, we are a major supplier of networked IT services to government departments and multinational companies.
About us Our customers and our shareholders are Our services range from: External revenue by line of business at the heart of everything we do.
providing a single residential phone Openreach 5% line, to delivering global networked IT services to major multinationals BT Wholesale 16% developing phones for the elderly 15m and disabled, to offering super-fast customers BT Retail broadband speeds to millions of 38% We have around 15 million customers, customers ranging from individual consumers with a developing innovative call packages single phone line, to government BT Global Services for homes and businesses, to departments and some of 41% providing managed services that the worlds largest multinationals.
help our wholesale customers serve We have over one million shareholders, their customers from individual private investors to major External revenue by customer segment offering state-of-the-art institutional investors.
videoconferencing and telepresence Business systems, to building the UKs largest 12% on-demand TV service Consumer 17% facilitating online trading 23% group-wide right first time communities, to enabling Openzone performance increase in 2009 customers to access wireless broadband around the world.
We aim to offer an excellent customer Wholesaler carrier experience every time.
Customer service 25% is one of the key measures by which we Major corporate 40% determine the performance of our business.
At the heart of the service we offer is a commitment to getting it right first time for our customers.
Doing business sustainably Networks and innovation We aim to do business in an ethical and sustainable way, in accordance with our published code of practice The Way We Work.
Not only do we believe that its the right thing to do, we 128m km copper wire also believe its good for BT, good for customers, good for shareholders and good for the communities in which we operate.
For example, we were one of the first companies in the UK to 1.1bn achieve the new, independently assessed Carbon Trust Standard invested in innovation certication in recognition of our work on reducing our emissions.
We have the most comprehensive xed-line communications network in the UK, with more than 128m kilometres of copper wire and more than 11m kilometres of optical bre.
We have announced plans to build a bre based, super-fast broadband network, which will be available to around 40% Dow Jones of the UKs homes and businesses by 2012.
Sustainability Indexes Member 2008 09 Our MPLS network provides coverage and support in more than 170 countries.
In 2009, we invested 1.1bn in R&D to support our drive for innovation.
This covers everything from scientific research to the development of new products and services.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 5 OVERVIEW OVERVIEW HOW WE ARE STRUCTURED We meet the needs of our different customer groups through four customer-facing lines of business, supported by two internal functional units.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach operate mainly in the UK.
BT Global Services provides services in more than 170 countries around the world.
We believe that the way we are structured brings us closer to our customers, helps us get it right first time and enhances the customer experience, at the same time as helping us reduce our costs and drive value for our shareholders.
BT Group BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach BT Global Services is a BT Retail serves consumer BT Wholesale brings potential Openreach is responsible for provider of networked IT customers and small and economies of scale to around the crucial first mile products, services and medium-sized enterprises in 700 UK communications connecting communications solutions.
It aims to be the the UK, providing a range of providers, through a diverse providers customers to their partner of choice for large innovative communications portfolio ranging from local telephone exchange, enterprise and government products and services that nationally available giving them equal, open and customers in the UK and enable customers to enhance broadband, voice and data economic access to the UK globally.
the way they live their lives connectivity services and the network.
It also interconnection of trafc comprises BT Ireland and our across other service providers BT Enterprises division.
networks, to managed network solutions.
2009 2009 2009 2009 five-year US$526m 4.8m broadband lines signed managed network fullling 94,000 LLU orders contract with Procter & services contracts worth a a week 20.7m xed lines Gamble, to provide projected 1.2bn over their 65% reduction in number 65% improvement in time communications lifetimes of customers waiting more taken to get through to an infrastructure in 80 average time taken to repair than three days for a fault adviser countries broadband faults reduced to be xed 20% improvement in average Telemark Services Platinum by 40% 20% reduction in access time to clear telephony award for best in class ADSL2 broadband now faults this year a line goes network faults experienced customer satisfaction for available to 10m UK homes wrong only every 13 years by business customers global data virtual private on average networks 40% reduction in average time to provide international MPLS BT Design BT Design is responsible for the design and deployment of the platforms, systems and processes that support our products and services.
It is also responsible for network planning and the implementation of BTs global 21CN platform.
BT Operate BT Operate is responsible for making sure that BTs products and services run smoothly.
It manages our IT and network infrastructure platforms as a single converged operation.
6 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW 8 Introduction 32 Summarised group income statement 8 Our 2009 performance 33 Introduction to the Financial review 8 Our focus 33 Group results 9 Maintaining a sustainable business 36 Other group items 9 Measuring our performance 40 Cash ow 9 Outlook 41 Balance sheet 10 How we are structured 44 Taxation 10 BT Global Services 45 Financial risk management 13 BT Retail 47 Critical accounting policies 16 BT Wholesale 47 Alternative performance measures 17 Openreach Please see Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 148.
19 BT Design 20 BT Operate 20 Our resources 23 Corporate responsibility OTHER MATTERS 26 Regulation 27 Competition 28 Branches outside the UK 28 Our relationship with HM Government 28 Legal proceedings 28 Acquisitions and disposals 29 Our property portfolio 29 Principal risks and uncertainties B BT T GR GROUP PL OUP PLC C ANNU ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT & T & FORM FORM 20-F 20-F 7 7 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW Falling prices, rising data speeds and constant innovation continue to make the communications marketplace dynamic and intensely competitive.
In 2009, we faced the additional challenges of the economic downturn and an unacceptable performance from BT Global Services.
We continually track improvements that reect the real experience Introduction of our customers from start to nish.
We have made significant BT is a communications services company which operates in more progress in the last 12 months across the whole range of our than 170 countries worldwide.
We are proud to serve customers customers and we are determined to make further improvements.
that range from some of the largest multinational corporations and In the highly competitive markets in which we operate we believe public sector organisations in the world, through the small business that being recognised for outstanding customer service is a key sector to millions of families and residential customers in the UK.
We are at the heart of a communications revolution which is As an example of the progress we are making in the consumer continuing to improve the quality of peoples lives and the market, the time taken to get through to an adviser fell by 65% in effectiveness of their businesses.
It is our job to bring together the the past year.
Our customers experienced a reduction of more than best technology to create services that our customers need while 20% in the number of line faults, which means that a line will go offering them the very best value.
wrong on average just once every 13 years.
In the small business market, there was a 20% improvement in the average time to clear telephony network faults, while the average time to provide Our 2009 performance international multi-protocol label switching MPLS services to In 2009, in spite of the economic downturn, three of our lines of large business customers reduced by over 40%.
business BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach have each performed well.
Both BT Retail and Openreach delivered EBITDA Building future networks growth while in BT Wholesale the rate of decline in revenue has The digital revolution is opening up a world of new possibilities for slowed.
This good performance was primarily due to the effective all our customers.
It means people can work together and delivery of cost savings.
However, these achievements were collaborate more effectively than ever before.
They can be overshadowed by the unacceptable performance in BT Global entertained and informed in ways that would have been hard to Services.
imagine just a few years ago.
We think this revolution has only just begun, and we are investing in our networks, systems and services The issues in BT Global Services to ensure that they are t for the future.
During the 2009 financial year, the level of profitability in BT Global In July 2008, we announced plans to make Britains biggest ever Services fell signicantly.
This was caused by a combination of investment in a bre-based super-fast broadband network.
We will higher costs, the slow delivery of cost reduction initiatives and spend 1.5bn making bre based services available to around 40% worsening economic conditions.
This led the Board to conclude of the UKs homes and businesses by 2012.
This will deliver a range that previous estimates of profitability for some of our major of services with top speeds of up to 100Mb, allowing customers contracts were no longer likely to be achieved.
simultaneously to run multiple bandwidth-hungry applications, On page 10 we explain what actions the Board took as a result of such as high-denition movies, gaming, complex graphics and these issues and how BT Global Services is being restructured to videos: all with greatly improved upload as well as download speeds.
streamline and refocus the business.
These plans are conditional on our ability to make a proper return on our investment, and we have seen encouraging progress in establishing the right regulatory basis for this investment.
Our focus Super-fast broadband will run on BTs 21CN infrastructure.
21CN We aim to make BT a better business and drive shareholder value by is our next generation global platform and has been at the heart of delivering on our current strategic priorities better, faster and cheaper.
BTs transformation for some years.
These are: We have now completed the new 21CN core network which is a providing excellent customer service unied software driven platform.
It will help us meet our building future networks customers needs faster and more efficiently whether they are delivered over copper or bre.
It will reduce the time it takes to get becoming more agile.
new services to market, eliminating duplication and reducing costs.
Our agship MPLS network service provides coverage and Providing excellent customer service support around the world from 875 BT managed points of presence and around 2,600 in partnership.
Our goal is to provide excellent service in every market in which we operate by putting our customers at the heart of everything we do.
Every part of BT is taking action to make substantial improvements to the delivery of our services.
That means getting things right first time every time, keeping our promises to our customers and meeting or exceeding their expectations.
8 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW Our customer service results were encouraging and we delivered Becoming more agile significant improvements during the year.
However, the Our goal is to combine the strengths of being a large company with unacceptable performance in BT Global Services impacted free cash the speed and exibility of a small company.
Our people are ow and earnings per share, which were well below target.
becoming more agile in the way they work together to serve customers.
We are making our company more agile as well, cutting Customer service out any bureaucracy that can slow us down.
As a result we will be more responsive to customer needs.
We set ourselves a group-wide stretching target in 2009 of We are continuing to simplify our business to give people more improving right first time by 24%.
We achieved an increase of 17%, authority and to allow them to do their jobs more effectively.
compared with 9% in 2008 and we are targeting further As we become a more agile organisation, we reduce our costs as improvements in 2010.
We are now delivering excellent customer well as the number of people we need to employ.
In the past year service levels in many areas.
we have reduced the number of full-time employees by around 5,000.
In addition to this, the number of indirect employees Earnings per share working through agencies or third party contractors was reduced a, b Adjusted basic earnings per share were 18.4p in 2009, compared by around 10,000, giving a reduction in our total labour resource of with 23.9p in 2008 and 22.7p in 2007 see Financial review some 15,000.
We expect further reductions of a similar level in page 39.
The reported basic loss per share was 1.1p in 2009, 2010.
We have sought to retain our permanent workforce through compared with basic earnings per share of 21.5p and 34.4p in redeployment and retraining, and will continue to do so.
continue our drive to reduce costs across the business, and made further progress in 2009 towards transforming our cost base.
Free cash ow Three out of four of our lines of business have made a strong b contribution towards the delivery of cost savings, although BT Free cash ow in 2009 was 737m, compared with 1,503m in Global Services still has to control costs more tightly and 2008 and 1,354m in 2007 see Financial review page 41. deliver greater savings.
Outlook Maintaining a sustainable business We expect revenue to decline by 4% to 5% in the 2010 financial BT is committed to contributing positively to the communities in year, reecting a continuation of the trends seen towards the end which it works and to operating in a socially responsible way.
We of the 2009 financial year, the impact of lower mobile termination are using communications technology to help create a better, more rates, together with the impact of refocusing BT Global Services.
Our goal is to help meet the challenge of climate We expect to deliver a net reduction in group capital change, to promote a more inclusive society and to enable expenditure and operating costs of well over 1bn in 2010. sustainable economic growth.
Included within this is a reduction in group capital expenditure to We believe that being a recognised leader in the eld of around 2.7bn.
As a result, we expect group free cash ow, before corporate responsibility contributes to shareholder value.
It builds any pension deficit payments, but after the cash costs of the BT our brand and is central to the way we do business.
It encourages Global Services restructuring charges, to reach over 1bn the best people to want to work for BT.
It is a powerful reason for in 2010 and beyond.
customers to do business with us and stay loyal to us.
Earnings per share will be impacted by the movement of the net We commit a minimum of 1% of our pre-tax profits to activities finance expense on the pension obligations which moves from a that support society.
We invested a total of 25m, comprising time, credit of 313m in the 2009 financial year to a charge of about cash and in-kind contributions, in the community in 2009.
Of this 275m in 2010. amount, 2.3m was in the form of charitable donations.
The proposed final dividend of 1.1p gives a full year dividend of 6.5p which rebases dividend payments to a level we are confident is sustainable.
The Board is committed to delivering attractive returns Measuring our performance for shareholders and believes that the operational improvements in For 2009, the key performance indicators KPI against which we the business will generate sufficient cash ow to allow the dividend measured the delivery of our strategy were: to grow at the same time as investing in the business, reducing debt customer service and supporting the pension scheme.
earnings per share a Items presented as adjusted are stated before contract and financial review charges and specic free cash ow.
b Adjusted basic earnings per share and free cash ow are non-GAAP measures provided in addition to disclosure requirements dened under IFRS.
The rationale for using non-GAAP measures is explained on pages 33, 47 and 48, and a reconciliation of adjusted basic earnings per share and free cash ow, to the most directly comparable IFRS indicator, is provided on pages 39 and 41 respectively.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 9 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS
