Business Review Introduction Financing Objectives This has been a challenging year for the Group, as the financial crisis Big Yellows financing policy is to fund its current needs through a mix which started in August 2007 has turned into a deep economic of debt and equity in building out the existing portfolio and achieving downturn.
Nevertheless, our performance has been relatively resilient, our strategic growth objectives, which we believe will improve returns although not immune.
We believe that resilience is owing to for shareholders.
a combination of factors including: We aim to ensure that there are sufficient medium term facilities in a prime portfolio of freehold self storage properties place to finance our committed development programme, secured successful acquisition and development of new stores against the freehold portfolio with debt serviced by our strong the strength of operational management operational cash flows.
the UKs leading self storage brand, with high public awareness The level of bank debt in the business is closely monitored against the strong cash flow generation and high operating margins Boards policy guidelines, which currently require that the ratio of net flexible and conservative financing, with a senior debt facility in debt to gross property assets is no greater than 50% and interest cover place until 2013, and partial hedging in place to 2015 not less than 2 times based on net operating income, comfortably ahead of its banking covenants.
However, it is acknowledged that there Business Objectives may be limited periods where income cover temporarily falls slightly In recent years, Big Yellow has established itself as the leading self below 2 as a result of known factors, for example a number of new storage brand in the UK YouGov Survey, September 2008, a key store openings, as new freehold stores typically make a loss for the objective set at flotation.
The Group continues to invest in developing first three to six months before breaking even at the net operating quality assets at the premium end of the self storage market and to income level.
build on our brand leadership nationally.
We intend to measure our progress by commissioning quantitative research each year.
We Risk Management opened our first store outside our core area, in Leeds in 2005 and have The management of risk is a fundamental part of how we have opened sites this year in Birmingham, Liverpool and Sheffield.
We have controlled the development of Big Yellow since its formation in further sites under development in Manchester, Stockport, Nottingham, September 1998, and the opening of our first purpose built store in Edinburgh and a second site in Sheffield.
The main elements of our strategy remain: Self Storage Market Risk the selective build out of freehold stores in major urban conurbations We noted last year that the credit crunch which started in August 2007 throughout the UK impacted the availability of mortgages to home owners which in turn retaining a focus on London and the South East in the core Group has caused a significant reduction in housing market activity.
We have financing using flexible bank borrowings secured against a prime now entered a deep recessive cycle in the global economy.
Demand for freehold portfolio, and more recently the Partnership with Pramerica self storage has slowed since the start of the credit crunch, however locating stores in visible, convenient and accessible locations we believe that the structural need for self storage remains, and we an unwavering focus on customer service are pleased at the relative resilience that has been shown to date by excellent operational and financial management generating strong the sector.
We have increased storage rents to customers by on cash-flow growth average 4.25% from May 2009.
Over the last six years average net innovative and creative marketing storage rental growth has been 4.5% per annum.
an entrepreneurial and passionate culture, with accessible senior management encouraging innovation and dialogue throughout the business recruiting and retaining quality people into the business 12 Big Yellow BIG YELLOW ONLY INVESTS IN PRIME LOCATIONS, DEVELOPING HIGH QUALITY SELF STORAGE CENTRES IN THE LARGE URBAN CONURBATIONS WHERE THE DRIVERS IN THE SELF STORAGE MARKET ARE AT THEIR STRONGEST.
Liz Bangs Location: Brighton I have used Big Yellow twice.
The first time was when I moved house a few years ago.
I left quite a big house in Devon for a much smaller one in Brighton, and we kept most Of the customers moving into the business in the last year, our surveys indicate approximately 54% is in some way linked to the of our things in storage for about four housing market of which 26% are customers renting storage space months and slowly moved bits in.
It made whilst moving within the rental sector, and the balance moving within the owner occupied sector.
We have seen an increase in demand from the move much easier, less sudden and customers within the rental sector during the year, in part caused by the decline in the housing market and availability of credit.
The staff were amazing: in fact, within the rental sector will typically stay longer in the stores than the I would go as far as to say that they were shorter demand profile of house move customers.
12% of our customers who moved in during the year rent storage space as a spare room for the most helpful I have ever encountered.
lifestyle purposes and approximately 20% of customers used the product because some event has occurred in their lives generating the It was an extremely stressful time, but they need for storage: they may be moving abroad for a job, have inherited were so reassuring.
Storage spaces can be furniture, are getting married or divorced, are students who need storage during the holidays, or homeowners developing into their lofts a big impersonal box but the staff made it or basements.
The balance of 14% of our customers are businesses ranging from start ups and market traders to retailers and larger a very personal experience.
multinationals storing stock, documents, equipment, or promotional materials all requiring a convenient flexible solution to their storage, The second time was when we had our either to get started or to free up more expensive space.
We were able to create from business customers, who typically occupy larger rooms, has been relatively robust, as they seek a cost effective, flexible solution to space for the builders whilst the work their storage requirements, preferring self storage to the commitment of a long lease.
Self storage is an immature market in the UK compared to other markets such as the United States and Australia, and we believe has further opportunity for growth.
Awareness of self storage and how it can be used by domestic and business customers is relatively low throughout the UK, although higher in London.
The rate of growth in branded self storage on main roads in good locations has historically been limited by the difficulty of acquiring sites at affordable prices and obtaining planning consent.
The lack of availability of credit within the 82% economy has further reduced this rate of growth in recent months.
Big Yellow only invests in prime locations, developing high quality self Brand awareness now 82% in London, storage centres in the large urban conurbations where the drivers in an increase of over 30% year-on-year the self storage market are at their strongest and the barriers to competition exist.
Big Yellow13 John Sturgess Business Review Owner of Snowfit Ltd continued Location: Norwich At Snowfit, we sell skiing and snowboarding equipment, and have been using Big Yellow for over 8 years.
Our stores, one on the outskirts and one in the centre of Norwich, have very little storage space, so we use Big Yellow as a flexible stock room.
This has enabled us to carry a wider product range than some of the bigger nationwide chains.
We have a large current storage customer base of approximately 28,500 spread across the portfolio of open stores and many thousands We were initially most impressed by the more have used Big Yellow over the years.
In any month, customers move in and out at the margin resulting in changes in occupancy.
cleanliness and safe feel of the store and the Despite the current environment, this has remained a seasonal business and typically one sees growth over the spring and the staff have always made us feel very summer months, with the seasonally weaker periods being the winter welcome.
In winter, when we are busiest, months.
The performance in terms of occupancy, revenue and EBITDA of our stores can be seen from the Portfolio Summary on page 24. well visit our rooms every day to collect stock.
The average length of stay in Big Yellows stores is increasing.
At This helps us to ensure that our products are 31 March 2009 the average length of stay for existing customers was 18.0 months: a marked increase on 15.6 months in the prior year.
all customers, including those who have moved out of the business, the average length of stay has increased from 8.0 months to 8.4 months.
This translates into a loyal customer base.
In our 32 same store portfolio, 36% of our customers have been storing with us for over three years.
A further 19% in these stores have been in the business for between one and three years.
Property Risk We have slowed down our real estate acquisition programme: 59% focussing during the year on building out selected sites within our development pipeline, and conserving available facilities within the business.
We believe the current difficulties in the banking and capital Traffic to our website 59% year-on-year markets make access to capital required to fund growth more difficult and will slow down the growth in self storage store openings in the market generally.
We believe that we are in a relatively strong position with our freehold property assets, with the proven ability to access more funding when the opportunity presents itself.
The planning process remains difficult with some planning consents taking in excess of twelve months to achieve.
We do take planning risk where necessary, although the more distressed property market will in our view provide more opportunity to buy sites on a conditional basis.
Big Yellows management has significant experience in the property industry generated over many years and in particular in acquiring property on main roads in high profile locations and obtaining planning consents.
14 Big Yellow Proportion of current customers Big Yellow users Student Same stores by length of stay in the business storage Other 2% 5% Moving Travelling 5% rental sector 3 years 26% or more Less than Business storage 36% 1 year 14% 45% Decluttering 12% Moving owned sector Home 1-3 years 28% improvements 19% 8% In the year under review we acquired just one site, in Stockport, within Credit Risk Big Yellow Limited Partnership.
We now have a portfolio of 70 stores Our customers are required to pay a deposit when they start to rent a and sites of which 54 are currently open and a further 13 have self storage unit and are also required to pay in advance for their fourplanning consents.
We have surplus land of 25 million which we are weekly storage charges.
The Group is therefore not exposed to a seeking to sell in the next 18 months.
70% of our customers pay by direct debit.
Since the commencement of the credit and liquidity issues in August 2007, We manage the construction of our properties very tightly.
The building we have not seen an increase in the levels of bad debts and arrears.
of each site is handled through a design and build contract, with the fit out project managed in-house using an established professional team Taxation Risk of external advisors and sub-contractors who have worked with us for The Group is exposed to changes in the tax regime affecting the cost of many years to our Big Yellow specification.
corporation tax, VAT and Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT.
We regularly We achieved two significant sustainability milestones during the year.
monitor proposed and actual changes in legislation with the help of our Our Sheen store achieved the highest Excellent rating on the Building professional advisors and through trade bodies to understand and, if Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Methodology possible, mitigate or benefit from their impact.
BREEAM, in the industrial buildings category, and our new store at Twickenham achieved an A rating on carbon emissions, indicating Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Risk that it has net zero CO emissions.
The Group converted to a REIT with effect from 15 January 2007.
The 2 Group is therefore exposed to potential tax penalties or loss of its REIT Treasury Risk status by failing to comply with the REIT legislation.
The Group has The Group borrows in sterling at floating rates of interest and uses internal monitoring procedures in place to ensure that the appropriate swaps to hedge its interest rate exposure.
The Group has derivatives rules and legislation are complied with.
To date all REIT regulations in place to ensure at least 50% of our bank borrowings are hedged, the have been complied with.
balance is left floating paying margin over LIBOR.
At 31 March 2009, we had hedging instruments in place over 61% of our outstanding bank Human Resources Risk borrowings, including hedging of at least 70% of the investment At Big Yellow we have developed a professional, lively and enjoyable tranche of our senior debt facility, as required by our loan documentation.
working environment and believe our success stems from attracting The Group does not hedge account its interest rate derivatives: all and retaining the right people.
We encourage all our staff to build on movements in fair value are taken through the income statement.
their skills through appropriate training and regular performance reviews.
We believe in an accessible and open culture and everyone The Group monitors compliance with its banking covenants closely.
at all levels is encouraged to review and challenge accepted norms, During the year it complied with all its covenants, and is forecast to do so as to contribute to the performance of the Group.
so for the foreseeable future.
Our portfolio is relatively high yielding and we believe a flexible Reputational Risk approach to our hedging is appropriate for our strategic aims, given our Big Yellows reputation with all its stakeholders is something we value conservative balance sheet.
highly and will always look to protect and enhance.
We aim to communicate clearly with our customers, suppliers, local authorities Interest Cover and Balance Sheet Risk and communities, employees and shareholders and to listen to and The Group reviews its current and forecast projections of cash flow, take account of their views.
Big Yellows Intranet and Website borrowing and interest cover as part of its monthly management bigyellow.
co. uk are important avenues of communication for both accounts.
In addition, an analysis of the impact of significant employees and shareholders.
transactions is carried out regularly, as well as a sensitivity analysis assuming movements in interest rates and occupancy in the stores on gearing and interest cover.
Big Yellow15 Business Review continued Customer average length of stay 31 March 2009 Stores No.
of Months Age of store 1 Year 1-2 Years 2-5 Years 5 Years Portfolio 31 March 2008 No.
Of the 50 wholly owned London at Kennington, Sheen and Bromley, and three within Big Yellow stores open at the year end 47 are now trading profitably with the Limited Partnership at Sheffield, Birmingham and Liverpool.
These store other 3 being recent openings.
openings bring the number now trading in the Group and the Partnership The Big Yellow store model is now well established.
The available net lettable space increased by 380,000 sq ft over contains 60,000 sq ft and takes some 3 to 4 years to achieve 85% the year to 3.4 million sq ft with the opening of these six stores.
The average room size is 60 sq ft and the average net The maturity profile across the 50 wholly owned stores open at the end rental achieved last year across the 50 wholly owned stores was of the year is set out in the Portfolio Summary on page 24 and shows a 26.53 per sq ft per annum the average rent in London is higher at blended occupancy for the portfolio of 55% 1.7 million sq ft occupied, 28.75 per sq ft per annum.
The stores in lease-up achieved a higher with the same stores at an average occupancy of 75% 2008: 82%.
average rental 27.00 per sq ft than the mature stores 26.42 per The fall in average occupancy reflects the more difficult trading sq ft, reflecting the greater London weighting of the lease-up stores.
conditions experienced through the year, and is primarily as a result The store is initially run by three staff adding a part time member of weakness in our mid-range room sizes typically used by ownerof staff once the store occupancy justifies the need for the extra occupiers staying relatively short periods and moving within the administrative and sales workload.
Given that the operating costs of housing market.
Our ability to manage rental yields through price these assets are relatively fixed, larger stores in bigger urban increases has meant that despite the impact of a 9% occupancy fall on conurbations, particularly London, drive higher revenues and higher the same store portfolio, the reduction in revenue year on year was operating margins.
The drive to improve store operating standards and consistency across There are a further 16 freehold sites including nine sites within Big the portfolio remains a key focus for the Group.
Excellent customer Yellow Limited Partnership.
These sites are at various stages of service is at the heart of our business objectives, as a satisfied planning and construction which, when fully developed, will increase customer is our best marketing tool.
We measure customer service the total capacity of the portfolio to 4.5 million sq ft. standards through a programme of mystery shoppers and ex-customer 6 of the 16 sites in the development pipeline are located in Greater surveys.
We have in place a team of Area Managers who have on London, including Twickenham which opened in May, which we believe average been with Big Yellow for six years.
They develop and support will continue to improve the quality of our store portfolio.
There are five the stores to drive the growth of the business.
Adrian Lee, Operations sites currently under construction in the Partnership and the trading Director, is the Board member responsible for dealing with all results from recently opened stores in the north are encouraging.
We continue to work on obtaining planning consents for all future The store bonus structure rewards occupancy growth, sales growth stores.
We expect to open six stores in the current financial year, one and cost control through setting quarterly targets based on occupancy within the core Group, and five within the Partnership.
and store profitability, including the contribution from ancillary sales of insurance and packing materials.
Information on bonus build up is During the year we moved in over 34,000 customers taking 2.1 million circulated monthly and stores are involved in preparing their own sq ft compared to 40,000 customers taking 2.4 million sq ft last year.
targets and budgets each quarter, leading to improved visibility, a better understanding of sales lines and control of operating costs.
16 Big Yellow The Group manages the construction and fit-out of its stores in-house, as we believe it provides both better control and quality, and we have an excellent record of building stores on time and within budget.
The total construction spend in the year was 36 million.
We currently have six new stores on site, all of which will open in the financial year 2009 10.
We believe that as a customer facing real estate business it is paramount to maintain the quality of our estate and customer offering.
We therefore continue to invest in a rolling programme of store makeovers, preventative maintenance, store cleaning and the repair and replacement of essential equipment, such as lifts and gates.
During the year we were pleased to sign a management agreement with a subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc to manage a portfolio of ten freehold stores, branded as Armadillo Self Storage.
We have been operating the stores for two months.
Our initial activity has consisted of moving the staff onto our centralised systems and training the staff on our way of working.
We are currently working on rebranding all the Mike Jones stores with a new Armadillo Self Storage livery.
The portfolio will Location: Hounslow shortly be integrated on our website and we look forward to working with HSBC to maximise value over the five year term of our management contract.
I work as an Interim Turnaround Director in Sales and Marketing This year we have reinforced our position as the clear brand leader in large corporations.
I use Big Yellow to store the UK self storage industry.
my childrens possessions, who have now We are at the forefront of online innovation, and in February 2009 left home.
When I first visited Big Yellow we launched our new website, building on our unique online reservation and real-time pricing system.
The website is structured around I was struck with the security of the store, educating browsers and communicating our best quality facilities and value for money.
As a result of this, our conversion rate of online the flexibility of the product and the high enquiries has doubled.
Traffic to the website has grown by 59% yearquality of service offered.
I use Big Yellow on-year, and all our advertising budget is now dedicated to online activity.
During 2008, we invested in new tools to help us measure and for long term storage so I dont need regular continually optimise our online marketing.
We are constantly looking to improve our e-commerce proposition and we will continue to lead access, but its very re-assuring to know the industry in this area.
that my possessions are in such safe hands.
We commission annual awareness surveys and our Brand continues to grow strongly.
Highlights from this years survey include: Brand awareness across the UK has grown by 30% this year We have achieved Brand awareness of 82% in London, an increase of 30% over the previous year Our Brand awareness is still three times the level of our nearest competitor 80% of our customer base continues to fall within the top three ACORN customer categories Big Yellow leads the industry in terms of Brand preference, with 65 stores more potential customers expecting to use Big Yellow than any other Brand Source: YouGov, September 2008 We now operate 65 stores across the UK A thorough understanding of self storage ie a full awareness of the service provided and its benefits grew more rapidly this year, with 50% of the UK population having at least a reasonable knowledge of the product.
In spite of this growth, educating the public about our top quality service and facilities continues to be at the core of our marketing programme.
Big Yellow17 Colin Patterson-Smith Business Review Location: Wandsworth continued I use Big Yellow to store promotional literature and display materials used for road shows events.
I chose them because of their convenient location and competitive price, and I visit my room regularly depending on frequency of events.
Because of my work I often need to access my goods outside of normal We continually monitor local market conditions and review our working hours, and the extended hours promotions regularly.
Our strategy is to offer targeted promotions to facility gives me extra flexibility and ensure we are offering the best value available to our customers, whilst ensuring that we achieve our rental yield objectives.
helps me to manage my workload.
Local marketing, selling standards and customer service at store level are also critical to building the brand and achieving customer loyalty and recommendations.
We invest significantly in training and have a reward structure and performance monitoring systems which focus specifically on achieving sales and customer service objectives.
During the year the Group spent approximately 2.6 million 4.5% of our revenue on marketing, in line with the previous year.
It is our intention to continue to invest 4.25% to 4.5% of our revenue to increase awareness of Big Yellow in existing and new markets, particularly as x2 we expand into new cities across the country.
Security Since the launch of our new website, The safety and security of our customers and stores remains a key the conversion rate of online enquiries priority.
To achieve this we invest in state of the art access control has doubled systems, individual room alarms, digital CCTV systems, intruder and fire alarm systems and the remote monitoring of all our stores out of our trading hours.
We have implemented customer security procedures in line with advice from the Metropolitan Police and continue to work with the regulatory authorities on issues of security, reviewing our operational procedures regularly.
The importance of security and the need for vigilance is communicated to all store staff and reinforced through training and we have continued to run courses to enhance the awareness and effectiveness of our procedures in relation to security, entitled You and Your Customer.
People At Big Yellow we aim to provide a lively, fun and enjoyable working environment, without losing our commitment to delivering the very best standards of customer service.
We encourage a culture of partnership within the business and believe in staff participating in corporate performance through bonus schemes and share incentives.
Many employees benefit from an HMRC approved 18 Big Yellow Sharesave Scheme, which provides an opportunity to invest in the The Board commits itself to: future success of Big Yellow at a discount to the prevailing share price Complying with relevant social and environmental legislation at the date of each invitation.
Our stakeholder pension scheme Establishing a formal integrated CSR management structure to managed by Friends Provident, has been taken up by nearly 70% of implement best practice employees eligible to join and a voucher awards scheme is used Preventing pollution and the waste of resources to protect the extensively across the business to recognise and reward our staff.
environment We aim to promote employee wellbeing through a range of flexible Consulting with stakeholders on social aspects to improve their working options to include flexitime, staggered hours, home working services to the Group and sabbaticals.
We provide a comprehensive range of medical support Providing capital for sustainable development that is economically and advice though our occupational health providers and have viable arranged corporate gym membership on a national basis.
Reporting annually on improving ethical, community and environmental performance We continue to recognise the importance of communication and consultation with an annual conference, regular formal and informal Operationally, Big Yellow commits to: meetings and bi-monthly newsletters and operational updates.
In Development to address relevant issues on local community addition, our Directors and senior management spend significant time and climate change aiming to achieve best practice on in the stores and are accessible to employees at all levels.
An annual sustainability checklists and local planning guidance Employee Attitude Survey provides management with key feedback Design to minimise its carbon footprint as far as practicable and guidance as to where to focus its attention to further improve the through the application of passive building principles, viable working environment.
renewable energy and other sustainability criteria We had 273 full, part time and casual employees in the business Construction to aim for build site sustainable practices by at the year end 2008: 226 employees, and recruiting and retaining raising environmental and health and safety standards through the right calibre people remains critical to the continued success of the Considerate Constructors Scheme the Company.
Estates and Facilities to monitor energy, waste and water We promote the individual development of staff through training and provider performance in order to identify areas for operational regular performance appraisals and delivered nearly 900 days training efficiency improvements to employees in the last year, equating to an average of approximately 3.5 days training per employee.
In the stores, nearly 60% of the Operations to keep store managers and customers informed of managerial posts have been filled by internal promotions.
the ethical, safety, security, energy use and waste minimisation aspects of storage and packaging The Remuneration Committee has been conducting a benchmark review of the Executives remuneration with a view to developing a long Sales, Marketing and Customer Care to facilitate external term share based bonus plan for next three to five years.
Further communication of sustainability and ethical market differentiation details are included in the Remuneration Report and will be included and improve customer satisfaction in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Human Resources to integrate the Group CSR policy within all In March of this year, we were delighted to have been recognised as training programmes, employee communications, and benefits one of the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies To Work for 2009 and initiatives, whilst continuing to promote charitable giving, also to have achieved Two Star Status for the Best Companies employment creation and staff retention Accreditation.
Office Management and Information Technology to facilitate internal communication of environmental performance and cost Corporate Social Responsibility effectiveness of energy usage, waste paper reduction, recycled The Board appointed a Corporate Social Responsibility Manager last paper usage, and the recycling of waste paper year.
We remain committed to our formal corporate social responsibility CSR policy.
The CSR Manager will facilitate the Board and Group Operations to achieve these commitments by establishing more specific objectives Corporate Social Responsibility Policy within the existing management structure and implementing guidance The Board recognises that high levels of corporate social responsibility to meet agreed continuous improvement targets.
The CSR Manager is CSR linked to clear commercial objectives, will create a more also responsible for recording key performance indicators for annual sustainable business and increase shareholder and customer value.
reporting and review by the Board.
This Policy will cover all of Big Yellows operations, as both a self A detailed review of our work in corporate social responsibility is storage developer and operator.
Big Yellow is seeking to meet the included within the CSR Report on pages 32 to 38. demand for self storage from businesses and private individuals providing the storage space for their commercial and or domestic needs, whilst aiding local employment creation and contributing to local community regeneration.
