Repo Repor rt t o of f t th he D e Di irecto rector rs s P P01 018 80 0 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 27 Business review Why conduct a Rights Issue?
In February 2009 we announced a Rights Issue to raise fresh capital to support the Company.
Here we examine the reasons for the issue and assess its results.
Why we needed to raise fresh capital In short, the Rights Issue has: The current economic and financial environment has resulted in an unprecedented downward repricing of Strengthened our balance sheet commercial property assets in the UK.
We have taken decisive action in response.
Since April 2007 we have Helped protect against sold more than 3.4bn of assets, including the disposal of Trillium, and we have repositioned our development downside risk programme.
However, the pace of decline has exceeded the pace at which assets could be sold to counteract the impact of falling values on the Groups balance sheet position.
This represented an ongoing risk to the Companys Positioned us to be able to ability to operate flexibly in todays market, and its ability to take advantage of any opportunities that may arise respond quickly to opportunities during current and future market conditions.
In response, we announced the Rights Issue in February 2009 and shareholders approved the measure at a General Meeting on 9 March 2009.
The key benefits of the additional capital The Rights Issue offered The additional capital has improved our ability to preserve and create shareholder value through the downturn shareholders the right to acquire and into the next cycle.
It helps protect us against the downside and gives us flexibility ahead of the next upturn.
five shares for every eight shares In particular, the capital raised has strengthened the Groups balance sheet and enabled us to minimise the that they held, for an issue price impact of the risk of prolonged falls in property values.
It has reduced refinancing risks for debt facilities maturing of 270p.
in our 2010 11 financial year, putting us in a much stronger position to refinance as and when we need to.
And it has ensured that we are able to respond quickly to the turning point in the cycle, particularly in relation to the As the issue price was below the market price of the ordinary shares, a bonus share element of 11% was acquisition of assets and the start of development opportunities.
inherent in the Rights Issue.
In order to allow comparability to prior years, the EPS and NAV per share figures for the The positive effect on debt year ended 31 March 2008 have been restated as if these bonus shares had always existed.
As our gearing increases our financial and operational flexibility is reduced, particularly our freedom to make acquisitions and disposals and progress development at the right time.
This can impact our ability to protect and create shareholder value.
By raising additional capital through the Rights Issue we have been able to reduce gearing and so maintain flexibility.
This freedom to take action is invaluable as we navigate our way through the current downturn and market volatility, and prepare to act on new opportunities.
Size of Rights Issue We calculated the total figure with great care.
We wanted to minimise our call on shareholders funds during such difficult economic conditions.
On the other hand, we had to ensure we gained the right level of capital to ensure we could meet our commitments fully, over a reasonable period of time, and through an unpredictable business environment.
Management took action to strengthen the Companys finances before the Rights Issue, including the execution of asset sales, such as the disposal of Trillium.
We continue to prioritise these measures.
How the Rights Issue affects the numbers You will see two particularly significant changes.
First, our balance sheet reflects the fact that we are holding a substantial amount of cash.
This includes both the capital raised by the Rights Issue and the credit facilities we drew down during the year.
Second, the Rights Issue has required us to restate previous years figures, and you will see that this has affected both earnings per share EPS and net asset value NAV per share.
You will find further explanation of these effects on page 23 of the Financial review.
Successful issue underlines investor confidence The five shares for every eight owned Rights Issue attracted 94.81% acceptances for the 755.7m placing, with 290.8m shares issued at 270p a share.
The fundraising was fully underwritten.
Given very difficult market conditions, economic uncertainty and the announcement of Rights Issues by a number of other companies in the Real Estate sector, this represents a strong indicator of investors confidence in Land Securities.
