06 Aegis Media business review As a consequence of these actions we had our best new business Headlines performance globally on record and our turnover conversion Operating performance resilient, with operating margin of to revenue increased from 7.9% to 8.5%.
Our headcount fell by 18.2% 2008: 19.2% 6.0% across the year and operating costs decreased by 7.6% on a constant currency basis.
Operating pro t down, but impact of revenue falls signi cantly offset by cost reductions These cost savings principally re ect the bene t of our targeted Record new business performance globally at US$2.7bn cost reduction programme, together with exibility in the cost base 2008: US$0.9bn, including Kelloggs, BMW and Credit in respect of performance pay arrangements.
Underlying staff Agricole in EMEA and Nokia globally: limited incremental costs excluding performance pay and exceptional severance bene t in 2009 as partly offset by account changes in second charges were 7.1% lower than 2008 and the rate of cost savings half of 2008 but provides good momentum going into 2010 accelerated during the year as the programme was implemented.
Cost reduction Proportion of revenue derived from digital up from 29% to 31% vs prior year Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 H1 H2 Full year Aegis Media 2.2% 7.0% 10.1% 9.2% 4.6% 9.6% 7.1% Overview 35.0m Revenue of 825.2m was in line with 2008 but 8.7% down Operating pro t at 150.4m was down 4.7%, or 13.5% at on a constant currency basis re ecting the worldwide advertising constant currency, re ecting a resilient performance as, given the recession in 2009.
On an organic basis, revenue fell 9.7%, revenue decline in the year, operating margin was reasonably compared to a decline of 9.9% in the first half of the year.
The rate of decline, having increased to 11.8% in the third quarter, recovered to 8.0% in the last quarter.
The improvement in revenues Key highlights for business across Aegis Media included in the last quarter together with the record levels of new business winning the global Nokia business and European appointments wins in the year provide good momentum going into 2010, from Kelloggs, Credit Agricole and the renewal of the General with increasing bene t expected to arise.
Organic Full Our digital business now accounts for 31% of revenue, up from change % Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 H1 H2 year 29% in 2008, re ecting the more robust nature of digital spends especially in search marketing and also our growing success Revenue 13.1 7.
4 11.8 8.0 9.9 9.5 9.7 and focus in delivering integrated on and of ine solutions which The downturn in the global economy was severe in 2009. are now essential for effective marketing plans.
As clients reduced spend on media, our aims were to: The regional investments and adjustments implemented in focus on growing market share through new business: 2008 brought bene ts to our delivery especially in Asia, maintain our service levels to clients: and Latin America performed very well as part of the new Iberia Latam region.
Following a review of operations, a new quickly adjust our cost base: and region of Middle East and Africa was created with a new maintain our momentum in regional and service development internally promoted management team leading signi cant and ring-fence large elements of our training budgets.
m Constant Change currency 2009 2008 % % Revenue EMEA 585.3 588.1 0.5 7.5 Americas 158.6 167.3 5.2 17.9 Asia Paci c 81.3 68.4 18.9 3.9 Worldwide 825.2823.80.2 8.7 Operating costs 674.8 665.9 1.3 7.6 Operating pro t150.4 157.9 4.7 13.5 Operating margin 18.2% 19.2% Jerry Buhlmann Chief Executive Of cer, Aegis Media Chief Executive Of cer designate, Aegis Group 07 A major feature of 2009 has been to maintain investments Italy and especially Spain had dif cult years due to the profound in extending our product, services and geographical reach decrease in economic activity in these markets.
However, both which has greatly enhanced our network capability.
In product, markets have been effectively managed and in Spain good cost our market leading insight product, CCS, has been extended control and a consolidation of of ce locations have maintained into 12 additional markets and the Integrated Communications the product, staff integrity and operating margins at highly Planning, ICP, process has been introduced and ingrained into respectable levels.
all regions with several thousand staff receiving direct training.
In Spain a robust new business effort was also rewarded with the OCS, the Outdoor version of CCS, has also been rolled out prestigious award of the Diageo and Coca-Cola business which, across the Posterscope network.
In digital, the iProspect added to other wins, means our Spanish business enters 2010 performance marketing product and brand is now operated with a strong competitive operating base plus a four point market in 22 markets and once again is regarded as overall leader share advance.
In Portugal, we completed the acquisition of a in the Forrester Wave report.
The Nordics, following a number of years of outstanding Aegis Media EMEA performance, had a dif cult 2009 challenged by a tough market Revenue across the region at 585.3m decreased by 0.5% and and the loss of Landbruckt, a large client in Norway.
This was by 7.5% at constant currency re ecting an outperformance versus balanced by the bene t of being the home region to the global the dif cult market conditions.
Nokia win and good progress in integration and product development.
The UK performed well in a very competitive market enjoying strong retention of key clients whilst winning not only the international The highlight of Eastern Europe was the extension into the clients of Nokia and Kelloggs but also Ikea, BMW, and adding region of Vizeums Panasonic assignment and Hungarys win the Coca-Cola owned Innocent Drinks business.
There were strong of Ferrero: our Russian business also continued to perform well performances from Carat, Vizeum and in the digital performance with positive revenue growth, a full-year effect of the Adwatch marketing brand Dif niti, whilst Glue London had an outstanding digital acquisition and market outperformance with new business year winning the Campaign Agency of the Year award.
wins for Diageo, Mars, Megafon and other local wins.
Robust digital leadership was In Middle East and Africa good progress has been made in brought more centre stage to a business which now derives the substantially increasing our geographic footprint and upgrading majority of its revenue from diversi ed services whilst maintaining our product.
In Sub Saharan Africa our presence has been the market number one position in traditional media.
In addition, extended with 11 new markets with strong af liation agreements new business wins from Credit Agricole, Socit Gnral and in Nigeria, Ghana, Senegal and Ivory Coast and a new locally Beaut Prestige will give the business additional momentum going owned Carat business in Kenya.
In the Middle East new af liate into 2010. agreements have been signed in Egypt, Kuwait, Syria, Libya and Jordan.
All new markets have been very well supported by ICP Germany had a year of outperformance with customary tight training creating a consistent product across the region.
cost control and the very signi cant wins of Beiersdorf and Tchibo in their home market.
Retention in a highly competitive market Our already well established business in the Republic of South was also key to success and the renewal of General Motors Africa also performed well with a strong ow of incoming new and Ferrero were both positives in the business.
2009 split of revenues by geography Aegis Media Aegis Media continued m to diversify: with Isobar 1 EMEA 585.3 1 3 2 Americas 158.6 contributing over 30% 3 Asia Pacific 81.3 of revenues and increasing proportion of revenue from emerging pro ts 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Aegis Group plc Business review 95 4094 2239 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Aegis Media business review 08 Aegis Media business review continued Aegis Media Americas Aegis Media Asia Paci c Revenues of 158.6m declined 5.2% across North America and Senior and stable management plus a clear focus have Latin America representing a 17.9% decline on a constant currency produced solid numbers in Asia with revenue at 81.3m up basis.
In North America a new management team led by a new 18.9% and up 3.9% at constant currency representing a very Chief Executive was installed in May 2009 to transform and good regional performance.
drive forward our US operations.
This change has manifested Carat and Isobar were awarded Agency of the Year in a major cultural change, new energy in the organisation, China, and Carat Network of the Year across the region and delivered some concrete success with the additional with good business wins locally and additional assignments appointment of Gillette from Procter and Gamble reinforcing our from international clients.
integrated communications planning credentials in the market.
In product development, iProspect launched in the region, Also in the US in the last quarter of the year, a deal was Posterscope maximised its scale and reach and launched its concluded to transfer all the out-of-home planning and buying advanced digital planning tool in China.
Region-wide training into Posterscope USA from MPG USA.
has added greatly to the consistent quality and capability now In Latin America a solid performance from both Brazil and available across our Asia Paci c businesses.
Mexico, where Carat was Agency of the Year, contributed to Whilst very good progress in China in 2009 was the key feature good revenue and pro t growth.
In Brazil, we also added the of the region, the full bene t of management changes the previous acquisition of Midiaclick, a performance marketing agency year in India and Australia have delivered good progress and now rebranded iProspect.
The new management focus and structure in Latin America has As part of our geographic expansion in 2009 we also concluded also led to a stronger af liate network footprint for Carat in Chile, af liation agreements in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Vietnam.
Colombia and Venezuela and also created a stronger and more consistent international product.
Since the year end, we have announced an extension of our operations in China, with the acquisition of a 17.7% shareholding in Charm Communications Inc Charm, one of Chinas leading TV buying and advertising agencies.
In addition, Vizeum and Charm have established a joint venture which will operate as Vi Viz ze eu um m C Chin hina a.. JerJB ry Buhhllmann Chief Executive Of cer, Aegis Media Strengthened management teams in the Americas delivered concrete success and a stronger international product
