SHAFTESBURY PLC SHAFTESBURY PLC OPERA QUARTER operaquarter.
co. uk ur strategy is to invest only in the Our success is underwritten by the many We are akin to urban farmers who specialise attractions of London, one of the Worlds truly in city centre regeneration.
We know all our most central and busy districts within Londons West End in an global cities.
With more than 26 million tenants and have an in-depth understanding visitors each year and over 30 million people of the markets in which we work.
Together with area bounded by Regent Street o to the west and Kingsway to the in England living within easy access for making our consultants, we have specialist knowledge day trips, London is the Worlds most popular and considerable experience of how to make east, with the objective of delivering long-term rental and capital growth.
To this end, we seek city destination for visitors and, as a result, is the most out of older and often listed buildings not as reliant on the UK economy for its located in crowded conservation areas.
to accumulate clusters of properties and to introduce a mix of uses appropriate for each prosperity as other domestic locations.
It has Our proven approach to estate management, been our experience at times of economic area, with an emphasis on shops, restaurants, which is attracting interest from other cities, cafes, bars and clubs.
downturn such as now, that consumer spending is evident across all our villages: in the West End is even more resilient than We initiated this strategy almost 17 years ago elsewhere in London.
We invest in clusters of properties, which in the recession of the early 1990s, when we have excellent public transport and are close realised that both tenant demand and rents London is also exceptionally cosmopolitan.
to streets such as Regent Street, Leicester It is one of the most culturally renowned remained stable throughout that recession in Square and Covent Gardens Piazza, but where the 32 properties that we then owned in cities and has an extensive heritage.
Our rental levels are relatively much lower.
We properties, which are all in the heart of the Chinatown.
From that nucleus has emerged seek to establish distinctive destinations.
our unique portfolio which now includes 484 West End, are surrounded by a unique Many of our acquisitions are of unmodernised concentration of theatres, cinemas, museums, shops, restaurants, cafes and bars in our wholly properties.
Through sympathetic owned portfolio across five districts: Carnaby, galleries, historic buildings and royal parks.
refurbishments and changes of use, we Londons 40 theatres offer a huge range of Covent Garden, Chinatown, Berwick Street in introduce predominately higher value retail, Soho and Charlotte Street in Fitzrovia.
These entertainment, from high quality plays and restaurant, leisure and residential uses so musicals to innovative drama, and attract wholly owned buildings cover in total about 11 as to generate increased, but less cyclical acres and our Longmartin Joint Venture large numbers of visitors to our areas.
We believe that the Over the past two years the decline in the geographical focus and nature of our portfolio We work closely with Local Authorities and value of sterling against the Euro and most is unique amongst REITs and other quoted community groups to devise and implement other major currencies has greatly contributed property companies in the UK and Europe.
regeneration projects both for our buildings to the number of leisure visitors and spending and for the public environment, in particular, Our choice of locations, together with our in the West End.
The number of European streets, pavements, lighting and security.
active approach to estate management, reduces tourists, which has been rising steadily in the cyclical tendencies inherent in property recent years, has increased markedly over Our regeneration projects are long term.
This strategy has, over a long the past year.
The weakness of sterling has Assembling a critical mass of properties period, produced substantial out-performance also encouraged more domestic visitors to in a location, restoring the buildings and in rental and capital values as well as in Total visit London rather than travel to Europe for introducing the mix of uses and tenants Returns for our shareholders.
The past two short break holidays.
that we seek, can take up to five years to difficult years have been no exception.
In the initiate and establish.
The staging of the Olympics in less than three two years to 30 September 2009, the value of years time has been an important catalyst for our properties fell by 19.4% in contrast to the the Mayor of London and Westminster City 42.2% fall in the IPD UK Monthly Index.
Council to improve the quality of pavements, streets and the public realm in Central London, It is also significant that the estimated rental value of our portfolio as a whole has remained including most recently Oxford Circus and Piccadilly Circus.
Whilst we welcome this very stable and that the rental values of our shops, restaurants and apartments, which investment, which in some cases is long overdue, the proliferation of schemes concurrent comprise 81% of our portfolio, have continued to grow as demand has remained buoyant with the comprehensive replacement of all the Victorian water mains can, in the short across our villages.
term, be severely disruptive for shops and restaurants affected by these works.
SHAFTESBURY PLC e are very selective in what Within the Longmartin Joint Venture, the St Martins Courtyard scheme is now well we buy.
We are patient but very determined in the pursuit advanced, with all the accommodation due for completion in phases within the current of those assets that we believe W will complement and enhance financial year.
Our share of Longmartins total capital expenditure was 10.3 million in the our portfolio.
Even under normal market conditions, the number of properties available year ended 30 September 2009 and we expect to spend a further 15.0 million in the current to purchase at any one time in the West End, and which also meet our investment criteria, year to complete the Courtyard project.
The recent extreme dislocation in As we anticipated, we made no sales in the financial markets and rapid fall in property year.
We only buy properties appropriate to values have, over the last 18 months, virtually our long term strategy.
Any sales that we do halted investment activity generally.
In our make are usually to special purchasers.
market, where income and values have proved In the year to 30 September 2009, the value of to be exceptionally resilient, owners have commercial lettings has been very stable both been particularly reluctant to sell secure in total and for each use and were almost assets which are difficult to replace.
identical to those contracted in 2007 and Despite challenging conditions during the year 2008.
We let commercial space with a rental to 30 September 2009 we bought, or contracted value of 3.1 million per annum comprising to buy, properties with a total cost of 29.8 1.6 million of shops, 0.6 million of million.
They include sixteen shops and three restaurants and 0.9 million of offices.
restaurants, some with offices or apartments At 30 September 2009 the rental value of wholly above.
We have substantial resources to make owned vacant commercial accommodation, acquisitions as liquidity returns to property including space subject to planning applications markets and we are continuing to investigate or being refurbished, was 3.2 million, which a number of interesting opportunities.
represents 4.4% of the estimated rental value We let our shops and restaurants in shell of our wholly owned portfolio.
Of this, 1.1 million form, so that the costs that we incur and the 1.5% was ready to let and not under offer.
obsolescence that we suffer are low.
As in At the year end we had fifteen apartments previous years, our capital expenditure in the which were ready to let, with a total rental wholly owned portfolio was modest and value of 0.3 million per annum.
totalled 10.3 million, representing under 1% of its capital value.
Within Longmartin, our 50% share of the estimated rental value of vacant units in the St Martins Courtyard scheme is approximately 5.1 million per annum, of which 1.2 million had been pre-let at the year end.
SHAFTESBURY PLC Our office space continues to reduce in We had a similar experience this time last Our wholly owned portfolio significance.
ft. across year and it will be interesting to see if, on this Our wholly owned portfolio at 30 September 2009 348 tenancies, but now represents only 21% occasion, demand continues into the New Year.
included 315 shops extending to 375,000 sq.
ft. of current rents and 19% of estimated rental Our investment in residential accommodation They produce 42% of current income, have an value.
Our office leases are short with an continues to grow, and now represents 9% of average annual rent of 83,000 and an average average unexpired term of three years.
Of the our current income.
We now have 310 unexpired lease term of six years.
Of our 21 38 offices which were vacant at the year end, apartments, and at the year end had made vacant shops, fifteen are small units.
Of the many were small, with an average size of planning applications for a further 27 units.
six shops of above average size, which have a 1,000 sq.
ft. and an average estimated rental Our apartments usually let within a month of combined rental value of 0.9 million 55% of value of 32 per sq.
ft. For most of the year becoming available, with tenants staying two the ERV of vacant shops, two were under offer demand for offices was weak, but in recent to three years on average.
and one under refurbishment at the year end.
weeks there has been an increase in enquiries We have 169 restaurants, cafes, bars and clubs, for our smaller offices.
ft. of which about 120 are located very close to the West Analysis of Wholly Owned Vacant Commercial Space at 30 September 2009 Ends principal theatres and cinemas.
These Restaurants uses produce 28% of current income.
Leases Shops and leisure Offices Total Estimated Rental Value million million million million are usually initially for 25 years and the current average of unexpired terms is thirteen years.
Under refurbishment 0.5 - 0.6 1.1 As the leases and licences are valuable assets Ready to let 0.5 0.1 0.5 1.1 for tenants, defaults are rare.
Of our two vacant Under offer 0.6 0.2 0.2 1.0 units at the year end, one is under offer and the other is being reconfigured.
Strict planning Total 1.6 0.3 1.3 3.2 and licensing regulations in the West End restrict Number of units 21 2 38 - the supply of new restaurants.
We have excellent Area - 000 sq.
ft. 25 3 42 70 demand from experienced operators with new concepts.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ADVERTISEMENT 1 4 2 Kingly Street Kingly Court Great Marlborough Street 3 Lowndes Court 11 12 Fouberts Place 5 Broadwick Street LONDON W1 Ganton Street 6 Carnaby Street 8 9 7 Newburgh Street 10 Beak Street Marshall Street Marlborough Court Tottenham Ct Rd At the heart of Londons West End, Carnaby is the Oxford Circus Oxford Street number one shopping destination for individual style with leading international brands, bars and restaurants, covetable fashion and lifestyle products.
12 stylish and Carnaby vibrant streets packed with exciting concept boutiques and flagship stores.
CHINATOWN Piccadilly Circus STREETS carnaby.
co. uk 1 Miss Sixty 2 William and George 3 Diesel Female 4 Traffic People 5 Bolongaro Trevor 6 Irregular Choice 7 Concrete 8 55DSL 9 Onitsuka Tiger 10 Year Zero 11 Replay 12 All Saints Regent Street SOHO Charing Cross Road CARNABY REPRESENTS 37% OF OUR PROPERTY ASSETS.
EXTENDING OVER TWELVE STREETS, IT IS OUR LARGEST VILLAGE, WITH 43% OF OUR SHOPS AND 58% OF OUR OFFICES.
It contains many of the largest and most valuable shops and offices in our wholly owned portfolio.
Thirteen of our 20 largest tenants are located in Carnaby.
Many of our Carnaby offices are occupied by fashion retailers who have shops within the village or close by.
This year Carnaby has received considerable attention from the media as a dynamic and internationally renowned retail and leisure destination with informal places to eat and a great night life.
There is a healthy demand throughout Carnaby and we continue to attract interest from national and international retailers.
We have recently secured vacant possession of three larger shops, two of which are under offer to existing short term tenants who want more space and longer leases.
As part of our strategy to maintain the appeal of Carnaby, we are always keen to introduce new retailers to refresh the tenant mix.
For our smaller shops where appropriate we are able to offer flexible, short term contracts to encourage pop up units and new concepts which allow retailers to trial their ideas.
If they demonstrate they are able to trade successfully, we endeavour to provide them with long term accommodation to match their requirements.
Our extensive ownership in Carnaby presents us with a number of potentially interesting opportunities for regeneration and improvement over the coming months.
Whilst our initial plans to develop 36-39 Carnaby Street have yet to obtain planning consent, we continue to maintain income from these properties until we are in a position to commence our scheme.
Westminster City Council, having made Kingly Street traffic free for part of the day, plans in 2010 to upgrade the street surfaces, and to make the pedestrianisation arrangements permanent.
Once this has occurred, it should enable us, over time, to improve the quality of many of our properties along almost the whole of the east side of Kingly Street.
A mixed use scheme at 27-28 Kingly Street is already well advanced and due for completion early in 2010.
Carnaby Statistics 30 September 2009 Valuation 442.8 million Percentage of portfolio 37% Acquisitions during year - Capital expenditure in year 4.2 million Capital value return -3.4% Area sq.
ft. % of current Number 000 gross income Shops 133 172 51 Restaurants, cafs and leisure 35 77 12 Offices tenancies 172 244 33 Residential 58 40 4 244,000 sq.
ft. 58 133 35 SHOPS OFFICES RESTAURANTS, CAFS RESIDENTIAL AND LEISURE SHAFTESBURY PLC OUR WHOLLY OWNED INVESTMENTS ACROSS COVENT GARDEN REPRESENT 27% OF OUR PROPERTY ASSETS, OR 32% INCLUDING OUR 50% SHARE IN THE LONGMARTIN JOINT VENTURE.
The areas origins as a market district have given Covent Garden a unique heritage of period buildings, and a very distinctive yet local atmosphere.
It houses both of Londons Opera Houses together with the Royal Ballet School and half of Londons theatres.
Covent Garden is a popular residential location and our wholly owned properties now include as much residential as office accommodation.
We continue our strategy of converting poorer offices to higher value residential use wherever possible.
Seven Dials, with its unusual seventeenth century street pattern and many period buildings, is often called Covent Gardens secret village.
The area is renowned for alternative fashion and lifestyle and is popular with tourists as well as Londoners.
Currently, we have three shops to let, of which two are under offer.
We expect Seven Dials will both complement and benefit from the opening in 2010 of the shops and restaurants at St Martins Courtyard, where contracted and estimated rents are higher than those in Seven Dials.
The Opera Quarter is now well established as a high quality, yet affordable, restaurant district, underpinned by seven of Londons busiest theatres and several well known hotels in the immediate vicinity.
Over the last four years we have completed and let eleven important refurbishment schemes and further projects are planned for 2010.
Covent Garden Statistics wholly owned 30 September 2009 Valuation 327.7 million Percentage of portfolio 27% Acquisitions during the year 1.7 million Capital expenditure in year 2.3 million Capital value return -2.3% Area sq.
ft. % of current Number 000 gross income Shops 104 126 49 Restaurants, cafs and leisure 61 125 22 Offices tenancies 65 91 15 Residential 132 90 14 61 91,000 sq.
ft. 104 132 SHOPS OFFICES RESTAURANTS, CAFS RESIDENTIAL AND LEISURE SHAFTESBURY PLC TUBE ADVERTISEMENT Festivals and events all year round SHAFTESBURY PLC CHINATOWN REPRESENTS 26% OF OUR PROPERTY ASSETS, WHERE 61 RESTAURANTS AND 60 SHOPS PROVIDE 86% OF ITS RENTAL INCOME.
Very centrally located, close to the premier cinemas in and around Leicester Square and next to Theatreland, our investments in Chinatown benefit from high visitor numbers and long trading hours and have once again proved most resilient.
There is always a healthy demand to rent space of any kind both from within the community and increasingly from new comers from mainland China and other parts of East Asia.
During the second half of the year, we acquired further freeholds, which include two restaurants and four shops, at a total cost of 15.3 million, which offer a number of interesting opportunities to enhance income and capital values.
Our capital expenditure in Chinatown remains modest but we continue to identify opportunities for refurbishment and conversion.
We are disappointed that during the year there has been little further progress in upgrading streets and the public environment or improving access to Chinatown.
However, improvements to Rupert Court are now underway, with Wardour Street to follow.
We are working with Westminster City Council on a proposal to make the Chinatown section of Wardour Street traffic free during the busiest trading periods.
Chinatown Statistics 30 September 2009 Valuation 319.5 million Percentage of portfolio 26% Acquisitions during year 15.3 million Capital expenditure in year 2.5 million Capital value return -1.6% Area sq.
ft. % of current Number 000 gross income Shops 60 57 27 Restaurants, cafs and leisure 61 178 59 Offices tenancies 70 46 7 Residential 85 52 7 60 46,000 sq.
ft. 61 85 SHOPS OFFICES RESTAURANTS RESIDENTIAL AND LEISURE SHAFTESBURY PLC BERWICK STREET IS LOCATED IN A CONSERVATION AREA AT THE HEART OF THE WEST END.
TRADITIONALLY KNOWN AS SOHOS LOCAL HIGH STREET, IT RUNS NORTH SOUTH FROM OXFORD STREET TOWARDS SHAFTESBURY AVENUE.
BUSINESS REVIEW In 2007, Westminster City Council designated Berwick Street as a priority in its Action Area Plan as it has suffered from a lack of investment or any strategy for many years.
We expect that assembling ownerships in and around Berwick Street will have potential for us as a long term project.
Past experience has shown that progress at this early stage can be slow.
Our commitment to date is very much a preliminary investment.
We have the financial resources to support our strategy of securing additional purchases over time to establish a significant ownership in the area.
Also Westminster City Councils active participation and support, which they have given in the past to our initiatives in our other locations, will be required.
Berwick Street Statistics 30 September 2009 Valuation 33.2 million Percentage of portfolio 3% Acquisitions during year 12.8 million Capital expenditure in year 0.8 million Capital value return -10.8% Area sq.
ft. % of current Number 000 gross income Shops 16 16 29 Restaurants, cafs and leisure 453 Offices tenancies 33 27 46 Residential 17 14 22 27,000 sq.
ft. 16 4 17 SHOPS OFFICES RESTAURANTS, RESIDENTIAL CAFS AND LEISURE SHAFTESBURY PLC BERWICK STREET at the heart of Soho Longmartin Joint Venture OUR LONGMARTIN JOINT VENTURE WITH THE MERCERS COMPANY OWNS AN ISLAND SITE OF 1.9 ACRES IN COVENT GARDEN, CLOSE TO LEICESTER SQUARE AND ITS IMPORTANT UNDERGROUND STATION.
Through a project of phased regeneration and new development at the centre of our site, we are creating St Martins Courtyard, a mixed use scheme, which includes 23 shops 67,000 sq.
ft. of offices in four buildings and 34 apartments.
This is in addition to the adjacent buildings on the island site.
The next phases of shops and restaurants in the Courtyard scheme are expected to be ready for tenants to fit out in February 2010.
To date over 50% by value of the retail and 65% by value of the restaurants have been either pre-let or put under offer.
We are confident that the shops and restaurants will all have been let before the Courtyard opens to the public in the summer of 2010.
The office accommodation, spread across four self-contained buildings, will be ready between February and September 2010 and we are now able to offer them to let.
With their central location and unique courtyard setting, we expect healthy interest.
The 34 apartments within the scheme will become available in phases by summer 2010.
Our share of the costs to complete the scheme is approximately 15.0 million.
Longmartins Portfolio St Martins Courtyard Let Under offer Remaining Total Shops Number 4 1 18 23 Area 000 sq.
ft. 19 84067 Rental value million 2.0 0.5 1.7 4.2 Restaurants Number 1225 and leisure Area 000 sq.
ft. 3 - 22 25 Rental value million 0.1 - 1.1 1.2 Total rental value million 2.4 1.1 6.7 10.2 Adjacent Properties Being Refurbished Let Under offer or to Let Total Shops Number 1-- 1 Area 000 sq.
ft. 2-- 2 Current rental income million 0.2 - - 0.2 Restaurants Number 3-- 3 and leisure Area 000 sq.
ft. 17 - - 17 Current rental income million 0.8 - - 0.8 Offices Area 000 sq.
ft. 20 - 10 30 Current rental income million 0.3 - 0.6 0.9 Residential Number 37 - 3 40 Area 000 sq.
ft. 26 - 2 28 Current rental income million 0.6 - 0.1 0.7 Total current rental value million 1.9 - 0.7 2.6 Shaftesbury Group has a 50% interest in the figures shown above SHAFTESBURY PLC SHAFTESBURY PLC Our share of the current rental income in the Interest rates have fallen to unprecedentedly ur profit before taxation Longmartin Joint Venture, where the St Martins low levels to tackle the UK economic crisis.
for the year, adjusted as Courtyard scheme has been under construction As a result, and with lower levels of debt since shown on page 9 to throughout the year, has declined by 0.3 million July 2009 following receipt of the Rights Issue O eliminate the surplus to 1.5 million this year.
Its income will improve proceeds, interest payable on our floating rate during the current year as phases of the bank debt fell dramatically from 27.7 million realised on property disposals and scheme are completed and let.
However, with the fair valuation movements in a substantial portion of our bank debt subject Property outgoings have increased this year respect of investment properties to long term interest rate swaps, this interest by 0.7 million to 7.2 million 2008: 6.5 and financial derivatives, amounted saving has been offset by an increase of 10.0 million.
Largely as a result of changes in million in settlements under these contracts.
to 21.3 million, an increase of rating legislation, empty rates costs rose by Overall, interest payable charged in the Income 39.2%, compared with an adjusted 0.2 million during the year.
We incurred Statement fell by 4.1 million to 26.6 million profit of 15.3 million in the previous additional village marketing costs of 0.2 this year.
million, in order to encourage more visitors year.
The loss on ordinary activities to our locations and 0.2 million in obtaining As a consequence of the dramatic and before taxation reported in the energy performance certificates for a large unprecedented fall in interest rates during the Income Statement amounted to number of our properties which are now year the fair value deficit of our long term interest 58.1 million 2008: 220.9 million.
rate swaps has increased by 31.6 million to 46.1 million at the year end.
This non-cash Despite challenging conditions, our rental income The Groups share of property outgoings in the accounting provision, which is excluded in the has continued to rise, with rents receivable Longmartin Joint Venture amounted to 0.5 calculation of our banking covenants, will across the Group adjusted for lease incentives million 2008: 0.5 million.
We do not capitalise gradually reverse as interest rates return to increasing from 57.8 million to 61.7 million, property outgoings incurred while refurbishment their long term historic averages.
For the wholly schemes are in progress.
owned Group, after eliminating the impact of Administration expenses include a charge of property acquisitions and disposals, rents invoiced 0.7 million 2008: 0.2 million in respect of increased by 3.9% this year compared with the equity settled remuneration.
The accounting previous year 2008: 7.2% year-on-year increase.
charge in respect of share options has increased by 0.1 million to 0.5 million.
The charge for employers national insurance liability on share awards and share options has increased by 0.4 million as a result of the increase in the Companys share price over the year.
SHAFTESBURY PLC fine dining Net interest payable was covered 1.8 times by The tax charge on the adjusted profit for the Dividends operating profit before investment property year was 0.2 million, compared with 0.4 As a Real Estate Investment Trust the level of disposals and valuation movements 2008: 1.5 million last year, and arises mainly in our our dividends must reflect the requirement of times.
Based on the interest cover covenants Joint Venture.
Longmartin remains outside REIT legislation to distribute a minimum of 90% and definitions contained in our banking the Groups REIT election, so that our share of of income arising from our rental business agreements, net interest payable was covered its results continues to be subject to provisions calculated by reference to tax rather than 2.1 times by net property income 2008: 1.7 for corporation tax and deferred tax liabilities.
times, compared with the minimum ratio of Adjusted diluted post-tax earnings per share 1.5 times we are required to maintain.
REIT Our interest in Longmartin is not currently for the current year amounted to 11.2p compared within our REIT election, so our share of its legislation requires us to maintain a minimum with 8.5p last year adjusted for the Rights ratio of net rental income for properties in the rental income and the cost of financing our Issue, an increase of 31.8%.
The unadjusted investment in the Joint Venture are excluded REIT group against attributable interest payable diluted post-tax loss per share shown in the of 1.25 times.
The ratio this year was from the calculation of taxable rental profits for Group Income Statement for the current year REIT purposes.
During the construction phase of approximately 2.1 times.
amounted to 31.3p compared with 124.6p last the St Martins Courtyard scheme, Longmartins year adjusted for the Rights Issue.
net rental income is much reduced and is less than the cost of financing our investment.
As Unadjusted shareholders funds at the year the calculation of taxable profits for the REIT end shown in the Group Balance Sheet totalled group excludes this deficit the amount we are 717.3 million, an increase over the year of currently required to distribute to meet our 75.0 million.
Adjusting these amounts to REIT obligations is almost equal to our exclude the fair value of financial derivatives, distributable accounting profits for the year.
our adjusted net asset value becomes 763.4 million, equivalent to a diluted net asset value We continue to discuss with our partner the per share of 3.35 per share 2008: 656.9 changes in the joint venture arrangements that million - 3.76 per share, adjusted for the would be necessary if we were to include our Rights Issue, an increase of 106.5 million.
interest within our REIT group.
Currently the earliest date that this could be effected is 1 October 2010.
SHAFTESBURY PLC cafe society ethnic food touch up lipstick loosen the belt If youre serious about shopping, its time to The best thing about Carnaby let yourself in on one is youll always find something of Londons best kept thats not available anywhere secrets else.
Here you can find your own The Travel Editor style, not just follow the herd about Seven Dials Sophie Ferguson Jones Shopping Editor, Grazia Seven Dials is the knowing hip and street wise teenager, sandwiched between bohemian Soho and aristocratic Covent Newburgh Quarter Garden packs every shop, gallery and caf you BBC London Online could dream of into its handful of streets Luc Le Corre Publishing Director, SUPERSUPER Seven Dials, a veritable treasure trove of gorgeous boutiques The most exciting area for shopping: Carnaby Street is a Queens of Vintage synthesis between music and fashion Noelia Ferreiro, Ocholeguas Spain SHAFTESBURY PLC If youre coffee-loving, kinky, theatre lovey, Monmouth Street might just be the best street in the whole wide world for you to shop in Carnaby is a perfect Londonist.
com destination for 2009s shoppers Rebecca Lowrey Boyd Deputy Shopping Editor Time Out London On the edge of Covent Garden, this eccentric shopping hotspot could easily be overlooked by crowdconscious Londoners.
But that would be a damn shame Carnaby Street is fast Time Out London about Seven Dials becoming a docking station for denim flagships Dan Jones, Shopping Editor Today, Carnaby remains Time Out London the capitals coolest shopping destination Sophie Ferguson Jones Shopping Editor, Grazia Newburgh Quarter is one of the coolest shopping destinations In Chinatown a new wave of in the West End where Chinese restaurateurs is bringing you can find all sort long overdue improvements to their of gems!
interiors, their menus and, most Tank excitingly, their ability to reflect the regionality of Chinese cooking British Airways, Business Life SHAFTESBURY PLC Independent designer labels SHAFTESBURY PLC Gearing at the year end, calculated by reference In November and December 2008 we ur strategy is to restructured parts of our hedging portfolio to to our adjusted net assets referred to above secure flexible long and the nominal rather than book value of our take advantage of long term swap rates which and medium term debt were exceptionally low at that time.
We currently debenture and net bank debt, was 55% 2008: O finance together with 79%.
The ratio of the nominal value of debenture have hedging in place on 360 million of floating rate bank debt with a weighted average rate and net bank debt to the market value of our non-speculative hedging of the property assets was 35% 2008: 42%.
excluding margin at the year end of 4.71%, interest rate exposure on a which rises to 4.87% in December 2009 when We monitor our overall committed facilities at substantial portion of our floating certain short term arrangements expire, with all times to ensure we have sufficient resources rate debt.
This finance strategy is a weighted average maturity of 23.4 years.
to meet our future cash flow commitments intended to match our funding with with comfortable headroom.
Any new At 30 September 2009, the fair value of the our assets which are held for long prospective commitments, such as property Groups interest rate derivatives represented term investment, and provide acquisitions, are considered in the light of a liability of 46.1 million 2008: 14.5 million.
funding currently available to the Group.
Our strategy of taking long term, fixed rate reasonable certainty of finance swaps will lead to greater volatility in this costs whilst limiting the Groups At the year end, committed bank facilities non-cash mark-to-market calculation.
However, totalled 575 million, an increase of 50 million exposure to adverse movements we consider the benefit of fixing our interest over the year, with a weighted average maturity in interest rates.
costs on a substantial portion of our debt at of 7.6 years 2008: 8.9 years.
In October and rates we believe will prove attractive over the November 2008 we raised additional facilities The Board keeps under review the level of long term outweighs this inevitable volatility.
current and forecast debt and the Groups from two existing lenders totalling 75 million and in April 2009 repaid and cancelled 25 The deficit arising on the fair value of the strategies regarding the appropriate levels of debt and equity finance, the maturity profile million in connection with a gearing covenant Groups long term debenture debt, which is relaxation.
Committed unutilised facilities at not reflected in the IFRS results, amounted to of loan facilities and interest rate exposure and hedging.
the year end totalled 213.8 million 2008: 10.8 million 2008: 11.3 million.
in the deficit has arisen as a result of a The nominal value of debenture and bank widening in credit spreads, which has offset borrowings at the year end totalled 422.2 The average margin over LIBOR we paid on the impact of lower market interest rates.
million, a reduction of 95.2 million over the amounts drawn from our bank facilities at the The Group has no legal obligation to crystallise year.
The Rights Issue approved by shareholders year end was 0.71%.
If we fully drew all of our in June 2009, together with shares issued in facilities, the weighted average margin we these fair value deficits by further early refinancing of its fixed rate debt or the early connection with the exercise of employee would pay would be 0.81%.
These margins are share options, produced cash inflows after fixed throughout the terms of the facilities.
termination of its interest rate hedges but may consider doing so where there is a clear expenses of 151.2 million.
Cash outflows At the year end, taking into account our long during the year on acquisitions less capital economic benefit to the business.
term fixed rate debenture debt and interest receipts amounted to 24.7 million.
Expenditure rate hedging, the weighted average cost of The Board monitors both actual and forecast on the Groups portfolio totalled 21.3 million, our borrowings including margin was 5.78%, performance against the financial covenants of which our share of the Longmartin Joint compared with 6.10% at the previous year end.
contained in the Groups bank facilities and Venture accounted for 10.0 million.
Each of our facilities is operations after net interest payments produced The proceeds of the Rights Issue received in secured against designated property assets a net cash surplus of 20.6 million, compared early July 2009 effectively repaid our floating and in addition all the lenders, including the with 16.6 million in the previous year.
Tax rate bank debt so that, at the year end, virtually Debenture trustee, have a shared floating payments, which totalled 7.2 million 2008: all of our borrowings were either at fixed rate charge over the assets of the parent company 10.2 million, were largely related to the or hedged at fixed rates.
Currently the all-in and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
settlement of our 2007 REIT conversion cost of funds we draw in excess of the 360 charge liability.
At the year end 11.1 million million of hedged bank debt is around 1.5%, The outstanding Debenture stock of 61 million of this liability remained to be paid.
so that most acquisitions at present are is secured by a first charge on property assets, showing an immediate surplus over their cost where we must maintain a minimum value of of finance.
150% of the stock outstanding, and where the net rental income has to match the coupon of 8.5%.
We are comfortably in excess of these covenants based on assets currently charged.
SHAFTESBURY PLC Our banking covenants are structured on a Performance and benchmarking Principal risks and uncertainties Group-wide basis and are broadly similar for facing the business The table on page 3 summarises our each of our facilities.
Gearing covenants performance this year against our chosen Operational and financial risks facing the across all our facilities were increased from benchmarks.
business are monitored through a process 125% to a minimum of 175% during the year.
of regular assessment by the executive team The financial covenants, together with their As explained in previous years, we have been and reported and discussed at meetings of status at 30 September 2009, were as shown unable to identify a published property the Audit Committee and the Board.
performance index which relates specifically to a portfolio of mixed use buildings such as Our principal risks have remained broadly Our lenders are well secured by these current ours, or recognises restaurant uses as a unchanged over the year and relate to the arrangements.
Based on the results for the component, an important element of our valuation risk inherent in property year ended 30 September 2009, net property investment strategy.
We have therefore used investment, and the location of the Groups income could fall by 14.7 million equivalent for comparison purposes the IPD UK Monthly portfolio and certain aspects of its strategy.
to 27% of this years Group net property Indices which track movements across all income before the interest cover covenant Property valuations main commercial property categories was reached.
Based on the year end property The valuation of all property assets includes throughout the UK on a monthly basis.
valuations and debt levels, property values assumptions regarding income expectations Shaftesbury is a constituent of the FTSE 350 across the Group would have to decline by and yields that investors would expect to Real Estate Index.
around 43% before we reach our loan to value achieve on those assets over time.
Many or gearing covenant limits.
The actual future As shown in the Performance Summary on external economic and market factors, such headroom on covenants will be affected by page 3, against a background of falling as interest rate expectations, bond yields, the a number of factors, including future property values, our capital value and total availability and cost of finance and the relative acquisitions, expenditure commitments returns have materially out-performed the attraction of property against other asset and valuation movements.
classes, could lead to a reappraisal of the assumptions used to arrive at current Even at these covenant limits, our lenders We recorded a positive total shareholder valuations.
In adverse conditions this would still have the security of 50% more return for the year ended 30 September 2009 reappraisal can lead to a reduction in property income from our properties than is needed of 13.5% after taking account of the impact of values and a loss in net asset value, amplified to service their loans, and the value of the the Rights Issue, compared with the FTSE 350 by the effect of gearing.
Such reduction in security they have would exceed our debt Real Estate Index which recorded a negative property values and loss of net asset value by 50%.
We believe that, with our good return of 27.6% over the year.
may result in the Group being unable to meet income interest cover, modest gearing and the asset-related covenants contained in its future expenditure commitments and overall Debenture and bank loan arrangements.
security structure, our lenders will continue to view us to be a secure customer.
We are A commentary on the Groups financial confident that we will be able to add to our position, including matters relating to its bank existing facilities when the need arises.
financing arrangements, is contained in this Business Review under the heading Finance.
Financial covenants Covenant level Status at 30 September 2009 Ratio of Group net property income to Group net interest payable Minimum of 1.5:1 2.06:1 Actual borrowings from each lender as a percentage 35% based on total bank of property assets charged as security Not to exceed 66.67% borrowings available assets across the Group Percentage of Group borrowings compared to Group shareholders funds excluding any fair value accounting provisions for interest rate derivatives Maximum of 175% 55% SHAFTESBURY PLC jewellery and accessories SHAFTESBURY PLC Location of property assets Tenant risk the extent to which rental levels are The Groups property assets are concentrated The economy in the West End has been more achieved in excess of the market rental in the centre of the West End of London.
The resilient than other parts of the UK during the values assessed by the Groups external prosperity of the West End economy, and current and previous economic recessions.
At valuers at their last valuation and: therefore of the Groups retail and restaurant present, across the wider economy, restricted the ability of management to maximise the occupiers, which account for 70% of our availability of credit for consumers and occupation of its properties and, where rental income, is heavily dependent on large businesses is leading to lower levels of vacancies arise, minimise the time that numbers of domestic and overseas visitors.
spending, a higher level of business failures properties are vacant and not producing In our experience the diversity of this visitor and difficulties for new ventures in raising income.
In the case of properties being base means that overall visitor numbers and start-up capital.
Whilst the West End cannot refurbished, the void period being monitored spending are less influenced by UK economic be completely immune from these trends, our includes time spent in designing schemes, conditions than in other domestic retail and experience is that this unique location is obtaining planning consents, carrying out leisure locations.
physical works and marketing up to the The Group has some 800 commercial tenants, point of completing lettings.
For vacant However, in this high profile location, there is a risk that events beyond the Groups control so that the risks associated with the default properties which are ready to let, marketing of individual tenants are well spread.
The 50 periods are monitored and assessed.
could result in a reduction in visitor numbers.
Such events could include threats to security largest tenants by current passing rent in the The Board is satisfied that the Groups wholly owned portfolio provide approximately or public safety, such as terrorism, health performance relating to the achievement of concerns such as an influenza pandemic, or 34% of current income.
No single tenant rental levels is meeting its expectations.
currently pays a rent in excess of 1.2 million disruption to the public transport network on Retail, restaurant and residential rents have which the area depends.
Over time, if the fall per annum and the average rent paid by our continued to meet or exceed valuers ten largest tenants is 775,000 per annum.
in visitors was both sustained and significant, estimates.
In the case of offices, where rents this could lead to a reduction in occupier The Group has not experienced any material have fallen across the entire market, the demand and the rental potential and value of increase in tenant defaults over the year, with Groups performance has been no worse than the Groups property assets.
a charge in the Income Statement of 0.5 this general decline.
All of the Groups properties are located million 2008: 0.6 million in respect of bad The level of vacant space across the portfolio within the jurisdictions of Westminster City and doubtful debts.
The level of vacant has remained steady over the year.
The Group Council and the London Borough of Camden.
accommodation has remained stable over has generally been successful in retaining Although the Group works closely in many the year.
office tenants where leases expire or tenants aspects of day-to-day business with these have the option to exercise lease breaks.
local authorities, changes to their policies, Key performance indicators Where space has become vacant, void periods particularly those relating to planning and have generally remained at acceptable levels licensing, could have a significant impact on The key financial objective of the Group is although the average period taken to let offices the Groups ability to maximise the long term to deliver to shareholders sustained outhas increased as tenant demand deteriorated potential of its assets.
performance in the long term growth in its over the year.
Where delays in schemes or net asset value.
Fundamental to this objective Speculative development their letting have occurred, these are often is the growth in value of the Groups property The Group does not usually engage in due to problems beyond the Groups control, assets.
The Group measures its overall portfolio speculative development schemes.
However, such as delays in the planning process or the performance against the publicly-available the St Martins Courtyard scheme in the failure of utility companies to meet their IPD UK Monthly Index which, as explained Longmartin Joint Venture is being undertaken service obligations.
above, tracks movements across all main on a speculative basis.
Our share of the schemes commercial property categories throughout potential income represents approximately the UK on a monthly basis.
The Groups Prospects 9% of the Groups estimated rental value, and performance against this Index is set out our share of the value of its property assets Londons West End has many features which on page 3. account for 5% of the Groups portfolio.
As a have ensured that, throughout the recent period result of current economic conditions, there The rental prospects of the Groups portfolio of extreme financial turbulence in financial is a risk that letting expectations may not be are the key driver of its long term performance.
markets and the wider economy, it has continued met, particularly those related to the office The key non-financial performance indicators to prosper.
Our portfolio of mixed use properties, elements of the scheme.
Wherever possible related to rental income growth used within situated in the heart of this unique location, pre-lettings are being sought and secured to the business measure: has proved to be exceptionally resilient.
The Group has both substantial financial The scheme is now well advanced and works resources and forensic local knowledge, which are expected to be completed in summer 2010. provide an important competitive advantage in Our partner, the Mercers Company is a long securing new investments.
With our skills and established City livery company, with expertise in identifying and implementing substantial assets.
Both partners have innovative schemes, we are confident our sufficient financial resources to complete the portfolio will continue to deliver out-performance scheme now underway, and intend to hold in rental growth and capital values.
their investment in the Joint Venture for the long term.
Jonathan S. Lane Chief Executive Brian Bickell Finance Director 1 December 2009 Note: The information required by the Companies Act 2006 in respect of environmental matters, the Groups employees, social and community issues and business relationships with customers and suppliers, is contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 52 to 53 and are incorporated into this Report by cross reference.
SHAFTESBURY PLC | | SECTION HEADER ANNUAL REPORT 2009 01 ST MARTINS COURTYARD stmartinscourtyard.
