Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review The Business and its Markets Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra operates under two Divisions, Pharmaceuticals and Services.
The Pharmaceuticals Division operates internationally and is unique in having its sole area of specialisation in companion animal products.
The Services Division serves UK veterinary practices in both the companion animal and livestock sectors.
The Groups strategy is: l To sustain growth from our core businesses: l To deliver medium to long-term growth through the development, both organically and by way of acquisition, of our branded veterinary pharmaceutical portfolio of both novel and generic products: l To formulate and develop specialist pet diets: l To license and market key products into international markets.
The Group employs 1,024 people, an increase of 54 in the financial year, and operates out of 11 countries.
The veterinary market for companion animal products has grown strongly over the last ten years.
Veterinary care is the fastest growing sector of the pet industry.
Key drivers within the companion animal market are the increasing medical and surgical capabilities of veterinary surgeons, increased life expectancy of pets and ultimately the consumers passion for their animals.
14 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Stock code: DPH Pharmaceuticals Services www www.
com The North American, Western European and Japanese markets Dechra currently sells products in other countries through are the most established companion animal markets in the world, marketing partners and has new products in registration in with pet ownership in over 50% of households and with a high several other important companion animal markets, the most level of spend per animal.
The following chart provides details of significant of which are detailed below: companion animal populations in the markets in which Dechra currently has a sales and marketing operation: Companion Animal Populations in Important Non-Subsidiary Countries Companion Animal Populations in Dechra Dogs Cats Horses Territories Territory millions millions millions Dogs Cats Horses Japan 12.5 12 0.1 Territory millions millions millions Italy 6.9 6.1 0.3 USA 75 82 10 Canada 6 8 1 France 8 10 1 Germany 5.3 7.9 1 UK and Ireland 8 8.4 1 Australia 3.7 2.4 1.2 Spain 5.5 4 0.6 Scandinavia 2.1 3.1 0.5 Growth in the UK veterinary market, which still represents the Netherlands 2 4 0.4 majority of Dechras overall sales, has consistently outperformed the Retail Prices Index over the last ten years.
The UK market, as with most other international markets in which we trade, has continued to demonstrate growth throughout the current recession, albeit at a slower rate than historical trends.
Veterinary care is the fastest growing sector of the pet industry 15 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review Key Products and Specialisations Dermatology Canaural was first licensed in 1975 and is still the leading first line treatment in several EU territories for otitis externa in the cat and dog.
Canaural, which is now registered in 25 countries, can also be used in conjunction with our leading ear cleaning product CleanAural.
Felimazole was the first veterinary licensed product for the treatment of feline hyperthyroidism, originally licensed in the UK Fuciderm, licensed in 1995, is the only licensed product for in 2002.
Felimazole was licensed in the EU in 2005, the US in the treatment of surface pyoderma in the dog, such as acute 2009 and has been submitted for approval in new markets.
It is a key product within our dermatology range, selling into 23 countries.
Equine Medicine We have a wide range of 14 licensed products supporting the Malaseb was first licensed in 1996 and is still the market leading equine veterinarian.
The lead product with the highest sales is medicated shampoo for cats and dogs.
It is used to treat skin Equipalazone which is licensed in five major EU countries.
diseases caused by Malassezia and staphylococcal infections.
Equipalazone was first licensed in a sachet presentation in 1972 Animax, licensed for the treatment of skin conditions in dogs and subsequently in a paste and injection.
It is still the leading and cats, is only approved in the US.
The marketing rights for non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug NSAID for the treatment of this product were acquired in May 2007. musculoskeletal disorders, such as lameness due to acute and chronic laminitis in the horse.
Endocrinology Endocrine disorders are a key focus for the business with a number of licensed products treating a range of chronic diseases.
The two leading brands are Vetoryl and Felimazole.
Vetoryl is a novel product for the treatment of Cushings Disease excess cortisol or hyperadrenocorticism in dogs.
It is marketed internationally and is the only recognised licensed efficacious veterinary product for the treatment of Cushings Disease around the world.
16 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Stock code: DPH Pharmaceuticals Services www www.
com Ophthalmology Pet Diets Ophthalmology is a highly specialised area of veterinary medicine Dechra has two main cat and dog diet product ranges, both where we have a number of leading products including licensed branded Specific, which are sold exclusively through veterinary pharmaceuticals, unlicensed care products and instruments.
Therapeutic diets, which represent 70% of diet sales, provide optimum levels of nutrition in areas such as diabetes, Fucithalmic Vet, licensed in 1993, is the only licensed product arthritis and urinary, kidney, liver and heart problems.
Our recently available for the treatment of conjunctivitis associated with launched products, Joint Diet and Hypoallergenic Diet, are staphylococcal infections.
It is highly effective because of its considered by opinion leaders to be the best products in their unique sustained release formulation that ensures prolonged category in the market.
Life stage diets, which represent 30% of retention within the eye.
It is currently licensed in 21 countries diet sales, provide premium quality daily nutrition for healthy dogs worldwide.
We also market a range of ophthalmic and otic products in the US, the long-term marketing rights of which were acquired in May 2007.
There are six products in the range, most of which are the only veterinary licensed products in the US market.
Critical Care Dechra has a wide range of products that support emergency medicine including licensed pharmaceuticals, wound treatments, consumables and instruments predominantly sold in the UK.
The leading range of products is the Vetivex brand.
The Vetivex range of infusion fluids are licensed for the treatment of dehydration.
They are widely used to meet normal fluid and electrolyte requirements when fluids cannot be given orally, such as during surgery.
The licences were purchased in 2005.
17 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review Care Product Development The Care range comprises unlicensed products which Strategy complement our pharmaceutical range.
They are available over The Group focuses on solid organic growth within its the counter within veterinary practices.
The three key products Pharmaceuticals and Services Divisions: however, the key are CleanAural, Neutrale and Lubrithal.
CleanAural is a nonstrategic focus, which is now delivering excellent growth and irritant ear cleaner suitable for frequent use in ears producing will provide significant revenues in the future, is through the excess wax, Neutrale is a range of specialist shampoos for development and acquisition of our own branded veterinary skin conditions in dogs and Lubrithal is an eye lubricant for cats product portfolio of novel and generic pharmaceuticals and and dogs.
specialist pet diets and the marketing of these key products into international markets.
Our product development is focused in Marketing Agreements two areas: A number of products are also sold through our global subsidiaries under marketing agreements: with Virbac Inc. to l On prescription only veterinary medicines for dogs, cats and market Thyroxyl within the UK and Ireland: with Eurovet to horses.
Most of our projects utilise existing pharmaceutical market Domidine, Sedator and Atipam in the UK and Ireland: entities that are typically used within the human market and with Orthogen to market Irap in the US: with Peptech to market therefore the majority of product creation is development and Ovuplant in the EU, and with Biopure to market Oxyglobin not research based.
Due to their failure to bring their human product to market, Biopure will no longer be producing l On therapeutic pet diets for dogs and cats.
Products are Oxyglobin: we do, however, have sufficient stock of this critical formulated and trialled to provide optimum nutrition for care product to maintain supply for several months.
animals diagnosed with various medical conditions.
Legislation There are three pieces of legislation which the Directors believe have been implemented to encourage development of specialised veterinary pharmaceutical products into markets that are small relative to human pharmaceutical sales: 18 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Stock code: DPH Pharmaceuticals Services www www.
com l The Cascade Legislation: The basic principle of this EU Key Strengths legislation is that the veterinary surgeon must prescribe a The Directors believe that the Group has the exceptional skills veterinary pharmaceutical licensed product above any other and expertise that are necessary for delivering its strategy: alternative.
Therefore, any products licensed specifically for animals must be used instead of a human ethical or generic l The recognition of opportunities for specialised and niche product, irrespective of price: products for the veterinary market achieved from knowledge gained from the Groups strong market position: l EU law gives a novel product ten years protection from generic competitors, irrespective of its patent status: and l In-house formulation of products into preparations suitable for the target species: l The US FDA Food and Drug Administration Center for Veterinary Medicine provides five years protection l International experience and proven track record of from generic competitors for the first approval of a new regulatory and license delivery: pharmaceutical, irrespective of its patent status.
Subsequent approvals receive three years protection.
l Successful design and management of international clinical field trials: and Dechra considers this legislation to be favourable towards its strategy and is essential in providing safe and efficacious l Industry leading veterinary and commercial personnel products for animal welfare.
19 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review Development Achievements There have been a number of major achievements in the year, A new therapeutic canine diet was also developed and marketed the most significant of which being full FDA approval for Vetoryl to aid the treatment of osteoarthritis in dogs.
The product, known and Felimazole.
In June 2009 we also received supplemental as Joint Support, has been approved by opinion leaders.
approval to market a low dose range extension for 10mg Vetoryl capsules for the US.
Further details on our marketing activities Dechra has a proven track record of delivering licensed products are disclosed later in this review.
by working closely with regulatory authorities and by complying with the highest standards.
Increased investment in product Vetoryl has also received approval within Australia and Canada.
development has been made throughout the year being Marketing through our partners in these territories, Dermcare reported, and as stated in the Half Year Financial Report and and Vetoquinol, will commence imminently following shipment of the Pre-Close Update, the Directors are planning for a further initial stock from our manufacturer, Dales Pharmaceuticals.
significant increase in development spend of 2.5 million in the new financial year.
We have achieved registration of Malaseb through the Mutual Recognition procedure for Scandinavia, Holland and Ireland.
Application for approval for the remaining EU territories has been submitted and marketing is planned for Quarter 3 of the new financial year.
20 20 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Stock code: DPH Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals Services Services www www.
com Product Pipeline Within the year four new chemical entities have received internal approval for development.
Two of these products were subject to Dechra in-licensing technology, the details of which were provided in announcements made on 27 March 2009 and 3 June 2009.
A fifth product, Equidone for equine fescue toxicosis, was licensed in December 2007 from Equi-Tox and is in the regulatory phase in the US.
A number of generic products and diets are also under development.
The main projects are outlined below.
The charts show the approximate percentage completion of the key stages of the development process.
New Chemical Entities Therapeutic Species Category Manufacturing Safety Efficacy Regulatory Equine Endocrine 100% 100% 100% 25% Equine Lameness 100% 25% Canine Endocrine 50% 25% Feline Endocrine 50% Equine Respiratory 25% 25% Generics Therapeutic Species Category Manufacturing Bioequivalence Regulatory Canine Urinary Disease 100% 100% 50% Canine Feline Antibiotic 100% 100% 25% Canine Feline Pain Management 75% Canine Dermatological 50% Canine Cardiac 25% Diets l Four of our canine diets are at an advanced stage of development to create second generation products: l A novel product has also been formulated and test production is expected imminently prior to commencement of palatability and efficacy trials: l Our hydrolysed feline diets have been developed to improve palatability.
Production is planned for Quarter 3 of the new financial year with the launch anticipated in Quarter 4.
The products outlined above will compete in cumulative global markets in excess of 100 million.
All the new chemical entities will have a clinical advantage over the current licensed products and should therefore perform strongly once approved.
Furthermore, additional product opportunities, generics, range extensions and diets, are currently under review.
Development Team We have a highly skilled development team of 24 people located in the UK, Denmark and the US.
With the impending trial work required to complete the projects outlined, we are continuing to invest globally in experienced personnel.
The new pharmacovigilance monitoring and reporting system implemented last year has now been fully validated allowing electronic submission of data to the EU regulatory agencies.
21 21 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review Pharmaceuticals Division DVP EU Management Team 1 Our Pharmaceuticals Division Following the comprises Dechra Veterinary Products successful integration Europe DVP EU, Dechra Veterinary Products USA DVP USA, and Dales of the VetXX business, Pharmaceuticals Dales.
we are seeing the 2 benefits from the Dechra Veterinary Products EU enlarged business DVP EU, located in Shrewsbury, England and are now focused and Uldum, Denmark, employs 207 people.
The business markets and sells on identified growth our own branded, licensed veterinary opportunities products within ten European countries 3 and manages the relationships with our Pharmaceuticals worldwide marketing partners.
European pharmaceutical sales increased by 49.5% 8.9% on a like-forlike basis.
During the year two major Sales Structure products were launched: Malaseb in Denmark, Holland, Sweden and Finland, France 16 Holland 6 with the rest of Europe planned for UK 14 Norway 5 4 Quarter 3 of the new financial year.
Spain 8 Finland 4 Felimazole 2.5mg was launched in Denmark 5 Portugal 1 France, Holland and Germany following Sweden 5 Eire 1 its approval in April 2009.
Launch in other European territories is planned for Quarter 2 of the new financial Following the successful integration year.
The original 5mg presentation of the VetXX business, acquired 5 of Felimazole, which was originally in January 2008, we are seeing the marketed by Janssen Animal Health, benefits from the enlarged business and returns to Dechra at the beginning of are now focused on identified growth 2010.
Current sales of 5mg Felimazole opportunities.
All our international to Janssen are 877,000 annually, from businesses have been re-branded to which we will realise the benefit of the DVP.
The transfer of products into marketing margin currently taken by Dechra livery continues and should Janssen.
Felimazole sales in the UK have 1 Ed Torr be completed prior to the end of Managing Director fallen by 11.9% within the year due to 2 Jrgen Eker 2009.
We are currently in the process the introduction of a competitor product.
Chief Financial Offi cer of developing an IT strategy for the We have stabilised our market share at 3 Carsten Jeppesen enlarged international business with Chief of Logistics approximately 60% in a market which 4 Roeland Meijers Oracle having been identified as our continues to grow.
Director of Diets preferred ERP solution.
5 Giles Coley European Pharmaceutical Sales & Export Director 22 22 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Stock code: DPH Pharmaceuticals Services Pharmaceuticals www www.
com DVP UK Management Team 1 2 3 4 Felimazole remains a novel product in is under way, with the new source the EU.
Sales of Vetivex, our range of expected to produce commercial 1 Bob Parmenter critical care fluids, have also slightly batches by the end of the 2009 calendar Managing Director declined as they came under competitive year.
Our new manufacturing partner 2 Mark Sallin Finance Director pressure.
Initiatives have been offers numerous benefits including 3 Gwenda Bason introduced to reverse this trend.
All other improved quality control, more modern Marketing Director 4 Chris Kingdon major pharmaceutical product groups flexible packaging opportunities and Sales Director across Europe have demonstrated nitrogen flushing to improve freshness.
Furthermore, they will provide important formulation, development and palatability Diets testing support as we continue to Specific diet sales grew by 6.5% on a expand and improve the range.
This performance was assisted by excellent market penetration The range of diets has been launched of our allergy diets launched in 2008 in Germany by our marketing partner and by the introduction of a canine joint Selectavet.
Initial indications have been diet launched in May 2009.
Specific has also been recognised as the best products in their launched in Turkey by Asvet.
Dechra is category in the market.
in the process of acquiring a 40% share of Asvet for a nominal sum in return The validation and transfer of a number for providing improved credit facilities, of products to a new manufacturer marketing and technical support.
23 23 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review Pharmaceuticals Division continued DVP USA Management Team 1 2 Dechra Veterinary Products USA This business has been considerably where no licensed alternative exists.
3 strengthened throughout the year and Despite this activity becoming illegal now employs 18 people, nine of which once Vetoryl was approved by the FDA, are in sales.
We are continuing to recruit it is apparent that it is still continuing at sales personnel to further strengthen a high level.
Although the FDA support the team.
our case it has no jurisdiction over the pharmacies which are controlled by Following its approval in December State laws.
This is a high profile issue 2008, Vetoryl was launched into the within the US veterinary market which 4 US market in January 2009.
Initial sales is coming under increasing scrutiny of the product, of $2.24 million, were as ourselves and other animal health slightly below our expectations: however, companies increase pressure for the our longer term expectations for this activities of compounders to be better product have not changed.
Prior to Vetoryls launch, a significant Our representatives, however, are 1 Mike Eldred market had developed for Trilostane, the having a high success rate in converting President active principal ingredient in Vetoryl.
In veterinary practices to the use of Vetoryl.
2 Doug Hubert US Sales and Marketing Manager the US, State regulated compounding Furthermore, we have held 25 regional 3 Dana Fertig pharmacies are able to prepare product presentations which have been attended Veterinary Technical Services Manager where there is a clinical need in animals by over 1,000 veterinary surgeons.
The 4 Bryan Toliver Equine Business Manager feedback from meeting attendees was that their future preferred treatment Our representatives will be Vetoryl.
Furthermore, two major corporate groups, who own over 1,000 are having a high clinics, have both approved Vetoryl for use.
success rate in converting veterinary In June 2009 we received supplemental approval for Vetoryl 10mg capsules.
The practices to the use 10mg strength, which will be launched in September 2009, will provide flexible of Vetoryl.
We have dosing options for all sizes of dogs and also held 25 regional will strengthen our position against the compounding pharmacies.
presentations which have been attended by over 1,000 veterinary surgeons 24 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Stock code: DPH Pharmaceuticals www www.
com Dales Management Team 1 Marketing plans have been completed The first phase in the introduction of prior to the launch of 2.5mg and 5mg lean manufacturing techniques has Felimazole coated tablets in September been completed during the year.
The initial response to the product applying these techniques significant from distributors has been very positive improvements in working practices and forward orders have already been and efficiencies have resulted.
processing time for a batch of product has been reduced over the course of the year by 42% from 55 days to 32 days.
Dales Dales, located in Skipton, England, A new purified water system has been employing 206 people is a fully 3 installed and is close to completing the Medicines and Healthcare Regulatory required validation prior to commercial Agency MHRA approved use early in the new financial year.
pharmaceutical manufacturer with multi-competence in both scale and The Dales management team have dose form.
Dales manufactures the vast become closely involved in the majority of our own branded licensed manufacturing activities in Uldum, pharmaceutical products, which Denmark which came into the Group 4 are marketed through DVP, but also following the acquisition of VetXX.
The derives approximately 50% of revenues first step towards implementing the from third party toll manufacture, new ERP system across DVP EU, as predominantly for human pharmaceutical outlined earlier in this review, will be the companies.
This is Dechras only implementation of Oracle at our Uldum significant source of revenue not derived manufacturing site.
This should improve from the veterinary market.
efficiency and create better synergies 5 across our two manufacturing sites.
Dales has continued its excellent performance demonstrated last year We are in the process of seeking FDA with increased production of our own approval to manufacture products for the licensed products and from further US market.
An FDA Project Team Leader growth in third party sales.
Seven new was recruited in the year who has products have been introduced from excellent previous experience.
Progress third party customers within the year is in line with our schedule as we look to 1 Mike Annice and a five-year supply agreement has Managing Director apply for an FDA inspection in the first been signed with our biggest contract 2 Kirsty Ireland half of 2010.
Fuciderm, one of our own 3 Steve Dewar key products where manufacturing Operations Director was previously outsourced, will soon 4 Gareth Davies Sales and Marketing Director be produced in-house and is currently 5 Andrew Parkinson under validation.
Quality Director 25 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review Services Division Our Services Division comprises arrive automatically with no human input NVS Management Team National Veterinary Services, NationWide required.
This is considered to be a Laboratories and Cambridge Specialist major advantage to our customers and 1 Laboratory Services.
also contributes to our low operating costs.
With over 35,000 invoiced lines NVS per working day, significantly increased NVS, located in Stoke-on-Trent, numbers of people would be required England, employing 483 people, is to handle this business manually.
NVS the UK market leader, as measured in distributes to 1,800 customers daily terms of market share, in the supply and utilising its own fleet of vans and HGVs.
2 distribution of veterinary products to The centralised inventory in Stoke-onveterinary practices and other approved Trent is picked and packed throughout outlets.
NVS competes with two major the afternoon and evening and then full line competitors on the UK mainland, distributed overnight to nine trunking Centaur Services and Dunlops, both of depots by HGVs.
Van drivers are then which are under American ownership.
employed locally at these depots who distribute the goods to our customers.
3 NVS stocks a range of over 14,000 products including pharmaceuticals, pet products, consumables and accessories.
NVS has also developed a range of IT solutions for veterinary practices which are branded Vetcom.
Vetcoms principal objective is to collect 4 orders electronically.
Throughout the year we have increased the number of orders received electronically and now approximately 85% of NVS orders 5 1 Martin Riley Managing Director 2 Dan Shipman Finance Director 3 Steven Williams Operations Director 4 Caitrina Harrison Sales and Marketing Director 5 Colin Higham Buying Director 26 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Stock code: DPH Services www www.
com NVS Network NVS services both companion animal The growth at NVS and livestock practices and agricultural was achieved with merchants.
As with other UK businesses within Dechra, NVS has grown in line improved operating with, and benefits from, the good efficiencies resulting in year-on-year growth in the veterinary market.
The market has seen growth a strong performance of approximately 6.8% in the year, with from the business growth in agricultural products being Larkhall greater than in companion animal products.
This growth is driven by both Carlisle inflation and volume.
Whilst volumes have continued to increase it has been Wetherby at a lower rate than in previous years.
The growth at NVS was achieved with improved operating efficiencies resulting in a strong performance from the Stoke-on-Trent business.
Mildenhall Hertford Gloucester Bracknell Swanscombe Tiverton 27 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business s p i h s r e n t r a p y r a n i r e t e v Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review Services Division continued NVS has also benefited from our of simple chemistry is performed at Laboratories relationship with key corporate veterinary practices, nearly all veterinary Management Team customers, who continue to outgrow the practices will outsource more advanced 1 market, and by our flexibility in providing analytical tests, often requiring expert high levels of services to all practice interpretation of results.
We consider types: our service level has consistently NWL to offer the highest level of service achieved over 99% throughout the within this sector.
New van routes have been veterinary laboratory to gain UKAS added to cater for the additional growth United Kingdom Accreditation Service and investment has been made in new approval.
NWL also offers other services 2 tractor units for our overnight haulage such as Allervet, a pet and equine of orders into the regional depots.
Allervet new fleet has provided the benefit of revenues have increased strongly during being more efficient in fuel utilisation.
reported in our Trading Update on 7 July 2009, following the continuing expansion The Laboratories sales team has been of NVS, an opportunity has arisen to restructured with the appointment of a increase warehouse capacity at our new Sales Manager and two additional 3 central logistics facility.
Towards the end of the intend to go live on a new ERP system period new accounts were being secured.
in the forthcoming financial year.
We We have upgraded clinical chemistry anticipate annualised additional costs to equipment at Leeds and Poulton-le-Fylde be approximately 1.0 million.
and have also replaced the haematology equipment at Leeds.
These new systems 1 Dr Peter Graham will improve speed and efficiency.
Managing Director 2 Jamie Whitwam Business Development Manager CSLS, located in Sawston, England 3 Mark Davies employs seven people.
It operates as Sales and Marketing Manager a first and second referral laboratory, with a key area of expertise being NVS celebrated its twentieth anniversary endocrinology.
The second referral work, in 2009: a champagne reception was i. e. providing services for NWL and held at the industrys annual convention some of NWLs competitors, is mainly to commemorate the event.
derived from a key area of specialisation in radio-immuno assays.
The business Laboratories also provides precise assays which NWL operates out of three locations, support the dosage regimes and Poulton-le-Fylde, Leeds and patient monitoring of our key products, Swanscombe and employs 80 Vetoryl capsules and Felimazole tablets.
As first referral veterinary Investment has been made in new laboratories, they provide histology, custom laboratory facilities for CSLS pathology, haematology, chemistry who are due to relocate to this site early and microbiology services to veterinary in the new financial year.
Whilst a certain amount 28 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 ff o s r a e y 0 2 g n i t a r b e l e c Stock code: DPH Stock code: DPH Services www www.
com 29 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review Financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs 2009 2008 000 000 Revenue pharmaceuticals 85,190 54,302 services 276,141 259,363 inter-division 11,367 9,294 Total revenue 349,964 304,371 Adjusted operating profi t before product development cost 28,404 21,550 Product development cost 3,433 2,408 Adjusted operating profi t 24,971 19,142 Adjusted operating margin before product development cost 8.1% 7.1% after product development cost 7.1% 6.3% Cash conversion rate 156% 114% Gearing i 16.1% 27.3% Return on capital employed pre-tax ii 19.4% 23.3% Revenue per employee 346 342 Inventory days iii 39 43 Receivables days iv 37 39 Financial Ratios Adjusted interest cover 16.0 times 8.4 times Effective tax rate 29.8% 28.9% Dividend cover before amortisation of acquired intangibles 2.8 times 2.0 times i Gearing is calculated by dividing net borrowings by the sum of Equity Shareholders funds and net borrowings.
ii Return on capital employed is calculated by dividing adjusted operating profi t by average operating assets utilised during the year.
Operating assets exclude cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, tax and deferred tax balances.
iii Inventory days are calculated by determining the number of days purchases, counting back, included in the year end inventory fi gure.
iv Receivables days are calculated by determining the number of days revenue adjusted for value added tax, counting back, included in the year end receivables fi gure.
Financial Review Group Performance reduce working capital to release cash into the business without During the financial year being reported on, the global economy has suffered its worst recession since before the Second World compromising the quality of our customer service.
Although not as badly impacted as many other industries, the veterinary market has not been immune from the effects of The following review focuses on adjusted figures before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items this recession.
Within the UK, the veterinary market grew by 6.8%, well below the 10.0% recorded for the preceding year.
as the Directors believe that these give a clearer indication of underlying performance.
The overall market growth figure was boosted by a robust performance from the livestock sector.
In contrast, many Group revenue increased by 15.0% to 350.0 million whilst companion animal veterinary practices have seen a reduction in volumes.
adjusted operating profit was up by 30.5% to 25.0 million.
Adjusted pre-tax profit, at 23.4 million, was ahead of last year Against this backdrop, the focus of the Group from a financial by 38.9%.
perspective has been to achieve efficiency improvements and 30 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Stock code: DPH Pharmaceuticals Services www www.
com exclusive focus and ensuring that our range is competitively Pharmaceuticals Division priced.
2009 2008 000 000 Revenue from third party contract manufacturing increased by Revenue 19.5% to 10.4 million due to increased production on both new Own branded and existing contracts.
pharmaceuticals 49,000 32,136 Diets 22,716 9,915 Revenue from instruments, consumables and equipment fell by Third party contract manufacturing 10,369 8,677 13.1% to 3.1 million due to the loss of a distribution agreement.
Instruments, consumables and equipment 3,105 3,574 Product development expenditure charged to the income Total revenue 85,190 54,302 statement was 3.4 million, excluding the payment of 470,000 Adjusted operating profi t 15,340 10,765 to in-license technology for the research and development Adjusted operating margin 18.0% 19.8% programme shown as an exceptional item compared with 2.4 million last year, an increase of 42.6%.
A further 0.8 million of expenditure was capitalised making a total cash spend for the year of 4.2 million compared with 3.7 million last year.
Total revenue of the Pharmaceuticals Division increased by 56.9% compared to the prior period.
This included the full year effect of Adjusted operating profit for the division increased by 42.5% to Dechra Veterinary Products Holdings A S formerly VetXX Holdings 15.3 million.
The like-for-like increase, including a full year of A S acquired in January 2008.
Like-for-like revenue growth VetXX in the comparative figures, was 10.1%.
Adjusted operating margin fell slightly from 19.8% to 18.0%, Revenue from own branded pharmaceuticals continues to grow, reflecting a full year of the lower margin VetXX business.
driven this year in particular by the continued penetration of Vetoryl into new and existing markets.
Global revenue from Vetoryl for the Services Division year reached 8.1 million, up 56.6% compared to the 5.1 million 2009 2008 achieved in the prior year.
Within this figure, revenues of $2.2 000 000 million 1.4 million were achieved in the USA following the launch Revenue in January 2009.
Although these initial revenues were below our Veterinary wholesaling 270,772 253,973 Laboratories 5,369 5,390 expectations, recent sell-out trends have been encouraging.
Total revenue 276,141 259,363 Adjusted operating profi t 12,334 10,693 Equipalazone also performed strongly with global revenue growing Adjusted operating margin 4.5% 4.1% by 38.5% from 3.0 million to 4.2 million.
Towards the end of the 2007 8 financial year, we regained the marketing rights for this product in France from our previous partner.
Divisional revenue grew by 6.5% in the year with our veterinary Global revenue for Felimazole was flat at 3.9 million with a wholesaling business, NVS, growing by 6.6%.
This was reduction in the UK being offset by an increase in the remainder marginally below the overall market growth because of the good of Europe.
performance of the livestock sector where NVS is relatively under-represented.
Diets performed strongly with a like-for-like increase of 6.5% compared to the prior year.
This was particularly pleasing in NVS achieved excellent efficiencies during the year enabling the current economic environment as these are, to an extent, operating profit to grow by 17.1%.
Revenue for the Laboratories discretionary spend products.
We have benefited in the current for the year was flat with operating profit slightly lower than year from improvements to the range, maintaining our veterinary last year.
31 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review Unallocated Central Costs a negative impact on purchasing costs.
Overall, there was a Unallocated central costs increased from 2.3 million to 2.7 negative impact on the current years Pharmaceuticals Division million which was principally salaries.
Effect of Currency Movements Additionally, the Group has made a gain of 1.0 million on the The principal currencies, other than Sterling, that the Group retranslation of balance sheet items which is shown within transacts in are Euros, Danish Kroner which is pegged to the Euro, finance income.
US Dollars and, to a lesser extent, Swedish and Norwegian Kroner.
Return on Capital Employed The volatility in exchange rates during the period being reported on, Return on capital employed reduced from 23.3% to 19.4%.
This and particularly the devaluation of Sterling, has had an impact on was due to the full year effect of the VetXX acquisition and the the results of the Pharmaceuticals Division as detailed below.
The significant increase in the asset base arising therefrom.
Services Division has only very limited exposure to foreign currencies.
Net Finance Expense The devaluation of Sterling against the US Dollar has had a The net finance expense was 1.57 million compared with last years positive impact of approximately 200,000 on the operating profit figure of 2.29 million.
Finance expense increased due to the full year of the Pharmaceuticals Division.
The effect of the devaluation of effect of the increased borrowing levels taken on in January 2008 to Sterling against the Euro and Danish Krone is more complex.
partially fund the acquisition of VetXX.
However, this was offset by a Although the Group has benefited on the translation of the 1.0 million gain on the retranslation of foreign currency balances.
results of DVP EU from Danish Krone to Sterling, there has been 32 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Stock code: DPH Pharmaceuticals Services www www.
com The net finance expense was covered 16.0 times by adjusted Financial Position at the Year End operating profit 2008: 8.4 times.
2009 2008 000 000 Taxation Non-current assets The effective tax rate was 29.8% 2008: 28.9% with the Intangible assets 89,565 90,375 contributors to the higher than standard rate of 28% being Property, plant and differences in overseas tax rates and expenditure not allowable equipment 8,040 8,224 for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets 1,053 97,605 99,652 Earnings per Share and Dividend Working capital 17,548 17,284 Adjusted earnings per share increased by 23.1% to 25.61p.
Current tax liability 4,756 2,824 Deferred tax liabilities 14,184 15,316 The Board is proposing a final dividend of 6.10p per share Net borrowings 15,527 26,997 which, when added to the interim dividend of 3.00p per share Equity Shareholders funds 80,686 71,799 already paid, gives a total dividend for the year of 9.10p, a 10.3% increase over the 2008 figure of 8.25p.
The strong focus on the control of working capital during the year has meant that net working capital is broadly consistent with last The total dividend is covered 2.8 times by profit after tax after years level, despite the increased revenues.
adding back amortisation of acquired intangibles 2008: 2.0 times.
The increase in dividend cover is considered by the Board Inventory was below last years level in absolute terms with to be prudent in the current uncertain economic environment and inventory days showing a significant improvement from 43 days the planned significant increase in product development costs.
Cash Flow Receivable days also showed an improvement from 39 days to The strong focus on cash flow during the period has helped 37 days.
There was a pleasing reduction of gross receivables to achieve a cash conversion rate defined as cash generated overdue more than 30 days of 0.7 million whilst an additional from operations as a percentage of operating profit of 156.0% impairment provision of 1.1 million has been recognised.
compared to 114.1% in the prior period.
If amortisation of acquired intangibles is added back to operating profit, then the Net borrowings were reduced by 11.5 million in the year from conversion rate was 112.5% 2008: 94.2%.
27.0 million at 30 June 2008 to 15.5 million at 30 June 2009 despite an adverse impact of 1.5 million due to the retranslation During the year, the Group made the final milestone payments of borrowings in foreign currencies.
As normal, due to the relating to the acquisition of the rights to Trilostane the active working capital cycle of the Group, we expect net borrowings to ingredient for Vetoryl for animal health applications in the USA.
increase at the next reporting date of 31 December 2009.
Further capital investment was made in continuing to upgrade our Dales manufacturing facility.
The Group also made a payment The Group has committed bank facilities totalling 52.5 million, of 470,000 to in-license technology for the research and including an overdraft facility of 10 million renewable on development programme.
This item was expensed and is shown 31 August 2010. as an exceptional cost.
33 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Business Review Non-Financial Key Performance Indicators: The LTAFR is a calculation of all injuries that would be statutorily The two Non-Financial KPIs which the Board consider key in reportable under Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous assessing the performance of our Business relate to our health Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR, normalised per 100,000 and safety performance and employee turnover and these hours worked.
This measure provides information to help monitor are explained in more detail below.
The Board will continue to and control accidents and injuries to the workforce and is widely monitor these Non-Financial KPIs on an ongoing basis and will used as a key performance indicator throughout industry.
report on them in future Annual Report and Accounts.
During the 2008 2009 financial year there have been a total of Whilst the Board takes all issues in relation to the environment 16 accidents resulting in absence from work of more than three and the community seriously it does not, given the current days resulting in a year to date LTAFR of 0.94.
All such accidents strategy of the business, consider the information it monitors are reported to the Board along with information in relation to in these areas to be key measurement indicators as to how what if any remedial action has been taken in order to prevent well the business is performing in line with the established an accident of a similar nature occurring in the future.
Activity during the year in respect of the environment and the community can be found within the Social, Ethical and 2.
Employees Environmental Section on pages 59 to 62.
We recognise that the success of the Group is dependant on our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled Non-Financial Key Performance Indicators employees.
Given the level of training requirements across the 2009 2008 Group, continuity of staff leads to improved efficiencies.
We do 000 000 recognise that new staff bring new ideas to the Group, however, Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate 0.94% we consider that our current staff turnover at senior level and our Employee Turnover 19.81% continuity plans successfully achieve this.
Health and Safety Performance Labour turnover for the Group is measured using the standard The Company recognises that its most important asset is its formula: people and aims to ensure that all employees are provided with a safe working environment: therefore, the Companys goal is to Total number of leavers over period x 100 work towards minimising the number of accidents.
We measure Average total number employed over period our performance in this area by reference to Lost Time Accident Frequency Rates LTAFR.
In doing so we take into account Turnover is measured on a monthly basis within each of the the UK Health & Safety Executives definition of a reportable lost operating businesses, from which a Group total is calculated time accident, i. e. accidents resulting in absence or the inability which is subsequently reported to the Board.
of employees to conduct the full range of their normal working activities for a period of more than three days after the day when the incident occurred.
34 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Pharmaceuticals Services www.
com There has been a significant improvement of over 10% across the Group since the start of the 2008 2009 financial year.
The Moving Annual Turnover at the end of the year stands at 19.81% including temporary workers.
According to the CIPD Recruitment, Retention and Turnover Survey 2009, the national average for private sector employers is 16.8%.
However this is not directly comparable due to the fact that a high percentage of the Groups employees work irregular shifts.
A Group exit interview process for staff resigning, improved methods of recruitment and a management skills training programme have all been introduced during the year and have played their part in reducing staff turnover.
These processes are set to continue during the coming year and, together with the introduction of a Leadership Development programme at senior level, linked to the Companys succession planning, further reductions in employee turnover are expected.
We are not able to benchmark the 2008 2009 performance against prior years in respect of the two indicators outlined above as we have only started to collate this information during the financial year being reported on: we will provide comparator figures in the future.
Risks and Uncertainties As we have stated in previous reports, the Group, like every business, faces risks and uncertainties in both its day-to-day operations and through events relating to the achievement of its long-term strategic objectives.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management within the Group and there is an ongoing and embedded process of assessing, monitoring, managing and reporting on significant risks faced by the separate business units and by the Group as a whole.
More detail in relation to this process can be found within the Corporate Governance section on pages 44 to 48.
The main potential risk areas identified by the Board are as follows: Risks Controls Further effects of the economic slowdown The Group has a number of new products yet to achieve their across one or more of our markets or territories.
full market potential: there are also a number of imminent launches of new products and also existing products being launched into new markets.
The failure of a major customer or supplier.
The business units closely monitor the financial status of both key customers and suppliers.
Failing to meet regulatory requirements under The Group always strives to exceed regulatory requirements which we operate thereby disrupting our and ensures that its employees have detailed experience operations and our product manufacture and knowledge of the regulations.
All businesses have clearly pipeline.
established quality systems and procedures in place.
Revenue from recently launched new products The Group ensures that it has detailed market knowledge and failing to meet expectations.
retains close contact with customers through its sales teams which are consistently trained to a high standard.
Loss of key personnel at both Board and The Group has training and key personnel succession plans Operational levels could have a short-term in place, which are regularly reviewed.
ensures that it rewards strong performance via its remuneration packages.
Ian Page Simon Evans Chief Executive Group Finance Director 1 September 2009 1 September 2009 35 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 36 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Stock code: DPH Pharmaceuticals Services www.
com Our Governance 38 Board of Directors 39 Senior Management 40 Directors Report 44 Corporate Governance 49 Audit Committee Report 51 Directors Remuneration Report 59 Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities 63 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 37 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
