06 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business review % 75 7locations Funeral services represent 75 per The Group acquired 7 new funeral cent of the Groups revenues.
locations in the period andcontinues to seek well established, respected businesses that can contribute to the Groups future growth.
Client service excellence continues to be at the heart of our strategy for growth.
Introduction Whilst funerals divided by estimated deaths is a reasonable The Groups operations are managed across three main measure of our market share, the Group does not have a areas: funeral services, crematoria and pre-arranged complete national presence.
Consequently, this calculation funeral plans, which respectively represent 75 per cent, can only ever be an estimate.
However, the decline year 19 per cent and 6 per cent of the Groups revenues.
on year is not outside the range of historic variations.
Funeral services revenues relate to the provision of funerals and ancillary items, such as memorials and Developments floral tributes.
Crematoria revenues arise from cremation 2009 has been a steady year for funeral operations.
services and the sale of memorials and burial plots at the Underlying operating profits were 47.3 million 2008: Groups crematoria and cemeteries.
Pre-arranged funeral 46.3 million, an increase of 2 per cent.
This increase plan income represents amounts to cover the costs of is smaller than that seen historically and reflects the marketing and administering the sale of plans.
combination of the reduced number of funerals performed, which has been offset by good cost control.
The contribution Office for National Statistics data from locations acquired in the period was not significant.
Some of the Groups key performance indicators rely on Discretionary spend on funerals has been very robust.
the total number of estimated deaths for each period.
This information is obtained from the Office for National Reported operating profits were 48.4 million 2008: Statistics ONS.
47.4 million, an increase of 2 per cent.
The difference between statutory amounts and underlying amounts is The initial publication of recorded total estimated represented by profit on sale of fixed assets of 1.1 million deaths in Britain for 2009 was 545,000 2008: 553,000.
Historically, the ONS has updated these estimates from time to time.
As in previous years, the Group does not This performance emphasises the importance of restate any of its key performance indicators when these our core portfolio, which has driven the majority of figures are restated in the following year.
operating growth in recent years.
These locations have benefited from continued investment, with a total of Funeral services approximately 6.3 million being invested in the period on the refurbishment of our properties and the ongoing Overview renewal of 94 of our fleet of hearses, limousines and The Group operates a network of 546 2008: 544 funeral other vehicles.
locations throughout the United Kingdom, trading under local established names.
During the period, the Group The operating results reflect the high level of client conducted 65,000 funerals 2008: 68,700.
Approximately service we try to provide to each family we serve.
1 per cent of these funerals were conducted in Northern This service level continues to be high according to our Ireland.
Excluding Northern Ireland, these funerals represent customer survey results and is a credit to the staff within approximately 11.8 per cent 2008: 12.3 per cent of the business.
Approximately 89 per cent of responding total estimated deaths in Britain.
families would definitely recommend our services and a further 9 per cent would probably do so.
Providing a vital role in the local communities we serve As a funeral director Im very aware that we perform a vital role in the communities we serve.
Many families return to us in their time of grief because they know they can rely on Dignity to provide practical advice and take care of all the arrangements.
Left: Teela Harper, Funeral Director, Hodgson & Sons, Kingstanding, Birmingham.
07 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 We continue to invest in our locations and eet Helping our staff to provide the best possible service The Group operates a network of over 540 funeral locations throughout the United Kingdom.
Many of these branches have been established in their local community for many generations, such as Frederick W Paine in South West London, who marked their 125th anniversary in 2009.
Approximately 6.3 million has been invested on the refurbishment of our properties and the ongoing renewal of our fleet of hearses, limousines and other vehicles.
This investment in our property portfolio and vehicles help our staff to provide the best possible service to our clients.
Below: Tom Leather, Funeral Service Operative, Middleton & Wood, Wigan.
08 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business review continued % 50 30crematoria We will reduce our mercury The Group is the largest private Approximately 89 per cent of emissions from our crematoria by operator of crematoria, with 50 per cent by the end of 2012.
30 locations serving families responding families would definitely across Britain.
Six locations 2008: five locations were closed in Developments the period.
This reflects the disposal of some valuable Operating profits were 17.6 million 2008: 14.6 freehold locations for cash that can be reinvested in million, an increase of 21 per cent.
This reflects a strong the business and also some smaller locations at the end performance from the 22 crematoria owned by the Group of their leases where it was not profitable to continue for many years, together with the full year effect of the operation because of the low volumes being performed.
During the period, one location 2008: nil was opened in Work has started at four locations to install new mercury Norfolk, which trades using a highly regarded local name.
abatement equipment required under new legislation.
The Group has also taken the opportunity in these cases Acquisition spend has been lower than usual, with 4.5 to replace the existing cremators at the same time.
million invested in acquiring seven funeral locations in the Planning was focused on minimising any inconvenience United Kingdom.
This follows two years of significantly for the families using our facilities.
The first location is higher spend than average.
The Board believes this to expected to have completed works in the first quarter be a reflection of a lower number of businesses being of 2010 and the Group expects to be fully compliant by available for acquisition.
the end of 2012 as required by legislation.
The Group continues to improve the facilities at all of its locations Each of these acquisitions met the Groups criteria of and including new cremators, has spent 1.7 million being larger than average, long-established businesses 2008: 0.8 million in the period.
that fit well within the Groups existing network.
During the period, the Group has started to build a new The Group continues to seek businesses that meet the crematorium in Cambridgeshire and since the period Groups stringent acquisition criteria and has acquired end, has started to build a crematorium in Somerset.
two funeral locations since the end of 2009.
These sites will reach maturity in approximately three to five years.
Crematoria The Group continues to identify further locations suitable Overview for a new crematorium and is also continuing to seek The Group is the largest single operator of crematoria in partnerships with local authorities.
The Group performed 42,700 cremations 2008: 39,600 in the period, representing 7.8 per cent 2008: 7.2 per cent of deaths in Britain.
Helping families every step of the way Whatever your role with Dignity, you play an important part in helping families through one of the most difficult times in their lives by providing support and advice, listening to and understanding individual needs and making sure that every detail is taken care of.
Left: Trish Smith, Crematorium Manager with Wendi Davies, Memorial Consultant at Oxford Crematorium.
09 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 We are managing our business responsibly Minimising our environmental impact on local surroundings Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live is an important concern to Dignity and we recognise the impact of our operations on local surroundings.
Our aim is to reduce this impact and operate in an environmentally responsible manner.
As part of this commitment, we are investing approximately 7 million in our crematoria to conform with the Government directive to reduce mercury emissions from crematoria by 50 per cent by the end of 2012.
The installation of new equipment will be managed so as to ensure there is minimal disruption to our usual services.
Below: Alex May, Crematorium Manager at Randalls Park Crematorium, Leatherhead oversees the installation of mercury abatement technology.
Right: Kevin Morrissey, Gardener at Randalls Park Crematorium, Leatherhead.
10 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business review continued ISO9001 216,000 Pre-need and Client Service There were 216,000 unfulfilled pre - Centre has been awarded the arranged funeral plans during the internationally recognised ISO 9001: period.
This reflects strong sales 2008 standard for an organisation's through the Groups network of internal quality management.
funeral locations and affinity partners.
Pre-arranged funeral plans However, following the merger, the Group has extended the marketing arrangements in place prior to the merger Overview to cover Age UK as a whole until 2019.
The Group is also The Group continues to have a strong market presence in discussion with a number of new potential partners in this area.
These plans represent future incremental with marketing tests planned for 2010. business for the funeral division, as the Group expects to perform the majority of these funerals.
Central overheads Developments Overview The division has performed strongly in the period.
Head office costs relate to central services that are not Focused marketing activity with its partners has resulted specifically attributed to a particular operational division.
in the number of unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans These include the provision of IT, finance, personnel and increasing to 216,000 2008: 204,000 with profits in the Directors emoluments.
In addition and consistent with division increasing to 2.0 million excluding Recoveries previous periods, the Group records the costs of incentive 2008: 1.0 million excluding Recoveries.
bonus arrangements, such as Long Term Incentive Plans LTIPs and annual performance bonuses, which are From time to time, the Group receives monies from provided to over 50 managers working across the business.
certain of the Trusts, in line with the relevant Trusts deed, which have been assessed by the trustees as not Developments required to ensure the Trust has sufficient assets to Costs in the period were 12.0 million 2008: 11.3 meet its future liabilities in respect of current members million, an increase of 6 per cent.
This year on year Recoveries.
Recoveries were 1.5 million in each period.
increase principally reflects the additional cost of bonuses paid to the operational managers of the business and The Group has continued to work hard at developing its certain one off legal fees following the new Companies portfolio of affinity partners and has formed a number Act and also the resetting of the Groups LTIP scheme.
of new partnerships in the period with organisations in the retail and financial services arena.
During the period, one of the Groups partners, Age Concern England, merged with Help the Aged to form a new charity, Age UK.
Prior to the merger, the Group did not have an operational relationship with Help the Aged.
Providing outstanding customer service Everyone at Dignity is delighted that weve achieved a place in the Top 5 call centres in the UK.
Its very pleasing to be recognised for providing outstanding customer service and to be able to help existing and potential customers.
We provide our advisors with extensive training and coaching and its very rewarding that this has been recognised by this study.
Left: Sue Oakes, Head of Customer Services, Customer Service Centre, Sutton Coldfield.
11 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Key client survey highlights: We are raising service standards Continuing to focus on delivering client service excellence 96% Our business continues to grow thanks to the dedication of all our staff and our continued 96 per cent of enquiries were resolved focus on delivering client service excellence.
by the initial telephone call.
In 2009, the Dignity Pre-arranged funeral plans division and the Client Service Centre were 8 seconds awarded the internationally recognised ISO 9001: 2008 standard for their internal quality The average time to answer a call was management.
Achieving this accreditation demonstrates our intention to meet the needs 8 seconds.
of our clients, continuously improve our service and work to deliver our pre-arranged funeral plans in a timely and cost effective manner.
97% 97 per cent of respondents said that their call enhanced or maintained their Below: Nicky Forbes, Client Service Advisor and Natalie Shannon, Management Information perception of the Dignity brand.
Assistant, Customer Service Centre, Sutton Coldfield.
