ANNUAL REPORT AND 10 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 This Business Review has been prepared Domino Printing Sciences plc is a strong BUSINESS solely to provide additional information to Group with a very resilient business model.
The Business Review contains Despite the trading difficulties of 2009, REVIEW statements that are forward looking.
These we have been able to produce a reported statements are made by the directors in increase in sales of 1 per cent, assisted by good faith based on the information available the relative weakness in the year of sterling, to them up to the time of approval of this making this the 31st year of uninterrupted report.
Such statements should be treated sales growth.
In addition, the actions taken with caution due to the inherent at the end of 2008 and during the current uncertainties and risks associated with year have enabled us to report a small forward looking information.
improvement in the underlying profits of the Group for the year.
Going concern The Groups business activities together Once again the business has converted with the factors likely to affect its future operating profits into strong cash generation.
development, performance and position are Net cash inflow from operating activities described within this Business Review.
The before taxation was 45.4 million, the 10th financial position of the Group, its cash flows, consecutive year this figure has exceeded liquidity position and borrowing facilities are operating profit.
Business overview The Group has considerable financial The Group develops, manufactures and sells resources together with a broad spread of a comprehensive range of products and customers across different geographic areas solutions that enable manufacturers to code, and industries.
As a consequence, the identify, mark or personalise their products directors believe that the Group is well and packaging.
Legislation, industry directives placed to manage its business risks and company mandates require variable successfully.
After making enquiries, the information to be applied, usually in real directors have a reasonable expectation that time, directly onto products or their the Company and the Group have adequate packaging.
We supply customers who resources to continue in operational operate in a wide and diverse range of existence for the foreseeable future.
industries and market sectors, from food Accordingly, they continue to adopt the producers, dairies, beverage manufacturers going concern basis in preparing the annual and the healthcare industry to sectors such report and accounts.
as automotive and aerospace components, building products and the timber industry.
Summary of 2009 In late 2008 global economies entered The Group operates globally and is capable recession after a period of many years of of selling and supporting customers sustained growth.
This change in market anywhere in the world.
The Group has conditions had an immediate impact on our wholly owned sales and service operations The Domino Nautilus YAG lasers are business and as we entered 2009 customers in many of the existing and emerging major compact and cost attractive table top buying patterns had already changed.
industrial countries: elsewhere we have an units especially designed for marking small batches and individual parts.
Throughout the whole of the year to 31 extensive distributor partnership network Winner of Reddot design award 2006!
October 2009 we experienced a very working to the same high standards as our different marketplace for our products as direct offices.
compared to the period from 2001 to 2008, and although we have started to see The business has two main revenue streams: improvement in some of the market sectors sales of new equipment and sales of after we serve and in some of the geographical market products and services.
Equipment regions of the world, we enter 2010 cautious sales are made to new and existing about the trading environment in the year customers for both new applications, ahead.
Revenues in our fluids, consumables, increasing the installed base of products spares and services products have now around the world, and for replacement of recovered close to pre-recession levels, but equipment reaching the end of its useful life.
capital expenditure by our customers on In 2009, 37 per cent of our turnover came new equipment, whilst improving, is still at from new equipment sales, down from 42 an overall lower level than in the early part per cent in 2008, reflecting the overall of 2008. reduction in capital expenditure of our customers.
The remaining 63 per cent of our turnover comes from the products which ANNUAL REPORT AND DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 11 OVERVIEW BUSINESS CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS support the day to day operation of our At the end of 2008, we acquired aps installed base such as inks, ribbons, filters, Alternative Printing Services GmbH APS, spares and services.
It is the size of our a German integrator of Thermal Ink Jet installed base and the breadth of our TIJ, a new technology for industrial customer base which provides such applications with significant growth potential resilience to our business.
in a number of the market sectors we serve.
Sales of this product range, which were Trading during 2009 made in a limited number of markets during Sales in the year to 31 October 2009 grew the first full year, have been encouraging and by 1 per cent over the previous year.
Each the business is poised for strong growth in year, reported revenue is impacted to some 2010 as we launch the product range across extent by movements in exchange rates and the whole Group.
in 2009 the impact was significant and favourable.
At constant exchange rates our Volumes of our more traditional products, turnover for the year was down 11 per cent: continuous ink jet, drop on demand ink jet, like for like sales down 14 per cent, new lasers and fume extraction equipment acquisitions contributing 3 per cent growth.
have declined in 2009 in the face of the The weakness of sterling has allowed us to global recession.
As is always the situation maintain our record of growth every year in more difficult times, our Commercial since incorporation.
Printing revenues fell sharply, but this business, unlike in previous downturns, New equipment sales were down 19 per remained profitable.
cent in local currencies when compared to the corresponding period last year.
Volumes The acquisition programme of recent years, have declined across the global sales network with the objective of building the most with exceptions only in those countries comprehensive range of products and where a particularly large contract was won solutions in the industry and the continual or in regions where the global economic enhancement of core products through slowdown has had less impact.
New internal development, has meant we have equipment sales fell most sharply in the early been able to take full advantage of the The new Wiedenbach CS Series ink jet printer months of 2009 as customers cut back their opportunities that have existed in the provides high speed printing with excellent capital expenditure and assessed the impact market.
We have been able to maintain our colour contrast, with optimum customisation of the changes in the banking sector on the equipment margins throughout the year and for industrial coding requirements.
Since mid 2009 sales maintain our overall global market share.
volumes have improved as some new projects have received funding and as In the first half of the financial year, replacement programmes can no longer be November 2008 to April 2009, revenues in delayed.
In addition, volumes of some of our our fluids and consumables business fell by newer products and technologies have grown 12 per cent in local currencies.
Our fluids and steadily during the year.
consumables sales are directly correlated to our customers output levels.
Demand for At the end of 2006, the Group acquired these products was impacted by extended Mectec, a Swedish Print and Apply Labelling shutdowns over the Christmas and New Year, Machinery PALM business.
As well as period in many industries.
This was followed maintaining distribution through its own by a period of fide-stocking before a return brand network, volumes of Mectec products to more normal buying patterns started to sold through Domino channels are growing emerge towards the end of the first half.
Overall the business has reported For the full year, revenues of our fluids and growth in PALM equipment revenues of 6 consumables products fell by 7 per cent in per cent compared to 2008. local currencies.
In the second half of the year, customers usage levels steadily grew and by Also at the end of 2006, we acquired the end of the year, sales had returned to Easyprint, a Danish Thermal Transfer more normal pre-recession levels.
This business has been integrated into the Domino sales Throughout the year customers have been operation and product manufacturing has looking to extend the useful life of their been transferred to the Groups headquarters equipment and reduce capital investment in Cambridge.
After a period of product wherever possible.
This has resulted in a development and enhancement, equipment busy year for our service organisation and revenues in this business grew by 15 per cent revenues from spares and service products on last year.
have continued at previous levels.
ANNUAL REPORT AND 12 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 Operations development work and laser sources and BUSINESS Throughout the last 18 months the Group components for niche industries.
In October has been involved in an active restructuring 2009, we commenced restructuring of the REVIEW programme to improve the operating Wiedenbach business, including outsourcing efficiency of the business.
This was in part to a greater proportion of the manufacturing address the reductions in volume we activity and increased integration of its anticipated would happen in 2009 as the selling and support functions with the core recession took hold, but more fundamentally Domino business.
This programme will be to improve the longer term efficiency of the completed in the first half of 2010.
These Group following a period where multiple moves, which will reduce Group headcount acquisitions had significantly increased the by approximately 50 jobs, will improve complexity of our organisation.
the overall efficiency of our German based businesses.
In October 2008, just before the start of our new financial year, we closed our The restructuring activities, together with a manufacturing operation in Denmark and very tight control on cost, have produced transferred the production of all TTO substantial reductions in the operating products to our facility in Cambridge.
This costs of the business.
Selling costs and transfer was completed satisfactorily during administrative expenses combined before the first quarter of 2009.
In October 2008, exceptional costs but after including the we commenced production of laser products additional costs in the business resulting from in Cambridge, and subsequently announced the acquisitions of APS, PNA and Photon the closure of our operation in California.
Energy in 2008 and the costs of the This was completed in February 2009 and acquisition in 2009 of our former Portuguese we are pleased with the production distributor have been reduced by 11 per efficiencies and product improvements cent in local currencies.
In making these which have been delivered by the move.
In changes to our cost structure we have October 2008, we announced a further 125 sought to protect the Groups core job losses, which together with the job competencies.
We believe none of the reductions associated with the two factory actions taken have diminished our capacity closures, amounted to a reduction of or capability to grow as markets recover.
approximately 10 per cent in the Groups workforce.
This additional programme was Research and Development completed in January 2009.
Maintaining product leadership in the market is a key strategic goal for the business.
The During the first half of this year we Group has a wide and extensive industry transferred the manufacture of Purex North leading portfolio of products, something we America Limited PNA products from seek to maintain and expand through The A300SE Sealed Environment A-Series plus ensures maximum performance Canada to our main Purex facility in considerable investment in Research and and reliability in the harshest environments.
We intend to move the Development and through product related Certified to IP66 with an industry unique sealed remainder of the PNA business to Fort acquisitions.
We have kept our commitment cabinet it is the toughest environmental printer on Worth, Texas to utilise the capacity in the to new product development throughout a the market.
Using a unique cabinet pressurisation and cooling system it protects the printer from Citronix facility and close the operation in period of significant restructuring of the airborne dust and moisture that can affect Montreal, a project which will be completed Group and released a number of new and reliability even at high working temperatures.
We also absorbed our USA innovative products during 2009.
We have a based Integrated Solutions provider, DISG, full programme of new products scheduled into our US sales division and integrated for 2010, which will require additional Control Information Technology, our recent investment in resources and materials.
acquisition in Germany, into our German Reported Research and Development costs sales division.
before exceptional costs for 2009 were 11.5 million 2008: 12.8 million.
We have announced further restructuring in Germany in the second half of 2009.
The production of Photon Energys solid state laser systems has been integrated into our Sator Laser manufacturing operation in Hamburg.
This project will be completed in December 2009: first production units have already been manufactured.
The remainder of the Photon Energy business will remain in Nuremburg and focus on specialised laser ANNUAL REPORT AND DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 13 OVERVIEW BUSINESS CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS KPIs Sales growth, profitability, cash generation and return on capital are the most important indicators of financial performance measured by the Group.
These are variously reported to management on a daily, weekly and monthly basis.
At top level, the Board monitors five key financial performance indicators as follows: Performance with comparatives: 2009 2008 2007 2006 Sales growth 1% 9% 11% 9% Gross margin before exceptional costs 46.4% 47.6% 48.1% 49.2% 1 Operating return on sales 14.0% 13.8% 13.9% 14.5% Operating cash flow operating profit before 2 exceptional items 135% 115% 112% 120% 3 Return on capital employed 21.3% 22.6% 23.0% 24.6% 1 Operating return on sales is defined as operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional costs as a percentage of Group sales.
2 Operating cash flow is the net cash inflow from operating activities before tax.
This is compared to operating profit before exceptional items as an indicator of the cash conversion performance of the business.
3 Return on capital employed is defined as operating profit before exceptional costs as a percentage of average total assets less current liabilities before deferred and contingent consideration on acquisitions due in less than one year.
Our goal is to maintain an appropriate balance between sales growth and profit improvement while seeking to convert at least 100% of operating profit into cash and achieving a return on capital employed in excess of 20%.
ANNUAL REPORT AND 14 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 Financial performance The operating return on sales was 14.0 per BUSINESS The Group has delivered another strong set cent 2008: 13.8 per cent.
of results in 2009, reporting progress in sales, REVIEW profits and earnings per share and increasing During the year the Group incurred net cash balances.
exceptional costs associated with further restructuring actions.
In June we announced There have been a number of factors that the acquired businesses of PNA, DISG impacting reported results.
Key was the and Control Information Technology had action taken at the end of the last financial been integrated with existing operations in year to reduce the cost base in anticipation the UK, USA and Germany respectively.
of more difficult trading conditions.
This, Further restructuring has been announced in along with the benefit of the relative Germany since the half year.
The solid state weakness of sterling, helped protect profit laser manufacturing business of Photon margins.
The international spread of the Energy has been integrated with the Sator business and the number of currencies in Laser manufacturing operation in Hamburg which we trade means reported results are and latterly we have announced the impacted by volatility in exchange rates.
restructuring of the Wiedenbach business.
During the year currency movements These further actions will result in a significantly improved reported results and decrease of Group headcount by the translation effects helped deliver another approximately 50 positions and have year of growth.
attracted an exceptional charge of 4.9 million including the write down of goodwill Reported sales of 256.1 million were 1 per of 1.5 million.
Annualised savings as a result cent ahead of the prior year.
Sales at of these actions are expected to be in the constant exchange rates before the effect of order of 3.0 million.
acquisitions declined by 14 per cent.
Sales made by businesses acquired during the Operating profits of the Group after period contributed 3 per cent.
amortisation and exceptional costs were 28.8 million 2008: 25.3 million.
The gross margin rate of 46.4 per cent compares to 47.6 per cent in 2008.
The Interest movement in rate includes a 1.1 percentage The Group has been net cash positive point decline as a result of currency throughout the year.
Prevailing interest rates translation effects.
Local product margins have remained at low levels and as a have been relatively stable with no material consequence, despite higher average cash impact from changes in selling prices or balances, interest income of 0.5 million is component costs.
below prior year levels 2008: 0.8 million.
The Group has incurred interest charges on Selling costs and administrative expenses the short term euro debt utilised in the before exceptional costs were collectively 11 acquisitions of Photon Energy and APS last per cent below prior year at constant year and on other short term overdrafts and exchange rates.
The investment in Research borrowings in local operations.
Interest and Development in the year was 11.5 payable was 0.6 million 2008: 0.4 million.
At constant currency and before the Notional interest on deferred consideration effect of acquisitions and exceptional costs associated with acquisitions was 0.8 million the reduction in total operating expenditure 2008: 0.5 million.
including Research and Development was 15 per cent, a total year on year saving of 12.8 Taxation million.
Year on year growth in operating The tax charge of 8.7 million reflects an expenses in acquired businesses PNA, effective tax rate of 31.3 per cent.
Tax Photon Energy, APS and Labeljet was payable on profits before exceptional costs is 2.9 million.
9.8 million, an effective rate of 29.7 per cent.
The rates of tax the Group is subject Operating profit before amortisation of to on income earned in different jurisdictions acquired intangible assets and exceptional around the world continue to change.
In costs was 35.7 million, 2 per cent ahead of particular, the underlying tax rate on profits prior year.
Had profits been stated on the made in China is now above the UK marginal basis of rates of exchange prevailing in 2008 rate after withholding taxes on dividends including forward contracts, profits would paid are taken into account.
The have been approximately 3.4 million lower.
international nature of the business does ANNUAL REPORT AND DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 15 OVERVIEW BUSINESS CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS mean that the mix of profits in any particular the Portuguese market and has a strong year can impact the rate of tax paid.
The business was acquired on a deferred cash basis with an initial sum Earnings per share of 5.7 million either payable in full on 30 The weighted average number of shares in April 2010, or payable in equal instalments issue decreased in the period by 1 per cent over three years on 30 April each year when compared to prior year.
In the case of payment by result of a full 12 months effect of the instalment, interest of 3 per cent is payable Companys purchase and cancellation of on the deferred element.
In addition there is 3.6 million of its own shares during 2008. a final payment, due on or around the third anniversary, the value of which is subject to Profit after tax attributable to shareholders performance conditions.
Total cost including was 19.2 million resulting in basic earnings the final variable element and costs is per share of 17.81 pence.
Underlying expected to be 8.6 million.
Tangible assets earnings per share note 14 was 23.68 acquired were 1.4 million: intangible assets pence, an increase of 3 per cent on prior net of tax have been valued at 2.1 million.
Full diluted Resulting goodwill was 5.1 million see earnings per share was 17.76 pence 2008: note 18.
In May, in a move to increase market Dividends coverage and improve profitability, the The Board is recommending a final dividend Group appointed a new distributor in of 8.45 pence per share which together with Australia.
Certain assets held by the Groups The D-Series plus is a highly versatile range the interim dividend of 4.57 pence makes a subsidiary were sold to the distributor.
The of industrial scribing lasers designed to total of 13.02 pence for the year as a whole, net gain on disposal after costs was 56,000. provide high quality codes across a wide range of production speeds.
an increase of 10 per cent on prior year 2008: 11.83 pence.
Dividend cover is 1.4 A final payment of 0.8 million was made to Robust and easy to use, it offers flexibility times.
During the year two dividend the former owners of Purex International whilst maintaining productivity, directly payments were made which totalled 13.2 Limited under the terms of the earn-out impacting the measured performance of the production environment.
Offering versatile, million in cash, equivalent to 69 per cent of agreement.
In addition staged earn-out permanent coding in the most demanding the profit after tax for the year.
payments were made in respect of Citronix applications: remote control and networking 1.3 million, Easyprint 0.2 million and capabilities enable seamless integration into Cash On-Line Coding 42,000. the production line.
Tight working capital management has released 6.1 million of cash in the year with Gross cash at year end was 39.0 million.
reductions in both trade receivables and Short term debt totalled 10.0 million inventory and an increase in short term including euro loans utilised to finance the creditors.
Capital expenditure has been acquisition of German subsidiaries.
This debt maintained at normal levels 2009: 4.8 is subject to a back to back arrangement million, 2008: 4.9 million as the Group with the parent company in the UK providing continues to invest in IT system a natural hedge against short term currency enhancements that help to improve both movements and is being paid down as cash is customer service and internal productivity.
released from the German businesses.
Net cash inflow from operating activities The Group is cash positive with net cash before taxation operating cash flow was balances of 29.1 million, an increase of 45.4 million, an increase of 18 per cent on 17.2 million in the year.
Operating cash flow represented 135 per cent of operating profit before Treasury exceptional costs.
The business remains exposed to interest rates and to movements in exchange rates.
The Group made one acquisition during the The Board approves treasury policy and year, disposed of assets in our Australian monitors performance through regular subsidiary and continued to pay deferred monthly reports and formally reviews consideration earned based on the treasury performance at least annually.
performance of acquisitions made in prior years.
The Group has cash on short term deposit with a small number of banks all of whom In July, the Group acquired Labeljet SA, a meet explicit credit rating requirements.
Labeljet, Debt and overdraft facilities are maintained based in Porto, was Dominos distributor in sufficient to meet expected needs of the ANNUAL REPORT AND 16 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 business.
The Groups principal facilities are each of the businesses of the Group using a BUSINESS committed until 2011.
Draw down is priced risk assessment tool that helps identify both relative to LIBOR.
likelihood and magnitude of impact.
REVIEW Exposure to movements in currency rates is The Group maintains a register of the managed at the transaction level through principal risks it faces.
The senior executive forward contracts.
Expected net cash team takes responsibility for the principal inflows in US dollar and euro are sold risks and ensures that each has visibility forward on a rolling 12 month basis, and across the business and receives appropriate expected inflows in Canadian dollar and attention.
A risk management committee, outflows in Swedish kronor and Swiss franc comprising senior executives, monitors the are sold purchased forward on a rolling risk process and reviews status of risk three month basis.
These contracts provide mitigation actions.
certainty and fix a significant percentage of the transaction based exposure of the The Group operates an Internal Audit Group.
Certain currencies such as the process which additionally includes a formal Chinese renminbi are significant to the risk assessment relevant to the business or Group but are subject to local fiscal controls function being audited.
The Board receives a and cannot be traded.
In these cases cash summary report on each internal audit.
remittance to the UK is subject to local conversion at spot rates.
During 2009 the Risks are identified in a number of areas.
average rates at which forward contracts Principal risks for the Group as a whole and matured had the effect of increasing net mitigation actions are summarised: sterling receipts by 1.5 million when compared to contract rates realised Failure to maintain a competitive product during 2008. range or anticipate impact of technological changes.
The Group has an Contracts in place for the year to October active programme of competitor product 2010 will realise gains of 1.5 million when review and regularly reviews relevant compared to rates applicable in 2009. patent filings.
There is an Advanced Development Group, chaired by the Reported results are subject to translation Group Technical Director and with input from local currency at average rates.
No from product and business management, action is taken to hedge the effect of this which investigates and researches new translation.
In 2009 the relative weakness of technology.
sterling meant profits translated at prevailing Loss of after market business to third rates were 1.9 million better than they party suppliers.
The Group operates a would have been had currency rates Customer Relationship Management remained constant.
This together with the CRM approach built on use of effect of forward contract rates 1.5 million common sales management systems.
This reflects the approximate impact of currency involves monitoring customers purchasing on reported profits in the year.
patterns and deploying our extensive field service team to maintain strong customer The Group does not take action to hedge relationships.
the impact of movements in currency on the Increasing legislation surrounding use and value of investments denominated in foreign transportation of certain chemicals and currency.
The value of any gain or loss is substances affecting materials or business taken directly to reserves.
The Group monitors resulted in an increase in the value of legislation and regulation through a formal reserves of 5.3 million.
This team maintains close links with industry Risk management bodies and collaborates with other The Group has an established risk companies in providing feedback and management process.
The Board reviews advice on matters affecting legislation in and approves risk policy and the process of our industry area.
The Group maintains risk management.
Risks and uncertainties are an active programme redeveloping formally identified by management across products which use materials that are, or are likely to be, withdrawn or restricted.
ANNUAL REPORT AND DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 17 OVERVIEW BUSINESS CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Failure of a supplier or disruption to the Outlook supply chain for critical components.
Results in 2009 have demonstrated the The Group has an active supplier underlying strength and resilience of the management and quality assurance business and although demand for new programme.
We operate a dual sourcing equipment remains below levels experienced policy where possible or, if not, we hold before world economies entered recession, strategic stocks to protect against supply the Board is optimistic about prospects for chain failure impacting the Groups ability further progress in 2010 and beyond.
to deliver products in an acceptable lead time.
Actions taken at the end of 2008 and during Loss of a manufacturing facility impairing 2009 have improved the operating efficiency the Groups ability to supply.
We have a full programme of disaster recovery plans are maintained by new product developments and we are all manufacturing sites.
We operate two preparing to increase investment in our sales 225BK is an advanced MEK based black ink fully functional fluids plants, each with the capacity once we see improvement in for A-Series printers introduced primarily for capability to scale up to meet global market conditions.
electronics device and component marking demand if necessary.
where halogen-free and heavy metal free Failure to successfully deliver product The Group has a strong balance sheet, is are important requirements.
This ink will not affect compliance of products to RoHS developments to the market on time or cash positive and remains well placed once 2002 95 EC or WEEE 2002 96 EC.
early life failure of new designs.
The global economies return to more normal Group operates a formal gated process levels of growth.
A very fast drying ink, as quick as 1 to 1.5 controlling product specification, design, seconds, it has good adhesion and scratch resistance on glass, a range of plastics development and pre-launch validation of including polycarbonate, ABS, Nylon, all new products.
The process includes Perspex, LCD foils, and metals and is also risk assessments, peer review and use of suitable for food packaging applications under performance metrics.
Product failure resulting in customer downtime and damage to the value of the Domino Group brand.
Comprehensive quality control processes are operated in the manufacture of our products including formal measurement of delivered product quality and formal management and monitoring of field performance.
Use of common helpdesk software systems allows correlation of reported incidents and monitoring of actions.
The Groups formal treasury policy requires use of forward contracts to provide certainty of short term position.
Longer term sourcing actions are in place that will increase the natural hedge effect of matching costs and revenues.
No action is taken to mitigate the effect on translation of local profits into sterling.
ANNUAL REPORT AND 18 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 I would like to thank Domino Group compliance with the environmental policy.
CORPORATE employees worldwide for their commitment Members of the Steering Group will be and support of our environmental and social working with local representatives to set SOCIAL initiatives in 2009.
RESPONSIBILITY Environmental improvements Local wellbeing Domino aims to foster among its staff, Domino has long been involved in suppliers, customers, shareholders and contributing to the local communitys communities local to its operations an wellbeing.
This is achieved by charitable understanding of environmental issues in donations, close involvement with local the context of its business.
Our collective schools and colleges and provision of training task is to ensure that we continually and work experience opportunities.
reduce the environmental impact of our total global activities.
In the UK, Domino has a close relationship with a nearby college and staff share their Recycling of waste is now firmly embedded knowledge and experience of the workplace across the whole organisation and we have with the college lecturers and students.
Work substantial reductions in the amount we experience opportunities are provided for send to landfill.
Many of our sites around the local school pupils as well as overseas world have recorded big reductions in waste students seeking to practise their English to landfill in 2009, with Domino Canada language skills in a business environment.
leading the way with a 37% decline.
The Group matches money raised by Energy consumption has been cut employees for worthy causes, so donations significantly across the Group.
Air travel were made to a large number of was down significantly, over 25% for the organisations including national charities and Group as a whole.
Our vehicle fleet local causes.
emissions are also falling with new energy efficient cars being purchased by most It has been a year when demands on the companies.
business have been greater than ever, so it is pleasing to report significant progress against We look to build upon the successes of the our key social and environmental objectives local teams so far.
We continue to set goals for the year.
on waste, recycling, energy and emissions in our worldwide operation and will look to improve on our achievements in 2009.
In 2010 I will be looking to standardise reported data so that we can report Group Nigel Bond, Group Managing Director, with Andrew Herbert, achievements to our shareholders and other Group Finance Director, and the FTSE4Good certificate.
An Environmental Steering Group has been established which Nigel R Bond BSc ACA is responsible for promoting and monitoring Group Managing Director 22 January 2010 Domino has received national recognition for its responsible business practice and been accepted into the FTSE4Good Index.
31% 14% REDUCTION IN ELECTRICITY REDUCTION IN WATER CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION COMPARED TO 2008 COMPARED TO 2008 ANNUAL REPORT AND DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 19 OVERVIEW BUSINESS CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Domino celebrates continuous service, marking the DOMINO DOUBLE 10th anniversary of employment with membership of FIVE CLUB the Domino Double Five Club.
Global membership has now reached in excess of 350.
This year we were pleased to welcome 9 new members in our Chinese and Indian businesses, demonstrating the success of our staff retention programmes even in those countries where economic growth makes competition for good quality people particularly strong.
Wang Qingyang, Edward Zhang Ni, Jenny Zhang Yuan, Shirley Key Account Supervisor, China Administration Supervisor, China Senior Strategic Sales Executive, China Joined in March 1999 Joined in March 1999 Joined in May 1999 Yang Xinhua A Satyadev Qiu Yan, Quincy Helpdesk Supervisor, China General Manager, South & East Region, India Senior Credit Control Administrator, China Joined in October 1999 Joined March 1999 Joined in November 1999 Anuj Verma K Devarajan V Rajashekar General Manager, Commercial, India Area Service Manager, Chennai Branch, India Head of Business Development, India Joined February 1999 Joined January 1999 Joined February 1999
