BUSINESS REVIEW THE GROUPS FREE CASH FLOW OF 78M REPRESENTED 118% OF PROFIT AFTER TAX Simon Boddie Group Finance Director Customer relationships NATURE OF THE BUSINESS We supply around 1.5m customers from a wide range of industrial sectors.
We have relationships with both the end users who use Electrocomponents plc is a high service distributor of electronics, our products and also with the companies for whom they work.
electromechanical and wider industrial products.
The Group operates Our customers are typically electronics and maintenance engineers.
in 27 countries and sells to most of the remaining countries of the world via third party distributors.
Supplier relationships The Group satisfies the small quantity product needs of its The relationships with our suppliers are an increasingly important customers who are typically electronics or maintenance engineers factor in allowing us both to maintain high standards of product in business.
A large number of high quality goods are stocked, which availability for our customers and to anticipate future customer needs.
are dispatched the same day that the order is received.
The average We purchase some half a million products from around 2,500 major customer order value is approximately 100 although the range of suppliers throughout the world with a groupwide focus on global order values is wide.
The Group has a large number of customers purchasing agreements.
Our offer to electronics engineers is valuable from a wide range of industry sectors with diverse product demands.
to many of our suppliers, who would otherwise nd the small order This means that the Group manages tens of thousands of orders and immediate dispatch requirements of such customers difficult for customers across the world each working day.
e-Commerce STRATEGY e-Commerce provides the Group with the ability to reach a broad We continue to implement our strategy and the four areas identied customer base and critically to reach our target electronics customers to drive the Groups future performance.
A more detailed explanation who are conducting a greater proportion of their product research of the strategy and the progress that we have made on each of these on-line.
The channel also allows us to extend and promote our areas is provided in the Chief Executives Review.
On-line merchandising is being used to highlight to customers relevant products and information during their on-line journey providing improved customer experience and revenue STRENGTHS AND RESOURCE opportunities.
We are increasingly focusing on the provision of on-line customer services giving our customers the exibility Brands they want to manage their business relationships with us on-line.
The Group has a number of major brands.
The most significant of these is RS which is used all over the world, except in North Employees America, France and Ireland where the Allied, Radiospares The skills and support from our employees is extremely important and Radionics brands are used respectively.
During the year we employed around 6,000 employees worldwide.
The geographic spread of our employees is: 2,000 in the Geographic footprint UK, 1,300 in Continental Europe, 800 in North America, 1,000 in Asia Our operating companies provide our high service level across Pacic and 900 in the Group-wide Processes.
countries representing around 80% of the worlds GDP.
The Groups Distributors serve Eastern Europe, Russia, Southern Europe, the Middle East and South America representing a further 10% of the worlds GDP.
12 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Infrastructure The Group recognises that the provision of a high service level is extremely important to our customers.
Three areas of our infrastructure are particularly important: 975m Systems: All our businesses in Continental Europe together Revenue with our UK business operate on a single integrated regional system.
Likewise, our Asia Pacic business also operates from a separate integrated system.
Operating on these robust and integrated platforms enables us to improve efficiency, share best practice Free cash ow and reduce our risk prole.
Facilities: The Group has a well developed warehouse network across all our markets to support our customer needs.
78m The operations and coordination at our warehouses is Increased by 4% managed by our cross-Group Supply Chain Process to ensure an efficient and cost effective use of our assets.
e-Commerce: The Group operates from a single website platform supporting the RS businesses in the UK, Continental BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Europe and Asia Pacic.
This gives us the ability to roll out new developments quickly and efficiently Revenue across these regions, maximising the benets to Group revenue was 974.6m, an increase of 49.8m year on year our customers.
Allied, the Groups North American 5.4% reported growth.
Group revenue benefited from Sterlings business uses a separate web platform.
depreciation in the year most notably against the Euro and US Dollar 14% at average rates.
Underlying revenue declined by around 5% year on year.
OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND Group revenue was significantly impacted by the deteriorating KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS economic environment across the world.
This deterioration accelerated as the year progressed and particularly affected the Operating performance Groups second half year sales performance.
First half underlying 2009 2008 revenue growth of 1% was followed by a second half decline of 11%.
Revenue 974.6m 924.8m All the Groups regions were affected by the economic downturn: Gross margin 49.5% 50.2% our UK business was in decline throughout the year, Continental Contribution 200.2m 203.2m Europe moved into decline in May and our North American and Group Process costs 106.6 m 99.5 m Asia Pacic businesses declined from November.
Headline operating profit 93.6m 103.7m Interest net 7.0 m 7.3 m Gross margin Gross margin for the year was 49.5% with the second half margin Headline profit before tax 86.6m 96.4m improving by 0.4% points on the first half due to more targeted use Free cash ow 78.0m 75.0m of customer discounts, better buying and selling price increases.
Year Headline earnings per share 13.6p 14.8p on year, the 0.7% points reduction in the gross margin was primarily Dividend per share 11.0p 18.4p due to increasing promotional activities, customer discounts and large customer performance in the UK, and country mix and foreign exchange impacts in Asia Pacic.
Key performance indicators 2009 2008 1 Costs Group sales growth 5.3 % 5.4% 1 At constant currency, operating costs were at year on year.
International 4.5 % 8.4% Operating costs grew by 0.9% points of sales reecting the 1 UK 6.7 % 0.9% downturn in sales in the second half of the year together with e-Commerce revenue share 36% 31% the high proportion of the Groups costs that are xed.
The Groups 2 Headline Group return on sales 9.6% 11.2% Process costs increased by 0.1% points of sales while the operating 3 Headline ROCE 18.5% 24.0% company costs increased by 0.8% points of sales.
Stock turn per year 2.7x 2.9x The Groups management has taken action to reduce operating 4 Revenue per head 000 162 165 costs going forward.
This has been across all regions of the Number of customers millions 1.5 1.5 business, principally during the final quarter of the year, and will Net debt to headline EBITDA 1.7x 1.2x realise annualised savings of around 18m of which around 15m Interest cover 13.4x 14.2x will be realised in the next financial year.
As a result of these actions, 1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days 2 Headline operating profit expressed as a percentage of revenue 3 Headline operating profit expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt 4 Revenue on a like for like basis 2009 and 2008 adjusting for trading days and foreign exchange Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 BUSINESS REVIEW continued the Group will reduce its headcount by around 500 heads from the Year end net debt comprised gross borrowings of 205.2m currency level in the second half of the year.
This will represent around 8% of split: 91m US Dollars, 43m Sterling, 43m Euros, 14m Japanese the total headcount.
To deliver these benets, one-off reorganisation Yen and the balance in other currencies, and financial assets of costs, principally employee severance, of 7.1m were incurred.
The currency mix is designed to help hedge the Groups resulting cash outow in the year was around 1.5m and a further translation exposures.
The peak month-end net borrowing during cash outow relating to this reorganisation of around 4.6m is the year using monthly exchange rates was 241m.
expected in the financial year ending 31 March 2010 a balance The Groups main source of debt finance is a syndicated of 1m is non-cash.
multicurrency facility from ten banks which was established in September 2008 for US $137m, 142m and 47m maturing in profit before tax September 2012.
The Group has other bilateral facilities of 25m The Groups headline profit before tax was 86.6m, down 9.8m 10.2% maturing in March 2010, Yen800m maturing December 2010 and year on year due to the decline in contribution from the UK business and an amortising bilateral of currently 2.7m maturing December 2011. increase in reported Process costs which were only partially offset by the increased contribution from the International business.
Reported profit before tax was 96.5m, which benefited from one-off INTERNATIONAL net income of 9.9m.
This performance was 1.1m 1.2% above the prior year.
This one-off net income, below headline profit, of 9.9m Growth comprised a first half income of 17.0m and a second half cost of Growth constant 7.1m.
The first half income was due to the accounting benets of 2009 2008 reported exchange the changes made to the UK dened benefit pension scheme in June 1 Revenue 635.3m 566.8m 12.1% 4.5 % 2008 of 17.5m net of 0.5m costs associated with reorganisation activities.
In the second half the Group incurred 7.1m costs due Gross margin 48.2% 48.5% to its reorganisation activities including 0.8m UK dened benefit Operating costs pension scheme costs.
% of revenue 31.3 % 30.5 % Contribution 107.1m 102.3m 4.7% 10.2 % Earnings per share Contribution % Headline earnings per share of 13.6p reduced by 8% year on year with of revenue 16.9% 18.0% the 10% reduction in headline profit before tax being partially offset by 1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days a reduction in the Groups effective headline tax rate of 1% to 32%.
This reduction in the tax rate was principally due to the lowering of The International business now represents around 65% of the tax rates in certain territories within which the Group operates.
The business comprises three regions: Continental Europe 55% of International business revenue, North America Dividend 29% and Asia Pacic 16%.
In May 2008, the Board announced that for the 2009 financial On a reported basis, including the beneficial effect of the weakening year, the ordinary dividend would be 11p per share, comprising of Sterling, revenue increased by 12.1% and contribution by 4.7%.
an interim dividend of 5p per share and a final dividend of 6p per Underlying revenue declined by 4.5%, with Continental Europe share.
The interim dividend was paid in January 2009 and the Board will recommend the payment of the final dividend of declining by 6.9%, North America by 2.2% and Asia Pacic at.
6p per share to be paid in July 2009.
Gross margin increased by 0.8% points from the first half to the In the current difficult trading environment, our focus is on maintaining second half of the year.
Year on year, gross margin reduced by the Groups financial strength.
Therefore, as previously announced, 0.3% points principally due to the impact of country mix and foreign the Board decided that it would not be appropriate to pay the special exchange in Asia Pacic.
Operating costs reduced slightly at constant dividend of 7.4p per share which was also proposed in May 2008. foreign exchange and as a percentage of sales increased by 0.8% points, due to the sales decline in the second half of the year.
Actions Cash ow to reduce costs in light of the declining sales were taken principally The Groups free cash ow for the year of 78.0m was 3m ahead in the final quarter of the year.
of the prior year and represented 118% of profit after tax.
This strong performance was delivered through continued tight control over Continental Europe working capital, stable stock turn at constant foreign exchange rates, debtor days reducing by around three days, and capital expenditure Growth less than half the level of depreciation.
Growth constant 2009 2008 reported exchange 1 Financial position Revenue 346.7m 316.2m 9.6% 6.9 % The Group has robust financial metrics with interest cover of Contribution 75.9m 71.0m 6.9% 8.4 % 13 times and net debt to headline EBITDA of 1.7 times, with Contribution % significant headroom to the Groups banking covenants.
of revenue 21.9% 22.5% At 31 March 2009, net debt was 203.2m which was 52.1m higher 1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days than last year, almost entirely due to foreign exchange rates with free Continental Europe includes eight businesses: France, Germany cash ow of 78.0m exceeding dividend payments of 76.6m.
At the year end, the Group had total committed bank facilities of 314m with and Italy are the largest, representing around 75% of the regions 281m having a maturity of September 2012.
The headroom between revenue, the remaining businesses are Austria, Benelux, Ireland, the committed facilities and net debt at the year end was 111m.
14 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 On a reported basis, including the benefit of the weakening of Sterling, revenue increased by 9.6% and contribution by e-Commerce revenue 6.9%.
Underlying revenue declined by around 7% with the growth in North America business moving into decline in May.
Gross margin was stable year on year as were costs in local currency.
The senior European management team was strengthened during 45% the year with the appointment of the previous UK General Manager to lead the region.
A more consistent and cross regional approach has been introduced to drive performance.
The Groups electronics strategy has been implemented in Europe with the broadening of the product offer, increased competitiveness of prices and the successful launch of production packaging.
Within maintenance, there have been successes in own brand promotion, 17% joint supplier activities and large customer contract wins.
The Revenue Growth in China business has focused its large customer activity around more economically resilient sectors such as defence, government, utilities and education.
Asia Pacic e-Commerce revenue increased by 8% in the year with its share of revenue increasing from 35% to 41% year on year, exiting the Growth year at 44%.
Growth constant 2009 2008 reported exchange 1 North America Revenue 102.0m 87.3m 16.8% 0.3 % Contribution 6.9m 9.3m 25.8 % 34.9 % Growth Contribution % Growth constant of revenue 6.8% 10.6% 2009 2008 reported exchange 1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days 1 Revenue 186.6m 163.3m 14.3% 2.2 % The Group has a large and well established footprint across Asia Contribution 24.3m 22.0m 10.5% 5.4 % Pacic, operating in ten countries with a presence in the region Contribution % for more than 20 years, having seven warehouses and local of revenue 13.0% 13.5% language catalogues including those for Japan and China.
1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for currency and trading days Reported revenue including the benefit of the weakening of Sterling, The business has continued to pursue its local strategy to exploit increased by 16.8%.
Underlying revenue was flat for the year but both its extensive local sales ofce presence across North America moved into decline in November.
The Japanese economy suffered particularly badly in the economic downturn and this had a significant and its supplier relationships to drive sales.
Local initiatives with effect on the regions overall sales performance.
Excluding the suppliers have included customised trade brochures, supplier Japanese business, the region recorded 5% underlying sales growth funded joint advertising and web and parcel promotions.
A number of the regions markets have delivered double On a reported basis, including the benefit of the weakening of digit sales growth, including China 17%, South Korea 24%, Sterling, revenue increased by 14.3% and contribution by 10.5%.
e-Commerce continues Underlying revenue declined by 2.2%.
The business remained in to be an important driver to sales performance in the region revenue growth through the first half of the financial year, moving with our e-Commerce share in Japan at nearly 70%.
into decline in November 2008 as economic conditions deteriorated.
The Groups electronics production packaging offer was launched Gross margin was stable year on year as were costs in local currency.
across the region during the third quarter of the financial year supported by increased local and on-line marketing, to positive A particular focus for the year within the organisation has been customer feedback.
Local customer activities have focused on the further development of the web site, providing new on-line quote growing industry sectors and large customers.
The latest initiative has been the launch of the web site for mobile phone users.
This During the year, the Asia Pacic business reorganised its activities provides mobile phone users with search functionality, the ability onto a more regional, streamlined and functionally oriented structure.
to view pricing, stock availability and technical specications and This change was in recognition of the businesss growing size, images.
Allied is the first electronics components distributor in having doubled since March 2003, to allow it to benefit from changing North America to offer such a mobile site to its customers.
customer needs whilst also delivering cost efficiencies across all areas.
As a result of this, and other web promotional activities, The significant reduction in contribution as a percentage of revenue underlying e-Commerce revenue increased by nearly 45% in was caused by the reduction in gross margin, due to country mix and the year.
e-Commerce share of revenue increased from 10% foreign exchange, and the full year effect of the additional investment to 15% year on year and exited the year at 22%.
made in the region in the prior year to exploit the growth potential.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 BUSINESS REVIEW continued Key developments in the year have included the creation of the new UK Electronics division to drive the expansion of our range, build stronger relationships with our strategic electronics suppliers and implement a consistent marketing approach.
Information Systems have supported Growth our cost reduction initiatives through the ongoing development of our Growth constant Groupwide systems whilst the investment in our e-Commerce platform 2009 2008 reported exchange 1 has helped to drive competitive advantage.
Supply Chain has developed Revenue 339.3m 358.0m 5.2 % 6.7 % a strategy to support an increased product offer while also exploiting the Gross margin 51.8% 53.1% Groups global infrastructure to generate cost savings.
Recently this has Operating costs led to the creation of a management team across Europe and the UK % of revenue 24.4 % 24.9 % to optimise activities already leading to improved product availability.
Contribution 93.1m 100.9m 7.7 % 7.7 % Product Management has focused on the Groups global sourcing Contribution capability with a growing proportion of products sourced via the % of revenue 27.4% 28.2% Groups Asia sourcing operation.
1 Underlying revenue growth, adjusting for trading days Underlying revenue declined by 6.7% with sales slowing during TAXATION the year.
The business has pursued sales initiatives across a number The Groups effective tax rate was 32% of headline profit before of different areas.
These include the introduction of the electronics tax, which was 1% point lower than the prior year.
This reduction production packaging offer, which is meeting a clear customer need, was principally due to the lowering of local tax rates in some of the and continued expansion of the UKs electronics sales support with territories within which the Group operates, including the reduction the opening of a new electronics sales ofce.
Other initiatives have of the UK tax rate by 2% points.
The Groups current effective tax included the increasing use of web based sales promotions, large rate includes the effect of a significant and continuing increase in customer wins and increased sales penetration of large accounts the deferred tax liability due to the tax amortisation of overseas and own brand promotions.
This deferred tax liability is not expected to crystallise in the foreseeable future.
This, together with the differing timing e-Commerce revenue increased by around 10% and e-Commerce of payments, means that the effective tax rate was signicantly share of revenue increased from 37% to 43% year on year, exiting higher than the cash tax rate of 24%.
Gross margin reduced by around 1.3% points year on year as more customer promotions and discounts were used to drive sales and PENSION large customers outperformed the higher margin smaller customers.
The Group has dened benefit pension schemes in the UK, Ireland Gross margin was stable across the two half years as selling price and Germany.
All these schemes are now closed to new entrants.
changes were made in the October catalogue and promotions Elsewhere including the replacement schemes in the UK and were further targeted through the year.
Ireland, the schemes are dened contribution.
Costs reduced by around 7% during the year as action was During the latter part of the prior year and first half of this year, the taken through continuous improvement and a variety of cost Group consulted with UK based employees over changes designed to improve the sustainability of the UK defined benefit pension saving initiatives.
These included changes in the Groups future approach The business has continued to provide excellent customer to early retirement, a restriction on the amount of base pay that service which, in the case of our customer contact centre, has can be considered pensionable for defined benefit purposes, and been recognised with their winning of the 2008 UK National a life expectancy risk sharing mechanism to share the uncertain future Customer Service Awards for the best Large Customer Service costs of improving life expectancy between the Group and the active Contact Centre of the Year.
These changes resulted in an accounting benefit of 17.5m.
In the second half of the year, the headcount in the UK was reduced as a result of cost reduction actions taken in the business.
This has PROCESSES led to an accounting cost of 0.8m relating to the pension impact of the changes.
2009 2008 As a result of these two actions and their effects on the UK dened Process costs 106.6m 99.5m benefit pension scheme, a net non-cash credit of 16.7m has been Costs % of revenue 10.9 % 10.8 % recognised in the Income Statement and excluded from headline profit.
The Processes support our operating companies by ensuring The most recent valuation of the UK dened benefit scheme was that they have the products, infrastructure and expertise to provide carried out as at 31 March 2009.
This disclosed a deficit of 6.3m consistently high service levels around the world.
Process costs before tax relief.
The scheme was 97% funded on an accounting have remained stable as a percentage of sales.
The Group was not required to make any deficit recovery 16 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 contributions to the pension scheme during the financial year, and does not anticipate any requirement to do so in the year Europe e-Commerce ending 31 March 2010. revenue share This deficit is 15.5m lower than at the previous year end due to lower expectations of long term ination, higher discount rates, partially offset by the reduction in the value of the assets, together with benefit changes which improve the sustainability of the scheme.
44% exit Under IAS 19, the combined gross deficit of the Groups dened benefit schemes was 16.9m at 31 March 2009.
RISKS UK costs reduced by Electrocomponents has well established risk management procedures for the identication, assessment and management of risks to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
7% The Board and Group Executive Committee receive regular reports covering risks and mitigating actions arising from external factors, key dependencies, project delivery and corporate responsibility Group strategy implementation factors.
Our key business risks, which the Group has identied, The implementation of the Groups strategy was accelerated are as follows: during the year.
However the risk remains that it may not deliver the expected results.
To address the risk, we have focused on Macroeconomic environment developing our customer communications supported by robust The uncertain economic outlook presents significant challenges customer research and dedicated sales and organisational resources.
to the Groups financial performance going forward.
Our priority will remain the development of the electronics and The Group aims to mitigate and manage these effects through maintenance offers including accelerating new product introductions, the close monitoring of trading environments and driving growth strengthening partnerships with our key suppliers, developing opportunities across the Groups markets through its electronics our price competitiveness and exploiting the full potential of our and maintenance offers and e-Commerce channel.
The recent restructuring of the regional organisations in Continental Europe and Asia Pacic will support model remains broad based with 450,000 products being sold to the delivery of the strategic objectives across those markets.
1.5m customers globally with an average order value of approximately 100.
The business is geographically spread operating directly Information and communications systems in 27 countries with the International business contributing We are dependent on the quality and resilience of our information 65% of Group revenue.
and communications infrastructure to support our worldwide Costs continue to be tightly controlled, with actions taken during distribution business.
This infrastructure underpins the Groups the year to deliver 18m of annualised cost savings.
These include new product initiatives and development of the electronics strategy.
a net reduction of around 500 employees which represents around A major failure affecting these systems would cause significant 8% of the total Group headcount.
The cost actions were enabled disruption to our operations.
by the increasing e-Commerce channel share, strong control over The recent upgrades to business systems in Europe and Asia Pacic, discretionary spend, redistribution of activity between the Groups including investments in resilient infrastructure, systems knowledge two UK warehouses and exploiting the benets of the Groups and regional disaster recovery provision, have signicantly reduced systems infrastructure.
The business remains highly cash generative with significant We will continue to improve our information and communications headroom to the Groups banking covenants.
The vast majority infrastructure with the targeted introduction of supplementary of the Groups committed facilities available at 31 March 2009 technologies to support the achievement of the Groups strategic have a maturity date of September 2012. objectives, particularly in our e-Commerce capabilities.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 BUSINESS REVIEW continued Pricing employees via the Group Intranet.
Managers are required to confirm To ensure our success in the market, customers must be provided receipt and ensure that employees are briefed on the contents.
with value for money by competitive market pricing, high service We have a whistle-blowing policy which allows employees to levels and effective customer communications.
There is a risk that report matters of concern in confidence, with an independently in an economic recession, the market becomes increasingly price operated whistle-blowing hotline in the UK and Asia Pacic regions.
driven with the high service business model becoming less valued We implement our CR policies through our management systems by our customers.
and processes in alignment with the overall governance structure of the To address this we have robust pricing frameworks in place to allow Group.
We monitor the effectiveness of our CR policies through regular us to respond quickly to market and competitor pricing developments.
reporting of key performance indicators and other related information.
During the year we reduced the prices on a significant number Electrocomponents is a member of the FTSE4Good index and of electronics products to improve our competitiveness.
Also we participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
the expansion of our own brand ranges further supports our ability to compete on price in the current business environment.
Customers and suppliers Our use of targeted discounting, application of the pricing model Responsible selling and marketing and the provision of safety and product sourcing strategies have contributed to the gross margin and environmental information are key elements of our service increasing between the first half and second half of the year in tough ethic and business model.
These actions aim to ensure that we will remain We source products and services from suppliers that meet, or are competitive in the current tough market conditions, whilst our service willing to meet, the Groups ethical standards.
In particular we will not offer with products in stock provides us with an advantage over knowingly source from organisations which use child labour or forced many of our competitors.
labour, which discriminate on the grounds of gender, ethnic or national origin, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, age or disability, People or do not recognise freedom of association or collective bargaining.
The skills, expertise and commitment of our employees are important to the success of the Group strategy.
A significant risk to strategy All suppliers are informed of our CR principles, and all direct suppliers in implementation is that the business is unable to attract or retain countries of concern undergo periodic audit by regional sourcing teams, high performing employees, or that staff are not fully engaged using assessment criteria based on EthicalTrade Initiative guidelines.
During the last 12 months, we audited 30% of our direct suppliers in countries of concern.
This risk is progressively addressed through the development of our internal competencies, supplemented with new expertise through Our customer service ethic is a core element of our strategy and external appointments.
Employee commitment is encouraged business proposition.
Some 40 sites around the world are covered by through our appraisal processes, with personal objectives being ISO9001 certications, representing over 96% of the Group by turnover.
aligned in support of the strategic objectives.
Employees Our continuous improvement initiatives encourage employee We value the commitment of our employees, and maintain involvement in identifying and implementing changes to improve a working environment where employees are valued and respected, customer experience and deliver greater efficiency.
and where there is equality of opportunity and where individual The Group Executive Committee regularly spends time considering talent is recognised.
Our approach is set out in further detail personal development and career progression opportunities for in the Directors Report.
The annual Group meetings also involve the wider senior management engaging further in the Group strategy.
Environment The Group Environmental Policy Statement, which is set out in the Group Policy Manual, commits us to identifying and managing CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY the environmental impacts associated with our activities.
The policy and our implementation programmes support the Groups strategy.
At Electrocomponents sound corporate responsibility CR policies and practices are integral to our business.
We believe that the progressive Our most significant environmental impacts are the carbon emissions alignment of our values and strategy with responsible and ethical due to the consumption of energy in our facilities, the use of paper in business policies and practices helps enhance competitiveness our printed catalogues, the generation of waste, packaging consumption and is a driver for sustainable growth and success.
We use a set of key performance indicators KPIs The Board takes regular account of CR matters in the business of to assess and monitor the environmental performance of our sites the Group: the Group Chief Executive being the Director responsible and businesses.
The KPIs index relevant environmental impacts to for CR, health and safety and environmental matters at the Board.
sales to reect real performance allowing for business growth.
This enables us to benchmark businesses and helps identify performance Our Group Policy Manual defines our core values and the principles we improvement opportunities.
apply in dealing with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Manual also covers the protection of our assets, competition law In support of the implementation of our policy objectives we encourage and conicts of interest.
We issue the Manual to our management our businesses to gain certication to ISO14001 where appropriate.
population across the Group, and make the Manual available to all During the year certication was extended to cover all of our UK 18 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 facilities.
Some 53% of our workforce is employed in ISO14001 Waste certicated businesses with a further five international sites working Inuenced by a series of one-off factors, the levels of waste relative towards certication in 2010. to turnover increased during calendar year 2008.
The relocation of the Allied business together with the reorganisation of logistics We report below on our environmental impacts for the calendar years in the UK and Europe resulted in the disposal of a range of equipment 2007 and 2008.
We aim to continually improve the quality and coverage and materials including surplus pallets and scrap furniture which of our environmental reporting and have restated the 2007 performance where appropriate with all KPIs on a constant currency basis.
All of our boosted the quantities recorded.
In addition we are seeing the facilities world-wide report their environmental performance and this impact of improved reporting of waste and recycling performance.
report covers the comparable data for 2007 and 2008.
The proportion of total waste which is recycled remained high, at 72%, although due to the one-off disposals referred to above Emissions this is lower than the 74% achieved in 2007.
During the 2008 calendar year, CO2 emissions due to energy use per unit of sales were reduced by 5.7%.
This decrease was in part due to the ending of the parallel operation of the old and new facilities Waste KPIs Total waste Tonnes waste at Fort Worth, Texas during the relocation of the Allied business during Tonnes per m turnover the 2007 calendar year.
2008 2007 2008 2007 Total waste 2,875 2,083 2.8 2.1 Excluding the effect of the Fort Worth business relocation, there was an underlying reduction in CO emissions per unit of sales of 0.8% across 2 Waste reused the Group during 2008.
This was achieved through incremental projects recycled 2,054 1,517 2.0 1.5 to improve energy efficiency in heating, lighting and air conditioning use, and the decommissioning of surplus server equipment from the Water regionalisation of business systems.
As anticipated, water consumption per unit of sales fell in calendar year 2008, with a reduction of 7.3% year on year.
The primary cause Emissions KPIs Total emissions Tonnes CO2 was completion of the move to the new warehouse and ofce Tonnes CO2 per m turnover complex in Fort Worth in 2007 with the increase in one-off water 2008 2007 2008 2007 consumption associated with landscaping, and the cleaning and CO2 due to testing of re protection systems at the new facility.
premises energy 1 2 use 20,994 22,266 20.6 21.9 Incremental water efficiency measures in a number of businesses, 1 CO equivalent from all energy sources, including country specic CO factors for electricity together with the closure of some smaller trade counter facilities 2 2 2 Excludes a number of smaller facilities where utilities are included in lease costs contributed to the reduction in consumption.
Paper Over the past five years we have worked closely with our pulp 3 Water KPIs Total water Water consumption m suppliers and printers to reduce the carbon footprint of the paper 3 consumption m per employee catalogue, through renements in the grades of paper used, the 2008 2007 2008 2007 bindings and the covers.
This has produced distribution efficiencies, Total water use 42,359 45,799 41.8 45.1 cost savings and improvements to our carbon footprint.
All the pulp for our paper catalogues are sourced from either Sustainable Forestry Initiative or PEFC accredited forests, with all the printing carried out in ISO14001 certicated facilities.
Catalogues in the European and Asian markets now carry the PEFC chain of custody accreditation marks.
Our customer packaging is the subject of a review by a working group which aims to identify opportunities to reduce the quantity of packaging whilst ensuring customer orders are protected against damage whilst in transit.
A key development during 2008 was the introduction of the production packaging process for electronics products, which reduced signicantly the quantity of packaging supplied with orders whilst providing a valuable new service to customers.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 BUSINESS REVIEW continued Health and safety We are committed to developing a proactive and dynamic health We are committed to health and safety best practice as an integral and safety culture across the Group to reduce accidents, control part of our business activities and our drive for high performance.
The risk, reduce costs and improve our reputation.
Group Chief Executive and members of the Group Executive Committee have safety objectives set as part of their personal objectives with the Verication Groups safety performance subject to ongoing review by the Group Electrocomponents evaluates its CR policies and performance Executive Committee.
In addition, there is a formal Groupwide safety as part of its risk management and internal audit processes.
Those performance report to the Group Executive Committee each quarter, locations accredited to ISO9001, ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 with the Group Chief Executive presenting to the Board at least have regular audits by external agencies.
annually on safety performance from across the business.
Our environmental reporting processes and data are reviewed Our health and safety management processes are based on the by our Operational Audit Department and our Group Risk Manager application of risk management techniques and on the Occupational works with external consultants to review and where appropriate Health and Safety Management Standard OHSAS18001.
We are verify our environmental key performance indicators.
pleased to report that a number of our international businesses We consider that these procedures provide a reasonable level of are working towards achieving OHSAS18001 certication, whilst assurance that our non-financial key performance indicators are free our UK business has been certied to the standard since 2003. from material misstatement.
Whilst we have considered the potential During financial year 2009, the number of accidents reported increased for further external verication of the Groups CR performance we by 15%, including a large rise in the number of lost time accidents.
have decided that currently we will limit this to external professional The total number of employee days lost due to an injury at work advice on specic matters as required.
The most common causes of accident continue to be manual handling activities and slips, trips and falls, which are similar to other distribution businesses.
Whilst our accident performance compares well with equivalent organisations in the service and support industries, our key objective for the coming year will be to improve our accident performance over 2009.
Health and safety KPIs 2008 2007 All accidents per 100,000 hours worked 3.36 3.04 1 Lost time accidents per 100,000 hours worked 0.84 0.33 1 Lost time accidents are those where the employee is off work for at least 24 hours Health and safety training continues to be a major element of our drive for improvement in performance, and during 2009 the numbers of employees attending health and safety training courses increased by 30%.
We will continue to improve the quality of our management controls and to make targeted investments in health and safety improvements at our facilities.
Key initiatives for 2010 will include, for example, a major project to improve re safety and premises protections at our French warehouse, significant investment at our UK distribution centres to reduce risks from working at height, and a project to eliminate slip and trip risks by tting anti-slip ooring in our UK contact centre.
As first reported in the 2005 Annual Report, an engineer was fatally injured at our Nuneaton, UK distribution centre in January 2005.
The prosecution of our UK business was concluded in November 2008 with the company being fined 100,000 plus costs.
The company has worked closely with the health and safety authorities to address the issues raised by the prosecution.
20 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
