Looking back on our business year Business Review Business Review The property division recorded an increase in imports and a 12% increase in Group underlying operating loss of 0.6m in exports at the grain terminal.
Tonnages The underlying trading performance 2009 compared with a profit of 0.5m in also increased through the Enterprise of the ports in 2009 should be seen 2008.
The revaluation of the investment Distribution Centre where volumes were in the context of a year in which the property assets showed a reduction of up by 8%.
Hyundai Cars increased their economic recession continued for longer 0.1m.
imports into Tilbury by over 35% in 2009 than expected, particularly in Scotland.
The comparison with the prior year is Ports made even more challenging given the The short-sea container division recorded exceptional results achieved in 2008.
The total volume of traffic through the a throughput of 120,100 boxes in 2009, Nevertheless, our overall view of the ports amounted to 45.8 million tonnes a reduction of 17% compared with the year is one of satisfaction with the 2008 48.7m tonnes.
The overall 2008 volume: the deep sea volumes performance and a sense of gratitude percentage reduction in volume was increased by 9% as against 2008 with to all our employees for the hard work similar between liquid bulks and dry a throughput of 12,200 boxes.
and effort put in to produce the result.
cargo where the volumes were 32.4 million tonnes and 13.4 million The upgrade of the Ro-Ro facility was Towards the end of 2009, there were tonnes respectively.
substantially complete by the end of 2009 signs of an improvement in the property and this expenditure enabled Tilbury market which has resulted in a small During the second half of 2009, Nathan to handle a significantly greater number increase in the Market Value of the Thompson, our Property Director, and of Ro-Ro units, such that the operator property development assets.
colleagues from the property and ports has now brought on a larger vessel to divisions, carried out a comprehensive increase capacity on the route between Group revenue decreased by 6% at review of the Groups investment Tilbury and Zeebrugge.
The team updated port revenue fell by only 2% to 154.8m, and validated the assumptions used Discussions were concluded in late principally as a result of the reduced in arriving at the investment property December with SSE for that company revenue from the container operations.
Inevitably, there were to take a lease of land at Tilbury to Recycling revenue decreased by 7.3m variations in the outcome with some erect, build and operate four large to 17.6m.
properties increasing in value and others wind turbines within the port to provide decreasing in value.
With the transfer electricity for the ports use.
This The underlying port operating profit of certain operational land assets to agreement with SSE will allow the port amounted to 40.5m compared with investment property, the overall increase to benefit from green energy for up to 44m in 2008.
The 2008 figure has been in the asset value of investment 25% of the ports electricity requirement.
restated to exclude the recycling profit properties prior to the acquisition of which is now shown separately and the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre The management team at Tilbury has any adjustment for the amortisation amounted to 20m.
The underlying rental engaged fully with TTGDC and Thurrock charge arising from acquisitions: income from the investment properties Council over the future use of the 65 acres the restated definition is shown on increased over the year but the average of land just outside the port boundary.
There has been a significant yield applied to the properties worsened Good progress has been made and this increase in the valuation of the port compared with the end of 2008. land is being recommended to be rezoned investment properties which amounted for port industrial use.
The proposal has to 20m before any adjustment for Tilbury to go out to public consultation but, in deferred tax.
Of this sum, 9.6m is shown Tilburys financial performance held up the meantime, we are preparing the through the Statement of Comprehensive well compared with 2008 on a throughput supporting information which will be Income, the balance being through the down 5% at 8 million tonnes.
In tonnage required for any planning application Income Statement.
terms, the conventional asset showed for the site all of which should be ready a substantial increase with the Ro-Ro by the first half of this year.
The recycling division recorded an service accounting for a 44% increase in underlying operating profit of 1.3m tonnage year on year.
There was a 15% compared with a profit of 2.9m in 2008.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 Britains Greenest Port green The Port of Tilbury is Britains Greenest Port, The Port is committed to providing strategically positioned on the River Thames  distribution at the heart of the UKs most densely with a vision of significantly reducing populated area.
It is also Londons closest LGV lorry movements across the county deep water port.
by maximising sustainable transport water and rail.
The Port, as a whole, is a major local employer with over 3,500 people employed By investing in renewable energy sources on site making the Port a significant such as Wind Turbines and green Power economic driver for Thurrock, the Thames Plants which turn natural waste into energy Gateway and the UK economy.
together with onsite Recycling facilities, the Port shows how a thriving business can also Recognised as the leader in Environmental be a good neighbour, committed to the solutions, the management and staff have environment, and a respected member delivered an impressive record of initiatives of the Essex Wildlife Trust.
to reduce the Ports carbon footprint and ensure best practice across the site.
Hyundais Record Breaking Year During 2009, Hyundai became Governments scrappage of Tilbury for their increased the second top-selling brand of volumes.
The majority of the cars scheme had its greatest impact.
car in the UK above Vauxhall and which are discharged are already just behind Ford.
This makes sold and thanks to innovative Hyundai have had unprecedented them the first car firm to split the press coverage for their rapid stowage plans, the vehicles can big two manufacturers for more be inspected and delivered to growth in sales of their two than a decade.
Based, solely in smaller models of the i10 and dealers within hours of landing.
Tilbury, Hyundai have imported The commercial contract was i20.
Clearly extended warranties over 40,000 cars with the majority have been important but the extended last year and further of imports in the second half of innovative ancillary services company also credits the the year when the benefits of the efficient operation at the Port are planned.
Looking back on our business year Business Review continued in 2008: coal tonnages were up over Nordic Forest Terminals The new Norfolkline Ferry Service from The throughput in 2009 amounted to 22% at 1.3 million tonnes.
These increases Rosyth to Zeebrugge commenced in were offset by falls in grain, aggregates 565,000 tonnes 2008 635,000 tonnes May with three sailings weekly and has but the revenue decline was only 3%.
received a good level of support bearing Costs were well controlled and various in mind the economic recession and efficiency measures produced an Leith is being considered as a possible the fact that the previous service had base for a renewable energy manufacturing improved operating profit.
Vehicle ceased for over six months requiring turnaround times met the key facility.
It would be well placed to service the users to find an alternative routing the proposed new offshore wind farm off performance indicator target of to the Continent.
the Firth of Forth which is only 42 miles from the port.
TCS Scottish Ports and Marine TCS had a very disappointing year.
Dundee Volume through the Scottish business was The container volumes reduced by 19% down overall by 6%.
The Hound Point The effects of the economic recession to 278,400 boxes.
As a result, the profit showed in the volume at Dundee where volume reduced to 23.6 million tonnes reduced substantially and our share of 2008 24.4 million tonnes.
There was a it declined by 0.2 million tonnes to the operating profit amounted to 1.3m 0.8 million tonnes.
Liquid bulks were more significant fall at Braefoot Bay where compared with 3.7m in 2008.
The the volume declined by 22% to 2.4 million down by 10% and dry bulks by 22%.
management at TCS are confident of Given the lower throughputs, even tonnes 2008 3.1 million tonnes.
Various greater emphasis was placed on cost cost initiatives are being pursued in order control and operating efficiencies which Grangemouth to improve profitability.
The liquid bulks volume reduced to resulted in a marginally lower financial performance in 2009 compared with 2008.
5.9 million tonnes compared with Recycling 6.3 million tonnes in 2008.
This is the As highlighted throughout the year, The port was also successful in attracting lowest volume seen at Grangemouth for NRL was adversely affected by variable five years.
The container division handled two jack-up rigs for lay-up in 2009 which commodity prices and a reduced level contributed useful income to the port.
just over 139,000 boxes in 2009, down of throughput.
As a result, the operating 11% on 2008.
The new drivers reception profit declined from 2.9m to 1.3m.
area was in operation for its first full year The port has approximately 60 acres of Within NRL, the baling operations at and has made a significant improvement land available for a renewables park and Chatham and Tilbury and the waste to the turnaround times of vehicles within is equally well placed with Leith to offer management business all improved their the container yard: 99% of all vehicles in the a large manufacturing facility as a financial performance compared with yard were served within thirty minutes.
maintenance base for any offshore 2008 but NRL suffered from a significantly renewables activity.
reduced profit in the paper trading Dry cargo tonnages declined by 0.2 million division as a result of the reduced tonnes as a result of reduced requirements Rosyth and Fife Ports demand from customers for recycled of the construction industry with timber In common with most of our other ports, paper which, in turn, affected the margins volumes being down by over 50% and Rosyth and Fife Ports showed a fall in achieved in the business.
iron and steel tonnages down nearly 30%.
throughput in 2009 due to reduced requirement from its customers for As part of the annual impairment review Leith timber and building products.
The total of the Nordic goodwill, account was The Port of Leith handled 2 million tonnes throughput amounted to 0.1 million taken of the performance in 2009.
The of cargo in 2009 the same as 2008.
During new management team has prepared largest percentage increase in tonnage the year, Oceaneering UK Limited took projections which take account of both related to steel pipes which increased to a lease of an additional 5 acres of land changes in commodity prices and lower over 220,000 tonnes from 150,000 tonnes at Rosyth for future expansion.
volumes, resulting in an impairment of 12.3m in the Nordic goodwill.
P&O Expand Again P&O Ferries have increased The Zeebrugge service calls twice together with the development daily and last year circa 10,000 of enhanced IT systems.
Both their business for the third consecutive year and, as a result units per month were achieved.
P&O and the Port are committed to investigating further of recent investment in new facilities, this trend is likely to Productivity in Tilbury remains efficiencies with the proposed at the highest level with vessels development of Riverside continue.
P&O have responded to the greater demand for turned round in under three and Facilities over the next few a half hours.
P&O have also benefitted Ro-Ro services by increasing capacity on the route with the maximised and the introduction from the commercial support introduction of a second larger of double-stacked units has and network of contacts offered vessel the Norqueen.
further assisted volume growth by the Port.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Property combination of secondments to external These KPIs are discussed in more detail in bodies and to other divisions within the the Business Review and Chairman and 2009 was a year of progress in the Group to assist in matters such as Group Chief Executives Statement.
In December 2009, planning on the biomass facilities and using the underlying port operating profit we concluded an agreement with Bank Tilburys 65 acre site to the north of the as a KPI, the Board is looking to increase of Scotland to purchase the remaining port together with a small reduction in the trading profit from the ports and 50% of the share capital for a the overall staffing level.
recycling businesses excluding certain consideration of 2m.
Both shareholders other financial effects such as revaluation agreed to convert their existing zero The annual DTZ valuation of our changes to investment properties and coupon loan stock to equity prior to the development assets including Ocean significant one-off costs.
Bank of Scotland agreed to Terminal was completed as at amend the existing debt facility such that 31st December 2009 and showed an The movement in the value of property the term of the 68m loan to OTL was increase in Market Value from 60m assets is measured on an annual basis by extended from August 2013 to December to 74m.
Of this 14m increase, 11m the independent valuation carried out on 2015: the first Loan-to-Value covenant test related to the increase in the value of the property development assets.
As the date was moved out to 31st January 2014. the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre assumptions in the DTZ valuation report For its part, Forth Ports agreed that a and 3m to the increase in value of were changed last year to exclude at least maximum of 5m of the loan of 68m will the property developments principally 80% of the Groups developable land from be recourse to Forth Ports until December based on work carried out in negotiating the valuation, we no longer include a 2013 after which the OTL loan will be fully reductions in the infrastructure costs Calculation of Worth figure as part of the non-recourse.
In addition, Forth Ports of the development projects.
agreed to inject an additional 5m of new equity capital into OTL by Last year, the Board specifically targeted Key Performance Indicators December 2013. reduction in net debt as a KPI and so this The Board uses the annual budget as has been included in 2009 for the first The acquisition provides certainty about the base for measuring the Groups time.
Health and Safety is also of the short-term financing for OTL and gives performance.
Financial and non-financial paramount importance to the Group.
The Forth Ports control of the development targets are set for individual senior annual target for reduction in reportable site around the shopping centre.
managers and for the businesses within accidents is also shown for the first time the Group.
At the Annual Strategy as a KPI although the figures have been The valuation of the shopping centre Review, the Board considers the financial available elsewhere within previous reduced from 90m at 31st December projections over a three year time reports.
The overarching aim is to 31st December 2009, the valuation had increase the value of the Group for the Trends in the Ports Business increased marginally to 85m.
The net benefit of the shareholders.
assets of OTL at that date amounted to Ports are increasingly finding themselves 9.3m.
After the year end, we concluded The KPIs which are used to measure as active participants in the supply chain the first rent review with the operator of this increase in value are: for the movement of goods.
This means the cinema in the shopping centre.
At the that, rather than just marketing shipping same time it was agreed to extend the 1 Underlying port and recycling and handling capabilities to shipping existing lease to 2026 with fixed uplifts.
operating profit lines, there are a variety of customers 2 Growth in Market Value of the who, at various points in the supply A considerable effort was made to property assets chain, can control the movement of minimise the cash spend on infrastructure 3 Growth in the value of port assets goods and to whom the port will be and this was highly successful.
A review 4 Dividend per share marketing its services, including the was carried out which resulted in the 5 Net debt reduction producer of the commodity, the shipping personnel being reduced by a 6 Health and safety record line, the distributor of the commodity and in some cases agents and trade boards.
Scottish Coal Verdo Renewables Forth Ports has a considerable complimented by Verdo track record in support of energy Renewables who are exporting projects.
This continues with the through Grangemouth wood chips and wood briquettes for Scottish renewables group importing bulk coal for blending industrial and domestic energy production.
at Leith prior to distribution to power stations.
This has been Looking back on our business year Business Review continued Our main ports all have good access for The thrust of our ports business is to located in our ports.
In Leith, a similar landside distribution and also, in the case manage our assets efficiently and type of expertise is required except of both Tilbury and Grangemouth, good improve the return we get from individual that the interaction is between the access for the export of goods from the UK.
operations through more efficient use of continuing port business at Leith and the our resources thereby releasing further requirements to develop the assets for None of our ports has the depth of water assets for future development either in property use.
In our view, this can only to handle the new generation of container the ports or property businesses.
This is be achieved by a unified management ships of 12,000 TEUs and more.
The unlikely to change in the near future.
structure which, although decentralised normal capacity at Tilbury is ships of for the day-to-day business, is controlled about 4,500 TEUs and at Grangemouth centrally at a strategic level.
We are Resources less than 2,000 TEUs, although in 2007, therefore, as a Group, seeking to increase Our two greatest resources are our a Maersk vessel of over 8,000 TEUs came the value of our port assets by employees and our physical asset base.
alongside the berth at TCS.
As ship size encouraging long-term agreements with We employ 1,125 people throughout the increases in the container market, fewer major customers to secure income stream Group and our pension scheme has 986 main ports in Europe will be able to and enhance value and at the same time, pensioners and 489 deferred pensioners.
handle the largest vessels but this will develop our property assets over a If the total number of persons employed also entail a more developed network long-term period to regenerate the area within our various ports is included, then of transhipment and feedering terminals around the port and so increase the value our economic activity encompasses many which may also see an increase in vessel of our land both absolutely and by thousands more who are reliant on the size.
With this in mind, both Tilbury and reducing the value gap between the trade through our ports.
Grangemouth are well placed to see Waterfront and the City centre.
growth in this sector of the market with The ports industry is such that our additional capacity for at least the next Risk employees tend to remain with us for five years and with an anticipation of many years.
Health and Safety is The management of the business and increased feedering vessel size.
paramount and we pay particular the execution of the Groups strategy attention to the training and retraining are subject to a number of risks.
The key The trends in traffic type suggest that of our employees, encouraging dialogue business risks affecting the Group are container and Ro-Ro traffic will continue between workforce and management to considered to relate to the retail and to increase at a rate greater than the identify potential problem areas to property markets and the current global average GDP of the UK: nearly all of this minimise risk.
We encourage national economic environment.
traffic will be European and therefore can vocational qualifications and support staff be handled easily by our ports.
who wish to pursue relevant academic Bank Funding and Financial Covenants qualifications.
Our labour stability index The Company Liquid bulks continue to be an important was 94% in 2009 2008 91%.
The Company refinanced its banking constituent of the make up of the Groups facilities in December 2008.
This tonnage had seen an The land under our ownership covers facilities available to the Company at the improvement in 2007 and 2008 over prior 1,600 acres and we also own over 4,700 end of 2009 amounted to 275m 2008 years, however, 2009 experienced a acres of seabed adjacent the waterfront at 275m, comprising two revolving credit reduction of 6%.
It is expected that the Edinburgh.
The way in which we manage facilities totalling 250m which mature on current tonnage level will continue for the these land assets is critical to the future 30th June 2012 and a multi-option facility next few years.
We have shown in of 25m which matures on 30th June Tilbury that we have the expertise to work 2010.
The average margin on the facility Dry bulks have been consistent in total with our customers to move businesses is 162 basis points.
200m of borrowings volume terms over many years, however, around the port to obtain greater value have been fixed at an average interest in 2009, the volume was lower as it was from the asset but we also work with our rate including margin of 4.4%.
The net affected by the downturn in the container customers to help them maximise the debt at 31st December 2009 amounted to business.
It is expected that containers benefits that they receive from being 184.2m which is well within the existing will improve modestly in 2010.
Land Securities wins Responsible Waste Management in the 9th Annual Sustainable City Awards Mansion House, London, was Recycling played a key role.
non-recyclable items away from impressive 50%, waste for Having benchmarked a 21% landfill disposal to a waste to energy to 50% and zero landfill.
the venue in February 2010, of the 9th annual Sustainable City recycling rate and a 79% landfill energy solution.
This had the Nordics next challenge in 2010 rate in January 2008, Nordic set dramatic effect of reducing is to see if more can be Awards which saw Land Securities, the largest real about a programme of change landfill at the same time as recycled, safe in the knowledge through the introduction of contributing energy in the form that a zero landfill disposal was estate trust in the UK, and one of Nordic Recyclings largest waste minimisation schemes of electricity, by using Land achieved in the first year.
and increased recycling Securities municipal waste as an clients, win two awards, most notably, Responsible Waste initiatives.
Another major step alternative to coal.
A year on and Management, where Nordic forward was the switching of recycling had risen to an Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 Acquisition of Ocean Terminal Late last year, the Group acquired the potential to grow and expand as markets remaining shareholding in Ocean Terminal.
The We see Ocean Terminal as a strategic asset proposed new tram will link the city centre at the heart of our development sites with directly with Ocean Terminal.
Superdry In September, Cult Retail opened a 6,000 sq.
ft. unit at Ocean Terminal, at that point the largest standalone Superdry store in the UK.
The deal incorporated a base rent plus a percentage of turnover.
So far, trading has greatly exceeded expectations.
Looking back on our business year Business Review continued The Nordic Business Plan green The Nordic business plan continues to streams.
An experienced and professional evolve and waste collection has become a transport management team has been core strategic element to ensure the future recruited and a new IT system sourced to success of the company.
Already a ensure that this complex, multi-transactional successful and efficient processor of bulk business is managed efficiently.
The material, the company intends to diversify collection initiative will support all existing and expand its waste collection capability.
Currently outsourced services will be internalised, Chatham and This initiative will underpin service standards Tilbury MRFs will receive additional material to the producer of waste and ensure that to process and the Materials Trading Nordic has control over the value creation Department will be able to purchase process derived from processing the recyclate at more competitive prices from commodities recovered from those waste the smaller producers of that material.
Harbour Progress Over the course of 2009 we have continued to work with the City of Edinburgh Council to progress our proposals for the development of The Harbour area at Leith Docks.
We are targeting the summer of 2010 for a committee date to determine the application.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 The property business has its foundation facilities.
It is envisaged that the total risks as all three business segments are available facility will reduce by 25m on in business areas where there will be in the ownership of land which the Group has, particularly at Leith.
The bank funding for ongoing demand for those services.
The these facilities is on an unsecured basis.
ports business has evolved over many of being able to develop such a significant brownfield site over many years, the main The Company has agreed that Bank of years and with existing trade patterns, Scotland will have recourse to it for up our ports are ideally located for that variable is what the take-up rate for this land might be.
Given the extent of our to 5m of the 68m facility currently business, whether it be mainly within borrowed by OTL until December 2013.
Europe as regards the Scottish Ports or landholding, it is more important to put in the infrastructure and add value, The remaining 63m of this OTL facility serving London and the South East of is non-recourse to the Company.
England from Tilbury and Chatham.
The development by development, rather than Group has a strong record of investing in aim for an artificial target of land sales.
The banking covenants for Forth Ports modern plant and equipment and this, This is even more important now in the together with increased training for our current economic environment.
It is also cover Tangible Net Worth TNW, gearing and interest cover.
The minimum employees, will enable us to meet the more challenging to match spend on challenges of the future in offering our infrastructure with adding value where TNW is 200m: the gearing level is based on not more than 100% of TNW.
The port customers a quality cost effective there is little or no third party transactional service for their needs.
activity to rely on for valuation purposes.
interest cover is based on a minimum of 2.5 times profit before interest and tax.
The ports business has a very wide Financial Risks The TNW covenant is tested monthly, with the other covenants tested half spread of customers and commodities The financial risks are limited to the and is capable of adapting to market normal commercial risks associated with yearly at 30th June and 31st December each year.
The headroom on all of the change as witnessed over the last ten running a business.
We have no major years by the business in sludge traffic, currency exposure as all our business financial covenants at the end of 2009 was comfortable.
bauxite, fertiliser manufacture and export is done within the UK, however, we do of coal being replaced by increased acquire assets from overseas where we Bank Funding and Financial Covenants container volumes, the import of coal, have seen a significant deterioration in new business such as animal feed, Ro-Ro the OTL exchange rate.
Our policy is to The OTL bank debt of 68m has a bullet traffic and new paper customers.
buy currency as soon as we know we repayment on 31st December 2015. have a foreign exchange liability.
Interest excluding the margin on the The recycling business has two risk areas: commodity prices and volume.
The last two term loans covering the bank debt of In 2008, with the unprecedented swift 68m has been fixed at 5.59% on 63m quarter of 2008 and the first half of 2009 decline in property values over a short saw significant swings in the price of the and 6.11% on 5m for the period until period of time, we experienced a situation 31st December 2015 and 13th August different commodities which are extracted where the recoverability of the two from the commingled waste received such 2013 respectively.
The banking covenants remaining large property debtors for OTL cover Loan-to-Value and cash as glass, cardboard, steel cans, aluminium outstanding in 2008 changed from a cans and mixed plastics.
The Loan-to-Value covenant is position where the security taken out to tested next on 31st January 2014 by commingled waste received will also cover the indebtedness moved from full have an effect on the amount of saleable reference to the valuation of the shopping cover to very little cover over the year.
The volume is managed by As a result, a provision of 3.9m was having a minimum guaranteed volume cash cover ratio is 0.8:1 and is based on made in that years accounts.
There are available cash to Senior Interest.
The test from our major customer and by being no other significant property debtors active in the market place for other is carried out quarterly.
The cash cover on the Balance Sheet.
was comfortable at 31st December 2009. sources such as local authority contracts and commercial collection contracts.
With Valuation Risks Business Risk the increase in land fill tax going forward, Three valuations are carried out each there is every incentive for commingled The Board does not consider that the year: property development assets the Group faces any substantive strategic waste to be maximised.
value of which is not all reflected in the Nordic Recycling has won the Thurrock Contract In January 2010, Nordic Facility at Tilbury.
This new contract not only enhances the Recycling won the Thurrock Council Tender.
The new 5 year green credentials of the Port of Tilbury, it will also complement contract, which starts in April 2010, will see 17,000 tonnes Nordics expansion into local authorities.
annually of co-mingled mixed dry recyclables being collected locally by the Council and delivered directly into Nordics MRF Materials Recovery Looking back on our business year Business Review continued forward, but at a lower cash rate than Balance Sheet, investment properties General and the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre.
previously when the Company made Whilst the Board believes that the Group larger payments into the Pension Scheme has a good reputation in the market place, With the significant reduction in valuation than required to encourage the it cannot be complacent.
The nature of amalgamation of its two pension of the property development assets in the ports industry is such that the 2008, there is much less scope for a schemes.
The employer contribution rate day-to-day work carried out requires our is 17.1%.
In May 2009, those employees further large reduction in the valuation of employees to be totally aware of their these assets given that the area of land who were not on a fixed rate agreed to working environment as there is always increase their contributions by 2% comprising the property development the possibility of accidents occurring.
assets are on the waterfront of a capital city.
towards the increased costs of the Some of the cargoes which are handled Scheme.
The Recovery Plan agreed with are dangerous and require to be handled The investment properties are valued the Actuary requires an additional annual in accordance with specific procedures.
payment by the Company of 2.7m for annually and showed a net increase in the There is always the risk of accident but valuation of 5.7m in 2008.
In 2009, it was the next six years.
we have emergency plans in place which decided that the property division should are reviewed regularly and updated carry out an indepth review of the Modest changes to the assumptions can where necessary.
have a significant effect on the liability investment property valuation which has resulted in an increase in the value of position of the Scheme.
Full details of the Any significant risk from any of the above assumptions used are given in Note 32 to 20m to 224m excluding OTL.
The risk categories would be debated by the review concluded that the rents being the Accounts, however, a 0.25% increase Board and an agreed procedure of or decrease in the discount rate would achieved were in line with expectations handling that risk would be delegated but that there were certain leases, which result in a reduction increase in the to the relevant Executive Director as liabilities of 9.9m.
If the inflation had associated minimum throughput appropriate.
The Board has an annual agreements incorporated within the assumption was varied by 0.25%, the review of the key risks likely to be faced effect would be 9.6m.
A variation in the leases, which could be valued by the Group.
This risk matrix is updated accordingly.
The overall effect of this was real salary increase of 0.25% would vary annually by the Group Risk and Insurance the deficit by 3.1m.
The other significant to increase the value of the assets even Manager who oversees the procedures after an adverse yield adjustment to assumption is life expectancy.
The involved in the identification of business Scheme uses the PA92 Year of Birth tables reflect the property market yields at the risks and their compliance by the Group.
The investment properties tend with medium cohort improvements, with members treated as though they were to have a lower yield in Tilbury as against Essential Business Relationships a slightly higher yield for the investment four years older than actual age.
The As part of the normal operation of average life expectancy of the members properties in Scotland.
These assets are the Group, we have many business long-term assets and fundamental to the has increased, on average, by one year relationships to maintain be they with since the previous triennial valuation.
business and so are less likely to be sold.
major customers, major suppliers, elected As with all investment properties, the The cost approximates to an increase members of Parliament UK, Scottish and in liabilities of 3.9m.
property values can rise as well as fall European, local elected councillors and and will not be immune to general council officials.
We also deal with many The two principal fund managers remain movement in values.
Government agencies such as the MCA, Lazard Asset Management and Legal and Scottish Environmental Protection General.
The performances by the fund The shift in yields reduced the valuation Agency, Scottish Natural Heritage and of OTL from 90m at 31st December 2008 managers both exceeded the benchmark others.
In the Boards view, there is no returns over the pension year.
If the one single business relationship or group Loan-to-Value covenant had been Statement of Investment Principles has of business relationships which is, in not changed the allocation of the assets operative on 31st December 2009, itself, material to the success of the the headroom at that date would have which remains at 60% in equities and 40% Group.
Nevertheless, it is important for in Government gilts corporate bonds.
both business segments to be able to With the significant fall in equities over communicate effectively with all the the year, the actual allocation as at 31st The Forth Ports Group Pension Scheme stakeholders with whom we have a The Group operates a defined benefit December 2009 was 53% equities and business relationship and to work with 46% gilts corporate bonds with 1% in scheme which is more fully explained in them to achieve our joint aims.
The triennial cash and property.
valuation of The Forth Ports Group Pension Scheme the Scheme was The Scheme had an accounting net deficit Finance after tax under IAS19 of 22.6m at 31st carried out as at 5th April 2008.
The Group revenue amounted to 173.9m valuation showed a deficit at that date of December 2009 2008 3.7m.
The underlying Group been seen over the last few years, the 30.7m.
The funding level at April 2009 operating profit amounted to 41.2m had reduced to 73% although it has since deficit position can vary widely.
Group paid in 7.9m to the Scheme improved.
The Company has agreed a Recovery Plan with the Trustees of the Scheme which increased the contributions going Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Biomass Projects Stakeholder Engagement green The Stakeholder Engagement process use of wood as a fuel stock.
The analysis of associated with the consenting of the the completed questionnaires identified that Biomass Renewable Energy Plants the respondents were in overall support of has comprised a programme of public the principals of renewable energy, there consultations, briefing of key stakeholders was majority support for the use of biomass including politicians, council executives, as a source of renewable energy generation community councils and local interest and in excess of 70% of all respondents groups, press briefings and press considered that the biomass proposals advertising of our proposals.
would bring benefits to their town or city.
The second round of Public Exhibitions and A programme of Public Exhibitions was consultations will address, in greater detail, carried out during January and February the principal community concerns which for each of the plant locations at Dundee, centred around the sustainability of the fuel Grangemouth, Rosyth and Leith.
All visitors stock, the visual impact of the plants and to the Public Exhibitions were encouraged the effects that fuel deliveries may have to complete a questionnaire in connection on their local road network.
with the proposed Biomass Plants and the Forth Energy Wind Turbines Forth Energy are progressing It is anticipated that the planning applications for both sites will with the environmental and technical studies for the be lodged by the third quarter of 2010 with consent secured installation of wind turbines at the Port of Dundee and before the end of 2010 followed by project commissioning during the Port of Grangemouth.
The turbines at Dundee would the second quarter of 2012. have a total output of up to 4.6MW and Grangemouth would have an output of up to 16.1MW.
Looking back on our business year Business Review continued London 2012 and us green The Port of Tilbury began engaging with all winning bid, building on its position as the the relevant key stakeholders connected prime multi-modal Distribution Gateway for with the London Olympics as early as 2007. the South East of the UK.
As a result, our It became apparent that the Greenest practical approach ensured that the Barge Games in Modern Times would embrace Terminal was re-opened and suppliers to the sustainable transport and provide a positive Games were made aware that an efficient legacy for the future.
cost-effective alternative to road transport exists.
The Olympics will be able to Clearly as water is the most environmentally showcase the Thames for waterborne friendly mode of transport the Port has an transport which will provide a true green essential role to offer services and expertise legacy for freight in the future.
and help deliver the vision set out in the Energy Forth Energy has achieved Assessment Scoping Report with the Scottish Government.
the first significant milestone towards securing a Section 36 Scottish Ministers will now provide a scoping opinion consent under the 1989 Electricity Act for the to Forth Energys outline design proposals for the development of the four renewable energy biomass biomass plants.
plants by lodging their Environmental Impact Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 New International Financial Reporting Taxation with 90% at 31st December 2008.
Excluding joint ventures and associates, the Should the Company, for any reason, Standards IFRS adopted in the year are discussed in the Accounting effective rate of tax for the Group before seek to refinance its borrowings with exceptional items and revaluations for the another financial institution, then the Policies section.
year was 24.4% compared with 28.7% in Banks have the right to demand a 2008.
With the benefit of a corporation tax prepayment fee equal to 1% of the General Certain sections of the Business Review refund relating to the losses arising in amount prepaid and or cancelled.
2008, the net cash tax credit in 2009 The OTL loan of 68m is repayable on contain forward-looking statements that are based on managements expectations, amounted to 0.8m.
2010 will see a return demand if there is a change of control to a normal cash tax charge.
We believe that these expectations, projections and Cash Flow The Groups business is not particularly assumptions are reasonable, based on the information available to us.
However, The Group operating cash flow amounted seasonal in nature, however, its cash flow to 55.7m 2008 58.8m.
Net interest requirements may be affected by the these statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve inherent paid decreased by 2.8m: tax repaid timing of major capital expenditure amounted to 0.8m compared with a projects.
In 2009, the peak borrowing risks and uncertainties and other factors requirement net of cash was 208m in which may cause actual achievements to payment of 8.6m in 2008.
During the year 5m was loaned to OTL and 2m January with a minimum requirement of differ materially from those expressed or 184.2m in December.
On the basis of the implied by such statements.
The Group was paid to acquire the remaining 50% shareholding.
budget for 2010, the Group will not does not undertake any obligation to require an increase in its facility over the update or publicly release any revisions Capital Expenditure next twelve months.
to forward looking statements in light of new information or future events.
Capital expenditure in 2009 amounted to 7.6m compared 23.1m in 2008 Accounting Policies The critical accounting policies are including the Tilbury land purchase.
2.4m was spent purchasing plant and Revenue Recognition and Employee Benefits.
In the former, the two key areas equipment.
The expenditure on property development assets amounted to 1.9m.
of judgement are first the determination of any shortfall positions on guaranteed Capital Structure minimum tonnage minimum revenue contracts in the ports business and The Company has 45.6m shares in issue with a nominal value of 50p per share.
second, determining the liability for costs to complete the various property No new shares were issued during the year.
The net debt of the Company and developments and allocating those costs over the various developments.
The 2009 The charge to the Income Statement for pension costs will be determined by the figure includes the assumption of 68m of debt in Ocean Terminal of which 63m assumptions made by the Actuary and accepted by the Company in relation to is non-recourse to the Company.
The comparable figure for 2008 for the the discount rate on gilts and corporate bonds, the expected rate of return on the combined net debt would have been 286m.
The level of gearing as measured assets and the mortality assumptions.
These are discussed further in Note 32 by total net debt excluding non-recourse debt divided by total shareholders to the accounts.
