Halfords Group plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW DAVID WILD NICK WHARTON CHIEF EXECUTIVE FINANCE DIRECTOR Halfords achieved earnings growth despite the challenging trading The four elements of the Groups strategy are: conditions throughout the consumer sector.
This performance reflects n Extending range and service advantage the strength of the Halfords brand, which is long established with n Investing in the store portfolio attributes that resonate strongly, namely, quality, reliability and trust, and the combination of value and quality that we deliver to customers n Ongoing focus on cost control across all of our categories.
n Leveraging the Halfords brand in multi-channel The retail sector was severely impacted during 2008, with a number EXTENDING RANGE of established, household brand names disappearing from the High AND SERVICE ADVANTAGE Street.
Halfords has not escaped the global recession and has itself experienced a year-on-year decline in revenues for the first time in over Automotive 20 years.
Through proactive and decisive management throughout the The automotive aftermarket is the largest market in which business, however, the Group has delivered year-on-year underlying Halfords participates, being estimated at an addressable market operating profit growth, particularly in its core UK operations, and has of approximately 1bn, with positive long-term drivers.
These core demonstrated that the Halfords business is adaptable, successful and drivers including the increasing number of cars in the UK, which has resilient throughout the economic cycle.
grown by 4.5% over the past four years, increased levels of private ownership and time spent in cars, each favourably impact across the The Groups success reflects its status as the natural destination for the Groups product range.
automotive and leisure products and services that it offers.
Over time, Halfords has consolidated product ranges from disparate markets to More specifically, clearly evidencing the natural protection that our give a unique blend of categories in each of which we hold a leading broad product coverage provides, while higher ticket elements of the position.
These vary between the low average transaction values, car enhancement category have been impacted by declining levels needs-driven resilient core car maintenance area to the resurgent of consumer expenditure, the car maintenance market is presently cycling market.
In all of these we offer a great selection, with exciting benefiting from the ageing of the car parc as new car sales decline, seasonally relevant sales promotions backed by excellent in-store reinforced by the economic migration towards do-it-yourself or, for less customer service and fitting where appropriate.
This offer provides both confident customers, to our wefit proposition.
counter cyclical protection and all year round revenue.
In each of its automotive categories, the Group continues to The business clearly benefits from scale, offering unrivalled breadth consolidate these highly fragmented markets as small, less financially and depth of product range, with a national portfolio of superstores strong independent retailers continue to exit.
that provides a natural barrier to entry.
The Group constantly seeks Car maintenance to enhance its position as store of first choice in each of the markets that it serves.
This is achieved through constant product innovation Ongoing active trading of this category ensured another successful and a market leading service proposition that, through the training year, delivering strong like-for-like sales growth, which saw Halfords and development of knowledgeable store colleagues, ensures a continue to grow its market share.
fitting capability at a lower cost to our customers than that provided The category is characterised by substantially needs-driven, low elsewhere.
average transaction value products such as car bulbs, windscreen wiper blades and batteries.
Halfords winning proposition is based on Successful businesses must adapt to a changing environment.
Early extended range, with products for the most popular 90% of vehicles recognition by management of the position in the current economic ranged in each store, and excellent availability ensuring that customer cycle led to the Group developing a clear near term plan to adapt, needs are satisfied.
Supported by knowledge-based customer service as part of a strategy to deliver sustainable earnings growth and value and reflecting high participation of own label product, this category yields creation.
This plan does not represent a rethink of the Groups strategic above Company average margin.
plan, rather a focus and emphasis in areas that will underpin Halfords resilience now and enhance its growth prospects and earnings in the future.
indd 08 25 06 2009 15:37 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 09 The automotive aftermarket is the largest market in which Halfords participates, being estimated at an addressable market of approximately 1bn.
Excellent availability in a typical period of winter weather, in December Car enhancement and January, benefited the sales of relevant products such as This category has seen the largest impact from the changing consumer antifreeze, fide-icer and scrapers, with a short demand spike that saw spending patterns as consumers reduce their expenditure on higher many of our competitors, with less sophisticated supply chains, running ticket discretionary items.
The broad range of this category covers out of stock.
staple products, such as car cleaning and car accessories, but the product assortments also contain most discretionary across our Range extensions and innovation lie at the heart of the Halfords offer in product range, such as car audio and sat nav.
windscreen wiper blades, car bulbs and batteries, which, together with increases in numbers of fittings has maintained Halfords as the UKs The largest impact from the decline in consumer spending has been number one parts retailer.
Using our scale advantage, through such seen in the area of in-car technology where Halfords remains the innovation we are able to introduce the latest technology available on market leader and where revenue has been substantially impacted by new cars to the aftermarket.
the performance of satellite navigation devices.
Excluding the benefit from the 53rd week, year-on-year satellite navigation unit volumes This includes brighter bulbs that use Xenon gas technology and QR were broadly flat but were impacted by price deflation that averaged quick response brake lights that respond more quickly to braking approximately 20% during the year, as the key manufacturers reduced thus enhancing safety.
We have also enhanced our range of batteries, their prices to facilitate significant range changes and reflect the introducing a premium line that through higher calcium content delivers backdrop of reduced discretionary consumer spending.
greater starting power and carries an extended four-year guarantee.
This battery trades at an average 10 premium to the entry version and Despite the short-term decline in revenue, satellite navigation remains through colleague training and active promotion has seen participation an attractive market in which Halfords through exclusive ranges and its increase by 800 basis points to 37% over the past year.
unique set-up and demo proposition has a clear point of difference to protect its market-leading position.
The take-up of Tradecard, that provides access to a differentiated pricing structure to customers operating in the car trade, continues to grow with almost 100,000 active cards in circulation.
This activity is an important development to Halfords as it represents incremental business delivering higher than corporate average transaction values with sales growing year on year by over 10%.
THE NA NA NATURAL TURAL TURAL URAL DESTINATION Left: The Group operates from 466 stores, focusing on the development of two formats of choice: the superstore and the smaller format Compact store.
indd 09 25 06 2009 15:37 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Reflecting the declining value of the satellite navigation market at this time the Group has focused on improving levels of contribution.
The 27.3% margin improvements achieved reflect increased sell up and attachment 1,699 of accessories that grew by almost 60% and continued reductions 13.2% we t in product returns through the set-up and demo proposition that 13.5% werepair 1,335 accompanies each sale.
9.9% jobs 1,179 1,039 We remain confident that further technology products will cascade 000s to the car aftermarket and that the Groups leadership position in this market will secure distribution and provide opportunities for further productive growth.
Leisure 27.3% 2006 2007 2008 2009 The leisure category experienced mixed fortunes during the year.
The cycling market in the UK continues its resurgence benefiting from Development of the childrens ranges was undertaken ahead of the key participation for leisure, health, environment or increasingly economic Christmas trading period with an extension to the choice of licensed reasons and the Group continues to expand its share.
Sales of our brands that are key to this market.
New introductions such as Bob the camping ranges and travel accessories achieved record levels as we Builder, Thomas the Tank Engine and Bratz are complemented by a continue to develop our ranges in this category, although sales of travel complete range of similarly branded accessories, allowing children to solutions products, such as roof boxes, were dampened by the poor personalise their cycles.
The Groups licensed offer was supported by summer weather.
Apollo, the UKs leading bike brand, which is the only childrens cycle range designed to comply fully with the stringent European Cycle Safety Cycling Standards.
This combination of enhanced ranges, quality credentials, The cycling category benefits from range development, Government together with our service proposition ensuring key differentiation in this initiatives and sustainable and positive market drivers.
The cycle market, have proved successful with a 22% uplift in sales of childrens market, that is estimated in the UK to total approximately 350m, is cycles, over the key Christmas period, and an increase in Halfords seeing growth in both value and volume having been materially flat, in market share.
value terms, for the first half of the decade.
Our success within the broader cycling market reflects Halfords core In 2008 particularly, this was enhanced by the success of Nicole capability and market-leading position that continues to deliver market Cookes Olympic and World Championship successes on a Boardman share growth.
Within the premium sector, these gains primarily reflect cycle and the broader achievements of the Halfords sponsored Team the success of our exclusively ranged Boardman brand and an ongoing GB cycling team at the Beijing Olympics.
The Group is proud to have programme of premium brand introductions within the Groups existing been associated with the most successful Olympic cycle team ever.
We are also cognizant of the progressive migration of Halfords is clearly the market leader in the UK selling over 1 million sales to the Internet, particularly for accessories.
bikes per year representing 1 in 3 of cycles bought in the UK.
Halfords Consequently, during the current financial year we will integrate many market proposition is at its most effective in the most significant product of the core extended ranges, such as premium cycles from Pashley segment, family leisure, where Halfords core own brands of Apollo and and Van Nicholas, clothing ranges from Gore and accessories from Carrera combined with strong pricing, promotional offers and customer RockShok, and services present within our stand-alone stores to our service excellence particularly resonate.
Halfords continues to strengthen most successful superstores.
We will also increase the range of cycle its service proposition, both before and after purchase, with sales of the accessories available from our website by approximately 2,000 lines Groups Bike Care Plan, that provides customers with the certainty of over the forthcoming year.
labour-free repairs for a year, increasing by 80% during the period.
We are confident that this approach will significantly accelerate our While seeking to leverage its position in this core market still further, achievement of scale presence in the premium sector of the market, will our focus in 2008 has been on growing market share in two segments enhance return on capital and will release management resource to focus where Halfords share is significantly lower than the company average: on other, more significant, opportunities.
childrens and premium, specialist bikes.
Our success within the broader cycling market reflects Halfords core capacity and market-leading position that continues to deliver market share growth.
indd 10 25 06 2009 15:37 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11 GREAT MOMENTUM Boardman Bikes Carrera Bikes Apollo Bikes 15953HALFORDS.
indd 11 25 06 2009 15:37 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Travel solutions INVESTING IN THE STORE PORTFOLIO As the Halfords brand becomes more established, its participation The Group operates from 466 stores and the strategic focus remains in within the travel solutions market continues to expand, providing the development of the two formats of choice, the superstore and the substantial market share opportunities in product categories, such smaller format Compact store, previously referred to as Neighbourhood.
as camping and child seats, where Halfords presence is relatively Compact stores provide a comprehensive Halfords offer, carrying some immature.
Combined with the market growth opportunity provided by 6,000 of the 10,000 lines available within an average superstore, to the anticipated increase in the level of domestic holidays during the smaller catchments.
current financial year, the Group is confident in achieving further sales We remain confident in the long-term economic prospects in each of growth from travel solutions in the current year.
the territories in which we currently operate and, reflecting the success Within the core travel equipment area, changes to the price and range of our first Compact store in the Republic of Ireland, believe that there is architecture for roof bars and roof boxes encouraged sales growth and further potential for each core format in each market.
In particular, the removal of the entry point value a degree of executional prudence, our intention remains to open stores range from the principal roof carrying display within the store has assisted during the current financial year across all of our territories.
in improving the sales penetration in the core and premium elements United Kingdom of the range.
Product innovation also continues with the introduction The Group operates from 438 stores in the UK including 375 of a new range of half width roof boxes during the year.
In addition superstores, 27 compact stores, together with 28 small format Metro to providing space on the roof of the vehicle for other loads, such as stores located on vibrant high streets where no suitable edge of cycles, these boxes are more aerodynamic, reducing fuel consumption.
town retail opportunity is locally available.
During the year the Group Appreciating the clear consumer trend towards fuel economy and increased its UK Halfords portfolio by nine stores, having opened 14 reduced carbon emissions, a range specifically designed for its improved stores, including the re-siting of two stores, and closure of three stores.
drag coefficient will be introduced during the current financial year.
During the year the Company has replaced and significantly enhanced Having only participated in the mainstream camping equipment market for its demographic modelling system.
This new capability has confirmed four years, and despite the poor weather throughout the summer, 2008 our previous view that there are up to a further 60 new store was Halfords most successful season to date with further gains in market opportunities within the UK and is critical to ensuring that we have share achieved.
This success reflects the expansion of our core tent pack a detailed understanding of catchment behaviour prior to investing in proposition to our premium URBAN Escape brand and the strong levels new stores.
of consumer take-up of when bought with offers giving them access to discounted accessories at the time that they make their major purchase.
While confident that there remains a material long-term store growth opportunity in the UK, our intention to open between 10 and 15 stores The Group will build on this success in 2009 with further range in the UK in the current financial year, reflects the lack of quality new expansion, both in-store and via Halfords.
com, with, for example, a development and the poor quality of recycled property.
further 300 equipment lines from Gelert being introduced in advance of the key summer season.
At the end of the year 226 stores benefited from trading from a mezzanine.
The mezzanine enhances the store environment by creating a The Group continues to grow its share in the child seat market, through spacious, clearly defined sub-shop for cycles, where Halfords marketa clear focus on the market segments in which the Halfords brand leading range and brands can be best presented.
These segments, being from infant to twelve further stores have potential for mezzanine introduction providing the years, are the largest element of the market, and represent the point opportunity for further highly cost-effective space expansion.
where the bespoke combination of car seat and vehicle introduces a technical constituent where Halfords reputation and knowledgeable In addition to new stores, Halfords continues to invest in its existing colleagues resonate strongly.
estate to ensure that it remains contemporary and that the offer reflects our latest learning, particularly in product merchandising, technology to With over 2,000 colleagues who are professionally trained and assist selling and selection and adjacencies.
We refurbished 26 stores accredited by RoSPA to fit child seats to cars and continued product during the year, meaning that 185 stores, of our total UK portfolio and marketing innovations, such as the introduction of a range of of 438, are either new or have been remodelled within the last four ISOFIX child seats, Halfords has driven a further increase in market financial years.
share during the year under review.
The business clearly benefits from scale offering unrivalled breadth and depth of product range, with a national portfolio of stores.
The Group constantly seeks to enhance its position as store of first choice in each of the markets that it serves.
indd 12 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13 Main Picture: In the financial year to 3 April 2009 we performed over 1.5m Wefit Werepair repair jobs, up 27.3% on 2008.
indd 13 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Following a strategic review of the Groups participation within the Reflecting the strong performance base established since market entry premium cycle market, the Board has taken the decision to focus its and changes to the underlying cost base in response to a deteriorating efforts on gaining profitable market share in this segment through its sales environment, the Groups operations within the Republic of Ireland existing infrastructure of core superstores and websites.
The strengthening euro during 2008 has further augmented profit performance.
In line with the return on investment discipline adopted throughout the business the majority of existing stand-alone cycle stores, whether Central Europe trading under the Bikehut or Cycle Republic brands, will be reconfigured The economies of Central Europe have also been impacted by to a full Halfords offer via the Metro format, where in common with recession, with a downturn in sales over recent months, but the longerour other small format stores we would anticipate that they will trade term strategic factors that led to the selection of this region remain.
The markets are material, having a population of approximately 50m across Poland and the Czech Republic and a car parc numbering some International 20m, with relatively fast-growing economies, though from a low base.
Republic of Ireland During the last four years Gross Domestic Product has grown at twice The four years following market entry has seen Halfords develop a the rate of the UK economy and forecasts indicate that recovery from portfolio of 22 stores in the Republic of Ireland and establish marketthe recession will be quicker with future growth at higher levels than leading positions in each of its core categories.
During the financial year predicted for the UK.
Halfords opened a further four stores including the introduction of the The performance of the Groups Central European stores remains compact format that management believe will further extend the reach encouraging and progress continues to be made in line with the plan.
The Group achieved its intended initial pilot scale during the year, Despite the particularly tough economic environment within the operating from five stores in the Czech Republic and our first store in Republic of Ireland, that has led to declines in underlying like-for-like Wroclaw, Poland.
The initial sales performance from our store in Poland, sales averaging 25% across the second half of the financial period, the which benefits from our accumulated learning gathered to date, has Group continues to invest in this territory to increase scale and improve been particularly pleasing.
We remain committed to the longer-term opportunity present in these markets, which we estimate to be in excess of 150 stores, and continue We remain committed to to invest through store openings, and supporting infrastructure.
During the financial year an experienced Executive was recruited to focus the longer-term opportunity solely on our international development and we invested in a scalable present in the Central and flexible systems infrastructure, centred on the core enterprise European markets, which systems in use across the business, to enable such growth.
Reflecting the investments referred to above and the slowdown in sales in the we estimate to be in excess second half year, the losses from our Central European operations were of 150 stores and have approximately 3m 2008: 2.2m in the financial period.
recruited an experienced executive to focus solely on our international development.
THE NA NA NATURAL TURAL TURAL URAL DESTINATION Left: The anticipated increase in the level of domestic holidays during the current financial year provides con dence in achieving further growth from travel solutions.
indd 14 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15 Main Picture: In each of our automotive categories, the Group continues to consolidate these largely fragmented markets as small, less financially strong independent retailers continue to exit.
indd 15 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED In the forthcoming financial year we plan to open up to 10 further stores In addition to the reduction in core headcount, our new store-based across Poland and Czech Republic, more than doubling our operational systems, that were implemented in the latter part of 2007 and scale.
In order to give us time to monitor the development of our completed in 2008, provide significantly enhanced capability that allows Central European business and to ensure that we secure the optimal the organisation to more accurately match colleague resource levels sites in both countries, we would not anticipate opening further stores across the week.
Bespoke, optimal rotas have been established for until the autumn.
each store and a formal consultation process has reduced colleague hours in times of low footfall.
There has been some reinvestment in ONGOING FOCUS ON COST CONTROL busier periods where the opportunity exists to increase customer Management continues to focus on cost control, to ensure that the conversion or enhance service.
Over 1,000 colleagues have been operating base is appropriate for each phase of the economic cycle impacted by this change.
and provides efficiencies to fund strategic investments.
Our approach During the year the Group has also started the next phase of to cost control is wide-ranging and, by necessity in retail, granular to operational improvement which will reconfigure and consolidate its ensure that the more significant opportunities for operational leverage distribution infrastructure.
The Group currently operates from three outlined below are complemented by a culture of cost awareness that distribution centres, of which two, are managed in-house and located provides a constant stream of improvement ideas.
in Redditch, Worcestershire with the third and largest distribution centre We continue to increase the level of product sourced directly from managed by a third party logistics partner in Cowley, Oxford.
Such a strategy delivers increased influence over Recognising the significant cost reduction opportunity available from specification as well as delivering source cost improvements.
Having the optimisation of the Groups logistics infrastructure but aware of achieved the near term objective of 25% direct sourcing, the Group is the risk inherent within such a migration we have been actively now focusing on resourcing products to lower cost environments to managing towards this event.
An initial step in this programme was to further increase penetration.
To this end the Group has established a create an operational window when contractual relationships mature on purchasing office in Shanghai to complement its existing sourcing base existing warehouses.
During 2008 we have worked with a series of external logistics The Groups agile sourcing model is complemented by an effective consultancies to identify the optimal distribution network to service policy with regard to foreign currency hedging.
In securing forward the Group now and for the growth, both domestic and international, exchange rates for 75% of its US dollar denominated purchases over envisaged over the next ten years.
a year ahead, the Group has both planning certainty and in the current environment of sterling deflation a commercial advantage against The migration to a new core distribution centre, located in our centre significant portions of its competition.
of gravity, has now started.
When the project has been completed the new distribution centre will total approximately 320,000 sq ft and During 2008 the business completed a detailed review of its operating will complement a single retained warehouse in Redditch that will be cost base and has identified and executed two key elements of an dedicated to cycles.
ongoing plan that will deliver benefits progressively over the next two financial years and significantly increase profitability once completed.
This renewed configuration, which will benefit from appropriate mechanisation, is anticipated to deliver annual benefits of approximately The first of these resulted in a series of headcount reductions both 4m once completed in the summer of 2010.
These include rent within stores and our head office, that are anticipated to reduce annual savings from enhanced cube, transport reductions from the superior operating costs by approximately 4m.
These reflect, in part, the location and labour efficiencies.
efficiencies across all parts of the business arising from our investment in core enterprise systems over the past four years.
Examples include Similar to the successful approach to previous change programmes, the elimination of an in-store administrative role previously dedicated we will manage this transition to minimise the risk to the underlying to the management of inventory and cash and the reduction of core base business.
This will include the retention and involvement of financial processing roles where data integration improvements advisers expert and experienced in this area and avoiding activities that enhance efficiency.
potentially conflict with times of peak trading.
During 2008 the business completed a detailed review of its operating cost base and has identified two key elements of an ongoing plan that will deliver benefits progressively over the next two financial years and significantly increase profitability once completed 15953HALFORDS.
indd 16 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17 Main Picture: Halfords is clearly the market leader in the UK selling over 1 million bikes per year representing 1 in 3 cycles bought in the UK.
indd 17 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED In parallel to this we intend to extend significantly the range of products LEVERAGING THE HALFORDS BRAND IN MULTI-CHANNEL available to customers.
While holding stock centrally for subsequent delivery to store or home will allow inventory costs and obsolescence While customer enthusiasm for the convenience and value that multirisk to be managed, material range extensions from both current and channel shopping provides continues to grow, many of Halfords new suppliers are anticipated to provide further impetus to our multicustomers prefer the experience of shopping in store where they can channel sales.
take full advantage of our range breadth, colleague expertise and added value services such as fitting.
Summary and Outlook Through its comprehensive store portfolio, which puts 90% of The Halfords business continues to perform strongly, with healthy likeconsumers within the UK an average of 18 minutes drive from their for-like sales increases from its core product areas of cycling and car nearest Halfords store, Halfords is uniquely able to deliver a shopping maintenance.
These markets continue to demonstrate strong potential experience which provides the convenience of the web and the storeand Halfords retains clear leadership in these fragmented markets based service for which Halfords is renowned.
Reinforced by management actions to improve margins and control costs, the delivery of year on year earnings growth, Our Reserve & Collect service which allows for products researched in the present economic turbulence, emphasises the resilient quality online to be secured for collection from store as little as one hour later and adaptability of the business.
has proven an instant and growing success following its nationwide introduction in the spring of 2008.
To date, supported by TV and The early action taken by management to reduce costs and maintain press advertising, customer reservations have totalled over 1,000,000 a prudent balance sheet provides a solid platform for future earnings products and continue to grow quarter on quarter.
growth from Halfords core strategic growth initiatives.
The integration of the stand-alone cycle pilot into the main business signals the Groups Recognising the resonance of Reserve & Collect with the consumer intention to focus on enhancing shareholder value through the more we intend to introduce this proposition in the Republic of Ireland during material expansion opportunities presented by Central Europe and the first quarter of the current financial year via a new dedicated website multi-channel activity, where significant sales growth continues to Halfords.
Enhancing our online offer and further extending our multi-channel Management continues to target operating cost improvements and presence is a clear investment priority.
During 2008 our web platform over the next two financial years will deliver further cost efficiencies was renewed providing a far more contemporary, functional and userthrough the reconfiguration of the Groups currently sub-optimal friendly shopping experience.
The impact of this renewal was immediately distribution facilities.
apparent from improvements in key performance metrics such as visitor numbers, dwell time and customer conversion.
Average dwell time on our While prudent to forecast a consumer environment that will remain website increased to seven minutes and the average spend of customers challenging, we believe Halfords unique, market-leading position will who had researched online and then visited the store was 49, compared allow us to consolidate further the fragmented markets in which we with 21 from customers who just visited the store.
When combined with the ongoing active management of the business to improve operating returns, the Board believes the Group to During 2009 we will further enhance and expand our multi-channel be well positioned to deliver further earnings growth in the year ahead.
offering through the introduction of Order & Collect.
This proposition, which will be in place in advance of the key Christmas trading period, DAVID WILD NICK WHARTON will make our maximum range available to all stores by allowing CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER FINANCE DIRECTOR customers to order from home or in-store any product sold by Halfords 10 JUNE 2009 for delivery and collection in a store of their choice.
Customer reservation have totalled 1,000,000 products and continue to grow quarter on quarter.
Average dwell time on the website increased to seven minutes and the average spend of customers who have researched online and then visited the store was 49.
com Multi-channel Boardman Growth Website ONLINE PRESENCE 15953HALFORDS.
