REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Argos is the UKs leading general merchandise retailer overall and is number one for housewares, furniture, jewellery, toys, sports and leisure equipment and small domestic appliances.
14 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Leading the way Argos is one of the UKs best known retail brands.
By off ering customers a unique combination of choice, value and convenience, Argos is the UKs number one general merchandise retailer.
Argos offers 18,900 lines in the latest catalogue and there is even more choice available online.
Its scale, supply chain and operating model ef ciencies continue to deliver outstanding value for customers.
And the integration of stores with website and telephone ordering, as well as the largest home delivery operation, make the Argos shopping experience a household favourite for convenience.
Where can I nd more information?
p16 Further strengthening p18 Multi-channel the customer proposition leadership p18 Delivering more p20 Driving further multi-channel innovation cost ef ciencies Video games are among the Around 250 Argos Value lines 3,000 internet-only lines added are now available, reinforcing to argos.
co. uk Argos value credentials.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 15 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Argos business review As the UKs leading general merchandise retailer, Argos provides a highly successful and unique off er of choice, value and convenience.
Operational review Further strengthening the customer proposition The current catalogue has been expanded by Home delivery improvements being imple- 400 lines to reach 18,900.
Further improvements mented include extending the use of two-hour to stockroom systems and operations have time slot noti cation for two man home delivenabled the core stocked-in range to expand by eries, while the number of lines on shorter lead 700 lines to 11,100, while the Extra lines stocked times three to five days are also increasing.
in at larger stores and the home delivery only Customer take-up of packaging removal on delivlines have each reduced slightly to 3,500 and ery and the taking away of old appliances 4,300 respectively.
continues to grow in popularity.
To grow product choice beyond the main cataArgos value credentials are being reinforced logue, in the last year around 3,000 internet-only with a near four-fold increase in the number of lines have been added to argos.
The initial Argos Value lines to around 250.
Displays of ranges extend choice in areas such as white Argos Value ranges and other low cost lines have goods, video games, of ce supplies, beds, sports been installed in most stores, helping to generate equipment, audio accessories, nursery ranges and impulse sales and further communicate great watches, and are typically delivered by the Argos prices.
The increased strength of the 300 WOW Direct service.
Some smaller items are posted to value lines are seeing sales of these products grow customers free of charge.
There is also a move to new promotional messages, aided by improved systems and processes allowing more bundled and linked deals.
As well as strengthening entry price points, ongoing range development has also provided Around 3,000 internet-only clearer step-up lines and new brands.
The acquisitions of the Alba, Bush and Chad Valley brands lines have been added to will also support this strategy going forward.
co. uk, extending choice Around 25% of the store portfolio has seen a trial implemented to gather real-time feedback in areas such as white goods, on customer service.
Answers to a series of questions are gathered on electronic keypads, video games, offi ce supplies, allowing store managers invaluable insight into operational performance.
A new Tell Argos beds, sports equipment, audio website is also collecting customer feedback on what we need to do to continue improving accessories, nursery ranges in-store operations: since launch in December 2008, this has already generated 30,000 and watches.
responses, which can be analysed based upon the speci c store transaction details supplied in each response.
Other customer-focused initiatives include testing new, clearer order progress screens at the collection points, and changes to simplify the collection process.
16 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Argos key performance indicators Argos Extra SALES M NUMBER OF STORES Sales in the 52 weeks to 28 February Argos has opened a net 138 stores over Standard 2009 declined by 0.9% in total: the the past four years with an increased 730 4,321 contribution to sales from net new 707 4,282 proportion opened as Argos Extra fully 4,164 680 space was 3.9%, while like-for-like 655 stocked-in stores.
A net 23 stores were 3,859 sales declined by 4.8%.
There was further opened during the year, comprising 3,652 592 strong sales growth and market share 31 openings, eight closures and gains in consumer electronics categories six relocations.
such as video gaming, at panel TV and 128 189 238 278 314 the new PC ranges, though the rate of growth eased in the year.
The weakest areas through the year were the furniture and homewares categories, given particularly challenging market conditions.
In the early months of the year seasonal areas were dif cult, while the final months 464 466 442 429 416 of the year saw a return of good growth fide nitions: in the more traditional toy areas.
Total number of stores at year-end.
Argos Extra fide nitions: fully-stocked in stores are those that carry the Income received from goods and services.
full range of Argos Extra product lines.
Source: Source: 05 06 07 08 09 Audited financial statements.
New space SALES TRENDS % CHANGE NUMBER OF LINES IN THE MAIN CATALOGUE Like-for-like sales decline of 4.8% Like-for-like 18,900 SPRING SUMMER was as a result of a challenging trading 18,500 8 7.9 17,100 The current Spring Summer catalogue environment.
The net 23 new stores 6.1 16,700 has been expanded to a record 18,900 added 3.9% space growth.
This is around 400 more lines like-for-like sales are impacted by than last year.
The catalogue, now in dif cult economic conditions, our 13,500 its 71st edition, remains central to the store opening programme will continue 5 7.5 5.5 3.8 0.9 Argos proposition.
to contribute positive net new space growth in the next financial year.
3.1 3.9 3 2.4 fide nition: Annual percentage change in sales.
Like- 0.7 for-like sales are calculated on stores that 1.4 4.8 have been open for more than a year: net new space contribution to sales change is calculated on stores that have opened fide nition: and closed during the year.
Total number of lines in the main Spring Summer Argos catalogue.
Source: Audited financial statements measured Source: 05 06 07 08 09 internally.
BENCHMARK OPERATING PROFIT SALES ACROSS MORE THAN 8.8% 8.7% Home delivery store 7.7% 7.8% 7.1% M AND MARGIN % ONE CHANNEL % Home delivery phone Benchmark operating pro t for the Multi-channel sales increased to Check & Reserve phone 52 weeks to 28 February 2009 was represent 40% of total Argos sales.
376 Home delivery internet 303.6m, a 19% decline on last years Within this, Check & Reserve remains Check & Reserve internet record pro ts of 376.2m.
This was the the fastest growing channel, and now 325 40 320 result of the weak sales environment accounts for 19.2% of sales.
Check & 304 37 297 and gross margin pressure, partially offset Reserve offers customers the ability 35 8.9 by further strong cost productivity.
to reserve products for immediate 32 collection in-store at no additional 30 cost.
In the last four years, total Argos 2.1 multi-channel sales have grown from 2.6 30% to 40%, offering customers the 9.6 exibility to seamlessly mix and match channels to suit their needs.
16.6 fide nition: fide nition: Operating pro t before amortisation of acquisition Percentage of sales across more than one intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease channel.
There are three ordering channels: charges, exceptional items and costs related to the internet, phone or store and two demerger incentive schemes.
ful lment channels, store or home delivery.
FOR ALL CHARTS, 06 AND 07 ARE ON A 52-WEEK PRO FORMA BASIS Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 17 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Argos case study: Delivering more multichannel innovation Multi-channel leadership Argos has always provided its customers Multi-channel sales totalled 1.7bn or 40% of all with great choice, value and convenience.
The internet now accounts for This year has seen continued improve- 26% of Argos sales: of this, 700m or around 17% ments with even more products in a wider of Argos sales are from customers using the online number of categories displayed in the Check & Reserve service, with this channel growcatalogue or in our extended internet ing by one-third year-on-year.
Improvements ranges, and a commitment to great value to this service made in the year have included prices amongst the best available to showing the real-time stock availability of any shoppers.
product in the two nearest stores and the ability In terms of convenience, Argos has always to check a further eight alternative nearby stores, been ahead in the multi-channel race.
and a free text message of the reservation number We know customers often nd that more when an online reservation is made with ways to shop can mean more convenience in a reminder text sent at midday on the day the particular the chance to do the hard work of reservation expires.
choosing in the comfort of their own home or Argos received the 2009 Online Retailer of the workplace with a catalogue or the internet, Year award at the recent Retail Week Awards.
and then completing their shopping in store or One of many developments over the year saw the having it delivered direct to them.
co. uk website add online customer ratings many years since Argos started to offer home and product reviews.
The development of a cusdelivery across all its products, and its also tomised system to do this has allowed reviews to been over 10 years since we put all products be placed on all products.
Since launch in October on the internet.
In every year since, weve 2008, most products now carry reviews or a relentlessly improved our multi-channel offer rating, with a total of over 300,000 reviews and the convenience it provides to customers.
submitted in the first six months.
Check & Reserve actually began a number of years ago.
However, it is only more recently that the popularity of online reservations for store collections has outstripped internet orders for home delivery.
This financial year Th e internet now accounts saw total Argos internet orders reach 1.1bn, with 700m of this collected in store and for 26% of Argos sales: of this, 400m being delivered to home.
700m or around 17% of Argos In the last year weve added a number of new functions.
For example, from the online sales are from customers using product selection page, customers are shown the real-time stock availability of the two the online Check & Reserve nearest stores, with the choice of eight nearby alternative stores to check.
recent months, when you reserve online you can provide your mobile phone number in order to receive a handy text message of your reservation number as well as a reminder text on the day your reservation runs out.
Check & Reserve remains unique to Argos in that it covers every store and every product we stock in a store thats up to 15,000 products per store and in the fact that your chosen items are immediately available for you from the second you hit reserve.
This, the recent functions added and those we have still to come, will keep Argos ahead in the multichannel race.
18 18 H Ho om me e R Re et ta ai il l G Gr ro ou up A p An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 20 200 09 9 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION The latest great prices are available at argos.
Reserving online is quick and easy, at home or elsewhere.
You can pop into your chosen Argos store, knowing your products are reserved for you.
Even paying is quick and easy, using the Quick Pay kiosk.
Products are available for collection within minutes.
Argos Check & Reserve makes shopping even more convenient, meaning more quality time for you.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 19 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Driving further cost ef ciencies Gross margin management and cash generation Progress continues on driving sourcing and supply Argos has a strong track record of positive cost chain bene ts, and the recent brand acquisitions productivity, the measure whereby total operatwill add further direct sourcing scale.
The product ing cost growth is less than the combined change mix is likely to continue to impact the gross in total sales and underlying cost in ation.
In addition, product cost pressures, organisational changes being undertaken to particularly as a result of sterling weakness, are further improve operational ef ciency include likely to result in further gross margin rate decline.
the number of Argos head of ce roles reducing A level of customer price in ation to help offby approximately 10%, and a restructuring of set the in ationary product cost pressures is certain levels of store management resulting in a expected, with Argos targeting delivery of reduction in store-based full time equivalent absolute cash gross margin as opposed to a roles.
Argos also continues to achieve ef ciency Margin management will still however be improvements in its distribution network.
During driven by Argos commitment to remaining the last year, one of the six regional distribution highly price competitive.
Underpinning the strong centres had its operations reallocated to the value credentials with customers, Argos continues remaining five sites.
During the new financial to constantly monitor and adjust prices over the year, this freehold facility will be able to take on life of the catalogue, with around 6,000 products the operations of the two existing one man being checked against its major competitors on home delivery warehouses.
The distribution neta weekly basis.
In the three months since the work has also reached 90% of its waste being publication of the January 2009 catalogue, recycled, while other ef ciencies have included around 5,000 items have had their price either further progress in multi-deck trailer usage, permanently or promotionally reduced.
improved scheduling and extended backhaul operations.
Argos will maintain its focus on cash.
Capital expenditure in the year just ended was reduced, and is expected to be lower in the new financial year.
Argos will also continue to tightly manage its working capital.
Store portfolio expansion and development A net 23 stores were opened during the year, taking the portfolio to 730 stores.
Extent of chain analysis supports further years of growth, and the returns on investment of new Argos stores continue to be attractive.
However, given the challenging environment, the new store opening rate is likely to ease to around 20 stores in the new financial year.
As a result, the net contribution to sales is expected to be around 3%.
New stores will still predominantly be in out-of-town retail parks, although there will also be some new locations in smaller towns as well as further sites sought for the smaller store format within larger cities.
20 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Argos financial review Sales in the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009 declined by 0.9% in total: the contribution to sales from net new space was 3.9%, while like-for-like sales declined by 4.8%.
There was further strong sales growth and market share gains in consumer electronics categories such as video gaming, at panel TV and the new PC ranges, though the rate of growth eased in the year.
In the early months of the year seasonal areas were dif cult, while the final months of the year saw a return of good growth in the more traditional toy areas.
Gross margins were down by approximately 100 basis points, driven by a continuing product mix shift towards lower margin consumer electronics categories and away from higher margin furniture and homewares areas.
There were continued supply chain gains as well as some foreign exchange bene ts in the first half, however these were used to support lower prices for customers.
In the peak trading period there was some additional gross margin impact from increased promotional activity and clearance of seasonal stocks.
The launch of the 2009 Spring Summer catalogue in the final part of the financial year saw the first stages of a margin rate impact from increased product cost pressures as a result of sterling weakness.
Total operating and distribution costs grew by approximately 1% or 15m.
Underlying cost in ation was approximately 4% or 50m, an acceleration on the 3% level experienced last year, principally as a result of higher fuel and utility costs.
The cost base excluding the impact of in ation was therefore reduced by about 3% or 35m.
Given the total sales decline in the year was 1%, there was around 2% or 25m of cost productivity as a result of the cost containment initiatives delivered during the year and cost leverage from new store openings.
Benchmark operating pro t for the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009 was 303.6m, a 19% decline on last years record pro ts of 376.2m.
This was the result of the weak sales environment and gross margin pressure, partially offset by further strong cost productivity.
52 WEEKS TO 28 FEBRUARY 2009 1 MARCH 2008 Sales m 4,281.9 4,320.9 Benchmark operating pro t m 303.6 376.2 Benchmark operating margin 7.1% 8.7% Like-for-like change in sales 4.8% 0.7% New space contribution to sales change 3.9% 3.1% Total sales change 0.9% 3.8% Gross margin movement Down c. 100bps Up c. 50bps Benchmark operating pro t change 19% 16% Number of stores at year-end 730 707 Of which Argos Extra fully stocked-in 314 278 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 21
