REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase sells a range of over 30,000 products across the wider home enhancement market, including traditional DIY items.
22 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Work in progress Homebase is the UKs second largest home improvement retailer, with a customer off er thats diff erentiated from the competition.
Homebase sells a broad range of home enhancement products and services alongside traditional DIY items.
It targets a wide range of customers with an inspirational selection of home merchandise.
However, with its product markets more exposed to consumer discretionary spending pressures and the housing market downturn, it is carrying out additional work to make sure it is bestplaced for a return to longer-term market growth.
Where can I nd more information?
p24 Further strengthening p24 Multi-channel the customer proposition development p26 Delivering more product p28 Store portfolio and service developments development New energy-ef cient products, supported by New horticulture ranges have campaigns to drive awareness, supported the demand for grow have done particularly well.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 23 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase business review Homebase continues to be well positioned as a leading home enhancement retailer.
Operational review Further strengthening the customer proposition Multi-channel development The Homebase offer continues to improve Transactional sales via homebase.
co. uk grew and Home Retail Group remains con dent in its strongly, with the number of transactional lines strategic positioning and its meeting of customer increasing to 5,000 by the end of the year: needs.
Market conditions have, however, continthere are a further 9,000 transactional lines ued to be challenging and are likely to remain so available, representing relevant Argos products in the near term.
which can be ordered for home delivery via the The rolling programme of range reviews has Homebase website.
There are an additional included a re ection of the latest consumer 11,000 Homebase lines that are browseable, trends.
For example, new energy ef cient prodwith the ultimate target to have 100% of lines ucts, supported by campaigns to drive awareness, either browseable or transactional.
Stock Check have done particularly well.
Similarly, new hortiof browseable lines has been rolled out to all UK culture ranges have supported the demand for stores, while a Check & Reserve service is also grow your own produce.
A stronger value orienbeing trialled in 25 stores.
tation has also been reinforced by a series of best buy deals displayed in the seasonal selling areas.
Gross margin management Further excellent growth and market share Progress continues on driving sourcing and supgain has been achieved in kitchens.
The prior ply chain bene ts, in particular from leveraging years national roll-out of the installation service the scale and expertise of the Group in areas remains a key factor in this success, along with such as direct sourcing.
Looking ahead however, 60 million new ranges and over 100 stores having their product cost pressures, particularly as a result of customers are served by kitchen displays refreshed during the year.
Instalsterling weakness, are likely to result in the gross Homebase every year, through lation services have been extended to bathrooms margin rate falling.
A level of customer price over 300 out-of-town stores.
This is aimed at replicatin ation to help offset the in ationary product ing the success of kitchen installations in cost pressures is expected, with Homebase capturing new orders and driving up average targeting delivery of absolute cash gross margin transaction values, while ensuring customer as opposed to a gross margin rate objective.
recommendation rates remain consistently high.
The Home catalogue continues to support Homebases broader and differentiated home enhancement offer, as well as demonstrating leverage of the product range, skills and infrastructure from Argos.
The catalogue showcases furniture, homewares and accessories ranges, with co-ordinated in-store displays.
As well as an increased number of create the look pages, there are also look for less and great value spreads.
24 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Homebase key performance indicators With mezzanine SALES M NUMBER OF STORES Without mezzanine Sales in the 52 weeks to 28 February At year end, Homebase traded from 345 2009 declined by 3.5% in total.
There 345 stores, of which 188 are mezzanine 1,594 1,580 1,569 331 1,559 1,513 were challenging market conditions stores.
The mezzanine store conversion 310 in virtually all product categories 297 programme is now largely complete 287 throughout the year.
There was, however, with the majority of stores that can particular weakness in seasonally-related support a mezzanine already having categories in the first quarter peak sales one.
The final 9 of the 21 acquired period, and again in the final months.
111 144 165 181 188 Focus stores opened during the year.
In contrast to the general trend, kitchens were one area of continued growth.
Energy ef ciency products have also performed well.
176 153 145 150 157 fide nitions: Total number of stores at year-end.
Mezzanine stores contain a mezzanine fide nitions: selling oor which is typically used to Income received for goods and services.
display kitchens, bathrooms and furniture.
Source: Source: 05 06 07 08 09 Audited financial statements.
SALES TRENDS % CHANGE SALES PER SQUARE FOOT Space Like-for-like sales declined by 10.2% Sales per square foot based on total Like-for-like in the year.
This performance was year-end selling space declined to broadly consistent throughout the 95.
The reduction over recent years 3.5 121 6 year, and is re ective of the downturn is driven by a combination of the 112 109 in the housing market and related deterioration of the DIY market and 2.2 102 retail spending.
New stores contributed is also impacted by store mezzanine 0.0 95 1.6 3 a net 6.7%, which included the bene t and garden centre space which is from the relaunch of the acquired net dilutive to sales densities.
21 Focus stores which opened between 3 3.1 3.6 2.5 6.7 December 2007 and June 2008.
1.4 3.1 4.1 10.2 fide nition: Annual percentage change in sales.
Like-for-like sales are calculated on stores that have been open for more than a year: net new space contribution to sales change fide nitions: is calculated on stores that have opened Annual sales divided by year-end total and closed during the year.
Source: Source: Audited financial statements Audited financial statements 05 06 07 08 09 measured internally.
7.2% BENCHMARK OPERATING PROFIT M AND MARGIN % Benchmark operating pro t for the 3.3% 3.4% 2.9% 52 weeks to 28 February 2009 was 114 1.0% 14.9m, a 67% decline on last years 45.1m.
This was a result of the particularly weak sales environment that could only partially be offset by limited gross margin improvement and strong operating cost management.
53 51 45 fide nition: Operating pro t before amortisation of 15 acquisition intangibles, store impairment and onerous lease charges, exceptional items and costs related to demerger incentive schemes.
FOR ALL CHARTS, 06 AND 07 ARE ON A 52-WEEK PRO FORMA BASIS Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 25 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase case study: Delivering more product and service developments Cost base actions Homebase has increasingly been about sellIn the first half of the financial year, further action ing a broader range of home enhancement was taken to reduce store payroll costs.
This products and services alongside traditional involved the alteration of customer-facing colDIY goods and materials.
It targets a wide league hours to better match demand levels range of consumers with an inspirational and trading patterns.
While this has reduced selection of home merchandise.
total store colleague hours, previous trials of the Over the last year, Homebase has perrealignment of shift patterns also demonstrated formed its biggest ever number of range improvements in customer service.
As part of the exercise, we introduced with other cost containment actions througha greater number of Value lines and other out the business, helped to drive positive cost entry price point products across a large productivity in the second half of the year number of product categories.
We have also being reported.
introduced a series of Best Buy deals of excepAdditional organisational changes are being tional value, as well as pre-stacked pallets of undertaken to further improve operational ef - products all at the same great value price of 1, ciency and cost productivity.
of ce functions have seen the number of roles As well as embracing the overall trend in reduced by approximately 15%.
There are also value, effort has also been placed on matching additional store-based actions involving a the shifting demand towards certain product restructuring of store supervisory positions.
For example, the EcoHome ranges This will reduce store-based full time equivalent have been further developed to help our cusroles by approximately 5%.
While lowering costs, tomers to lower energy consumption, conserve the actions will also give the business a more water or promote sustainability by reducing the ef cient and effective structure, while protecting impact on the environment.
Other initiatives customer service and essential processes.
in this area include Homebases collaboration with Cornwalls Eden Project that is studying household sustainable living, and its Green Store Challenge to reduce Homebases own environmental impact.
Th e Homebase off er continues to Another area of product development to match changing consumer habits, tastes and improve and Home Retail Group trends is grow your own.
This new sub-brand remains confi dent in its strategic has been developed to help the large number of people who want to start growing their own positioning and its meeting of home produce, nd the right products and get the right advice they need.
The brand is being customer needs.
used across plants and seeds, as well as growing kits and information lea ets.
Homebase rolled out its highly successful kitchen installation service nationally in late 2007.
Since then, we have re tted the in-store kitchen displays in over 100 stores and rolled out our new computer-aided design package.
This gives enhanced quality 3D images while incorporating Homebases own ooring, tiling and lighting ranges.
In recent months Homebase has also expanded its installation services to bathrooms in 50 stores, with the previous re tting of in-store bathroom displays supporting this.
The Homebase offer continues to move forward in giving its customers fresh ideas about whats possible for their homes in a shopping environment thats differentiated from the competition.
2 26 6 H Ho om me e R Re et ta ai il l G Gr ro ou up A p An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 20 200 09 9 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Homebases new grow your own sub-brand has been developed to help customers nd the right products and advice.
The brand is being used across plants and seeds, as well as growing kits.
Grow your own offers a great opportunity to get the whole family involved.
And save money on shop-bought groceries.
Grow your own is a great example of matching customers habits, tastes and trends, such as for homegrown produce.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 27 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Cash protection Store portfolio development Given a particularly challenging outlook for A net 14 stores were opened during the Homebases product markets, combined with a year, including the final nine stores acquired highly operationally geared business, operating from Focus, taking the portfolio to 345 stores.
pro ts are likely to be further impacted despite The opening rate for the new financial year signi cant cost actions.
As a result, an increased will be reduced to approximately five stores.
focus on cash has been implemented.
Capital Ongoing portfolio management is likely to see expenditure in the year just ended was signi - a limited number of store closures each year.
cantly reduced, and is expected to decline further As a result, the contribution to sales from net in the new financial year.
Homebase will also new space is expected to be less than 1% in the continue to tightly manage its working capital.
Investment in further operational and customer Three stores were downsized during the offer improvements will still be implemented, year and a further three have been identi ed for with an emphasis to ensure Homebase remains downsizing in the new financial year, subject to well positioned to capitalise on the longer-term planning permission and landlord agreement.
In the approximate one quarter of the portfolio that had seen little or no investment for many years, the low cost refurbishment trial was implemented in a further five stores during the year.
Sales uplifts across these trials have been Further excellent growth and achieving the targeted 15%, and a further ten stores will be reviewed later in the new financial market share gain has been year for potential refurbishment, subject to the trading environment.
Th e prior years national roll-out of the installation service remains a key factor in this success.
28 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Homebase financial review Sales in the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009 declined by 3.5% in total.
The contribution to net new space was 6.7%, which included the bene t from the relaunch of the acquired net 21 Focus stores which opened between December 2007 and June 2008.
There were challenging market conditions in virtually all product categories throughout the year.
There was, however, particular weakness in seasonallyrelated categories in the first quarter peak sales period, and again in the final months.
Energy ef cient products have also performed well.
Gross margins were ahead by approximately 25 basis points.
There was a 125 basis point increase in first half of the year, driven by further sourcing and supply chain gains.
In the second half of the year the gross margin declined by approximately 100 basis points, re ecting increased promotional activity and the impact of clearance of seasonal stocks.
Total operating and distribution costs were held broadly at.
Underlying cost in ation remained at approximately 3% or around 25m for the year, with the cost base excluding the impact of in ation therefore reducing by a similar amount.
Given the total sales decline in the year was 4%, cost productivity was therefore successfully contained to a negative 1% level.
This represents an improvement on the previous two years as a result of extended cost control and containment initiatives throughout the business, with positive cost productivity being achieved in the second half of the year.
Benchmark operating pro t for the 52 weeks to 28 February 2009 was 14.9m, a 67% decline on last years 45.1m.
This was a result of the particularly weak sales environment that could only be partially offset by a small gross margin improvement and strong operating cost management.
52 WEEKS TO 28 FEBRUARY 2009 1 MARCH 2008 Sales m 1,513.2 1,568.5 Benchmark operating pro t m 14.9 45.1 Benchmark operating margin 1.0% 2.9% Like-for-like change in sales 10.2% 4.1% New space contribution to sales change 6.7% 2.5% Total sales change 3.5% 1.6% Gross margin movement Up c. 25bps Up c. 250bps Benchmark operating pro t change 67% 16% Number of stores at year-end 345 331 Of which contain a mezzanine oor 188 181 Store selling space at year-end 000 sq ft 15,947 15,398 Of which garden centre area 3,620 3,505 mezzanine oor area 1,973 1,909 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 29
