10 International Power Annual Report 2009 Strategy and Group overview, 32 358MW International Power has interests in 32,358MW gross of power generating capacity 21 International Power has businesses in 21 countries around the world Our strategy is to deliver growth in shareholder value through power generation, ensuring a balanced international portfolio in terms of markets, fuel, contract type and technology.
We create value by the efficient operation, financing, and trading of output from our power generation fleet, whilst maintaining the highest levels of safety and environmental performance.
We exercise rigorous financial control in all our investment decisions, and invest in the development of our people for the long-term.
Paiton Indonesia 11 Business overview 12 International Power Annual Report 2009 Strategy and Group overview Portfolio by geography Portfolio by fuel type Portfolio by contract type 31% North America 61% Gas 34% Long-term contracted 32% Europe 21.5% Coal 28% Uncontracted 12% Middle East 8% Pumped storage 24% Short-term contracted 16% Australia 6% Wind 8% Pumped storage 9% Asia 3% Oil 6% Wind 0.5% Hydro One-year forward average from 8 March 2010 Note: All charts presented based on net MW basis, excluding assets under construction, as at 8 March 2010. International Power is a leading independent As electricity is critical for any economy, Maximising the value power generation company with interests governments carefully decide whether or of our existing portfolio in 32,358MW gross of power generating not they wish to liberalise this key sector.
Our specific strategies for value enhancement capacity, across five core regions North Several governments have retained full in each country and for each individual plant 020406080100 America, Europe, Middle East, Australia control of the sector while others have fully are tailored to local requirements, but and Asia.
liberalised both the production and supply generally we seek to achieve the following: of electricity.
The skills required for operating Building on our power generation skills, we Optimise the operations of our in liberalised merchant or non-liberalised use our capabilities to develop and operate power plants contracted markets are very different closely-linked businesses.
These include the We optimise the operation of our power and we have both.
production of fresh water through sea water plants through several means including: desalination, the production of steam, small The , contracted managing all of our sites to high standards retail businesses, open-cast coal mining and markets typically offer opportunities to sell of safety and operating performance: gas transportation.
02 power to 04 governm 06 ent bod08 ies via lon01 g-term 00 managing our business on a portfolio basis: power purchase agreements PPAs that closely co-ordinating plant operations A portfolio approach offer stable returns.
Assets in the merchant with trading to maximise the value of We manage our business through a portfolio markets are subject to the forces of supply our output: standardising management 020406080100 management approach, which involves and demand, and these markets are generally reporting for all investments: and investing maintaining a balance in the portfolio in more volatile.
Both these markets offer in improved plant efficiency.
terms of geographical spread, fuel diversity, attractive risk reward environments Maximise the return from our portfolio technology and contract type.
We optimise operations as described gives us access to multiple opportunities International Power maintains a balanced above and we leverage our investments, to create value whilst mitigating the risks presence in both types of market, providing particularly by using non-recourse finance associated with overexposure to any the business with a stable platform of at the project company level.
We sell particular market, fuel, technology or long-term contracted earnings and cash flow, businesses if this generates a higher rate contract type.
overlaid by merchant generation which offers of return for shareholders.
This portfolio approach also extends to greater potential for superior returns when our operational capabilities.
We are able to market conditions are favourable.
We also operate a range of power plant technologies, ensure that lessons learned in any particular including thermal, hydro, pumped storage market are shared across the business.
These technologies produce electricity using different fuel types that include gas, oil, coal and renewable sources such as wind, water and sun.
This multitechnology expertise allows us to capture opportunities that are best suited to the market in question.
13 Portfolio growth net GW 20.6 2009 2008 21.3 2007 18.8 2006 18.5 15.9 2005 2004 15.3 2003 10.6 2002 10.5 2001 8.9 2000 8.3 North America Europe Middle East Australia Note: Asia Chart presented based on net GW basis, excluding assets under construction, as at 31 December.
Our growth The Middle East, Africa, and Asia continue to offer significant short and medium-term The Group has grown significantly in the last five years, increasing its net operational growth opportunities.
We are actively evaluating a number of new greenfield capacity by more than 5,000MW through both successful acquisitions and greenfield projects across these markets in Morocco, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Indonesia, developments.
In 2009, the Company received offers for the Hartwell plant Thailand and Vietnam.
We continue to extract additional value from our existing in North America, and the business in the Czech Republic.
The offers provided sites, for example in Indonesia where we signed the financing for the 815MW an opportunity to crystallise excellent value for shareholders, with an attractive rate of coal-fired Paiton 3 plant located within the existing Paiton complex in March 2010. return on investment, and consequently both businesses have been sold the regional Our geographic footprint, in-depth market reviews provide more detail on these sales.
knowledge and strong customer relationships Page Regional reviews pages 36 to 53 continue to present us with multiple growth opportunities, both new-build and acquisition.
International Power now has an operational interest in over 45 power stations, with 32,358MW of gross capacity, and 20,671MW of net capacity, reflecting our ownership percentage.
Growth continues to be a key strategic objective for International Power, and we have clear investment criteria to ensure that our acquisitions and greenfield new-build projects deliver value for our shareholders.
We remain well placed to continue to grow our international portfolio.
The Groups strong free cash flow and corporate liquidity, together with access to project finance, provide good flexibility for financing growth opportunities.
0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 Business overview 14 International Power Annual Report 2009 Strategy and Group overview Investment process Continuous knowledge sharing across portfolio Investment Committee Detailed due Investment Board Opportunity sources initial review diligence Committee review approval local knowledge relationships Cross-regional and crossreview approval functional representation business development teams government private invitations other e. g. investment advisors banks Continuous performance Completion appraisal postintegration Follow-on opportunities investment review Investment process The ICOM review process evaluates the costs of due diligence at an early stage, so The investment process is centred on a detailed review by the Investment Committee as to avoid potential expenditure on projects that are less likely to succeed.
In addition, ICOM which comprises the Chief Executive Officer CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO, all the process encourages healthy internal competition for capital across regions.
Regional Directors and all corporate function heads.
Of the opportunities evaluated by the The cross-regional and cross-functional business development teams each year, only membership of the ICOM ensures that only the best projects are submitted to the ICOM the most attractive investments are presented for initial review and to ensure they are to the Board for approval.
Prior to formal consistent with the Groups strategic plan.
approval papers, the Board is kept informed of projects under review to ensure that due If projects pass this review, they are allocated diligence is focused on key issues.
The due a budget for detailed due diligence.
The diligence teams, which comprise employees project then undergoes further analysis from our functional and regional teams and during the due diligence process, at the end external advisors where appropriate, use of which a second detailed review is carried their varied experience and skill sets to assess out by the ICOM.
If the ICOM approves the thoroughly all potential projects before project, it is then presented to the Board they are presented to the ICOM.
We subject for final approval.
This process ensures that new investment opportunities to rigorous we fully evaluate all the risks and returns of evaluation criteria, with a focus on the a project prior to making a commitment, and that we proceed with only the most elements shown opposite.
15 Investment evaluation criteria Area Considerations Financial returns in excess of our investment thresholds, which are continually assessed in light of changing market conditions contribution measured by financial key performance indicators KPIs profit from operations PFO, earnings per share EPS and free cash flow quality and sustainability of earnings availability of project finance and an appropriate degree of gearing payback period efficient financial structuring Operational age, plant type and operational history of the plant health and safety performance maintenance record and likely capital expenditure requirements ability to have a major controlling stake in operations and maintenance synergy potential potential to increase output availability of plant Market market fundamentals demand supply balance forward market prices new entrant economics and impact on long-term forecast prices analysis of incumbent players and market dynamics market track record of respecting foreign direct investment opportunity for future investment and growth Commercial contractual position offtake arrangements security of offtake security of fuel supply counterparty credit ratings correlation between power and fuel price, including carbon portfolio benefits of merchant assets environmental obligations and pricing Environmental environmental regulation and potential changes environmental performance Legal regulatory market regulation potential regulatory changes any outstanding historical legal or contractual issues People historic staff management relationships staffing requirements for acquisition and integration potential to acquire new knowledge and skills Ownership degree of control focus on investments where we are able to contribute directly to the realisation of projected returns plant operations structure and management Property opportunities for future expansion or development We ensure that all acquisitions and greenfield projects are quickly and efficiently integrated into our regional business structures.
The forecast returns from investments are built into regional business performance targets and we measure delivery against these targets at a regional and Group level through our financial and non-financial KPIs.
Page Financial and non-financial KPIs pages 29 to 31 The ICOM conducts post-investment reviews for all major projects to ensure we improve the quality of future investment decisions by feeding back lessons learned from past evaluations.
Our overarching criterion, irrespective of the market structure in which we operate, is that our investments create value for our shareholders.
Business overview 16 International Power Annual Report 2009 Strategy and Group overview Core capabilities Acquisitions Asset management Trading Financing Plant operations Greenfield development Long-term power and construction management contract expertise International Powers high quality asset Core capabilities portfolio, together with the capabilities of Our core capabilities for implementing our our teams around the world, forms a strong strategy can be categorised into the following combination for performance optimisation, seven areas: effective risk management and future Greenfield development and construction growth in earnings and cash flow.
management International Power has in-depth experience We have excellent experience of developing in plant operations and engineering which large capital-intensive infrastructure projects Umm Al Nar UAE is shared throughout the portfolio.
This from selecting the appropriate site, securing not only helps to ensure excellent plant multiple government stakeholder approvals operations, but also in understanding all and project managing the entire construction operational and technical issues relating programme, right through to successful to the potential acquisition and upgrade of commercial operation.
assets or development of new power plants.
Acquisitions The Group has the skills to execute power We have demonstrated our ability to execute projects from inception right through to the acquisitions at the right time and at the right delivery of power in the most advanced and value, together with the capability to integrate European Wind Portfolio Italy complex traded markets of the world.
newly acquired businesses quickly and seamlessly into the portfolio.
Historically, International Power has executed a number of successful acquisitions which have met or exceeded financial and operational performance targets.
17 Financing Plant operations by our plants, which we call asset-backed Given the very capital-intensive nature We have comprehensive power station trading.
Our traders operate within strict of our business we maintain access to operational experience and skills.
Throughguidelines and adhere to risk policies multiple sources of finance, which include life engineering and maintenance plans, to ensure our traded position is carefully non-recourse project finance, corporate meticulously implemented, ensure maximum monitored and managed.
This includes borrowing facilities, capital from our partners, availability and efficiency in the operation of matching fuel purchases with power sales and strong free cash flow generation from our plants and are key for delivering value in within pre-defined limits and carrying out our existing portfolio.
Non-recourse project both our merchant and long-term contracted only a limited amount of non asset-backed finance is key to International Powers markets.
Effective plant operations are trading.
We forward sell our output when financing strategy and overall capital enhanced by an integrated Operations and we consider the commercial returns are structure, as this provides the opportunity Engineering Team across the Group, ensuring favourable, but we often retain some to raise an appropriate level of debt for information is shared across the portfolio and uncontracted capacity as mitigation against individual businesses and represents key operational staff are rotated on a regular unplanned outages and to benefit from excellent risk mitigation for the Group.
Safe behaviour and environmental best upsides in the short-term market.
practice are cornerstones of International Asset management Long-term power contract expertise Powers operations, and we share this across All our investments are expected to deliver We have strong commercial skills to structure the portfolio to ensure all of our plants specific performance targets.
Through and negotiate long-term power and water operate to the highest possible safety regular and robust technical, commercial contracts in regulated markets such as Asia and environmental standards.
and financial reviews, the regional offices and and the Middle East.
Under these contracts, corporate headquarters together monitor the Trading the majority of our income is delivered from performance of each business in the portfolio We operate in a number of merchant having our plant available, and key risks such to ensure that we maximise efficiencies.
We have the skills necessary as fuel and turbine maintenance are very addition, we have a global Health, Safety to maximise our returns in these markets, significantly mitigated through long-term and Environment HS&E Management with a practical focus on closely co-ordinating hedging and supply arrangements.
Availability Committee which co-ordinates the Groups trading and plant operations to optimise bonuses incentivise us to keep the plant well activities and enables best practice to be value.
We have Trading and Risk Teams maintained in order to generate superior adopted at all plants.
This co-ordinated in all our merchant markets, co-ordinated returns.
Overall, the contracts provide approach helps us manage operational by Group trading and risk functions at the visibility and stability of earnings and risk and extract the full portfolio benefits.
For us, trading predominately cash generation over the long-term.
means selling the physical output generated Business overview
