Directors report Business review The directors of Interserve Plc present Capture emerging opportunities for Expand international growth with fuller their report and the audited financial integrated solutions: The balanced service offering: We have extensive statements and notes for the year ended nature of the Groups businesses across sectoral and geographic reach in our 31 December 2009.
The Directors report the asset life cycle enables us to select existing businesses: however, our markets is the management report for the the best opportunities whichever market are constantly evolving and we seek to purposes of paragraph 4.1.
8R of the or sector they are in.
Our culture and develop into related skills, sectors and FSA's Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
organisational flexibility allow us to geographies as part of our growth transfer expertise across our activities.
Principal activities They also give us the potential to grow The geographical balance of the Group Interserve is an international services, into new markets and services where we has been enhanced as the international maintenance and building group.
We can provide additional value to our operations continue to contribute offer advice, design, construction and existing clients.
The UK now support services for societys infrastructure We successfully leveraged our project contributes approximately 40 per cent and provide a range of plant and management knowledge, and utilised of profits with international businesses equipment in specialist fields.
an existing relationship held by our contributing 60 per cent based on the security business, to secure a major proportion of total operating profit Strategy integrated multi-site outsourcing before Group Services.
Interserves vision is to be The Trusted contract with HSBC during 2009.
The Partner of all our stakeholders, bringing Our strong presence in the Middle East contract underlines our growing together all of our capabilities to create has given us a platform from which to credentials in the private-sector innovative solutions that support longexplore market opportunities for our bundled outsourcing market, which we term relationships with our customers, support services business, which has expect will lead to further offering rewarding careers for our staff won its initial contracts in the region, opportunities to develop our position and underpinning sustained value and also for our equipment services in this sector.
Our strategy business in Saudi Arabia, a for fulfilling this vision consists of three We expect to be able to grow our construction market with strong core elements: services offering in the Middle East at growth potential.
a faster rate than our construction and Whilst both the UK and the Middle East Build strong core businesses based on equipment hire businesses, such that region continue to offer positive long-term, value-added client we anticipate that there will be a growth opportunities, over the medium relationships: Our well-established client more balanced contribution from these term we expect to be able to generate relationships have been cultivated over a three activities in the region in the faster growth from new geographies long period of time and have withstood medium term, replicating the Groups and existing overseas markets.
previous business and economic cycles.
This process has begun As a result, around three-quarters of our with the success achieved by our Given our core skills and capabilities are revenues are derived from services to Madina business and, more recently, transferable across sectors and the public and utilities sectors whose some initial facilities management geographies we expect more examples of long-term contracts and high level of contracts in the region.
such strategic developments to arise, repeat business confer strong visibility We expect to maintain a balanced underpinning our confidence in the during uncertain economic periods.
contribution to Group profits from Groups future.
We sustained revenue visibility at support services, construction services 80 per cent of anticipated 2010 and equipment services through the revenues corresponding prior economic cycle.
We won our first support services We extended our existing relationships contract in the UK private healthcare with key long-term customers such as sector, a market that offers attractive Defra, Thames Water, Cumberland growth opportunities.
Infirmary, Shell Qatar and Doosan Heavy Industries.
We were awarded new long-term contracts with Sandwell Metropolitan Council, NHS Scotland and Ealing Council.
