Business and financial review AMEC is well positioned for growth AMECs vision has been refined as a part of the Vision 2015 exercise.
AMEC aspires to be the leading supplier and the delivery of an EPS greater than of high-value consultancy, engineering and project 100 pence in 2015 management services to the worlds natural resources, nuclear, clean energy, water and environmental Ian McHoul Chief Financial Officer sectors.
Services remain focused on consulting, designing, managing the delivery of, and maintaining strategic and complex assets such as offshore oil and gas production facilities, civil nuclear facilities or power infrastructure.
The groups core divisions are: Introduction This business and financial review sets out descriptions OO Natural Resources: of each of the groups business segments, their Oil & Gas services markets, strategy and significant factors affecting Oil Sands performance for the year ended 31 December 2009, Mining & Metals including comments on movements in the income OO statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement Power & Process: Nuclear and on matters that may have an impact on the groups future financial performance.
The review provides a Conventional Power Transmission & Distribution broader perspective of AMECs businesses to enable a more informed judgement to be made of the groups Renewables and Bioprocess financial performance and prospects.
Certain OO Earth & Environmental: forward-looking statements with respect to the Environmental Consulting financial condition, operations and results of AMECs Government businesses are contained in the review.
These Water and Transportation Infrastructure.
statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that In December 2009 and as part of Vision 2015, the will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors management of the Natural Resources and Power that could cause actual performance or developments & Process divisions was brought together under the to differ materially from those expressed or implied leadership of Neil Bruce, Executive Director.
The review is Key areas of focus under Vision 2015 are growth with provided solely to provide additional information to further margin improvement and a move towards assist in the assessment of the groups strategy and a more efficient capital structure: future prospects.
It should not be relied on for any other purpose.
Increased focus on growth with further margin improvement Vision and strategy OO AMEC will continue to strengthen its people, tools Since late 2006, AMECs focus has been on improving and processes: enhance its capabilities, with margins and creating a stronger, more sustainable increased focus in the subsea engineering, business.
In December 2009, AMEC announced Vision underground mining, renewables and water sectors: 2015 which sets out the next phase of the groups and further enhance its geographic footprint development.
There will now be an increased focus on assured growth, with further margin improvement and a move towards a more efficient capital structure.
A new financial goal has been set, of more than doubling earnings per share to over 100 pence in 2015.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment, pre-tax exceptional items and elements of deferred consideration on acquisitions in the Earth & Environmental division.
8 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials OO Revenue growth to 2015 is expected to be above learnt in the workplace: and formal career paths have the eight per cent annual compound average been implemented for AMECs core disciplines.
Late achieved by AMEC historically 2009 also saw the launch of AMEC Academy, designed to bring together all training and development OO Further margin improvement is expected to 2015, opportunities and deliver them using a consistent, with the rate of increase being more gradual than integrated and accessible global approach.
Other areas that achieved over the period 2006-2009. of focus include identifying where AMEC should operate, in which markets, with which customers and Move towards a more efficient capital structure on which projects: how to strengthen and manage OO AMEC intends to increase levels of investment, with relationships with customers and the supply chain: acquisitions seen as the most attractive use of cash how to simplify and optimise internal controls and OO A progressive approach to dividends will be pursued, processes: and how to improve AMECs health, safety with the group being satisfied with dividend cover and environmental record.
around current levels The success of this initiative has enabled AMEC to OO Additional shareholder distributions are possible, perform strongly through the downturn and position but the group has no plans in this regard for 2010. the group ahead of the anticipated global economic recovery.
Investment in the initiative in 2009 was Investment opportunities have been identified which 10 million and annual benefits of 18 million were would grow and develop the core sectors, details of achieved 2008: investment 10 million and annual which are set out in the segmental review on pages 11 benefits 7 million.
The year on year cumulative to 24.
A number of acquisitions consistent with these benefit was 11 million.
opportunities have been made over the last 12 months, details of which are included in the financial review on Global energy markets page 26.
At the same time, the group has continued to The sectors in which AMEC operates are forecast improve performance as a result of its own internal to grow over the long term, supported by global initiatives.
The Operational Excellence programme fundamentals.
The International Energy Agencys produced net benefits for the first time in 2009 and the World Energy Outlook 2009 forecasts a 40 per cent level is expected to increase significantly in 2010. increase in primary energy demand between 2007 and 2030.
Meeting this demand requires an investment of Operational Excellence US$1.1 trillion each year, in addition to any expenditure Launched in September 2007, Operational Excellence on limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
is designed to enhance the groups operating performance significantly, by providing a framework for Regardless of individual market fluctuations, political the implementation of best practice and continuous events and the ever-changing global economy, improvement.
Actions associated with the programme population growth continues.
The worlds population were substantially complete at the end of 2009 and the is estimated to increase by 19 per cent by 2030 to almost improvements are now being delivered.
For example, eight billion and ExxonMobil estimate there will be in engineering and project management, tools, 900 million more households.
People need energy processes and quality assurance systems have been and as the population grows and urbanisation increases, standardised, so improving flexibility and increasing the the demand for energy and commodities increases.
Projects such as those with BP Kodiak Tubular Bells and Clair Ridge have gained from these improvements.
In Employee Development, the concentration has been on how AMEC attracts, retains and develops its employees.
For example, over 1,350 senior employees have been through Managing for High Performance and are applying the lessons AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 9 Business and financial review continued The balance and mix of energy type may change both Basis of presentation and discontinued locally and globally but the pressure for more is an ever operations upward trend.
ExxonMobil estimate that 40 per cent of The following analysis is based on the results for primary energy will be used for electricity by 2030 and continuing operations before intangible amortisation, that all available technologies will be required to meet goodwill impairment and pre-tax exceptional items but this growth.
including joint venture profit before tax.
The results of the group and the Earth & Environmental division also AMEC has considerable experience and capability in exclude 3.7 million 2008 2.1 million of costs relating all of the worlds main energy sectors.
The group is well to elements of deferred consideration on acquisitions placed to respond to the increasing demand for clean by the Earth & Environmental division which, in line energy, and the need to improve the efficiency of mature with IFRS 3, are included within EBIT in the assets and add flexibility across the whole sector.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of Outlook discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the 2010 is expected to be another challenging year.
Although the level of project awards is forecast to improve in 2010 and stimulus funding is expected to The cash flows of discontinued businesses are fully be released, the timing of both activities is likely to be consolidated within AMEC up to the date of sale and back-end loaded.
Consequently, the growth of AMECs the assets and liabilities of discontinued businesses project pipeline is expected to accelerate as the year that have not been sold at the year end are shown progresses.
AMEC is well positioned: through the separately on the consolidated balance sheet.
careful positioning of Natural Resources in early stage FEED contracts: the refocusing of the Power & Process Segmental analysis division on a higher value, lower risk business model: Segmental analysis is provided for the groups core the strength of customer relationships: the activities in the Natural Resources, Power & Process acknowledged expertise of our employees: the longand Earth & Environmental divisions, as well as for term growth fundamentals of the markets served: non-core Investments and other activities.
and the strength of the order book at 3.2 billion.
Amounts and percentage movements relating to There is expected to be increasing pricing pressure continuing segmental earnings before net financing from customers, although the impact will be mitigated income, tax, goodwill impairment and intangible by the ongoing positive effects of Operational amortisation EBITA are stated before corporate Excellence and other internal efficiency drives.
costs of 38.1 million 2008: 37.4 million and In 2010, the investment cost in Operational Excellence pre-tax exceptional income of 12.6 million is expected to be 5 million, with an annual benefit 2008: 109.0 million.
of at least 40 million, up from the 18 million in 2009.
The group is firmly on track to achieve its margin target The average numbers of employees for the years of 8.5 per cent in 2010. ended 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 stated in this review include agency staff.
The average AMECs balance sheet remains exceptionally strong, number of employees in the Power & Process division and further selective value-enhancing acquisitions are for 2008 has been restated to include all categories of expected during 2010.
The group will continue to build employees in the Americas on a consistent basis.
its position consistent with its Vision 2015 strategy of assured growth, through a strengthened geographic footprint and enhanced capabilities in key sectors.
International Financial Reporting Standard 3 Business combinations.
International Financial Reporting Standard 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
10 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009
