GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW These were conducted in light of wider market Nevertheless, and as should be expected factors that placed operational and financial fromany effective evaluation process, constraints on our industry throughout the opportunities for improvement and specific year.
Inaddition, thisyear we undertook various priorities were identified and these have governance processes, procedures and been taken into account when structuring systems reviews, as necessary, to support our focus areas for 2016.
Among other actions, the enhanced statements we have made in the Board agreed it should continue its visits this Annual Report in the context of internal tomajor operations in order to maintain control and risk management assessment appropriate knowledge of the business, to andmonitoring, ongoing business viability and ensure it remains visible to the operations going concern.
Further details regarding these andhas access to a broad group of executives assessments and the relevant statements can and employees.
It also agreed to consider be found on pages 23, 41 and 54. revising the time scheduled for some meetings, Kelvin Dushnisky to review the allocation of time to core topics Chairman of the Board Lastly, and again in line with Board commitments and, in particular, to review opportunities to made in the 2014 Annual Report, this year schedule additional strategy and risk sessions.
weengaged Lintstock Limited Lintstock, Dear shareholders, toundertake our first  Further details as to the scope of the In 2015 we continued to review our governance performance evaluation.
This comprised an evaluation and its recommendations are model to ensure we maintain appropriate assessment of the Board as a whole, each provided on page 56. alignment with best practice requirements ofits Committees and individual Directors as well as Acacias operational objectives including myself.
The evaluation was in order to support management and our conducted via a two-stage process, comprising business model.
the completion of tailored questionnaires and participation in individual interviews In line with areas identified in last years by each Director.
The findings were presented governance report, in 2015 we continued to to, and collectively considered by, all Directors.
perform key oversight and monitoring activities Overall, the Board concluded it had operated Kelvin Dushnisky in the context of operational and financial effectively throughout the reporting period.
Chairman of the Board performance reviews, with a particular focus onsupporting management in the execution of further cost control and asset optimisation reviews.
SUMMARY OF THE BOARDS WORK IN 2015 THE BOARDS PLAN FOR 2016 The Board focused on the following areas in2015: The Boards focus areas for 2016 include: Conducting externally facilitated performance evaluations Continuing focus on risk management and internal controls Conducting risk management governance and framework reviews Conducting additional strategy and risk reviews in light of enhanced UK Corporate Governance requirements Reviewing processes and procedures and other factors relevant Overseeing operational, financial and exploration to its assessment of viability and going concern in light of new project performance UK Corporate Governance requirements Overseeing further optimisation and cost control reviews, Monitoring ongoing cost control and optimisation programme including organisational structure reviews implementation Overseeing operational, financial and exploration project performance Reviewing growth opportunities As regards asset optimisation and cost control reviews, the Board The makeup of the Boards focus areas for 2016 will not significantly continued to oversee management plans as regards life of mine planning change from 2015 and still comprises key monitoring activities as for all of Acacias operations.
regards Company performance across core business areas financial, operational and exploration and further strategic and risk reviews to support longer-term growth objectives.
Furthermore, the focus areas reflect any suggestions made as a result of the 2015 performance evaluation, details of which are available on page 56.
48 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION BOARD STRUCTURE Management Committees Executive Further support the Board Leadership Team Responsible for day-to-day and comprise the following Board management of our business key Committees: Responsible for the overall and operations and for  Disclosure management of our monitoring detailed  Reserves and resources organisation and our performance of all aspects  Capital allocation business of our business BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE EHS&S COMMITTEE NOMINATION & COMPENSATION COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE reviews and monitors o versees the development reviews and recommends financial statements of strategy and policy makes recommendations overall remuneration policy on CSR, environmental, to the Board on its and strategy oversees relationships health and safety and composition and that with internal and external reviews and approves security matters of its Committees auditors remuneration arrangements reviews the effectiveness of reviews and oversees for Executive Directors and oversees external audit CSR, environmental, health the formulation and Executive Leadership Team process and safety and security adoption of Acacia reviews internal audit plans management programmes corporate governance and systems policies and procedures compliance matters Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Membership attended Membership attended Membership attended Membership attended Andre Falzon Chair 5 5 Ambassador Juma V. Kelvin Dushnisky Chair 2 2 Michael Kenyon Chair 4 5 Mwapachu Chair 4 4 Peter Tomsett 5 5 Ambassador Juma V. Peter Tomsett 5 5 Graham Clow 3 4 Mwapachu 2 2 Rachel English 5 5 Graham Clow 4 4 Rachel English 4 4 Peter Tomsett 2 2 Steve Lucas 5 5 See p58 for more information See p61 for more information See p62 for more information See p63 for more information Board skills Board independence Board diversity We review Board composition regularly to ensure The Board believes that its current composition Board appointments are made on a merit basis and the range and breadth of skills provided as a result and its size is appropriate for the Companys measured against objective criteria.
Generally, we of Director appointments remains appropriate for ongoing requirements.
strive to attract a broad mix of individuals in order to our business.
create a diverse workgroup to support Acacias culture.
1 2 2 3 Geology 2 Engineering Financial 7 4 Non-independent Female African and 9 regional affairs Independent Male ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 49
