Chairmans governance overview In addition to filing an annual report in the UK, we are required to also file our annual report in the US on Form 20-F, which Good corporate governance helps to underpin complies with the reporting requirements of the New York Stock long-term effective company performance.
Exchange, US securities laws and the rules of the Securities and Your board is responsible for the governance Exchange Commission applicable to foreign private issuers.
We have produced for the second time a combined annual report structure at Amec Foster Wheeler and is and annual report on Form 20-F to ensure consistency in the committed to delivering the highest standards information provided to our UK and US investors.
for the benefit of all of the Groups stakeholders.
In the UK, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is the standard against which we are required to measure our Dear shareholder, corporate governance practices and provides the framework The objective of this report is to set out what we believe to be for our governance report.
In the opinion of the directors, essential to ensure that our strong governance frameworks are your Company has complied with the provisions of the applied throughout your Company.
This section of the report September 2014 edition of the Code in respect of the year specifically examines the details of the work of your board over ended 31 December 2015.
The governance report examines the past 12 months and the processes we implemented.
how we have applied these provisions.
As required by the SEC, a summary outlining the significant differences between the I mentioned in my letter last year that we support current best Companys corporate governance practices as a UK listed practice for boards to engage an external specialist to review company and those followed by US companies can be found their activity every three years.
Following the 2014 engagement on page 191. of Lintstock to assist us in this, I am pleased to report that, during 2015, every director had in-depth assessment interviews In 2016 the board will continue to apply the highest standards with one of their external facilitators.
of governance to assure your Company achieves optimal performance in these very challenging markets.
In September 2014, the UK Financial Reporting Council issued a revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code and we are reporting against this framework for the first time in respect of our 2015 financial year.
Designed to strengthen our focus on and enhance the quality of information around long-term health, strategy and sustained value creation, the revised code John Connolly includes significant changes including the introduction of a Chairman viability statement and a requirement for the board to report 10 March 2016 on the effectiveness of risk management in your Company.
Printed copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be obtained from www.
com 2015 is also the first year when your Company needed to be compliant with provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 on managements assessment of internal control over financial reporting, which we successfully achieved, on target, by 31 December 2015.
This process has added additional requirements to your boards committee activities.
In my Chairmans report on page 6, I outline the board changes which have occurred since the start of 2015.
Ian McHoul was appointed interim CEO on 17 January 2016 following Samir Brikho stepping down as Chief Executive.
The search for a new CEO, with which Korn Ferry has been appointed to assist us, is progressing well and an announcement will be made in due course once a decision has been reached.
Since my last report, Simon Thompson retired from the board and Neil Carson took on the roles of Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Roy Franklin joined the board on 1 January 2016.
Amec Foster Wheeler 40 Annual report and accounts 2015
