Governance GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BOARD COMPOSITION Sir John Parker Chairman A crucial component of good governance is ensuring diversity and an appropriate mix of skills, experience and effective challenge on the Board.
Since I became chairman in 2009, the non-executive membership of the Board has been entirely renewed and half of them were appointed within the last three years.
I am mindful however of the importance of balancing the need for regular refreshment with the need for experience and We continually work to maintain and develop continuity, so we have naturally slowed the pace of renewal over the last couple of years.
the framework for good governance.
During the year, Phuthuma Nhleko stepped down as a non-executive director and Tony ONeill, technical director, CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION joined the Board.
Phuthuma has been a valued member of the Board since 2011 and we have benefited greatly from The term Corporate Governance has become his broad international business experience and insights commonplace, but I sense people often attach quite and, in particular, from his knowledge of southern Africa.
Although there is wide In welcoming Tony to the Board, we signal our agreement that it relates to the directing and controlling commitment to engineering excellence and our continuing of an organisation, there is much less clarity on what this drive to achieve best practice operational, safety and actually means in practice.
I thought it might be useful therefore to state briefly I believe we have achieved a good balance of the right skills what we mean by corporate governance, and what it and domain knowledge on your Board at this time, but it is encompasses at Anglo American.
It is perhaps helpful something we keep under constant review.
More details on to consider this in terms of the overall aim of good the mix of skills and experience on the Board are given on governance to promote quality decision-making and page 72. the execution of those decisions, within a disciplined framework of policies, procedure and authorities.
BOARD VISITS TO OPERATIONS In practice, this means ensuring decisions are made by the right people, with the right information, at the right time Directors visited a number of operations during the year, and that they are then executed effectively.
That requires, which are described on page 74. for example, ensuring adequate challenge and avoiding I strongly believe that these opportunities to get out of groupthink, clearly defining roles and responsibilities, the boardroom, meet employees and kick the tyres and regularly and candidly reviewing performance.
This at operations are vitally important in terms of properly represents the corporate infrastructure that is described understanding the business and in actively monitoring over the next few pages and which provides the framework its values and culture in action.
I do hope the following reports convey the importance We continually work to maintain and develop this we attach to our governance arrangements and that you framework, while at the same time taking care not to find them useful and interesting.
allow the focus on means to obscure the end the overall goal of making and executing good decisions in the commercial interests of the Group, its shareholders and Sir John Parker other stakeholders.
Chairman In these challenging times for our industry and our Group, I believe it is all the more important that companies maintain the highest standards of corporate governance.
We will not compromise our governance principles and Iam pleased to report that, once again, your company has complied in full with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 65
