Our risks and uncertainties The Board takes overall responsibility for risk management with a The Board is very clear that some risks and uncertainties can have particular focus on determining the nature and extent of significant significant upsides.
Within this context, we trust and empower our risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives our risk people to take risks, make decisions and build confidence, providing appetite.
The Audit Committee takes responsibility for overseeing the a framework designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, effectiveness of sound risk management and internal control systems.
assurance that our resources are safeguarded and that the risks and Our risk management procedure was significantly enhanced during uncertainties facing the business are being assessed, managed and, the year as the Groups existing risk management processes were where appropriate, mitigated.
strengthened and broadened and the composition of our Risk Management Committee was expanded to reflect a multitude of skills We have identified 11 principal risks and uncertainties currently facing and experience and to reflect new risks arising from operating in new the Group.
These are considered by the Board to be material to the categories and territories.
This Committee has responsibility for future development, financial and operational performance or ensuring the development, maintenance, operation and review of position of AO as they could have an impact on our business model, robust risk management controls to help support AOs strategic strategy and resources.
These risks, together with the implications objectives and the achievement of its financial targets.
Further details and mitigating actions, are summarised below.
They are not set out on this process are set out in our Corporate Governance Statement.
Strategic Objective: Build Risk Implication Mitigating actions Our brand, websites, social Reduction in customer loyalty, Continued investment to raise and maintain brand awareness media strategy and offering an inability to attract new through a variety of mediums.
do not receive wide customers and a reduction Dedicated brand and social media team in place to generate acceptance.
Rigorous monitoring of customer feedback through quality processes.
In-house PR teams established to deal with press and events.
Objective: Drive Risk Implication Mitigating actions Failure of search engine A reduction in traffic to websites, Ongoing monitoring of the balance of paid and natural traffic strategy.
conversion rates and increased to websites.
Investment in sustainable search engine optimisation activities which adhere to search engine guidelines.
Negative impact on financial Continued focus on maintaining relationship with clients.
Failure to maintain culture Reduction in customer service AO culture is supported by a wide range of tools and events and recruit and retain levels and loyalty.
including a Group-wide intranet for internal communication, appropriate staff and shared employee values and regular business updates from the partners.
Group-wide company events and subsidised restaurant and recreation activities are in place.
Dedicated team focused on employee events management.
Group Executive Team and senior management team have a shared responsibility to drive culture throughout the business.
Introduction of Driver Academy initiative.
Objective: Broaden Risk Implication Mitigating actions Failure to maintain existing Inability to retail products Continued focus on building and maintaining existing and new relationships with key through Group websites at relationships with suppliers.
suppliers and build new ones.
attractive prices and impact Regular reviews with key suppliers to ensure all aspects of the customer service levels.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 40 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Objective: Expand Risk Implication Mitigating actions European expansion is Limitation of long-term growth, Entry into new territories only undertaken after extensive unsuccessful.
costs incurred in withdrawing research.
Expansion will leverage existing UK online retailing expertise and experience that has been built up over many years.
Capital requirements are relatively low and investment is managed in stages.
Operational Risk Implication Mitigating actions Dependence on Inability to deal with excessive Strengthened operational management teams in each territory Executive Directors.
to give benefit of localised decision making and to reduce reliance on individuals.
Senior employees receive attractive remuneration packages including long-term share options and career structures to encourage retention.
Changes to or introduction Regulatory changes or Regular monitoring of regulatory developments to ensure of new regulatory compliance failure affect strategy that potential changes are identified, any impact is assessed requirements.
and appropriate action is taken.
Monitoring operational performance to minimise environmental impact.
Changes in the macroReduction in consumer demand Monitoring of the macro-economic environment by Group economic environment.
or significant short-term strategy team to ensure that potential changes are identified, increases in consumer demand any impact is assessed and appropriate action is taken.
Planning for peak-trading events to ensure adequate operational capabilities.
Negative impact on operations and relationships with suppliers.
Material adverse impact on the Dedicated engineering teams on site with daily maintenance operation of the Groups business programmes to support the continued operation of the NDCs.
for a significant period of time, A number of standalone controls are in place to mitigate a major regulatory breaches fines and event occurring at one of the Groups sites.
The business is supported by a qualified health and safety team.
Sites are supported by an effective facilities management function.
Failure of technology Failure in one system could Physical and system controls in place to minimise data breaches.
disrupt others and could impact Software is rigorously tested and follows a robust release the availability of websites and process before being deployed in live environment.
the Groups ability to take and Operation of the IT environment is continuously monitored, process orders.
disaster recovery plans are in place to ensure business can recover from any interruptions with minimal impact.
Damage to reputation, loss of The AO.
com website and internal network is protected by a customer confidence and or firewall, a holistic view of routers and switches with potential for competitive advantage.
individual configuration change, frequently updated anti-virus and penetration testing.
An ethical hacker is regularly instructed in order to highlight any security concerns.
Further risks in relation to significant financial accounting matters are discussed in the Corporate Governance section on page 54.
The Companys Strategic Report is set out on pages 12 to 41.
Approved by the Board on 1 June 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Julie Finnemore Company Secretary AO World Plc AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
