Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Overview How our governance supports the delivery of our strategy.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman: Leif Johansson Chairman: Rudy Markham Chairman: Graham Chipchase Senior independent Non-Executive Director: Rudy Markham The Remuneration Committee The Audit Committee provides considers and sets, on behalf All Directors are collectively responsible for the success of the Group.
assurance to the Board in the of the Board, the remuneration The Non-Executive Directors exercise independent, objective judgement following areas: the integrity including pension rights and in respect of Board decisions, and scrutinise and challenge management.
of our financial reporting and compensation payments of They also have various responsibilities concerning the integrity of internal controls over financial Executive Directors and other financial information, internal controls and risk management.
matters: our internal controls over senior executives.
No Director non-financial matters: compliance The Board is responsible for setting our strategy and policies, overseeing is involved in deciding his or with laws and our Code of risk and corporate governance, and monitoring progress towards meeting her own remuneration.
Conduct: the quality of the our objectives and annual plans.
It is accountable to our shareholders for Companys relationship with the proper conduct of the business and our long-term success, and its external auditor: the role, represents the interests of all stakeholders.
resources and effectiveness of The Board conducts an annual review of the Groups overall strategy.
the Companys internal audit The CEO, CFO and SET take the lead in developing our strategy, which function: and the effectiveness of is then reviewed, constructively challenged and approved by the Board.
the Companys risk management framework, in each case with the The Board has delegated some of its powers to the CEO and operates ultimate aim of protecting our with the assistance of four Committees.
Members of the Board and their biographies are shown on pages 86 and 87.
Corporate Governance Report from page 90 Audit Committee Report from Directors Remuneration page 98 Report from page 103 Board Committee membership Nomination and 1 Name Audit Remuneration Governance Science Independent 2 2 Cori Bargmann Genevive Berger 3 4 Bruce Burlington Chairman Ann Cairns 5 3 Graham Chipchase Chairman Jean-Philippe Courtois Marc Dunoyer n a 6 Leif Johansson Chairman n a Rudy Markham Chairman 7 7 7 4 Nancy Rothwell Chairman Pascal Soriot n a 8 Shriti Vadera 9 5 9 John Varley Chairman Marcus Wallenberg 1 As determined by the Board for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
2 Cori Bargmann was elected as a Non-Executive Director and became a member of the Science Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
3 Bruce Burlington and Graham Chipchase became members of the Nomination and Governance Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
4 Bruce Burlington succeeded Nancy Rothwell as Chairman of the Science Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
5 Graham Chipchase succeeded John Varley as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
6 L eif Johansson was considered by the Board to be independent upon his appointment as Chairman.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
7 Nancy Rothwell retired from the Board with effect from 24 April 2015.
8 Shriti Vadera became a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 17 February 2015.
9 John Varley retired from the Board with effect from 24 April 2015.
84 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Corporate Governance Nomination and Science Committee Senior Executive Team Key governance roles Governance Committee Chairman Chairman: Bruce Burlington The members of the SET are Chairman: Leif Johansson CEO Leadership, operation and governance of the Board, ensuring CFO The Science Committee Nine Executive ViceBoard effectiveness The Nomination and Governance provides assurance to the Presidents EVPs from across Committee recommends new Board regarding the Groups CEO the organisation, representing Board appointments for decision R&D activities by reviewing Responsible to the Board for the the three science units, the by the Board and, more broadly, and assessing our approaches management, development and four commercial units considers succession planning in our chosen therapy areas: the performance of the business including GPPS, Operations for senior executive management scientific technology and R&D Senior independent & IT and HR and Board positions.
The capabilities we deploy: the quality Non-Executive Director General Counsel Nomination and Governance and development of our scientists: Acts as a sounding board for the Chief Compliance Officer Committee also advises the Board and our decision making.
Chairman and an intermediary for on significant developments in other Directors and shareholders corporate governance.
The Senior Executive Team SET when necessary is the body through which the CEO exercises the authority delegated to him by the Board.
It usually meets monthly and considers major business issues and makes recommendations to the CEO, and typically reviews matters that are to be submitted to the Board for its consideration.
The CEO is responsible for establishing and chairing the SET.
Nomination and Governance Science Committee on The biographies of SET Committee from page 93 page 94 members are shown on pages 88 and 89 Gender split of Directors Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors Male 8 U nder 3 years 2 Female 4 Cori Bargmann Ann Cairns 36 years 5 Leif Johansson Genevive Berger Bruce Burlington Graham Chipchase Shriti Vadera Directors nationalities 69 years 2 Jean-Philippe Courtois Rudy Markham American 2 9 years 1 British 4 Marcus Wallenberg French 4 Swedish 2 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 85
