Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 51 Chairmans introduction Diversity In seeking to recruit new Directors with relevant experience, we specifically ask search firms to identify suitable female candidates.
We do not however believe in gender quotas, preferring to appoint individuals based on merit.
Details of our diversity and inclusion policy can be found on the website balfourbeatty.
Accountability We believe that Balfour Beattys processes and procedures have been strengthened during the year as the gated approval process has been embedded into the organisation, enabling the Board to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups trading position and its prospects.
We continue to keep under review the matters reserved to the Board and the terms of reference of the Board and its Committees.
Copies can be found onthe website.
Remuneration A n ew executive team The remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and can be found on the website.
We do not currently intend and arefreshed Board to revert to shareholders with any proposed changes until our AGM in 2017.
Details of how we will operate that policy in 2016 can be have the privilege of taking found in the Remuneration report on pages 68 to 84.
Relations with shareholders Balfour Beatty forward Our investor relations programme is of critical importance to the Board, particularly as we progress through this period of change.
The Board routinely receives, at each meeting, a comprehensive report from our investor relations team as well as periodic reports from analysts and feedback from any meetings which the Directors As described in my predecessors report last year there has been a have with institutional investors.
We recognise the AGM as an significant change in the composition of the Companys leadership important opportunity for private investors to engage with the both at Board and executive level during 2015.
All resolutions will, however, be put to a poll rather than changes at Board level are set out on page 54.
The arrival of Leo a show of hands.
This reflects best practice and will ensure that Quinn, as Group Chief Executive, at the start of the year signalled shareholders who are not able to attend the meeting have their the start of a period of detailed self-analysis and self-help built votes fully taken into account.
around our Build to Last programme.
The appointment of Philip Harrison asChief Financial Officer has, as predicted, brought awealth of relevant experience.
Leadership Philip Aiken AM Following my own appointment, I have sought to re-balance the Chairman background experience of the non-executive members of the Board, by increasing relevant construction contracting sector skills and experience through the appointments of Stuart Doughty and Stephen Billingham.
Each of the Directors brings skills and experiences which enhance the quality of debate in the boardroom and in the case of the non-executive Directors provides additionally, guidance and challenge to the executive Directors.
The Directors believe that the Board provides effective leadership.
Compliance with the Code The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code is the The Company has complied with the requirements of the Code standard applying to good corporate governance practice in the from 10 August 2015 to the end of the accounting period.
UK and the Listing Rules require listed companies to disclose From 1 January 2015 to 10 August 2015, the effectiveness of whether they have complied with the provisions of the Code the Groups whistleblowing procedure was kept under review by www.
the Business Practices Committee, but otherwise the Company complied with the requirements of the Code.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
