Barratt Developments PLC 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Chairmans introduction The Board is focused on ensuring good governance is embedded in our culture in order tohelp promote the long term success John Allan ofthe Group.
Chairman a Key achievements of the Board a Areas of focus for the Board duringFY15 in FY16 Financial health Review the Groups strategy and appetite for risk: Led the Group to deliver a record profit before Determine key objectives for FY17 and agree to tax of 565.5m: whom eachof the objectives should be assigned forsuccessful delivery: Agreed the payment of ordinary dividends totalling 117.7m: and Subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM and beyond, continue with the Capital Return Plan: Recommending both a final ordinary dividend of 10.3 pence per share equating to 102.3m To fully comply with the UK Corporate Governance and the first specialcash payment of 100m to Code issued September 2014: shareholders under our Capital Return Plan.
Support David Thomas and Neil Cooper as they Board succession transition into their new roles: I received a full and tailored induction: Deliver the action plan arising from the FY15 Effectively used succession planning to manage performance evaluation: and Mark Clares retirement and the promotion of Undertake an externally facilitated performance DavidThomas to the position of Chief Executive: and evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
Appointed Neil Cooper as Chief Financial Officer Designate.
Stewardship Undertook individual health and safety site reviews with theGroup Safety, Health and Environmental Director to promote our safety firstculture: and Visited sites and divisions individually and collectively, holding Board meetings at two regional locations.
Best practice Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control and principal risk assessment processes: and Reviewed and updated our key policies, the schedule of matters reserved and terms of reference as well as those of the Boards Committees.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 I am pleased to present my first corporate governance report for Risk management and internal controls the Company since taking over as Chairman in November 2014.
Given the risks inherent with building and construction, there is appropriate awareness of risk amongst Directors.
During the 2014 15 financial year your Company fully complied Board members are fully cognisant of the individual and collective with the main and supporting principles of the UK Corporate responsibility of the Board to: i determine the nature and extent Governance Code the Code, issued in September 2012 of the risks the Board is willing to take to achieve the Companys acopy of which is available from www.
We describe strategic corporate objectives: and ii to review the effectiveness how we have applied the main principles throughout pages 51 of the risk management systems and internal controls in to 95.
It has also made good progress towards achieving full conjunction with the Audit Committee.
The commentary on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in the management of risk and the review of principal risks and September 2014 which will apply for FY16.
The Company has uncertainties on pages 40 to 45 contains an analysis of how the also complied with the requirements under the Disclosure risks affecting the Group have changed in the financial year.
and Transparency Rules, the Listing Rules and the BIS Given the focus on continuously improving our health and safety Directors Remuneration Reporting regulations and narrative performance, we established a Safety, Health and Environmental reporting requirements.
Board Committee the SHE Committee, chaired by Richard Akers, at the beginning of the 2015 financial year to assist the The Board recognises that good corporate governance requires Board with discharging its responsibilities in this area moving forward.
Details of the work they have undertaken in their first more than just awareness and adherence to the Code.
It is focused on seeking to ensure that good governance is embedded year are set out on pages 73 to 74. in our culture and that high standards of corporate governance Shareholder engagement apply across all areas of the business to support the long term success of the Group.
The Board receives regular updates on As a Board we remain focused on delivering long term value to changes in corporate governance requirements and strives to our shareholders, whilst ensuring that we continue to promote respond to such changes in advance of mandatory application sustainable developments and homes.
Accordingly, we place as and when it is practicable to do so.
continuing importance upon maintaining strong relationships with our shareholders and other key stakeholders.
Full details on how Retirements from the Board we engage with our shareholders are provided on pages 60 to 61.
As reported last year, Bob Lawson stepped down from his position as Chairman after six years service on 12 November Fair, balanced and understandable 2014.
After nine years with the Company, Mark Clare stepped Having established a robust process for determining if the down from his position as Chief Executive on 30 June 2015 and 2014 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and from the Board on 31 July 2015. understandable, the same process was adopted to the assessment of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The process Appointments and succession is detailed on page 69 and the Boards formal statement on the Annual Report and Accounts is contained within the Directors Following Mark Clares informal indication that he was considering retiring, the Board, through its Nomination Responsibility Statement on page 102.
Committee, began the search for a new Chief Executive supported The following pages set out our governance structures, by an external search consultant.
Candidates for the position processes and the work undertaken by the Board and its were considered from both inside and outside the business.
David Thomas, Group Finance Director of the Company, was identified as the most suitable candidate for the position.
As a result, the search for a new Group Finance Director commenced John Allan using different external search consultants.
On 18 June 2015, Chairman we announced the appointment of Neil Cooper to the position of 8 September 2015 Chief Financial Officer Designate.
Full details of the recruitment process can be found on page 64.
Until Neil Cooper commences his role as Chief Financial Officer, David Thomas will fulfil both this and the Chief Executive role.
The Chairman and the Board are conscious of the need to maintain good governance practices throughout this period.
They have, therefore, assessed the robustness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and procedures to ensure that they remain appropriate to mitigate against any significant risks arising during the period David assumes this dual role.
Barratt Developments PLC 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Chairmans introduction continued Overview a Leadership a Effectiveness Your Board is collectively responsible for the long term success Your Board continuously reviews its balance of skills, of your Company.
Accordingly, the Directors constructively experience, independence and knowledge to ensure that they challenge proposals relating to strategy, performance, remain appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibility and accountability.
This seeks to ensure responsibilities effectively.
The Board undertakes an annual that all decisions are well considered, justified and of the evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its Committees highest quality.
This section details the structure and composition of the Board This section outlines the Board evaluation process undertaken and its Committees, how responsibilities are divided amongst in FY15, the outcomes and progress made with the actions the Board, its Committees and individual directors, the main arising from the FY14 evaluation.
It also sets out the induction activities of the Board during FY15 and its main focus areas process used for new directors.
See pages 51 to 55 See pages 56 to 58 a Accountability a Relations with shareholders Your Board is mindful of the risk environment in which it Your Board recognises the importance of maintaining open operates when making any decisions.
It maintains sound risk dialogue with its shareholders, both private and institutional.
management and internal control systems and regularly A number of events and communications take place on an reviews the principal risks and assesses the appropriate annual basis to regularly communicate with shareholders appetite for risk in striving to achieve the Companys andto encourage their participation.
This section summarises how the Board and individual This section provides details on the Boards approach to risk Directors engaged with shareholders throughout FY15 and management, its internal controls and risk management howthe shareholders can communicate with the Company.
systems and its processes for evaluating reporting on the Company is fair, balanced and understandable.
See page 59 See pages 60 to 61 a Remuneration The Board, through its Remuneration Committee, has established a formal and transparent procedure for developing its policy on executive remuneration.
The Groups Remuneration Policy was presented to, and approved by, shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is designed to promote the long term success of the Group.
No changes are proposed to the policy for FY16.
This section summarises the Groups Remuneration Policy, how the policy operated during FY15 and how it will be applied in FY16.
