36 Governance Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance THIS YEARS BOARD EVALUATION...
CONCLUDED THAT THE BOARD WAS WELL RUN AND CONTINUED TO BE OPERATING EFFECTIVELY.
John Watson Chairman in addition the directors now receive Introduction Board Effectiveness their Board and interim papers via an As Chairman, I am responsible for the During the year under review, the online portal which has the benefits of leadership of the Board and ensuring Board has been particularly focused on improved security and speed of access.
that it conducts itself in an effective the following: Further progress on these matters manner.
The Board has agreed clearly 1.
Strategy: We have focused on is ongoing.
defined roles for the Chief Executive making our Board meetings more and myself, and the non-executive forward-looking and strategic Board Evaluation directors challenge management in nature.
This years Board evaluation, which was and contribute to the development 2.
Risk identification and management: internally facilitated, concluded that the of strategy.
We have broadened the scope of Board was well run and continued to The Board, its Committees and our risk register to examine more be operating effectively.
The following individual directors are subject to annual closely the control structures that areas were highlighted for further performance evaluation and all directors mitigate risk.
development and improvement: are subject to annual re-election 3.
Succession planning: The work 1. more time and resources to be by shareholders.
carried out this year has focused devoted to the consideration of risks The Board considers strategy, perforon matters which are covered in at Board meetings: and mance, risk, major land acquisitions, detail in the Nomination Committee 2. below Board level succession potential conflicts of interest and reports Report on page 40. planning: and from external advisers at each Board 4.
The areas highlighted for meeting.
One meeting a year is devoted 3. further improvements to the quality improvement in last years externally almost entirely to the consideration of Board information.
facilitated Board evaluation, were: of strategy.
In addition, the executive These matters are already being i CR performance and reporting: directors meet regularly with the addressed and progress will be reported regional chairmen and divisional boards, ii strategy for the management on in next years report.
which gives an appropriate level of of employees: oversight and direction to the business.
Board Committees iii develop KPIs used by the Group to measure performance: and The roles of the Board Committees and iv improve the quality of their work during the year are described Board information.
in greater detail below in the reports of the Committee Chairmen.
As a result, we have appointed a Head of Sustainability to assist in the During the year the Board Committee implementation of improvements to on Executive Directors Remuneration our CR performance and reporting, reviewed the Remuneration Policy and we have also developed a plan against current market practice to to improve the management of our ensure it remains fit for purpose, workforce.
A review has taken place of approved the award and exercise of the Groups KPIs and this has resulted, awards under the Companys longinter alia, in a change to the way we term incentive arrangements and measure the Groups customer care approved the bonus payable to the performance, with effect from 1 August executive directors.
Changes have been made to the information provided to the Board and Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance v50.
indd 36 30 10 2015 09:39 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 37 The Nomination Committee has of the Board Committee on Executive Diversity continued to make progress with Directors Remuneration and the The Board is committed to always succession planning at and below senior independent non-executive making appointments on merit, against Board level, and Committee members director consulted with a number of objective criteria, and the Board strongly consulted with major shareholders on major shareholders and shareholder supports the principle of boardroom diversity and the proposal to re-appoint representative bodies on matters diversity in all its aspects.
The Groups the Chairman for a further three concerning diversity, succession female employees make up 27% 2014 year term.
27% of the total workforce, while The Audit Committee, aside from its Further information for shareholders 14% 2014 14% of the Board and 14% responsibilities in respect of the interim is available under Shareholder 2014 15% of its senior management and annual reports also dealt with a Information on page 101 to 104 are women.
review of risks and internal control, and also on the Groups website at considered the need for internal audit, www.
Shareholder Engagement Bribery Act compliance, the Groups disaster recovery procedures and The Board is committed to high the Groups IT systems upgrade, as standards of corporate governance well as the introduction of an annual throughout all areas of the Groups John Watson compliance certificate to be completed operations for the benefit of its Chairman by all senior management throughout shareholders and other stakeholders.
12 October 2015 The Company encourages active dialogue with its private and institutional Compliance with the UK shareholders, both current and Corporate Governance Code prospective.
Meetings are held with both existing and prospective I am pleased to confirm that the institutional shareholders on a regular Board considers that it has complied basis and as requested.
Shareholders are with the detailed provisions of the UK also kept up to date with Company Corporate Governance Code published affairs through the Annual and Half Year in September 2012 throughout the year.
Reports, Trading Updates and Interim The Board considers that it will be able Management Statements.
The AGM is to comply with the requirements of used to communicate with institutional the revised Code which was published and private investors and the whole in September 2014 and which will first Board is available for questions, both apply to the Group in the financial year during and also informally, before to 31 July 2016. and after the meeting.
The senior independent non-executive director is always available to discuss issues with current and prospective shareholders and institutions, as required.
In addition, the whole Board is regularly updated on shareholder and investor views and activities at Board meetings by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
During the year the Chairman Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance v50.
