Accountability This means that we have to keep refreshed the way in which we work, Introduction from the chairman the matters that we discuss and the decisions that we take.
It remains our goal to keep our board time clear for strategic thinking while asking the committees to undertake much of the core tasks of monitoring and oversight.
We need to ensure that we have the right skills round the board table to carry out these tasks.
External interest in what boards do increases year on year and it is for this reason that we set out, in the following detail, a description of our activities.
Our agendas are prepared in such a way that we have the time to discuss the key issues of the moment without affecting the proper oversight of those matters with which we have to deal.
As will be seen from the reports of the committees, directors have visited a number of BPs facilities during the year.
This is a key part not only of building our understanding of the business but also testing the mood and the morale of our people in these difficult times.
As we look to the future, it is vital that the work of the board evolves with the business.
We cannot be working to one rhythm while the business works to another.
It is all too easy for a board to work to a historic schedule created to address past challenges.
For this reason I am pleased that this It is vital that the work of the board evolves year we have carried out a fully externally facilitated evaluation.
We cannot be working reflecting on the conclusions which are set out elsewhere: it is important that we keep on learning.
However, behind all of this an effective board to one rhythm while the business works has to keep asking itself two key questions: are we talking about the right to another.
things and are we adding value?
It is some time since we reviewed our governance policies.
The results of our evaluation will be part of this process.
Prompted by changes to the Governance Code, we have further The membership and work of the board have continued to evolve during focused on risk and our systems of internal control.
This has been driven by several factors, not least the challenging oil valuable process for the board.
After what seems almost annual changes price environment which now dominates our industry.
In the years to the Code, I welcome the FRCs decision that this will not be reviewed following the Deepwater Horizon accident, the workload of the board, as I again until 2019, enabling the UK governance landscape to settle and have previously reported, increased substantially in response to the issues establish.
I am however looking forward to BP being able to contribute to with which the company was faced.
While the number of our meetings the FRCs work on succession and culture, which both remain key issues has decreased, we still face evolving challenges and I am grateful to Bob, for any board.
his executive colleagues and my fellow directors for the work that they Carl-Henric Svanberg have done.
The commitment required of all of us certainly has not reduced Chairman with the number of meetings.
BP governance framework Monitoring, Owners shareholders BP board information governance and assurance principles: BP board  BP goal Group audit  Governance process Nomination Remuneration Chairmans Gulf of Mexico Geopolitical Finance function  Delegation model committee committee committee committee committee  Executive limitations Safety and SEEAC Audit operational risk committee function Delegation Group ethics and Delegation of authority compliance function through policy with monitoring Business integrity Strategy group risks annual plan function Accountability External market and reputation Assurance through Group chief executive research monitoring and reporting Independent auditor Group chief executives delegations Independent adviser Independent advice Executive management if requested Resource Group people Group Group financial Group Group ethics disclos ure commitments committee risk committee operations risk and compliance committee meeting GPC GFRC committee committee GDC GECC RCM GORC 62 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Delegation
