Geopolitical committee Chairmans and nomination committees Chairmans introduction Chairmans introduction I am pleased to report on the work of this committee that was formed I am pleased to report on the two board committees that I chair.
I have been asked to chair this committee until the 2016 actively sought to develop the membership of the board and its AGM, when I will retire from the board and Sir John Sawers will take the governance during the year.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Antony Burgmans Committees chair Committee chair Chairmans committee Role of the committee Role of the committee The committee monitors the companys identication and management of To provide a forum for matters to be discussed among the non-executive geopolitical risk.
Key responsibilities Key responsibilities To monitor the companys identication and management of major and Evaluate the performance and the effectiveness of the group chief correlated geopolitical risk and to consider reputational as well as executive.
financial consequences: Review the structure and effectiveness of the business organization.
Major geopolitical risks are those brought about by social, economic Review the systems for senior executive development and determine or political events that occur in countries where BP has material the succession plan for the group chief executive, the executive investments that can be jeopardized: directors and other senior members of executive management.
Correlated geopolitical risks are those brought about by social, economic Determine any other matter that is appropriate to be considered by or political events that occur in countries where BP may or may not have non-executive directors.
a presence but that can lead to global political instability.
Opine on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any committees To review the companys activities in the context of political and comprised solely of non-executive directors.
economic developments on a regional basis and to advise the board on these elements in its consideration of BPs strategy and the annual plan.
Members The committee comprises all non-executive directors who join the Members committee at the date of their appointment to the board.
The chief executive attends the committee when requested.
Antony Burgmans Member and committee chair since chair September 2015 Activities during the year Paul Anderson Member since September 2015 The committee met seven times in the year.
During the year the committee: Frank Bowman Member since September 2015 Monitored the progress of the Gulf of Mexico litigation and, in particular, Cynthia Carroll Member since September 2015 considered the proposals which led to the Agreements in Principle to Phuthuma Nhleko Member since September 2015 settle federal and state claims and claims made by local government entities.
John Sawers Member since September 2015 Reviewed BPs strategy in light of the continuing decline in oil prices.
Andrew Shilston Member since September 2015 Considered the succession and organization of the executive team.
Evaluated the performance of the chairman and chief executive.
Carl-Henric Svanberg and Bob Dudley attend all committee meetings and the executive vice president, strategy and regions and the vice president, government and political affairs attend as required.
Activities during the year The committee met twice during the year.
During those meetings it considered: The committees terms of reference.
An overview of the companys current geopolitical risks.
The relationship of the committee with the International Advisory Board.
The effect of the oil price on geopolitical matters.
The companys relationships with national oil companies.
The companys relationships in specic countries and regions.
74 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Corporate governance Nomination committee Role of the committee The committee ensures an orderly succession of candidates for directors and the company secretary.
Key responsibilities Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment or reappointment as directors.
Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment as company secretary.
Keep under review the mix of knowledge, skills and experience of the board to ensure the orderly succession of directors.
Review the outside directorship commitments of non-executive directors.
Members Carl-Henric Svanberg Member since September 2009: committee chair chair since January 2010 Paul Anderson Member since April 2012 Cynthia Carroll Member from May 2011 to May 2015 Antony Burgmans Member since May 2011 Ann Dowling Member since May 2015 Ian Davis Member since August 2010 Brendan Nelson Member since April 2012 Andrew Shilston Member since May 2015, but attended previously as senior independent director During the year Ann Dowling and Andrew Shilston joined the committee and Cynthia Carroll stood down.
Activities during the year In 2014 the committee had previously identied Paula Reynolds and Sir John Sawers as candidates to join the board: they then both joined in May 2015.
With the total number of the board standing at 15, the committee met once during the year to carry out a broader review of board composition and skills in light of BPs strategy and the potential sequencing of board retirements.
The committee focused on non-executive membership of the board as executive succession is considered in the chairmans committee.
By most standards the board would be considered large.
The committee notes that as Antony Burgmans and Phuthuma Nhleko will be standing down at the 2016 AGM, the optimum size of the board should be considered together with the skills relevant for the board and its committees.
The committee was of the view that the current board is well balanced with an appropriate breadth of skills.
Industry experience needs to be maintained as does the balance between former chief executives and those with different functional and sectoral expertise.
The need to maintain diversity in all forms remains a major consideration for a board in a global business and the committee reviewed how potential appointments meet the boards aspirations on diversity, inclusiveness and meritocracy.
The committee also remained mindful of BPs commitment to Lord Davies report and work on women on boards.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 75
