strategic report Chairmans Performance review This year marks Simon Litherlands second full year as Chief Executive introduction Officer.
He and his team have continued to execute the strategy launched in 2013, and have now largely delivered the cost saving programme.
In the annual report last year I highlighted the amount Despite difficult market conditions, this of change the organisation was undergoing, a major challenge for the company.
Once again, the business as a whole has responded past year has seen Britvic deliver a record well to this challenge and has successfully executed our plans.
Profit after Trading conditions have been difficult across all our core markets.
In tax of 112.5m has translated into the UK, in particular, our customers, the supermarkets, are facing a variety of structural challenges.
The weather has also had an impact, underlying adjusted earnings per share to our benefit in France, but it worked against us in both GB and of 46.7p, an increase of 12.0%.
The Ireland, where the wet summer prevented us from delivering four quarters of revenue growth.
The new PET line in Leeds is now close board is declaring a final dividend of to being operational and marks the start of an investment 16.3p, bringing the full year dividend to programme to ensure the business is fit for purpose for the years 23.0p, a 10.0% increase on the previous ahead, with further investment in 2016 also announced.
We continue to remain fully International expansion is a key element of the strategy.
Progress in the USA has been slower than planned but it remains a priority and committed to our progressive dividend this summer we announced the acquisition of the Brazilian soft policy and paying out 50% of earnings in drinks company Empresa Brasileira fide Bebidas e Alimentos SA Ebba.
This represents our first acquisition outside of Europe and dividends in the coming years.
whilst we are excited by the prospects for us in this market, the board recognises the current challenges that Brazil faces.
I am reassured by the extensive due diligence undertaken prior to the acquisition and the funding structure in place that sees half of the consideration deferred until 2017.
The board were very supportive of the acquisition and the raising of equity to part finance it.
The board believes a prudent approach to the balance sheet is appropriate, giving the business the flexibility to undertake value creating projects, such as the supply chain investment programme.
Our people I would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and commitment throughout the year.
We have continued to encourage employees to participate, where possible, in the share incentive schemes available.
They offer significant rewards for much appreciated hard work and allow our people to share in the success of the business.
The board In the past year, there have been some changes to the board structure with new appointments and departures.
After 16 years with the business, John Gibney will retire in April 2016.
John has made a remarkable impact on the organisation and has contributed significantly to the growth and development of Britvic.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank John for his exceptional service and wish him all the best for the future.
I am pleased to announce the appointment of Mathew Dunn, who joined us in September and succeeds John Gibney as Chief Financial Officer following the preliminary results on 25 November 2015, allowing a sensible transition period.
He joins us from SABMiller plc, where he held the position of CFO of South African Breweries Ltd.
The extensive knowledge and experience of both international markets and managing partnerships that Mathew brings with him will be invaluable in the coming years.
Underlying adjusted earnings per share excludes the impact of the share placement in July 2015, which increases the adjusted diluted EPS by 0.4 pence 2 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015
