Chairmans Letter Remuneration Committee Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder Following the completion of the IPO in May 2014, I am pleased to present the Companys first Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 January 2015.
Since the IPO, the Remuneration Committee has carefully considered all relevant aspects of Executive Director remuneration at Card Factory against market practice for listed companies in the UK and in particular those in the retail sector, and against the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code to ensure they are appropriate and balanced, support the Company strategy to deliver shareholder value through driving our four pillar approach, and align executive and shareholder interests.
Key remuneration decisions during the year have included: the review of Executive Director salaries in advance of the IPO, to ensure they are market competitive.
Salaries were reviewed against UK-listed companies of similar size and complexity, and against other listed retail companies: the introduction of an annual bonus that is aligned to current best practice, which primarily rewards delivery of EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, and is subject to a personal performance underpin.
The maximum bonus opportunities for the CEO and CFO have been set with reference to market levels at 125% and 100% of salary, respectively.
A portion of bonuses will be deferred if executives have not yet met their shareholding guidelines see below.
The Committee will have discretion to reduce the amount of any bonus entitlement, or defer awards and make them subject to additional conditions, in the event of material misstatement, gross misconduct or reputational damage.
In addition, from 2015 16, bonus awards will be subject to clawback for up to two years after payment: bonuses for the year ended 31 January 2015 were awarded at 77% of maximum and targets for the next financial year were agreed: the introduction of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, and granting of awards in May.
The LTIP incentivises EPS growth over a three-year time period, and vesting is also subject to a return on capital underpin.
LTIP opportunities for the CEO and CFO have been set with reference to market levels at 175% and 150% of salary, respectively.
Vested LTIP awards are also subject to a two-year holding period.
The Committee will have discretion to reduce unvested LTIP awards, in the event of material misstatement, gross misconduct or reputational damage.
In addition, from 2015 16 LTIP awards will be subject to clawback for up to two years after payment: the introduction of executive shareholding requirements of 200% of salary for the CEO and 150% for the CFO.
Both Executive Directors currently significantly exceed this requirement: and consideration of a UK tax-qualified all-employee SAYE Save As You Earn scheme to promote share ownership among our wider employee population which will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 27 May 2015.
48 48 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S The intention of this remuneration report is to provide a transparent explanation of our policies, and describe their implementation during our first year as a listed company.
Our Annual Report on Remuneration summarises the 2014 15 remuneration for the Executive Directors including, for each Executive Director, a single figure for their total remuneration which reflects a strong first set of results for the Company as a listed company.
The remuneration framework for 2015 16 will be similar to 2014 15.
Our remuneration framework ensures that we are well placed to motivate our Executive Directors to achieve the business objectives of the Group and to continue the Companys strong performance record in order to achieve our aim of creating long-term shareholder value.
We will continue to review our remuneration policies to ensure they are in line with market best practice and we value all feedback from shareholders and hope to receive your support at the forthcoming AGM.
Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 March 2015 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 49 49
