Chairmans Letter Corporate Governance Geoff Cooper Chairman Dear Shareholder adopt suitable terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees: Following the admission of the Companys shares to the agree an approach to investor relations with the premium listing segment of the Official List maintained Board: and by the Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on facilitate the Remuneration Committees creation of a the London Stock Exchange IPO on 20 May 2014, I am formal remuneration policy.
pleased to be able to present the Companys first Corporate Governance Report.
The Company undertook a search and selection process to identify a suitable independent Non-Executive The Board recognises, understands and is committed to Chairman and independent Non-Executive Directors the high standards of governance that are expected of with myself as Non-Executive Chairman, Octavia all premium listed companies.
Morley and David Stead being appointed prior to the IPO.
Paul McCrudden was appointed to the Board as an Before completion of the IPO, we carried out a Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 December thorough review of the existing governance structure of 2014.
In addition, and pursuant to the terms of the the Group with various advisers including Linklaters LLP Relationship Agreement details of which are set out in and KPMG LLP in their role as reporting accountant.
the Director Report on page 69, Graeme Coulthard This helped us identify any steps we needed to take was appointed as Charterhouse Capital Partner LLPs before the IPO to ensure the business would operate Charterhouse representative Non-Executive Director.
within the applicable rules and principles.
It also At that time, funds managed by Charterhouse when enabled the Directors to confirm that the Group has their shareholdings in the Company were taken procedures in place which provide a reasonable basis together, comprised the Companys largest for the Board to make proper judgements on a shareholder Charterhouse Funds.
continuing basis as to the financial position and prospects of the Group.
Up until the time of Pauls appointment, the Company did not technically comply with the UK Corporate From the review, we found that the following key Governance Code the Code recommendation that at actions would need to be taken by the Company before least half of our Board, excluding myself, should the IPO: comprise non-executive directors the Board considered appoint an independent Non-Executive Chairman to be independent as described in the Code.
The to lead the Board: Board consisted of myself Non-Executive Chairman strengthen the independence of the Board and and three further Non-Executive Directors and two the Committees through the addition of three Executive Directors but the Board did not regard independent Non-Executive Directors: Graeme Coulthard as independent.
It was the Boards intention to address this imbalance after completing the create an organised induction process for new IPO and it has now done so having found a candidate Non-Executive Directors joining before and after that has the skills the Board felt would benefit the IPO: the business.
ensure that matters requiring the Boards approval are clearly identified: 32 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S Each Independent Non-Executive Director has a proven As a Board, we recognise that the way we apply the track record in business at a senior level and expertise principles of good governance must evolve and adapt of relevance to the Group and all of the new Directors to the changing needs of the business and we look have had the benefit of a full induction programme to forward to using sound governance in a pragmatic way enable them to gain a good understanding of the that supports the long-term, sustainable growth of the Groups business and operations.
Group around its four growth pillars.
We have put in place clear parameters governing At our AGM this year, all of our Directors will be seeking matters that must be approved by the Board and these reappointment but, following his resignation from the are summarised on page 35.
Board on 3 February 2015 pursuant to the terms of the Relationship Agreement, I would like to take this We have also put in a place a Committee structure in opportunity to thank Graeme Coulthard for being such accordance with the requirements for a premium listed a highly supportive and effective Non-Executive company.
The membership, roles and activities of the Director, both during the important period of Committees are detailed in separate sections of this Charterhouses ownership of the Company, and during report together with the reports of the Audit and Risk its early months as a listed company.
Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Other than as highlighted above and in the report below, the Board considers that the Group has Open and frequent communication with our complied with the requirements of the UK Corporate shareholders is very important to us and, since the IPO, Governance Code in the period from completion of the our investor relations programme has been led by the IPO to the financial year ended 31 January 2015.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer with support from the Chairman and all of the Non-Executive I look forward to welcoming shareholders at the Directors when needed.
A summary of our investor Companys first AGM in May.
relations activity in the period since the IPO is set out in this report on page 37.
We have chosen not to appoint Yours sincerely a dedicated investor relations person but this is something the Board will keep under review.
During the IPO process, Kepler Associates were Geoff Cooper engaged as the Groups remuneration adviser.
They Chairman advised on the remuneration policy which sets down the Groups forward-looking policy on the remuneration 24 March 2015 of Executive and Non-Executive Directors and is contained at pages 51 to 59 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33
