Governance Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder, Recognising the importance of right behaviours to long-term performance and our reputation, the Board continues to remain committed to maintaining high standards of ethics and business Your Board remains strongly committed integrity throughout the Group.
The 2015 report of the Business Integrity Committee is set out on page 51.
The Group also continues to ensuring that Carillion maintains and to put sustainability at the heart of all operational activity.
During 2015, continuously improves the structures and we were delighted that our external reporting on sustainability was once again recognised when we won the 2015 PwC Building Public Trust processes required to underpin the effective Award for the FTSE 250 Sustainability Reporting category for the third delivery of its growth strategy.
We believe year in succession.
The Sustainability Committees report on its work during 2015 is set out page 52. that good governance is an essential part of the way we undertake our business on a The annual review of Board effectiveness is an important process for helping to identify key areas for future improvement or focus.
day-to-day basis, while maintaining effective The 2015 review was led by myself and facilitated by Linstock Limited, risk management, control and accountability.
an independent corporate advisory firm.
The results from our 2015 evaluation are detailed on page 48, but the following areas were, I am pleased to report that our commitment to business integrity, safety, inter alia, identified as being key future priorities for the Board: strong governance and sustainability remains a key strength of our business.
In this section of the Annual Report we provide details of Overseeing the development of the Groups strategy for growth our governance policies and practices, highlights of our governance Developing the Boards effectiveness and managing membership activities and the status of our compliance with the principles of the succession successfully and UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014.
Supporting the development of the senior management team.
Your Company continues to be led by a strong and balanced Board, More details of our compliance with the leadership and effectiveness which is well qualified to challenge, motivate and support the business.
provisions of the Code can be found on pages 46 to 48.
Biographical details of all of the Directors are provided on pages 42 and 43.
The Board as a whole is responsible for the Groups overall The Board understands the importance of presenting a fair, strategy and has in place clearly defined structures for the allocation balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position of responsibilities relating to the various elements of the Groups and prospects and of the importance of effective reporting, risk strategy.
Please see page 44 for an overview of the governance and management and internal control procedures.
Further details on the management structure for the Group.
Groups reporting, internal control and risk management processes are provided in the Audit Committee report on pages 53 to 56.
The Nominations Committee continues to review the composition of the Board to ensure that we have the right balance of skills, experience, We also remain committed to regular and active dialogue with our diversity and independence in place to support the future development shareholders.
Keith Cochrane and I continue to make ourselves of the Group.
During 2015 the Committee led the process which available to facilitate such dialogue and in addition we also consult with culminated in Keith Cochranes appointment to the Board.
Keith was our shareholders on any significant changes to remuneration for the subsequently appointed as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Directors and other matters of a strategic nature.
Our 2015 and joined all five committees of the Board.
Keiths appointment was Remuneration report is set out on pages 57 to 72 and further details on made ahead of the planned retirement of Steve Mogford in December our 2015 interaction with our shareholders are set out on page 49. after nine years on the Board.
Steve also served as our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director until September and made a Compliance with the 2014 Code significant contribution to the Groups development during a period During the year ended 31 December 2015, as detailed in our Corporate of considerable change for our business.
The 2015 report of the Governance report on page 49 and in the Remuneration report on Nominations Committee is set out on page 50. page 57, the Company complied fully with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014.
Full details of this Code can be obtained from the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
Philip Green Chairman 3 March 2016 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
