STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement Introduction Dear Shareholders As Chairman of the Company, I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Statement for 2015.
It has been another full year for the Board and its Committees.
In March, we announced that David Maloney and Peter Williams would be stepping down from the Board at the AGM in May, following nine years of service.
In their place, we announced that Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz would be proposed as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Following their election to the Board at the AGM, Julie became Chair of the Audit Committee, and I believe the business is already benefiting greatly from her substantial financial and commercial experience.
In addition, Alicja has contributed significantly, reflecting her extensive experience and market knowledge of Central and Eastern Europe, thus further aligning the skillset of the Board with the strategy and recent growth into this geographical area, following Cineworlds combination with Cinema City in 2014.
Following these Board changes, we also announced that RickSenat, Independent Non-Executive Director, would become the new Senior Independent Director, in place of David Maloney.
At the same time, Martina King was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee, in place ofPeter Williams.
Martina has served on the Committee since 2010, and is well placed to take on this important role.
Julie also became a member of the Remuneration Committee and Alicja joined the Audit Committee.
As a result of the new appointments, I am pleased to note that we now have substantial female representation on the Board.
In June, Philip Bowcock, Chief Financial Officer CFO, leftthe Board after three and a half years.
An executive search is underway for Philips successor and, in the meantime, the CFO duties have been assumed by Israel Greidinger, our Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
Further details of our search for a new CFO are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 45.
The Audit Committee has continued with its important task of overseeing the work of external auditor, KPMG LLP, and the internal auditor,  LLP PwC, toensure that consistent and appropriate standards of financial reporting and internal controls are maintained across the Group.
Particular focus has been on the area ofrisk, following the changes under the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, and details of our work in this area are setout on pages 47 to 48.
In conclusion, I would like to confirm that the Board remainscommitted to ensuring that a high standard of corporate governance is continuously maintained throughout the Group, and that we meet the standards required of aFTSE250 company.
Anthony Bloom Chairman | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 39
