Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chairmans introduction to corporate governance We continued to strengthen corporate governance as reflected in the Board effectiveness review.
Your Board remains strongly committed to ensuring that Countrywide maintains and continuously improves the structures and processes required to underpin the effective delivery of its growth strategy.
We believe that good governance is an essential part of the way we conduct our business on a daily basis, while maintaining effective risk management, control and accountability.
The Board acknowledges the insights to corporate governance procedures during Dear shareholder begained from an external evaluation of 2015 and these will underpin the continued Your Company continues to be led by a strong itseffectiveness and that of its Committees success of the Group.
and balanced Board, which is well qualified for helping to identify key areas for future to challenge, motivate and support the improvement or focus.
A Board evaluation Future priorities management of the business.
In the 2014 review was commissioned during 2015, led As chairman, my main responsibility is to lead annual report, the Group announced the by myself and facilitated by Lintstock Limited, the Board and ensure that it is operating startof a strategic review Building our Future anindependent corporate advisory firm.
effectively and focusing its time, energy and which commenced implementation in the first Theinitial phase of this review has concluded attention on the right areas.
TheGroup now has a revised during February 2016 and the process is recent completion of the externally facilitated corporate strategy for the years to 2020. discussed in further detail on page 47.
Board effectiveness review, we will agree a TheBoard was necessarily closely involved set of priorities against which we will report The Board understands the importance of in the formulation and approval ofthe strategy, progress in future years to ensure that we, presenting a fair, balanced and understandable which the executive team is now tasked with asa Board, are leading from the front in assessment of the Groups position and delivering for shareholders and stakeholders.
providing the right example for Countrywide.
prospects and of the importance of effective Whilst there have been no changes in the Board reporting, risk management and internal I am pleased that Peter Long has accepted during 2015, I indicated my desire to step down control procedures.
As part of the strategic the role of chairman and would like to welcome from the role of chairman once asuccessor planning process, the Group reviewed its him to Countrywide.
Peter is chairman of was identified and in post.
The Board authorised riskappetite and ensured that there were Royal Mail plc and is a member of TUI AGs the Nomination Committee to engage in governance improvements to align our risk supervisory board, having previously held thesearch and selection process for a new and internal audit capabilities as detailed avariety of senior roles in the travel and chairman and this activity commenced in the within the Audit and Risk Committee report leisure sector.
He was formerly senior final quarter of 2015.
Further details on this on pages 48 to 53.
The appointment of independent non-executive director of process and external support are detailed achief risk and compliance officer, with RACplc 20012005 and Rentokil Initial plc inmy report ofthe Nomination Committee appropriate levels of additional dedicated 20052014, and was also non-executive on page 46.
On 11 February, the Company resource, and the appointment of Deloitte LLP director of Debenhams plc 20062009. announced that I will retire as non-executive as the Groups internal auditor using a full Peter brings a strong customer focus and chairman, and we will confirm the new outsourced model following a period of awealth of plc board experience.
appointment of Peter Long as chairman at co-sourcing, provided an integrated the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2016, assurance plan and a more co-ordinated subject to FCA approval.
approach to the Groups risk management and audit activities.
The Nomination Committee will continue toreview the composition of the Board to Grenville Turner Your Board is fully committed to supporting ensure that we have the right balance ofskills, Chairman both the principles and application of best experience, diversity and independence to 25 February 2016 practice in corporate governance.
I believe support the future development of the Group.
that we continued to strengthen effective Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 41
