CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committed to high standards of corporate governance NIGEL NORTHRIDGE THE BOARD RECOGNISES CHAIRMAN THE NEED TO LEAD ON VALUES AND CONDUCT IN ORDER TO ENCOURAGE GOOD BEHAVIOURS THROUGHOUT DEBENHAMS Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 40 Governance 40-85 DEAR SHAREHOLDER candidates and Michael has agreed As outlined in my letter on page 3, On behalf of the board, I am pleased toremain in post to ensure an orderly Dennis Millard is to remain on the topresent the corporate governance andsmooth handover to his successor.
board as a non-independent nonreport for the financial year ended executive director.
Itisproposed 29August 2015 and to confirm that On behalf of the board I would like to thatTerry Duddy will succeed him Debenhams plc complies with the thank Michael for continuing to lead asSenior Independent Director and UKCorporate Governance Code Debenhams through a crucial time of Martina King will take overas chair of September 2012 the Code.
The change in retailing and for the good the Remuneration Committee, both corporate governance report together progress the Company has made appointments to be effective from with the Audit Committee report, the underhis leadership.
He has worked 14January 2016. directors remuneration report and the enormously hard to develop the directors report sets out our approach Companys strategy and the benefits Following my evaluation of the to governance and how the board has ofthis are really starting to show in the directors and my confirmation that they directed and controlled the Group results.
I am pleased Michael will remain all continue to perform effectively and during the last year.
with us until we have appointed a suitable demonstrate commitment to their replacement and will help facilitate an roles, the Nomination Committee is, in In addition to seeking to operate high orderly succession process.
The board is line with the Code, recommending that standards of corporate governance, the confident we have a clear and effective all the directors of the Company stand board also recognises the need to lead strategy and when Michael steps down, for re-election at the next Annual on values and conduct in order to he will leave Debenhams in a strong General Meeting along with Matt Smith encourage good behaviours throughout position to compete and deliver and Terry Duddy who will both stand Debenhams.
Our standards of expected long-term sustainable growth.
for election to the board having been conduct and behaviour are set out in our appointed as directors during the year.
code of business conduct policy which As indicated last year, we welcomed we periodically circulate to all employees Matt Smith to the board as Chief CORPORATE GOVERNANCECODE across the business.
That policy is Financial Officer.
Matt was appointed We have reviewed the new provisions available on the Companys intranet tothe board on 26 January 2015.
In included in the Financial Reporting alongside all our other business policies.
addition, Terry Duddy joined the Councils UK Corporate Governance boardas an independent non-executive Code published in September 2014 The following are the key corporate director on 10 April 2015.
Heis also a which will be effective for our 2016 governance issues that the board has member of the Nomination, financial year.
The board will therefore addressed during the last financial year.
report on the implementation of those Martina Kings appointment as an new responsibilities in next years SUCCESSION PLANNING independent non-executive director annual report.
Succession planning is an important was extended for a further three years element of good governance.
It ensures to 31 July 2018 following the end of her I look forward to meeting shareholders that we are fully prepared for planned or second three year term on 31 July 2015. at our next Annual General Meeting sudden departures from key positions Sophie Turner Laing stepped down which will be held on 14 January 2016 throughout the Group.
from the board following the expiry at2.00pm at the Wellcome Collection, ofher second three year term, having 183 Euston Road, London NW1 2BE.
With that in mind the Nomination served as an independent nonCommittee undertook a review of the executive director since August 2009.
NIGEL NORTHRIDGE succession plans for the board, the Sophies input during her six years of CHAIRMAN Executive Committee and key roles service has been extremely valuable within the organisation.
The review also tothe board.
Since year end, Peter provided visibility on the talent pipeline Fitzgeralds appointment as an and rising stars within Debenhams.
independent non-executive director has been renewed for a second three year THE BOARD term effective from 4 October 2015.
Following the external evaluation process last year, I conducted an internal evaluation of the board and its committees during Length of non-executive this year.
I am pleased to report that the Board composition directorsservice results were positive, confirming that the board and its committees are operating well and effectively.
Michael Sharp has been Chief Executive of Debenhams since September 2011 and it has always been his intention to serve a five year term.
Michael is now two months into his fifth year and has indicated this is the right time for the board to commence a succession planning process so that he can step down some time in 2016.
Michael will remain in post during the Chairman 10% 0-3 years 3 Christmas trading period and into 2016 Executive directors 30% 3-6 years 2 and will assist the board in the process of I ndependent non-executive 6-9 years 1 identifying his successor.
This process directors 60% More than 9 years 1 willevaluate internal and external Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41
