Dignity plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Chairmans introduction to governance Good governance is taken seriously at all levels within the Group and it is the responsibility of the Board to both lead by example and set the tone.
Peter Hindley, Chairman Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Dear Shareholder, It is the Boards opinion the Group has been fully compliant On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the with the Code throughout the 52 week period ending on Groups Corporate Governance Report for 2015.
Our report 25 December 2015 and remained fully compliant at the is intended to provide shareholders with a clear and date the Annual Report for 2015 was published.
comprehensive explanation of what good governance means within Dignity and more particularly what it means to us as Directors Report the Board of Directors, how it is applied and how it guides The Directors present their report for Dignity plc for the our decision making.
We are reporting in line with the UK Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Code the Code and I am pleased to advise that Dignity has The Group is committed to high standards of corporate complied with all relevant provisions throughout the period governance, details of which are given in this report and ending 25 December 2015.
How we have achieved this is the separate reports from: explained in more detail in this section of our Annual Report covering Governance.
The Audit Committee: The Nomination Committee: and Our Report for 2015 explains Dignitys approach to Corporate Governance.
Separate reports are included from each of the The Remuneration Committee.
Board Committees: we feel this gives the most comprehensive view of their activities.
The various sections of this report contain summarised information from Dignity plcs Articles of Association Good governance is crucial at all levels within the Group and the Articles and the Companies Act 2006 which is the it is the responsibility of the Board both to lead by example applicable English law concerning companies.
The relevant and set the tone.
It means ensuring that an effective internal provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be framework of systems and controls exists which includes consulted if more detailed information is needed.
clearly defined authorities and accountability which promotes success, whilst allowing risks to be managed to appropriate levels.
To do this the Board must make appropriate judgements whilst giving consideration to the views of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
I would encourage you to attend our Annual General Meeting on 9 June 2016 and take the opportunity to meet the management team at this important event.
Peter Hindley, Chairman 2 March 2016 Links See Board of Directors: p. 40 and p. 41 See Directors statement on corporate governance: p. 42 to p. 45 Our approach to good governance continues to be robust and effective.
Clear Board roles See Audit Committee report: p. 46 to p. 48 and governance processes offer balance See Nomination Committee report: p. 49 and experience to our strong executive team, See Report on Directors remuneration: p. 50 to p. 62 helping to drive strategic and performance See Directors report: p. 63 and p. 64 progress.
Our governance principles LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION ENGAGEMENT Continued close focus on A strong, open and Close scrutiny and Prudent oversight of Maintaining a strong and delivering on our strategy.
effective Board with the management of risks executive remuneration.
open relationship with independence of our and controls.
