44 Governance Introduction to Corporate Governance Changing governance needs.
These policies sit in our DEAR SHAREHOLDERS Key Responsibilities of the Board governance framework, which includes our The need for good governance has been We are responsible and accountable Operating Framework and Code of Conduct highlighted frequently in the last year as to our shareholders for the long-term together with our values.
The Operating board effectiveness and reputational risk sustainable success of the Group.
We Framework is key to the way we work with continue to exercise the headline writers.
seek to achieve this through setting our colleagues and with our customers No company can ever say it has the 'perfect out our strategy, monitoring our and suppliers.
Board' but we all know what 'good' looks strategic objectives and providing like.
Good governance is fundamental to oversight of our implementation The Directors have stated on page 79 the way we do business.
We believe it is by the management team.
that they consider the Annual Report our governance structure that supports and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be We ensure that the Company our ability to become the leading provider fair, balanced and understandable.
The remains at the forefront of of corrugated packaging in Europe.
processes which support the Directors developing and embedding best confidence in making this statement are To build a strong, successful and enduring practice for risk management.
long established and embedded into our business, we must have policies, processes We maintain and enhance DS Smiths business.
The Audit Committee considered and systems in place which achieve the culture, ensuring that management the criteria for a fair, balanced and right balance between our stakeholders operates responsibly within our understandable Annual Report.
With this and our own short, medium and long-term governance framework while clearly in mind, the Audit Committee reviewed objectives.
We must provide acceptable demonstrating our values and high the processes supporting the compilation returns to our investors, but our capacity ethical standards.
and assurance of the report, in relation to to do this is underpinned by a strong and financial and non-financial management mutually beneficial relationship with all As part of the governance framework, information.
Our external Auditor reviews of our stakeholders.
This includes our we have adopted a schedule of matters the narrative sections of the Annual Report employees, customers, suppliers, regulators on which we must make the final and Accounts to identify any material and the communities in which we operate.
These include the annual inconsistencies with the financial budget, substantial acquisitions In the following pages, we have outlined statements.
The Directors received and disposals, the approval of the our approach to governance and explained drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts full-year and half-year results and some of the challenges and how we dealt and reviewed them at the April and June a review of the overall system of with them.
Significant changes have been Board meetings in 2015. internal control and risk management.
made to the requirements to manage and I am pleased to confirm that the Company has report risk, which apply to listed companies We are mindful of our legal duties to complied in full with the Code throughout for accounting periods beginning on or after act in the way we consider, in good this financial year.
I can assure you that I, 1 October 2014.
Although these changes faith, will be most likely to promote and all the Board, are committed to ensuring do not formally apply to DS Smith's Annual the success of the Company for its that DS Smith operates to the highest Report until next year, we have already shareholders and having regard also standards of corporate governance.
begun addressing them, as you will see to the interests of other stakeholders.
We continue to monitor senior Having the right culture is crucially executive talent management important to enable us to create a working and development plans to provide environment where our people are proud succession for all key positions.
As part of that, this Gareth Davis year we refreshed our Data Protection and Chairman Social Media policies and rolled them out Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 45 Key activities in 2014 15 Key priorities in 2015 16 Reviewed and approved the Corporate Plan.
Approve and keep under review the Corporate Plan.
Strategy Reviewed and approved a number of acquisitions and divestments.
Consider acquisitions and divestments as identified and determine appropriate course of action.
Keep the financial KPIs under review.
The Groups dividend policy was debated and approved.
Keep the Groups dividend policy under review.
Approved the updated social media and data protection policies.
Review key risks and ensure that the Company Risk and risk remains at the forefront of developing and Reviewed key risks see pages 39 to 43 and monitored and reviewed the management embedding best practice for risk management.
internal controls process, and assessed the Group risk profile by identifying where the businesss key risks lay, aligning them with the risk appetite of the Continue to monitor compliance with the key business and highlighting how to target effectively and mitigate those risks.
policies, including anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy, competition law policy, social media policy Monitored compliance with the anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy and and data protection policy.
Leadership and employees: Ensure that the Company remains at the forefront Governance of developing and embedding best practice in Considered the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in the and values responsible business behaviour.
context of DS Smiths governance practices.
Maintain and enhance DS Smiths culture and Continued to focus on the composition, balance and effectiveness values and key policies and procedures and ensure of the Board.
these are rolled out to acquired businesses.
Reviewed the key operational roles and identified gaps in experience Continue to strengthen internal controls needed to deliver the strategy.
Reinforced compliance with DS Smiths Code of Conduct and the Operating Review level of institutional holdings and Framework, a document which sets out the Groups culture and values, as consider actions to broaden further the well as its key policies and procedures, all in accordance with the principles Groups shareholder base.
Relations with shareholders: Broker review.
Received shareholder approval for our remuneration policy.
Engaged with our retail shareholders at the AGM.
Actively engaged with institutional shareholders, investors and other stakeholders throughout the year.
Monitored health and safety performance across the Group and reviewed Continue to monitor senior executive talent Organisational the lessons learned, ensuring we keep our employees and others affected management and development plans to provide capacity by our operations safe.
succession for all key positions.
Held meetings between the Board and senior talent pipeline to further Continue to increase the diversity of the Board improve information flow.
Reviewed the governance framework and continued training and awareness drives for key policies.
Continued to focus on the composition, balance and effectiveness of Enhance the Boards strategic understanding Board the Board.
Reviewed Board composition and discussed and acted on of geopolitical and economic risks in international development the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
Undertook an evaluation, led by an external facilitator, of the Board and Use Board visits to promote understanding its Committees with the aim of becoming the best Board we can be.
of markets and the business development Following the evaluation an action plan was developed.
Annual evaluation of Board performance to be led internally.
