Chairmans statement on corporate governance Committed to maintaining high standards DEAR SHAREHOLDER At easyJet, we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance to enhance performance and for the protection of our shareholders.
I would like to highlight, in particular, the following key areas of governance during 2015: Strategy Board Committees As a Board, we need to be confident that our strategy remains The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to the Board appropriate and that we are identifying appropriate strategic Committees to enable it to carry out its functions effectively.
This year the Board held meetings in March and A diagram of the Board governance structure is set out on September at which we challenged and shaped the strategic page 52. priorities brought by management.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Adle Anderson, led a Board and Committee composition robust competitive tender process, leading to the Boards There were a number of changes to the Board during the year.
recommendation to reappoint  LLP as the Companys auditors.
The Board will recommend to After five years at easyJet Chris Kennedy left on 1 September the shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting the 2015 to become Chief Financial Officer at ARM Holdings.
reappointment of  LLP as auditors for the year ending 30 September 2016.
Further details of the audit After nine years of service, David Bennett retired from the Board tender process are provided in the Audit Committee report on on 1 October 2014 and Professor Rigas Doganis retired from the pages 54 to 57.
Board on 1 December 2014, although he continues to chair the Safety Committee until 29 February 2016.
John Browett has Structure of Corporate Governance Report announced his decision to step down from the Board on The Corporate Governance Report which follows is intended to 31 December 2015 after almost nine years.
give shareholders an understanding of the Companys corporate governance arrangements and how they operated during the I would like to thank all of them on behalf of the Board year.
The Corporate Governance Report includes reports from for their commitment and contribution.
each of the Committee Chairs to provide details on key matters I am delighted to welcome Andrew Findlay, who joined as addressed by the Committees during the year.
Chief Financial Officer on 2 October 2015 and Chris Browne who We have also set out a separate section on pages 60 to 62 to will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2016. provide a detailed description of how the Company has complied The membership of the Boards Committees as at 30 September with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board effectiveness Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Each year, the Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its The Board considers that it and the Company have, effectiveness.
This year we have had this process externally throughout the year, complied without exception with the facilitated by Independent Audit Limited.
In addition, Charles provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Gurassa, the Senior Independent Director, has also led a review September 2014, which is the version of the Code which of my performance with input from the other Non-Executive applies to the Company for its 2015 financial year.
Further details of the evaluation process are provided is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on page 61.
Following this review, I am satisfied that the Board for review on the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs and its Committees are performing effectively and that there is website: https: www.
uk the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to enable the Directors to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
I am also satisfied that the members of the Board, in particular the Non-Executive Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their roles at Board and Committee level with the Company, so as to be able to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
JOHN BARTON Non-Executive Chairman easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 46
