CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairmans letter 2015 started with a visit by a number of non-executive directors including My final comments concern the work of the Nomination Committee.
recent joiners to the Delden facility in the Netherlands.
This was followed Asreferred to in other parts of this Annual Report, the Board initiated by a Board meeting held at our Livingston facility in March and then two asearch process to identify and appoint a successor to David Dutro more site visits to the Chromium facility in Castle Hayne and East Windsor asCEO.
This is more fully described in the Nomination Committee report.
Suffice to say that one of the priorities has been The appointment of a CEO is one of the most critical decisions any board toensure newer members of the Board get as many opportunities as has to make and has lasting and far reaching consequences.
The process possible to see the business in operation, meet our people and get a from start to finish was very structured and I was well supported by my proper sense of the culture within the organisation and the shared values executive and non-executive colleagues who had good experience and that have underpinned the Groups strong performance in recent years.
As I previously said I was delighted to secure These trips also enable interpersonal relationships within the Board to theservices of Paul Waterman as our new CEO.
bestrengthened which contribute greatly to Board dynamics and effectiveness.
The Board decided it would carry out an external effectiveness evaluation.
It could have been explained that the timing for a three yearly review might Earlier in the year Nick Salmon, the Senior Independent Director, and be inappropriate, with the transition to a new CEO in progress, but we I undertook an investor roadshow to meet with a number of our major took a different view.
The benefit from having a refreshed cohort of shareholders and shareholder representative bodies.
It was reassuring non-executives who had already combined well presented an ideal tohave it confirmed that so many of our shareholders are supportive opportunity for the Board to take stock and reflect on its structure, ofthe Groups strategy and the executive team.
The outcome is a useful lens for both theBoard and its new CEO to look through when considering priorities The Remuneration Committee presented a number of changes in our and improvements.
remuneration policy to shareholders at the 2015 AGM which were approved.
The changes bring our variable remuneration structures and In summary, our focus has been on the Board, its composition, practices in line with best practice and are designed with the long term succession and performance: Group strategy, risks and opportunities: success of the Company in mind.
I would like to express my own thanks aligning remuneration policy and performance management with in addition to those of Andrew Christie our Remuneration Committee shareholder interests, and on audit and accountability.
I anticipate that Chairman to shareholders for your continuing support.
theBoards productivity will be no less intensive in 2016.
With a new looking Board comes the natural process of strategy review.
Statement of compliance That process started with a review of business and business segment The Board is of the view that it has applied fully throughout 2015 all of strategies, our acquisition criteria and granular reviews of our business theprovisions of the Code 2014 version.
and strategic plans and major risks.
The work on strategy is continuing but we anticipate good progress being made before the end of the year, The sections that follow describe how the Board has applied the led by our new CEO, Paul Waterman.
The Board is cognisant of principles and provisions of the Code.
shareholders views and pleased that work has been completed to align remuneration policy with our ambitious plans for the Company.
Andrew Duff As planned previously, the Audit Committee initiated an audit tender Chairman process in 2015 and the result is that the Board is recommending the 1 March 2016 appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys next auditor, to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
I would like to take this opportunityto thank KPMG LLP for their services to the Company overthe past 12 years.
Another aspect of the Boards focus in 2015 was the application of the new Corporate Governance Code the Code requirement to produce astatement on business viability.
The Board received a number ofbriefings throughout the year to ensure it fully understood its responsibilities.
The statement is set out in the Directors report withsupporting commentary in the Risk management report.
28 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015
