COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER Dear Shareholder, A summary of the Policy is included, for Providing alignment with shareholders: the reference of shareholders, on pages Underlying Drive for 2020 is a focus on At the 2015 AGM we sought shareholder 62 to 66, and a copy of the full Policy as sustainable value creation.
During the approval for a new Remuneration approved by shareholders is available at year, the Remuneration Committee Policy the Policy which was aligned www.
approved an award over a fixed number with the strategic objectives of Drive of LTIP shares to senior executives.
The Remuneration Committee The Annual Report on Remuneration the individuals will receive an award over the was delighted to receive strong support ARR on pages 67 to 78 contains details of same number of shares in both 2016 from our shareholders, with over 97% the remuneration received by the Directors and 2017, to provide direct alignment in favour for the new Policy.
in 2015, together with full details of how we with the strategy of value creation.
intend to implement the Policy during 2016.
In order to provide consistency with The ARR will be subject to an advisory the logic underlying the Policy, the shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
Remuneration Committee determined that the new Group Finance Director Supporting strategic priorities should receive LTIP awards in 2016 and The Policy has been structured to support 2017 over the same number of shares the financial objectives and strategic as were awarded to his predecessor priorities of Drive for 2020, in a manner in 2015. that is aligned with shareholders interests.
The Remuneration Committees Rewarding performance in 2015 implementation of the Policy during The financial and operating performance the year has been consistent with of Essentra during 2015 is set out on pages these principles: 2 to 41 in the Strategic Report.
As reported, Supporting financial objectives: we delivered our strategic objectives, in Key financial objectives that underlie addition to exceeding 1bn of revenue Drive for 2020 are balanced, profitable for the first time in the Companys history, growth and strong conversion of profit notwithstanding the significant impact into cash.
The Remuneration of challenges in the oil & gas sector Committee has set performance on our PPT business.
As a result of measures for the annual bonus and this performance, the Remuneration Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Committee determined that the annual that reward delivery of these financial bonus would be 30.8% of the maximum objectives.
Performance targets have for Colin Day and 29.3% of the maximum been set that are consistent with Drive for Stefan Schellinger pro-rated from for 2020, in particular the aspiration date of appointment as Group Finance of doubling the size of the Company Director.
Full details of the basis for by 2020. the Remuneration Committees bonus Supporting strategic priorities: determination are set out on page 69.
Our Drive for 2020 strategy requires development of a focused and The three-year performance period for high-performing executive team.
the Earnings per Share EPS element of During the past year, the Remuneration the 2013 LTIP awards was completed at Committee, in conjunction with the the end of 2015.
The maximum EPS growth Nomination Committee, has been target was exceeded, and so this element focused on ensuring that a seamless of the awards will vest in full during 2016. succession planning process was The performance period for the relative implemented for the Group Finance Total Shareholder Return TSR element Director and Company Chairman roles.
of the 2013 awards will end during 2016, The Remuneration Committee has also and partial vesting is anticipated.
Full ensured that it continues to set details are set out on pages 71 to 72. challenging performance targets that will drive excellence throughout the senior executive team.
60 DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Departure of former Group Decisions for 2016 Finance Director Full details of the remuneration structure Matthew Gregory resigned as Group for our Executive Directors for 2016 are Finance Director on 28 August 2015. outlined on pages 63 to 66.
Specific points Matthew remained as an employee until to highlight in relation to that structure are 30 November 2015, and continued to as follows: receive salary and benefits until that date.
Colin Days salary is fixed until He received no bonus in respect of 2015, 1 January 2018 and Stefan Schellingers and all of his outstanding share awards salary will not be reviewed until at the date of his departure lapsed, 1 January 2017.
There will therefore including the Deferred Annual Share be no salary adjustments for the Bonus awards.
The 2016 annual bonus plan will Appointment of new Group offer the same level of potential Finance Director reward as the 2015 plan.
It will be Stefan Schellinger was initially appointed based on financial measures, as interim Group Finance Director on targets and personal objectives 1 September 2015, before being appointed aligned with Drive for 2020, which on a permanent basis on 8 October should drive longer-term shareholder 2015.
Upon this appointment, Stefans value creation.
remuneration was reviewed by the Remuneration Committee, taking into Consistent with the principles of the account all relevant factors including his Policy, the Chief Executive and Group experience, the pay level of his predecessor Finance Director will receive LTIP and the principles of our Policy.
Details of awards in 2016 over the same number Stefans new pay arrangements are set of shares as were awarded to the out in the ARR on pages 67 to 78. holders of these positions in 2015.
LTIP awards will continue to be based half on a relative TSR performance condition and half on an adjusted EPS performance condition, in order to reward the delivery of longer-term shareholder value creation.
For 2016, the EPS performance conditions will remain the same as 2015, at 8% pa to 15% pa growth.
I hope you will find this report to be clear and helpful in understanding our remuneration practices, and that you will be supportive of the resolution relating to remuneration at the AGM.
As ever, the Remuneration Committee welcomes any questions or comments from shareholders.
LORRAINE TRAINER Remuneration Committee Chairman 19 February 2016 61
