DIRECTORS REPORT | AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER Dear Shareholder, The Audit Committee is satisfied that The key activities which were reviewed the Company has maintained robust by the Audit Committee, including As Chairman of the Essentra plc Audit risk management and internal controls those items of regular annual review Committee, I am pleased to present throughout the year, and that the internal and other current areas of focus the 2015 Audit Committee Report to audit programme is appropriately The discussions and actions shareholders and to be able to confirm, formulated and sufficiently resourced to undertaken, in conjunction with the on behalf of the Board, that the confirm that these controls are effective.
external auditor, on any significant Annual Report is fair, balanced and judgements and or issues understandable.
The updated Corporate Governance Code, made a number of changes in September.
Details of the ongoing review of the The majority of the changes focused on risk external auditor and the amount of management and internal controls, and non-audit work undertaken the need for them to be embedded into the day-to-day processes of the Company.
The Audit Committee has reported to the Board that the re-appointment of KPMG The two new risk committees which were LLP should be proposed at the forthcoming introduced towards the end of 2014 have AGM, and I hope that you will support me in contributed to the enhancement of the risk this resolution.
I am pleased to report that management process.
The risk committees the Audit Committee intends to commence report directly to the Board, and the Audit an audit tender during 2016.
While the Committee ensures the risk management Audit Committee is recommending the processes are effective.
appointment of KPMG for the 2016 audit, it is intention to proceed with a full tender The report aims to provide the following for the 2017 audit, after the 2016 AGM, in information: response to the EU tendering requirements.
How the Audit Committee operates and engages with the Company, TERRY TWIGGER including the Group Assurance Audit Committee Chairman function and the Executive Directors 19 February 2016 55
