58 Governance Chairmans introduction Chairmans introduction Summary Effective corporate governance is about more than adhering to a set of rules.
It provides an appropriate control framework, within which we have developed our strategic priorities and can execute them to create long-term value for shareholders.
Don Robert Chairman I am pleased to make my first Corporate investment and acquisition risks, and Board role governance report to you as Chairman changed how we assess and allocate One of the Boards key roles is to set the of Experian, and to outline the key ways capital.
There is a defined delegation of Groups strategic aims.
The Board held its in which we applied the UK Corporate authority from the Board and an effective annual strategy session in January 2015, Governance Code principles regarding governance framework in the Group, which was part of a detailed process that the Boards role and effectiveness during within which we can accommodate these included outlining our strategic priorities the year.
adjustments to our capital allocation to the market.
These are to: focus on approach.
We also enhanced the our key strengths: deliver performance In our Annual Report 2014, we described reporting to the Board during the year, improvements: seize attractive growth important Board changes and the reasons so we can more comprehensively opportunities: drive operational efficiency for them.
Although they necessarily monitor the Groups performance.
and productivity: and rigorously optimise involved transition, the changes have capital.
You will find more detail on our gone smoothly and have energised and Board effectiveness p12 five strategic priorities in the Our enhanced the already strong Board team.
The Nomination and Corporate strategy section.
In addition, the Boards commitment to Governance Committee, under the effective corporate governance, and to chairmanship of George Rose, the Deputy We have also said that we must adapt to ensuring that the Group operates openly Chairman, continues to regularly review changing market influences, including and transparently, remains firm.
It does this from a increasing regulation.
Greater regulatory strategic, long-term perspective, to make scrutiny is here to stay and, while it has the Of course, no organisation can stand still sure we have the most appropriate Board potential to generate revenue opportunities, from a governance perspective, so we composition, as well as considering talent the Board is mindful of its role in ensuring review and develop our structures and management and succession planning that the Group has appropriate governance processes, both to meet the UK Corporate below Board level.
For example, our Governance Codes continuously evolving UK business is preparing to apply for full best practice recommendations and My priorities this year as Chairman included authorisation by the UK Financial Conduct because it is the right thing to do for our the inductions for our new Chief Financial Authority.
In the USA, the Consumer business.
In this Corporate governance Officer, Lloyd Pitchford, Chief Operating Financial Protection Bureau oversees our report, we provide some insight into the Officer, Kerry Williams, and independent business and the Board receives an update Groups governance framework, the key non-executive director, Jan Babiak.
Kerry at every meeting in relation to the rapidly activities of the Board and its committees already has immense experience and evolving regulatory landscape.
during the year, how we have engaged with knowledge of Experians business, meaning investors including the important role of that much of his induction was focused on The Board is also tasked with ensuring our Deputy Chairman, George Rose and the listed-company aspect of his new role.
that the Group has the financial resources the Groups risk management and internal Lloyd and Jan undertook a comprehensive to meet its strategic aims.
We also provide an induction programme during the year, measures that form part of our strategic update on the tender of the ex ternal audit.
which also included presentations on all priorities include making the business as key aspects of Experians operations.
We efficient as possible and generating good provide more detail on Board induction, investment returns.
To achieve this, as p38 training and ongoing interaction with the outlined in the Financial review, we have business later in this report.
deployed new methodologies to assess Governance Chairmans introduction 59 I work closely with the Chief Executive Following the comprehensive and Conclusion Officer and the Company Secretary, to externally facilitated Board evaluation We have set ourselves strategic priorities make sure the Board agenda is focused in 2014, this years evaluation was an and identified what we believe to be the on the right areas.
I believe we strike the internal one.
As well as performing the key external impacts on our business.
right balance between strategic planning, evaluation, the Board reviewed an update We believe we have the right governance performance updates, corporate on the actions it had agreed for itself in processes and structures in place to allow development and governance matters.
It also agreed a us to work towards our goal of sustaining The Board received presentations during new three-year Board evaluation cycle, Experians track record of growth and the year on topics aligned with the including an external evaluation every value creation.
I hope you will find this Groups strategic priorities, to ensure third year, as recommended by the UK Corporate governance report helpful in Board discussions reflect the right Corporate Governance Code.
The Board understanding how governance operates areas of focus.
The areas reviewed and concluded that it continues to operate at Experian.
discussed included innovation within the effectively, considering: its balance of skills, Group, growth in the health vertical, and experience, independence and knowledge: building the Decision Analytics business its diversity, including gender: how the across software, analytics and fraud Board works together as a unit: and other and identity.
The Board also reviewed factors relevant to its effectiveness.
The progress with strategic clients and wider Board also reviewed potential areas of developments in data with management.
focus for the coming year.
With a significant portion of our global UK Corporate Governance Code revenues generated in the USA and In September 2014, the UK Financial Brazil, it is important that the Board Reporting Council FRC published an spends time in these countries to update to the UK Corporate Governance examine in more depth their particular Code.
Since then, the Board committees business climates, market landscapes have been working to ensure the Groups and market strategies, and to meet with processes align with the update.
In March 2015, many of the items in the update do not the Board spent time in Costa Mesa, present anything new for the Group, California, and it is planning to visit So the Remuneration Committee has Paulo, Brazil, in September 2015.
It is also been considering the impact of the important to interact with and maintain remuneration changes to the updated oversight of other Group businesses.
Code, the Audit Committee has been The Board therefore held its September receiving and discussing updates 2014 meetings in Madrid, Spain, regarding the Groups risk framework spending three days meeting with EMEA and any enhancements required, and the management to appraise performance in Nomination and Corporate Governance the region and understand the particular Committee has been providing oversight.
UK Corporate Governance Code It is the Boards view that the Company has complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published in September 2012 throughout the year ended 31 March 2015, with the exception that Don Robert did not meet fully the independence criteria set out in the Code provision A.
3.1 of the Code on his appointment as Chairman on 16 July 2014 because he was formerly the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
Details of the appointment can be found on pages 60 and 61 of the Experian Annual Report 2014.
The Corporate governance report, together with the Report on directors remuneration, explains how the Company has applied the Codes main principles and complied with its provisions during the year.
The information required by Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 7.2 is set out on these two pages and the Corporate governance report, other than that required by DTR 7.2.
6R, which is set out in the Directors report.
