Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Chairmans Letter of Governance First, during the summer, a group of both executive management and Non-executive Directors undertook a review of the format and content of our regular Board papers.
The aim was to identify ways in which they could be improved to better provide the information that the Board considers it needs to be able to oversee the Companys progress towards its strategic objectives, particularly the development aspects of strategy.
Significant changes have now been made to our regular Board papers and our 2015 Board evaluation exercise has established that Board colleagues have welcomed the new formats.
Second, another working group, overseen by our Audit Committee have been working for much of the past year on the Boards response to the new UK Corporate Governance Code requirement that it publish a viability statement.
The outcome of that work is set out on pages 48 and 49.
This exercise has been thorough and well-structured, focusing our minds on our risk management framework enabling us to understand and test our longer-term planning in new and helpful ways.
In 2014, the composition of the Board changed as three new Directors were appointed.
I am pleased that our new Directors have quickly Over the years we have sought to ensure brought their skills and experience to bear in Board and committee that the foundations on which the Group is discussions and their contributions have been valued by their Board colleagues.
The Nominations Committee has continued to keep the based are firm providing a sound basis for both development of the Board at the heart of its deliberations and will the near-term and longer-term development continue to do so as we enter 2016. of our businesses.
The Board has spent time during the year thinking about our HSECR Alberto Baillres strategies and performance and for the first time, also devoted time Chairman of the Board to understanding the Groups organisational culture and values programme.
There are signs of encouragement to be seen in this programme but there are also reminders of the work to be done for example in our health and safety performance.
We will continue to monitor this in 2016.
Dear Shareholder, I would like to thank my Board and management colleagues for their contributions to the corporate governance of the Company and I look Over the years we have sought to ensure that the foundations on forward to working with them in 2016 to continue to build on the which the Group is based are firm providing a sound basis for both the governance foundations that we have established in support of our near-term and longer-term development of our businesses.
governance has an important role to play in this: without sound governance structures, decision-making is less reliable and Yours sincerely accountability for delivery is weakened.
Consequently, in the absence of any major corporate activity this year, it has been possible for the Mr Alberto Baillres Board and committees to devote more time and attention in our Chairman of the Board meetings to long-term strategic considerations.
This seems entirely appropriate at this stage in the economic cycle of our industry.
A significant event on our governance agenda this year has been the important work that the Board has undertaken as part of the follow-up to our externally facilitated 2014 Board evaluation exercise.
Fuller details are included in the Corporate Governance Report but I would highlight two particular aspects which I believe demonstrate the way in which the Board continues to work as an effective unit.
98 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock For the financial year ended 31 December 2015, the Company Exchange, Fresnillo is required under the FCA Listing Rules to has complied with the provisions of the Code in all areas, save in comply with the Code Provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate respect of D. 2.1, which provides that the Board should establish Governance Code a copy of which can be found on the website of a Remuneration Committee of at least three independent Nonthe Financial Reporting Council www.
uk or otherwise explain executive Directors.
The composition of the Fresnillo Remuneration its reasons for non-compliance.
The following statement is therefore Committee is made up of three members including two made in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 in compliance independent Non-executive Directors, one of whom, Charles Jacobs, with such requirement.
The following sections of this report explain is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Company, how the principles of the Code were applied and provide cross Mr Alberto Baillres, who was not independent at the time of his references to other sections of the report and or the Companys appointment, is also a member.
The Board believes that Mr Baillres website www.
com where more detailed descriptions experience and knowledge of the Group the Mexican market and are available.
his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committees deliberations justifies his membership of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Baillres is not involved in matters concerning his own remuneration.
In this section Corporate Governance Overview Audit Committee Report Here we set out an at-a-glance summary of our governance Introduced by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, this report framework.
It demonstrates how the key constituents of the describes the Audit Committees work during the year by Board process work together.
reference to the principal responsibilities of the Committee for financial reporting, external audit, risk management and internal Read more p100101 controls, internal audit, whistleblowing procedures and related party matters.
Read more p114123 The Board Directors Report This section introduces our individual Board members by The Directors Report is prepared in accordance with section 415 providing details of the skills and experience that they bring to of the Companies Act 2006, and sets out information that the the Boardroom and the committees that they serve on.
Directors are required to present in accordance with the Act.
Read more p102104 Read more p124125 Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report The Corporate Governance Report, which also includes the The Directors Remuneration Report includes a letter from the Nominations Committee Report and the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee summarising the Report, demonstrates how the Company fulfils the requirements Committees key discussions during the year: an extended of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report analyses the extract of the Remuneration Policy which was approved in 2014: leadership provided by the Board, the steps taken to ensure that and the Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 which describes the Board is effective and the framework by which the Board how the policy has been applied during the year.
Read more p126136 Read more p105123 Nominations Committee Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities Introduced by the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, this This statement confirms the Directors responsibilities in relation report outlines the Committees philosophy on appointments to UK law and those International Financial Reporting Standards and diversity and describes the activities of the Committee IFRS adopted by the European Union.
