Governance Chairmans introduction IN THIS SECTION Board of directors 56 Executive committee 58 Corporate governance report 60 Audit Committee report 68 Directors remuneration report 74 Directors report 91 Directors responsibilities 95 Board highlights 2015 Monitored the progress of the corporate renewal process agreed with the UK Government John Connolly Chairman Conducted visits to four business sites in UAE, with board members also visiting business sites in the UK and South Africa Received in-depth presentations on the Africa CONTINUED COMMITMENT and UK & Ireland regions and the groups procurement and portfolio management strategy Conducted a review of the groups business strategy TO GOOD GOVERNANCE Transitioned to a new external auditor Continued to focus on the health and safety of employees As chairman, I am encouraged by the UK Corporate Governance Code Undertook additional risk reviews required to report on how the Codes principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the board have been applied.
This section of the companys annual by the revised Corporate Governance Code report and accounts explains the role of the board and how it operates, Conducted a review of its own performance my role as chairman and the mechanisms we adopt to comply with the principles embodied in the Code.
More importantly, it explains how the Board priorities in 2015 % governance processes we maintain are designed to help deliver long term sustainable value for shareholders.
We remain mindful that governance As usual, the board has undertaken should not be a procedural a thorough evaluation of its own straightjacket which inhibits performance and of that of each of entrepreneurship, but we do not its committees.
The lessons learned lose sight of the need to ensure from this review have been fed into careful stewardship of the company the boards priorities for 2016 and, and its resources.
as a consequence, we will focus on ensuring the boards understanding This report sets out the details of of the group is further developed, the work of the board over the last that the new members of the senior year and the processes it adopts, management team are integrated including the mechanisms by which well and quickly and that the Board governance 15% the board satisfies itself that adequate execution of the groups strategy Executive reports 32% controls are maintained throughout proceeds to plan.
More details the group and that systems are in Committee reports 11% of the evaluation and the boards place to preserve value for the Group strategy 5% priorities can be found on page 61. plus a dedicated day and a half strategy meeting companys stakeholders.
In 2016 the boards expectation Understanding the business 11% During the year we made changes plus site visits and presentations in UAE is that the group will continue to to the board.
As explained in last build on the progress that has been Speci c issues 6% years report, two directors stood achieved in the last couple of years, Financial reporting planning 13% down, as Grahame Gibson retired but that strict adherence to prudent Investment approvals 7% from the group and Mark Seligman management principles will continue reached the end of his tenure as to be applied and monitored not an independent non-executive.
only by the board, but also We have recruited a new nonthroughout the group.
executive director with John Dalys appointment in June and we are looking to strengthen the experience and balance of the board with two further non-executive appointments John Connolly during 2016.
Chairman Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 55
