CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE Mike Turner CBE Chairman Good governance is an essential ingredient of GKNs long-term candidates to replace Andy and Marcus Bryson, who retired from success.
As a Board, we set the strategic direction and risk the Board in December 2014.
This reflects the strength of our appetite of the Group with the overarching aim of increasing its talent pipeline and the value of our succession planning process.
It is therefore vital that we have a strong governance framework in place that enables us to make the right Accountability strategic decisions and take calculated risks that we manage The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the risk appetite carefully to safeguard our shareholders investment.
of the Group and ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are in place.
As part of our strategic review in June 2015, Leadership we defined the Groups appetite for risk against each of our key At GKN we believe in doing the right thing, always.
The authorities risk areas and communicated this to the Executive Committee, and policies associated with good governance will only be effective which manages the Groups risks on a day-to-day basis.
The risk if the right values, culture and business practices are set and appetite provides clarity on our desired approach to our principal demonstrated by the Board and embedded within the organisation.
To this end, during the year we communicated a revised code of A key element of our role as a Board is to review management conduct the GKN Code to all GKN employees, reinforcing our performance.
Mindful of the importance of operational commitment to doing the right thing and reminding our employees performance and culture as well as financial performance, about the standards of behaviour we expect from them.
The GKN during 2015 we revised our key performance indicators to include Code highlights the importance we place on maintaining working additional non-financial measures.
This dashboard will improve environments that promote safe working practices, honest our visibility of key areas and better enable us to monitor conduct, diversity and inclusivity, the delivery of high quality operational performance and cultural health.
Our revised KPIs products and speaking up to report wrong behaviour.
This year we report against a revised version of the UK Corporate Effectiveness Governance Code.
The new Code contains supplementary The balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and on principles and provisions relating to going concern, viability and the committees which support it is crucial to the Groups success.
risk management: accordingly you will find additional information on these topics included throughout the annual report to support I am very happy with the composition of our Board.
It is a strong our compliance with the Code.
Board, in part because its members have relevant and diverse experience.
Through robust debate we ensure that we make the best possible decisions.
In September 2015, Andrew Reynolds Smith resigned from the Board.
The Nominations Committee subsequently considered Mike Turner CBE both succession planning and Board composition and, taking into Chairman account the Groups strategic priorities, recommended the 22 February 2016 appointment of Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash as executive Directors.
I was very pleased that we had such strong internal GKN plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
