48 Letter from the Chairman A STRONG BUSINESS REQUIRES STRONG GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to further enhancing Genuss corporate governance.
This will facilitate our ability to drive genetic improvement faster and more effectively, and to capture the value we deliver to customers, so we can in turn create value for shareholders.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 49 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Dear Shareholder Strong corporate governance is critical for the Groups long-term success.
The way theBoard carries out its responsibilities from approving strategy to overseeing risk management has a profound effect on the Groups future and the interests of our stakeholders.
The quality of our corporate governance ultimately determines our ability toserve our customers, create rewarding jobs for employees, support our suppliers and communities, and deliver growth and returns to shareholders.
We therefore regularly evaluate our corporate governance and the Boards performance, to ensure it provides the direction Genus needs to succeed.
We also remain supportive of the UK Corporate Governance Code and its principles-based approach.
Genus complied with all the provisions of its 2012 edition, which was the applicable standard for this financial year.
A Strengthened Board There were two changes to the Board this year.
Lykele van der Broek joined us as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2014, bringing with him significant international experience of agricultural markets.
Professor Barry Furr retired at the Annual General Meeting AGM inNovember 2014.
We were greatly saddened by Barrys death in early 2015 and are grateful for his immense contribution to the Company during his eight years on the Board.
Professor Duncan Maskell has taken on Barrys role as adviser to our R&D Portfolio Management Team, having joined us in April 2014.
Both Duncan and Lykele have actively engaged with the Company through their inductions, and provided fresh insight and newperspectives to the Boards discussions.
Combined with the deep knowledge and experience of our longer-serving Non-Executive Directors, this gives us a Board that has awell-balanced array of skills and is well-attuned to the Groups requirements.
Evaluating the Boards Effectiveness This was the third year of our Board evaluation cycle.
We therefore carried out an internal evaluation, using questionnaires, followed by telephone conversations between me and individual Directors and by Board discussions, to drill down into particular issues that arose in the questionnaires and individual discussions.
The evaluation confirmed that the Board continues to function effectively, with an open and candid culture, and positive engagement from Board members with wide-ranging but complementary skills.
More information on the evaluation can be found on page 57.
We take diversity seriously and the Board continues to bear in mind Lord Davies recommendations about gender diversity.
Our policy is to recruit the right people based on merit, so that the Board has the diversity of skills and experience it needs.
In this regard, our recruitment of Duncan and Lykele in the last 18 months has expanded the Boards diversity by increasing our scientific and international experience.
Summary The Board is committed to further enhancing Genuss corporate governance.
Bob Lawson Chairman 7 September 2015 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015
