INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good governance is fundamental to the way we do business.
The internal review focused on areas of improvement from the last evaluation DEAR SHAREHOLDER and Boardroom best practice, while the theme of the external review was I am pleased to present Go-Aheads corporate governance report for 2015 more forward-looking, constructive and developmental in order to maximise on behalf of the Board.
In last years report, I wrote that our governance the prospects of strategy and delivery performance.
I am pleased to report that framework was built upon robust systems and processes, effective leadership, both reviews found the overall functioning of the Board to be at a very good high standards of behaviour and a culture based on openness and honesty.
level, with the actions progressed from the previous evaluations contributing This remains true today.
positively to the current position.
Full details of both of these reviews can be found Our governance framework, values and business model continue to on pages 60 and 61 underpin our approach to achieving our strategic objectives.
Good governance is fundamental to the way we do business.
This report OUR PEOPLE seeks to provide a comprehensive explanation of how we apply good We recognise that significant advantage is to be gained by identifying and governance principles in all we do.
developing our own people as well as bringing in skills from outside the business.
During the year, the Board continued to focus on senior management UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE succession planning and leadership talent development and it is pleasing to The Group is fully compliant with all provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate report that many of the initiatives reported on last year are now embedded Governance Code the Code and we disclose details of how we comply throughout the organisation.
The Group continues to embrace all forms of throughout this report.
The Code was updated by the Financial Reporting diversity not only at Board level and across all operating companies, but also Council FRC in September 2014 with changes including the assessment more widely through the industry and business communities.
Details of the of principal risks and the new viability statement.
We support the changes introduction and continuation of a number of diversity initiatives are explained further on page 69 to the Code, which are designed to strengthen the focus of companies and investors in the longer term and the sustainability of value creation.
Although AUDIT TENDERING these changes do not apply to Go-Aheads annual report until next year, as During the year, in accordance with best practice, a formal external auditor a Board we have already begun to address them.
In particular, we have made tender process was undertaken.
The Board will propose to shareholders at good progress looking at areas such as setting risk appetite and the assessment the 2015 AGM that Deloitte LLP will replace Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups and reporting of risks and business prospects.
A copy of the Code is available new external auditor.
Full details of the tender process can be found on page 67 at www.
BOARD EVALUATION During the year under review, both an internal and external evaluation of Board performance took place.
The internal review was undertaken in the first quarter of the year.
However, in order to better align the timing of the Boards Andrew Allner, performance review with annual reporting, the external review scheduled for next year was brought forward to the current year.
With two reviews in one Chairman reporting period, it was important that they complemented each other.
2 September 2015 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 52 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information BOARD HIGHLIGHTS 2014 15 BOARD OBJECTIVES 2015 16 Conducted both an internal and external Board evaluation review Implement the external Board evaluation review recommendations BOARD Implemented a number of initiatives to improve Board stewardship Further align succession planning and leadership development and dynamics with strategic planning Reviewed remuneration policy with a major shareholder consultation Continue to strengthen talent strategy in the context of culture, on the proposed changes values and behavioural framework Further developed succession planning and leadership development Continue to build upon and develop diversity initiatives strategies across the Group Appoint a replacement Group Finance Director and facilitate Reviewed key Board policies, including delegated authorities his her induction to the Group and diversity Improved strategy formulation and decision making processes Review of organisational structure to deliver strategy STRATEGY Developed a framework for development and diversification Continue to develop framework for development and opportunities diversification opportunities Monitored GTR mobilisation, integration and compliance with Further enhance collaboration and partnership working franchise commitments Improve focus in response to rail performance and Developed strategy planning for the general election, politics customer experience and devolution Strengthened alliances between operators, local authorities and key strategic partners Review of key financial policies including tax, treasury and fuel hedging Continue to monitor progressive dividend policy FINANCE Reviewed progressive dividend policy with proposed increase Maintain focus on strong financial discipline and best practice to full year dividend policies and processes Maintained strong financial discipline with strong cash generation Respond to changes in the external regulatory environment to and robust balance sheet ensure best practice compliance and reporting Brought forward bank refinancing in light of favourable market conditions Improved top down process for risk assessment Execute the agreed transition plan for the change of statutory auditor RISK & Considered the changes required in response to the updating Implement the changes required to comply with the updated UK GOVERNANCE of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Corporate Governance Code 2014 including risk process and appetite Completed formal audit tender process for the statutory auditor Continue to review and strengthen cyber security policies and processes Strengthened cyber security policies and processes Bids for the DfTs Northern, TransPennine Express and Consider further contract opportunities in the German regional MAJOR CrossRail franchises rail market APPROVALS Bid for TfLs London Overground franchise Bid for second tranche of work for the Singaporean bus market Bids for contracts in the German regional rail market Direct award contract terms for London Midland Bids for first tranche of work for the Singaporean bus market Continue to undertake careful analysis to establish other opportunities which best complement our portfolio, match our Direct award contract for Southeastern risk appetite and offer attractive returns for our shareholders www.
