Strategic report Governance Financials 37 GovernanCe across a range of issues.
The Nominations Committee report contains further details Letter from the Chairman of diversity in our business.
Board evaluation The Directors are committed to applying Following last years externally facilitated board evaluation of the Grainger Board, effective corporate governance and promoting this year the Company Secretary and I have the highest standards.
I am therefore pleased led the evaluation of the Board.
In addition, to introduce this years corporate governance report.
I have reflected on the recommendations and action points from last year and the areas to focus on for next year.
Further details are set out below.
Shareholder engagement The Board regards strong engagement with stakeholders and investors as fundamental to maintaining an active on-going dialogue with them and to understand their views.
Andrew Cunningham and Mark Compliance with the UK Corporate AGM, with the exception of Andrew Greenwood had regular meetings with Cunningham, Mark Greenwood and Simon Governance Code 2014 the Code the Companys Shareholders and analysts The governance rules applicable to all UK Davies who are retiring from the Board.
while I have met with both fund managers It being their first AGM, Helen Gordon, companies admitted to the Official List of and corporate governance officers of the UK Listing Authority are set out in the Andrew Carr-Locke and Rob Wilkinson will our major Shareholders throughout be subject to election by the Shareholders Code, published by the Financial Reporting the year.
Further meetings will also be Council.
Copies of the Code can be at the AGM.
held in advance of the Annual General Details of the Directors are set out obtained from the UK Financial Reporting Meeting in February 2016.
Part of our Councils website at www.
below, together with a summary of their Shareholder engagement programme experience, competences and skills.
The Board fully supports the principles set throughout the year was in connection out in the Code and confirms that it has with CEO succession matters and in Diversity complied with all of the provisions of the respect of the 29% vote against our 2014 Code throughout the financial year ended Grainger believes that a diverse culture Directors Remuneration report, in order to and perspective is a key factor in driving its 30 September 2015. understand the issues behind this vote and This report sets out Graingers success, and supports the Davies Reports to take action to address them.
aspiration to promote greater female governance policies and practices and Further details regarding our includes details of how the Group applies representation on listed company boards.
engagement with our Shareholders are Whilst all appointments are made on the principles and complies with the set out below and in the Remuneration provisions of the Code.
merit, an example of our commitment to Committee Report.
diversity is that the Company currently has Composition and independence a female Chairman, Senior Independent Fair, balanced and understandable Director and will also have a female CEO The Board reviews Non-Executive Director The Board has concluded that the 2015 independence on an annual basis and takes and Finance Director when Helen Gordon Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a and Vanessa Simms take up their respective into account the individuals professional whole, is fair, balanced and understandable characteristics, their behaviour at Board roles in 2016.
We will continue to look and provides the information necessary to follow the procedures recommended meetings and their contribution to unbiased for Shareholders to assess the Companys and independent debate.
The Board agreed by Lord Davies and by the Code to position and performance, business model maintain a balanced and diverse Board.
that I was independent on my appointment and strategy.
All of the Non-Executive However, diversity is much wider than gender.
Diversity of thought is also hugely Directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
By bringing Baroness Margaret Ford Non-Executive Chairman together Non-Executive Directors with In accordance with the Code, all current Directors will stand for election diverse backgrounds and experience, we 19 November 2015 gain enormously from varied perspectives or re-election as applicable at the 2016
