Remuneration Committee Report Chairmans Statement... the main elements of the remuneration policy are robustand have stood the testof time.
Stephen Pettit, Remuneration Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman Overview Review of executive remuneration and link to strategy On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Directors In late 2014, the Committee conducted the most comprehensive Remuneration Report for the year ended 28 March 2015. review of remuneration practice at Halma for 10 years.
I am pleased tosay that we have concluded that the principles and main elements As set out on page 2, Halmas strategy is to build a strong of the remuneration policy are robust and have stood the test of competitive advantage in specialised safety, health and time.
We have, however, identified areas whereour executives environmental technology markets with resilient growth drivers.
contributions are undervalued, areas where we can better link long Thisstrategy has long been underpinned by the Groups term performance and reward, and areas where we can improve remuneration framework which balances a short-term cash thecontrol framework around executive pay.
incentive related to improvements in the Economic Value Added EVA in a financial year with a longer-term share incentive related The review of our remuneration practice has followed on logically from toreturns on Total Invested Capital ROTIC and Total Shareholder the Board strategy review, which took place in late 2013.
review was focused particularly on the scalability and robustness of the Halma business model.
During this review, it became clear that, whilst the fundamental elements of our strategy are sound, the company is much larger, has become more complex and requires Remuneration Committee members more sophisticated ways of managing it.
In April 2014, therefore, we Paul Walker Chairman announced a new organisational construct of four discrete sectors, Stephen Pettit each with its own Sector CEO, and each a significant business in Jane Aikman appointed 10 April 2014 itsown right.
Daniela Barone Soares appointed 10 April 2014 Roy Twite appointed 24 July 2014 This new organisational construct, together with the expiry of the Tony Rice appointed 8 August 2014 10-year life of our present Performance Share Plan in 2015, triggered the need for the full review of our remuneration practice.
Allocation of time % Halma has enjoyed a high level of continuity of service amongst itshigh performing executive team, which is unusual amongst its peers.
But this continuity has meant that we have not tested the Governance and reporting 36% external market for remuneration, because we have not had to recruitfrom outside the business at these senior levels.
As part of Remuneration framework 27% theremuneration review, we have therefore undertaken an external Shareholder consultation 24% benchmarking exercise, with the help of our new remuneration Incentive targets 8% advisers.
External recruitment of Sector Vice Presidents immediately Equity incentives 4% below the Sector CEO level and the benchmarking highlighted the Pension arrangements 1% fact that our remuneration policy has lagged behind the market in important areas and has become uncompetitive, particularly taking account of the increased complexity of the business and the executives roles.
I would like to emphasise that we do not support frequent benchmarking of salaries and other elements of remuneration forthetop team.
For the future, we would expect any further adjustments to reflect practice for the general Halma workforce, barring exceptional circumstances.
The structural changes to the incentive plans provide for a higher proportion oflong-term share-based remuneration andatighter linkbetween incentive payments and the business strategy.
These provide a more robust link between what the executives are paid andthe long-term interests ofshareholders.
72 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Rather than try and introduce the review at the same time as the Remuneration outcomes in 2014 15 changes to the executive structure in April 2014, the Committee The Company has delivered another year of strong performance.
deferred such a review so that a new policy would apply from April Inparticular adjusted profit before tax improved by 10% and with tight 2015.
This deferral allowed the management changes and, indeed controls on capital the Economic Value Added performance condition Board level changes to the Chairman and non-executive Directors, generated annual bonus payments to executive Directors of 53% to tobecome embedded and also coincided with the time to renew the 100% of base salary.
Companys Performance Share Plan, which has reached the end of Performance was similarly strong over the three-year its 10-year life.
Taking such a period to reflect on what we are trying to performance period for the Performance Share awards granted achieve is sensible and consistent with the Halma operating culture.
inthe2011 12 financial year, with ROTIC averaging at 16.2% and The changes that the Committee proposes are detailed within this totalshareholder return of 56.7%, placing Halma in the second report, but, in formulating these proposals, the Committee ensured quartile against our comparator group.
Accordingly 73.7% of the that any increases to potential earnings were self-financing from the Performance Share awards vested in August 2014.
The performance additional performance, and continue to be measured objectively conditions for the awards vesting in August 2015 were met at andtransparently.
approximately 75% overall when measured at year end.
As an important part of the remuneration review, the Committee Shareholder voting at the 2015 AGM consulted the Companys major shareholders and their representative The changes we have made to our remuneration policy require Halma bodies on the proposed changes, which I can summarise as: to seek binding shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM toapprove this policy for up to three years from the date of theAGM.
There will executive salaries are proposed to increase to align to market also be the usual advisory resolution to approve the Annual Report on median levels and then be fixed to workforce inflationary increases Remuneration, which focuses onthe remuneration outcomes for the barring further significant changes to role and complexity : year under review, and how the Remuneration Committee intends to the annual bonus incentive opportunity will increase from 100% of implement the new policy next year.
Finally, there will be a separate salary to 125%-150% of salary: resolution to approve the new Performance Share Plan.
one third of any annual bonus earned will be payable in shares and deferred for two years: My colleagues on the Remuneration Committee and I hope that you performance share awards will increase from 140% to a maximum are supportive of our new remuneration policy, the Annual Report award limit of 200% 250% in exceptional circumstances of base Remuneration and new Performance Share Plan resolutions, which salary with awards lower than the 200% level initially other than for have been the product of a rigorous review and investor consultation.
the CEO : Finally, as announced previously I am retiring from the Board at this a stretching EPS growth metric will replace the TSR metric inthe years AGM, with Tony Rice taking over as Chairman of the Performance Share Plan: Remuneration Committee from me.
robust recovery and withholding provisions will apply: and shareholding requirements will be introduced at a 200% of base Stephen Pettit salary level for executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee Chairman In addition, during the year we ceased any future accrual within the 11 June 2015 Defined Benefit pension plan on 1December 2014, through which anumber of executives accrued benefits.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy This section of the report details the policy for executive and non-executive Directors which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2015 AGM.
This policy will formally come into effect from 23 July 2015, being the date of the 2015 AGM, and be effective for up to three years.
Compliance Statement for each Director, including annual bonus and performance share This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of plan outcomes for the financial year ending 28 March 2015: plan the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Listing Rules and Regulation interests awarded during the year: pension entitlements: payments 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and topast Directors and payments for loss of office: and Directors Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. shareholdings and share interests.
All other parts of the Directors Thereport also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules Remuneration Report are unaudited.
of the Financial Conduct Authority and describes how the Board Remuneration Policy hasapplied the principles relating to Directors remuneration in The remuneration policy is designed to promote the long-term theUKCorporate Governance Code.
As required by the Act, interests of the Company by securing the high calibre executives resolutionsto approve the Remuneration Policy and Annual Report needed to manage the Group successfully, and to align their interests on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM of the Company at with those of our shareholders by rewarding them for enhancing which the financial statements will be approved.
The policy also seeks to reward achievement In line with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report ofstretching performance targets without driving unacceptable on Remuneration are audited: the single figure for total remuneration behaviours or encouraging excessive risk-taking.
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Salary Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities.
Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of the Not applicable Salary is benchmarked periodically against appropriate comparators review normally with effect from 1 April.
Salaries for the financial year A fair, fixed remuneration reflecting the size and scope of the of similar size and operating in a similar sector, and is linked to under review and the following year are disclosed in the Annual executives responsibilities which attracts and retains high calibre individual performance and contribution.
talent necessary for the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Salary increases for executive Directors will not normally exceed the average of the wider employee population other than in exceptional circumstances.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, for example where there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Benefits Benefits are appropriate to the location of the executive and typically Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be Not applicable comprise but are not limited to a company car, life insurance, appropriate for the role and circumstances of each individual To provide benefits that are competitive within the relevant market.
permanent disability insurance, private medical insurance, relocation executive Director.
The maximum value will equate to the reasonable and tax advice for international assignments.
market cost of such benefits.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of benefits as set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration would increase materially over the period for which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation expenses or an expatriation allowance on recruitment, etc.
or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will be provided in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Executive Directors participate in either a Group Defined Contribution Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 20% of pensionable Not applicable pension plan or the US 401k money purchase arrangement.
The maximum To provide competitive post-retirement benefits, or the cash contribution rate for executives joining prior to 2014 15 was 27.5%.
allowance equivalent, to provide the opportunity for executives to Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may be save for their retirement.
made to some individuals at a level dependent upon seniority and Cash supplement: Halma contributes up to 26% of full salary if the length of service.
executive Director is a former active member of the Defined Benefit pension plan.
Defined Contribution members whose contributions To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax exceed the local tax allowance are paid the excess contributions, allowance, the contributions may be paid to the executive, subject to onthe capped pensionable salary, as a cashsupplement.
401k: contributions of 3% of salary with a discretionary 2% profit Some executives are deferred members of the Group Defined Benefit share component subject to IRS caps.
pension plan which closed to future accrual in December 2014.
Defined Benefit: now closed to future accrual, but provides a maximum pension equivalent to two thirds of final pensionable salary, up to a CPI-indexed cap: 155,528 for 2015 16.
74 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Committee carried out a comprehensive review of remuneration during the year coincident with the expiry of the life of the current Performance Share Plan PSP.
It noted that there were aspects of thecurrent policy that work well and should therefore be retained.
However, it also noted that both the Company and market practice have moved on in the past 10 years since the last formal review.
Accordingly, it concluded that there should be changes to the policyto reinforce the link between executive remuneration and theCompanys long-term performance so as to enhance the executives alignment with the long-term interests of shareholders.
There are six elements of the remuneration policy for executive Directors, which are summarised in the table below.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy continued Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Annual Incentive The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive The bonus is based 100% on the achievement of financial year to ensure that the performance measures and their weightings and Finance Director and 125% of base salary for other Directors.
The primary measure used to determine bonus To incentivise and focus management on the achievement of an remain appropriately aligned with the Groups strategy and are outcomes is EVA, although the Committee may, in its discretion and objective annual target which supports the shortto medium-term Target opportunity: 60% of maximum.
from time to time, supplement EVA with additional financial measures strategy of the Group.
that reflect Halmas strategic priorities for the year, provided any such Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of salary.
Performance targets are calibrated and set at the start of the year, with additional measure accounts for no more than 30% of the overall reference to a range of relevant reference points including the annual In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to bonus opportunity.
budget agreed by the Board.
At the end of the year, the Committee exercise discretion to override the formulaic bonus outcome within determines the extent to which these targets have been achieved.
Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for the the limits of the scheme where it believes the outcome is not truly financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report reflective of performance and to ensure fairness to both shareholders Payment of one third of any bonus is in the form of an award of onRemuneration.
shares that is deferred for two years, with vesting normally subject tocontinued service.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period.
Dividend equivalents are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period.
Deferral into shares provides a link to the long-term strategy of the Group and enhances the retentiveness of the policy.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company torecoup overpayments in the event of misstatement, error ormisconduct, either through withholding future remuneration orrequiring the executive to repay the requisite amount.
Performance Share Plan PSP Executive Directors are granted annual awards over Halma plc shares Maximum opportunity: Up to 200% of salary.
Vesting of PSP awards is subject to continued employment and the or a cash equivalent where required by regulation as determined by Companys performance over a three-year performance period.
To incentivise executives to achieve superior returns to shareholders In exceptional circumstances, such as to facilitate the recruitment of the Committee: awards vest after aperiod of at least three years Tothe extent performance conditions are not met, awards will lapse.
over a three-year period rewarding them for sustained performance an external candidate, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, based on Group performance.
against challenging long-term targets: to retain key individuals exceed this maximum annual opportunity, subject to a limit of 250% The performance measures will be Earnings per Share EPS and andalign interests with shareholders, reflecting the sustainability Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period.
Return on Total Invested Capital ROTIC, and subject to a minimum ofthe business model over the long-term and the creation of equivalents are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting weighting of 25% on either of these measures.
Threshold performance will result in the vesting of 25% of the shareholder value.
period, and only on those shares which vest.
Details of the weightings and targets applicable for awards made A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company inthe financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report torecoup overpayments in the event of misstatement, error on Remuneration.
ormisconduct, either through withholding future remuneration orrequiring the executive to repay the requisite amount.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP is an HMRC-approved arrangement.
It entitles all UKParticipation limits are in line with those set by HMRC from time Not applicable.
basedemployees to receive Halma shares in a potentially taxtotime.
To encourage share ownership across all UK-based employees advantageous manner.
Chairman and non-executive Directors Chairman and non-executive Director fees Non-executive Director fees are determined by the Board and may Fees are normally reviewed annually in April, but typically only reset The fees paid to non-executive Directors in respect of the year under comprise a base fee, chairmanship fee and Senior Independent triennially.
Increases are effective from 1 April.
review and for the following year are disclosed in the Annual To attract individuals with the requisite skills, experience and Director fee.
knowledge to contribute to the Board.
The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee, and The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee.
fees to NEDs are determined by the Board.
The fees are calculated by reference to market levels and take account of the time commitment and the responsibilities of the NEDs.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director and for being the Chairman of a Board Committee, as appropriate.
Notes to the Policy Table Payments from Existing Awards The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy detailed in this report, i. e. before 23 July 2015.
Details of these awards are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Selection of Performance Measures The performance measures used in Halmas executive incentives have been selected to ensure incentives are challenging and reinforce the Groups strategy and align executive interests closely with those of our shareholders.
In the annual bonus, the use of EVA, in summary, profit less a charge for capital employed definition is provided on page 83 reinforces the Groups business objective to double Group revenue and profit every five years through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.
Profit is a function of the extent to which the Company has achieved both its organic growth target and its success in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in current and past years.
Ensuring that the cost of funding acquisitions is reflected in the bonus model means that executives share the benefit of an acquisition that outperforms expectations, but equally bear the cost of overpaying for an acquisition.
Good or poor management of working capital is also reflected in the calculation of EVA.
In the PSP, EPS provides a disciplined focus on increasing profitability and thereby provides close shareholder alignment through incentivising shareholder value creation, and ROTIC reinforces the focus on capital efficiency and delivery of strong returns, thereby further strengthening the alignment of remuneration with the Group strategy.
76 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Annual Incentive The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive The bonus is based 100% on the achievement of financial year to ensure that the performance measures and their weightings and Finance Director and 125% of base salary for other Directors.
Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which it operates.
Targets are calibrated taking into account a range of reference points, but are based primarily on the Groups strategic plan.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees Our approach to salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of responsibility, experience, individual performance, market levels and the Companys ability to pay.
The Committee considers remuneration surveys to establish market rates, as appropriate, but uses such data carefully so as to avoid an upward ratchet.
Executive Board members and other senior executives participate in an annual bonus scheme on a similar basis as the executive Directors.
A number of senior executives also receive PSP awards.
Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, while award sizes vary by organisational level.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the SIP on the same terms.
Pension and benefits arrangements are tailored to local market conditions, and are determined to be appropriately competitive.
Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The Committees policy is to set pay for new executive Directors and Executive Board members within the existing remuneration policy in order to provide internal consistency.
The Committee aims to ensure that the Company pays no more than is necessary to appoint individuals of an appropriate calibre.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy continued External appointments In the case of appointing a new executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing elements of remuneration, as follows: Component Approach Salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience andskills of the individual, internal relativities and the current salary of any incumbent in the same role.
Where a new appointee has an initial base salary set below market, the Committee may make phased increases over a period of several years to achieve the desired position, subject to the individuals development and performance in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, as well as expatriation allowances and any necessary expenses relating to an executives relocation on appointment.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Companys Defined Contribution pension plan, receive a cash supplement or localequivalent.
Annual bonus The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year employed.
PSP New appointees will be granted awards under the PSP on the same terms as other executives, as described in the policy table.
SIP New appointees in the UK will be eligible to participate on identical terms to other employees.
In addition to the elements of remuneration set in the policy table, Executive Director Service Contracts and inexceptional circumstances the Committee may consider it Exit Payment Policies appropriate to grant an incentive award under a different structure in It is the Companys policy that executive Directors should have order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual, to replace incentive contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The details of the Directors contracts are summarised such awards, the Committee will look to replicate the arrangements in the table below.
being forfeited as closely as possible and in doing so consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period these awards, the payment mechanism, expected value and the Andrew Williams April 2003 One year remaining vesting period of these awards.
Kevin Thompson April 2003 One year Internal Appointments Remuneration for new executive Directors appointed by way of Neil Quinn April 2003 One year internal promotion will similarly be determined in line with the policy Adam Meyers July 2008 One year forexternal appointees, as detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, N eil Quinn has resigned from his employment with the Company effective 31 March 2016 and from the Company will continue to honour those commitments.
Incentive the Board effective 14 May 2015: as such he will not be seeking re-election to the Board at the 2015AGM.
opportunities for below-Board employees are generally no higher than for executive Directors, and incentive measures vary to ensure The Companys policy is to limit payments on a cessation to they are appropriate.
In the event that the employment of an executive Director is terminated, any amount Share Ownership Guidelines payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the To ensure alignment between the interests of executive Directors and service contract between the Company and the employee, as well those of shareholders, the Company requires executive Directors to as the rules of any incentive plans.
No predetermined amount is progressively build up and maintain a beneficial holding of Halma plc provided for in the Directors contracts.
The UK executive Director shares equivalent to a minimum of 200% of salary 2014 15: 100%.
contracts enable the Company to pay up to one years salary in lieu Until such time as this threshold is achieved, executive Directors are of notice, with no contractual entitlement to any other benefits, and, required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of any under the Rules, the Remuneration Committee may determine the vested PSP or deferred share bonus award.
individuals leaving status for share plan vesting purposes.
If the financial year end has passed, any bonus earned is payable to the individual.
Adam Meyers service contract permits him to remain an employee for the entire period of notice enjoying any benefits related to employment.
The share plan and bonus provisions are identical to the UK.
Both contracts contain appropriate non-compete restrictions for a suitable period post-employment.
When considering termination payments under incentive schemes, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure theyare fair to both shareholders and participants.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and PSP are treated in specific circumstances under the rules of the relevant plan and the extent to which the Committee has discretion: 78 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Death, injury or disability, redundancy, After the end of the financial Performance against targets will be retirement, or any other reasons the year, although the Committee assessed at the end of the year in the Committee may determine has discretion to accelerate normal way and any resulting bonus e. g. in relation to death normally will be pro-rated for time served during the year All other reasons Awards lapse PSP Injury or disability, redundancy, or any On the third anniversary of Awards will normally be pro-rated other reason the Committee may, at its theaward fortime to the date of cessation of discretion, determine employment and performance metrics assessed as at the third anniversary Death Immediately unless otherwise Any outstanding awards normally will determined by the Committee be pro-rated for time and performance at its discretion up to the point of death All other reasons Awards lapse Andrew Williams, Chief Executive Pay-for-Performance: Scenario Analysis Percentages amounts 000 The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future rewards for executive Directors, and the potential split between Fixed 100% 783 different elements of pay, under three different performance scenarios: Fixed, On-target and Maximum.
On-target 41% 28% 31% 1,923 Maximum 27% 31% 42% 2,883 Potential reward opportunities are based on Halmas remuneration policy, applied to salaries as at 1 April 2015.
In the case of the ChiefExecutive, Finance Director and other executive Directors Kevin Thompson, Finance Director thisassumes a PSP award level of 200%, 175% and 150% of salary Percentages amounts 000 respectively which is the basis on which the policy will be applied In Fixed 100% 487 the first year.
The projected values exclude the impact of any share price movements and dividend equivalents.
On-target 42% 29% 29% 1,152 The Fixed scenario shows base salary, pension and benefits only.
Maximum 29% 33% 38% 1,705 The On-target scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a Adam Meyers, Sector Chief Executive Medical target pay out of 60% of the maximum under the annual bonus and Percentages amounts 000 vesting of 50% of a single years award under the PSP.
Fixed 100% 312 The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum payout of annual bonus and PSP awards.
On-target 42% 29% 29% 749 Maximum 28% 33% 39% 1,113 Fixed Annual incentive PSP Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy continued Non-executive Directors NED Recruitment Unless otherwise indicated, all non-executive Directors NEDs In recruiting a new Chairman or NED, the Committee will use the haveaspecific three-year term of engagement, subject to annual policy as set out in the table on pages 76 and 77. re-election at the AGM, which may be renewed forfurther three-year Considerations of Conditions Elsewhere in the Group terms if both the Director and the Board agree.
The remuneration of The Committee considers the remuneration and employment the Chairman and the NEDs is determined by the Committee and the conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration Board in accordance with the shareholder approval policy.
However, the Committee does not The contract in respect of the Chairmans services provides for currentlyconsult specifically with employees on the executive termination, by either party, by giving not less than six months remunerationpolicy.
The non-executive Directors have contracts in respect of theirservices, which can be terminated, by either party, by giving Considerations of Shareholder Views notless than three months notice.
When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the views of our shareholders and best practice guidelines set by Summary details of terms and notice periods for NEDs are shareholder representative bodies.
As part of their consideration of includedbelow.
the new remuneration policy the Committee consulted widely with the Companys major institutional shareholders and their representative Non-executive Date of Notice bodies.
The Committee always welcomes feedback from Director appointment period shareholders on the Companys remuneration policy.
Detail on the votes received on the remuneration policy and Annual Report on Paul Walker April 2013 6 months Directors Remuneration at the prior annual general meeting is Stephen Pettit September 2003 3 months provided in the AnnualRemuneration Report.
Jane Aikman August 2007 3 months External Directorships Daniela Barone Soares November 2011 3 months The Committee acknowledges that executive Directors may be invited to become independent non-executive directors of other listed Roy Twite July 2014 3 months companies which have no business relationship with the Company Tony Rice August 2014 3 months and that these roles can broaden their experience and knowledge toHalmas benefit.
S tephen Pettit has given notice of his intention to retire from the Board effective at the close of the 2015 AGM.
As such, he is not seeking re-election to the Board.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept one such appointment with the prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be given NEDs do not receive benefits from the Company and they are not where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest eligible to join the Companys pension plan or participate in any withtheGroups activities and the wider exposure gained will be incentive schemes.
Any reasonable expenses that they incur in beneficial to the development of the individual.
Where fees are performing their duties are reimbursed by the Company.
payable in respect of such appointments, these are retained by Paul Walkers personal assistant is an employee of the Company.
Details of the policy on NED fees are set out in the table on During the year, Andrew Williams was appointed a non-executive pages76and 77. director of Capita plc.
Fees paid to him during the period to 28March2015 were 16,000.
80 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
