Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairmans introduction to Governance Halma is always focused on the ways in which we attract, identify, assess and develop Board-level talent... Paul Walker, Chairman I am delighted to report that we further strengthened our Board Dear Shareholders, withthe appointments of Roy Twite and Tony Rice following the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Halmas Corporate resignations of Norman Blackwell and Steve Marshall whose other Governance report for what has been a relatively busy year for commitments precluded continuing as a Halma Director.
This report seeks to provide you with a clear andmeaningful Tony we have identified individuals with unique contributions already explanation of how we discharge our governance duties and apply evidenced in Board dialogues.
the principles of good governance enshrined in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Halma reports in accordance to the With Stephen Pettit retiring from our Board after the upcoming revised September 2012 Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure AGMwe are losing a valuable colleague who greatly aided my own &Transparency Rules.
I am grateful to him for extending his tenure toprovide additional cover in a time of multiple Boardtransitions.
The Board remains committed to maintaining the highest standards ofcorporate governance and ensuring values and The April 2014 alignment of the Executive Board constitution and behaviours are consistent across the business and underpinned by responsibilities with the four market sectors in which we areengaged our business model.
We have sought to manage the affairs of the has also proven successful and allowed for the smooth transition of Company not bymerely following regimented rules, butby promoting responsibility for the Process Safety sector from Neil Quinn to Philippe a culture of open and transparent discussion, constructive challenge Felten in May 2015.
Such successful transitions underscore the and support in the Board and across theGroup.
I am pleased with rationale for the change and prove the agility of the structure.
the progress Halma has made andcontinues to make.
We routinely seek to ensurebest practice is maintained and that governance, in With the external Board evaluation having been conducted itsbroadest sense, is integral toour strategy and decision-making overthepast year, I would like to share my take on what we learned.
processes forthe benefit of ourshareholders and our employees.
Itwas reassuring to find that there were no surprises and that we actas a unified Board, but we were reminded thatit is about culture, It is my belief that we have to continually nurture talents throughout ethos and personal chemistry which your Board has repeatedly theGroup to provide a stimulating work environment and to enable demonstrated.
This tone from thetop undoubtedly informs operating effective succession planning.
The additional focus we have placed on company boards andemployees worldwide and contributes to the talent in the past year has reinforced that belief, and has also enabled Groups implacable progress.
I am proud to chair Halmas Board us to identify and develop both internal and external candidates to andoversee the Group with each of my fellow Directors.
contribute to our business and aid such succession planning.
With that in mind, we havecontinued to review our governance structures Lastly, I would like to encourage all shareholders to find the time to and the composition of our Board and Executive Board throughout attend our AGM on 23July 2015.
It is an excellent opportunity to the year.
Our commitment to continuously improve the quality and meet the Board and the Executive Board.
performance of Halmas management talent across the world has Paul Walker developed a new momentum that has been embraced throughout Chairman theGroup.
11 June 2015 Reviews of management capabilities and potential are performed on a routine basis and Halma is always focused onthe ways in which weattract, identify, assess and develop Board-level talent which is acritical factor for us to achieve ourmid to long-term strategic goals.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55
