GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDER Company, from shareholders, clients and through his knowledge and wisdom as what I am pleased to present to you the candidates to the wider community of which might be described as an end-user of the Governance section of our 2015 Annual we are very much a part.
On behalf of the Report and, further, to report that we have whole Board, I would like to record our thanks complied with the 2012 Edition of UK to Richard for his knowledge and insight As I reported to you last year, William Corporate Governance Code the Code provided during his time with us.
Eccleshare retired from the Board at our AGM throughout the year: further detail can last year.
In February this year we were very be found in the Corporate Governance pleased to welcome Peter Williams as a We are looking to add further to the Boards Statement.
We have already taken the steps valuable addition to our number.
As one of membership, to ensure we continue to have necessary for compliance with the 2014 the longest serving CFOs in the FTSE prior to the right mix of skills and experience to tackle edition of the Code and will report to you stepping down as Group Finance Director of the challenges faced by the business in the on that next year.
As your Chairman, the Daily Mail & General Trust plc, coupled with ever-evolving environment in which we strong governance framework we have in his recent time as a non-executive director operate.
In so doing, we will continue to take place at Hays continues to be of the utmost of a leading digital sports media company, into account the principles of diversity, in all importance to me and you will hopefully see Peters experience provides further strength its forms, notwithstanding that we will always over the following pages that this framework and depth to the Board.
seek to appoint the most suitable candidate.
ensures your Board acts with integrity, transparency and diligence.
As both a people At our forthcoming AGM Richard Smelt will Ensuring the Board has the right composition business and a global business, these values be retiring from his position as a nonis only one aspect of its effective performance.
are core to everything we do, and I, and the executive director.
Richard was appointed to The Board evaluation process undertaken in rest of your Board understand the behaviours the Board in November 2007 and during his 2014 provided an opportunity for further expected of us, and we keep very much in tenure has been an invaluable asset, not only improvement to its effective functioning and focus the interests of all stakeholders in this because of his corporate experience but also I am pleased to report that, following the 2015 42|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board evaluation process, these have been this year, in two countries where we are the OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK well received and with noticeable results.
market leader but which represent more Responsibility for good governance rests Ensuring the individual members, as well mature and immature markets respectively.
with the Board: this is underpinned by an as the executive and non-executive groups, effective governance framework which, are working optimally ensures the Board is the Board believes, fits the requirements As the world becomes more connected, providing the necessary stewardship required of Hays business.
and disruptive technologies challenge the to fulfil the goal of effective governance and norm, the Board keeps under constant review appropriate accountability.
We will be the Groups appetite for risk and ensures the The Board retains certain matters for its conducting an external evaluation of the framework within which that is managed own preserve: other specific responsibilities Board next year, not simply because we are is appropriately balanced against potential are delegated to its principal committees, required to, but because we recognise the rewards.
Strong corporate governance namely the Audit Committee, the merit that such an external lens can provide.
is at the heart of how we operate and Remuneration Committee and the I encourage you to read further on that Nomination Committee.
Each of these We have welcomed some new colleagues in the coming pages.
Committees operates within defined terms to Hays this year with our acquisition of the of reference, which are available on the Veredus business in December 2014.
The Board has also I look forward to meeting any shareholders a great fit for us and enables us to build on delegated to a sub-committee certain who can join us at our AGM in November, our existing presence in the US and further matters which are routine in nature, or and extend my thanks to you all for your strengthens the global offering we provide which have been agreed in principle by continued support as we look forward to our clients.
I met the new US senior the Board: such matters require a meeting the year ahead.
management team across three of their of three directors, with an appropriate mix offices on a recent visit and saw first-hand of executives and non-executives.
Such ALAN THOMSON what a great business we have been able matters are reported to the full Board.
CHAIRMAN to add to the Hays Group, and look forward 27 August 2015 to a further visit with the Board over the The Chairman of each Committee reports course of the coming year.
We shall also be to the Board on its proceedings, and visiting our Sydney and Tokyo operations minutes of the meetings are available as appropriate.
OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK BOARD OF DIRECTORS Responsible for the overall management of the organisation of our business Sets standards, values, policies and Ensures we have the resources in place Monitors and reviews material strategic aims to meet our objectives strategic issues, financial performance and risk management p46 AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Reviews and monitors financial Sets, reviews and recommends overall Makes recommendations to the statements remuneration policy and strategy Board on its composition and that Oversees external audit Reviews and approves remuneration of its Committees Reviews internal audit plans arrangements for executive directors and senior management p54 p61 p52 MANAGEMENT BOARD Day-to-day management of our business and operations, CHIEF responsibility for monitoring detailed performance of all EXECUTIVE aspects of our business p46 GROUP RISK COMMITTEE Provides strategic leadership, direction and oversight of risk p51 Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|43
