Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Chairmans Overview Chairmans Overview JM Barry Gibson Chairman The Board continues to believe that good corporate governance underpins good business Board changes performance.
As a Board we are accountable to our shareholders for ensuring that governance Ian Chippendale stepped down as Senior Independent Director at the end of March having served processes are in place and are effective and we are fully committed to meeting the required as a Non-Executive Director since 2007.
I would like to thank Ian for his significant contribution over standards of corporate governance.
The reports that follow are intended to give shareholders an the last eight years and wish him well for his retirement.
understanding of our corporate governance arrangements and how they operated in FY15.
Following Ians departure, Mark Morris was appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
Ben Board focus Mingay has joined the Remuneration Committee and Stella David has taken over as Chairman of Over the last year we have continued to focus the business on our customers and considerable that committee.
improvements have been made in respect of service, culture, governance and controls.
Board effectiveness As a Board we regularly discuss and review: During the year, a review of the Board and its committees was undertaken by Lintstock Limited, Our performance and our progress towards our strategic goals an external facilitator.
Based on this review and my experience as Chairman, I am satisfied that Our customers and how we can ensure that they are at the heart of everything we do the Board and its Committees are performing efficiently and that there is an appropriate balance Our people and how we can develop and support them to provide the service our of skills, experience, knowledge and independence to enable the Board to discharge its duties customers expect effectively.
Our shareholders and how we communicate with them Our governance and controls.
JM Barry Gibson Chairman 19 May 2015 46 | HomeServe HomeServe | 47
