48 IMI plc Corporate Governance introduction Chairmans Governance letter Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman Looking ahead to 2016, I see the key objectives for the Dear Shareholder Board to be: continuing to develop our strategy review process with a I have been Chairman of IMI since the Annual General Meeting longer-term perspective: in May 2015 and am delighted to be working with the Board and the Executive team on the delivery of IMIs ambitious supporting and advising management as they implement accelerated growth plan.
the business improvement and growth investment plans approved by the Board: and As I visit the businesses I am very impressed with the people and the culture, as well as the improvements and investment continuing to strengthen the Groups risk management and programmes that are underway.
I am pleased to report that control environment.
the measures to strengthen the businesses foundations have continued, with the full support of the Board, despite the I am keen to engage with shareholders and since my economic headwinds we faced in 2015. appointment I have met with a number of IMIs larger institutional investors.
I look forward to meeting individual I am grateful to my predecessor, Roberto Quarta, for the strong shareholders again at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Board and robust governance practices he put in place.
From these firm foundations I will continue to build the effectiveness of the Board.
Yours faithfully So far during my tenure we have appointed one new nonLord Smith of Kelvin executive director, we have dedicated time to a Board strategy Chairman day and visited our facilities in the Czech Republic.
The Board 25 February 2016 has decided to hold most of our UK Board meetings at the new head office in Birmingham, which I am confident will help increase the visibility and effectiveness of future meetings.
I am now fully recovered since a health issue which affected me back in September and October 2015.
My commitment to IMI is as strong as ever and I thank my Board colleagues for their understanding and support.
