STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE the Group.
The Board and Senior Management firmly believe that as a knowledge and information business, Informa succeeds when its people are supported, motivated, and given freedom to innovate.
Informas focus is on creating a culture where Colleagues have the opportunity to collaborate and develop their skills whilst contributing to the Company.
This produces a creative and discursive working environment, which helps develop the specialist products and services that our customers expect.
The best exponents of Informas culture and values are its colleagues.
This Annual Report contains accounts from individuals in each Division talking about their experience in the Company, as well as members of the DEAR SHAREHOLDER Informa Graduate Fellowship Scheme.
What stands out On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Informas for me is how these colleagues have been able to develop 2015 Governance Report to Shareholders.
As the previous their career at Informa, the pride they take in their roles pages of the report illustrate, it was another year of and how they enjoy and are stimulated by their work and improved performance and strategic progress, during by the dynamism of the Group.
which the Board continued to oversee the implementation ROLE AS CHAIRMAN of the Groups strategy whilst discharging its other defined As Chairman, I work very closely with the Group Chief governance and supervisory responsibilities.
Stephen and I have worked together for over LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS five years, as Executive and Non-Executive colleagues.
One of the Boards key priorities is to challenge, motivate We have formal meetings to plan agendas and Board and support Informas Executive Management Team and meetings.
Given the speed and diversity of the markets in its Divisions, and the Nomination Committee continues to which Informa operates, this is supplemented by regular focus on ensuring the Board has the range and balance of informal discussions and exchanges.
skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity I ensure that there is sufficient time at each meeting to to discharge this responsibility effectively.
discuss all items and that each Director has an opportunity The Board underwent a number of changes in 2015 that to contribute and actively engages in our deliberations.
In have strengthened and broadened its skillset.
During 2015 addition to the usual meetings, we hold a strategy meeting the Nomination Committee identified the need for two new each September at which strategic issues and Divisional Non-Executive Directors, one to replace Geoff Cooper and and Group three-year plans are discussed in depth with one with extensive US market experience, to reflect and our Senior Executives.
Nearly all Board meetings involve support the Groups continuing focus and growth in the region.
a team from Informa presenting on a key topical area.
One Board meeting per year is held outside the UK, and Geoff Cooper stepped down as a Non-Executive Director before each Board meeting Board Members have the and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 30 March opportunity to meet the Executive Team for dinner to 2015 and I would like to thank him for his contribution to discuss a wider range of issues.
The Board also has a the Board and the Committee.
Gareth Bullock acted as good level of interaction with the wider top leadership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from 30 March group within Informa.
2015 until 1 September 2015 when we welcomed Stephen Davidson and David Flaschen to the Board as independent COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE Non-Executive Directors.
Stephen was appointed as The Board is committed to its standards of governance Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 September and to the principles of corporate governance contained in 2015 and David joined the Audit Committee on 1 October the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published 2015.
Both will stand for election at our AGM on 19 May 2016. in September 2014.
I am pleased to confirm that Informa complied with all the principles contained within the Code.
After serving 10 years as a Non-Executive Director, Our compliance statement on page 66 contains more John Davis will step down from the Board at Mays AGM.
information on Informas compliance with the Code and the I would like to thank John for his extensive contribution, Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
service and dedication to the Board over the last decade.
DEREK MAPP CULTURE AND VALUES CHAIRMAN Informa places great store on its people and on creating a productive culture and working environment throughout 65 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
