Directors report Chairmans introduction DEAR SHAREHOLDER FOR MORE DETAIL ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Once again, on behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 52 Chairmans introduction Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Board believes that good governance is key to the 54 Compliance with the UK long-term success of the Group and we shall continue to Corporate Governance Code pursue the comply or explain approach.
Corporate Governance lies at the heart of our Company as compliance 56 Board of Directors and integrity form part of the foundations upon which our 58 Leadership values and mission as a Company are based.
The Board continues to be committed to improving the governance 60 Effectiveness framework and the need to demonstrate to shareholders 63 Remuneration report that the Company is properly governed in order to support the delivery of our strategic and business goals.
78 Audit & Risk Committee COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 83 Nomination Committee CODE THE CODE 85 Other statutory information The Company is subject to the principles and provisions of the Code, which is published and regularly updated by the 88 S tatement of Directors responsibilities UK Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The latest applicable update was released in September 2014.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
I am pleased to report that throughout the year ended 31December 2015, the Company has complied with the main and supporting principles and provisions of the Code, except for provision B.
3.3. for the period 14 January to 15 May 2015.
Wolfhart Hauser was given approval to join the Board of Associated British Foods plc as Non-Executive Director, taking the number of his non-executive directorships during this period to two.
The Board considered Wolfharts other significant commitments and the decision was taken, in view of his publicly announced intention to retire, that despite taking on a second non-executive directorship he would continue to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his responsibilities.
From 16 May 2015 the Company complied fully with the Code.
Overleaf is an overview of the Companys compliance with the Code, which should be read in conjunction with this Corporate Governance Report.
A fuller explanation of our compliance with the Code and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules is set out on our website at www.
SIR DAVID REID Chairman 52 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT SUCCESSION PLANNING SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As Chairman, I am focused on ensuring that the Board works During the year we consulted extensively with our shareholders effectively and cohesively under my leadership, with the right and we hope to continue this positive trend in 2016. range and balance of skills, expertise and attributes to ensure More information about our engagement with shareholders is the continued growth and success of the Group.
In making any outlined in the Corporate Governance Report on page 62 and board appointments, the Nomination Committee is careful to in the Remuneration report in the letter from the Chairman ensure that it is presented with, and considers, a broad range to the Remuneration Committee on page 63. of candidates.
With Wolfharts retirement in May 2015 one of our key priorities has been to ensure and support a smooth I am interested in hearing the views of our shareholders and transition in the role of Chief Executive Officer to Andr Lacroix.
ensuring that the Board take these into account when Wolfhart remained available to support Andr as required until considering the strategic direction of the Group.
I would like to thank him on behalf BUSINESS FOCUS of the Board and our shareholders for his exceptional leadership A key role for me as Chairman is ensuring that we continually over the past decade.
strive to have high standards of corporate governance whilst With the retirement of Christopher Knight at the 2015 Annual ensuring that the right controls are in place to provide the General Meeting AGM, the Nomination Committee focused Board with the appropriate level of oversight and assurance.
on evaluating the composition of the Board and its I hope the following report provides you with more information Committees.
We welcomed Gill Rider to the Board as Nonand gives a greater insight into the discussions held at the Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee Board and its Committee meetings during the year.
She brings valuable experience to our Board and further strengthens our diversity not just in respect of gender but also experience, skill and personal attributes.
With Gills appointment we have three women on our Board, representing 30%, exceeding the aspirational target of the Lord Davies Report that 25% of the Board positions at FTSE 100 companies should be filled by women.
SIR DAVID REID More information on the role and activity of the Nomination Chairman Committee is detailed on pages 83 and 84.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION As announced last year, the evaluation and performance review of the Board and its Committees was undertaken with the assistance of an independent party, Egon Zehnder.
I am pleased to report that the evaluation concluded that the Board and its Committees operate effectively, with each Director making significant contributions to debate and discussion.
Further details on the outcome of the evaluation and its process can be found on pages 60 and 61.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 53
