Governance Chairmans Governance Statement Dear shareholder, The Board believes that a high standard of corporate governance is essential not just to protecting shareholders interests, We recognise that the best but to building and sustaining the longterm success of the Company.
governance system in the world is of limited value unless built on an Our belief is that a good board is an engaged board, working closely with organisation that encourages theexecutive team.
The success of the Board process depends on a strong integrity and transparency.
chemistry around the board table where robust discussions can be conducted in aspirit of openness and transparency.
The Boards role is both to support and challenge the executive team and to promote the success of the business.
When we started on the transformation programme six years ago we downsized the Board initially to six members to create a more cohesive and engaged team.
Since that time, we have added carefully to its membership to reflect Archie Norman our belief that ITV works best with a Chairman balanced combination of creative, commercial and financial talent and experience.
But we continue to believe In the Governance section that a relatively small, but talented This section of the Annual Report contains a statement from your board, close to the business is the right Chairman and information about the Directors and Management model for ITV.
It explains our governance structure and corporate governance compliance and includes reportsfrom the Audit With that we have reshaped the andRemuneration Committees and the DirectorsReport.
Strong governance is the platform that allows the Board toengage in effective strategic and commercial debate.
Today, we have a robust framework of risk management and financial controls which we review regularly and a very rigorous Audit Committee process under its Chairman, John Ormerod.
We recognise that the best governance system in the world is of limited value unless built on an organisation that encourages integrity and transparency.
52 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Chairmans Governance Statement Committee and she was appointed as ITV is a talent business and ensuring We are delighted that Anna Manz anadditional member on 16 June 2015. thatwe employ great people and allow agreed to join the Board in February From that date we were fully compliant.
them creative freedom in the context 2016.
Anna is currently Group Strategy oftight financial discipline is crucial to Director at Diageo plc where she has Further information on corporate our success.
So the foundation of our animpressive track record.
She will governance and a schedule setting out governance is ensuring we have the bringconsumer, financial and strategic how we comply with the Code can be rightpeople and attitudes.
For this experience to the Board.
reason we have rigorous pulse surveys ofemployee morale and attitudes Itis our policy to appoint Non-executive andthe Board regularly engages in Directors for a three year period www.
com about governance discussion about people, organisation fromappointment and then consider reappointment on an annual basis and succession.
A copy of the Code is available on the following a robust performance FRC website.
The Board meets regularly for scheduled Board and Committee meetings and www.
uk Our-Work CodesIn addition we carefully review other hasa number of informal meetings to Standards Corporate-governance commitments to ensure that Directors consider specific issues.
We interact have sufficient time tocommit to the frequently with senior executives and business.
Details of appointment dates subject matter experts.
This ensures Archie Norman and length of tenure for each director that the Board has a full understanding Chairman can be found in the table on page 59. of the business.
During the year some of AllDirectors are required by the our Non-executive Directors undertook 2 March 2016 Companys Articles ofAssociation to visits to our UK and international sites.
beelected by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by We remain committed to maintaining theBoard.
Subsequently, all Directors regular open dialogue and effective are subject toannual re-election by communication with our shareholders.
shareholders asrecommended by We believe that continued engagement theUK Corporate Governance Code is highly beneficial to all parties as it theCode.
helps to build a greater understanding ofour investors views, opinions We are in the process of conducting andconcerns.
anexternally facilitated board effectiveness review and further During the year an important focus has detailsof this can be found on page 60. been on evolving our strategy for the next stage of our development.
Each As a listed company, ITV is required year we hold a two day off-site strategy toreport on how it has complied with meeting where we consider recent the principles of governance set out andupcoming changes in our business inthe Code.
The Board considers that environment, the risks and impacts of theCompany has complied with the such changes on our business and how provisions of the Code, except in we might meet these challenges.
Following the summary of the business undertaken by departure of Lucy Neville-Rolfe in July the Board and our focus for 2016 is set 2014, the Audit Committee had only two out on page 59. members.
However, we were delighted that Mary Harris agreed to join the Audit ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53
