Corporate governance statement continued Chairmans introduction Communications with our shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
The Annual Report is sent to all shareholders.
We maintain a corporate website, containing a wide range of information of interest to investors, including presentations to institutional investors and analysts.
The website isupdated with all formal communications to the investment community immediately following their release through a regulatory news service, in compliance with Kellers obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional shareholders and welcomes theirparticipation.
Throughout the year, the Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly meet with, and make presentations to, institutional investors in the UK, Continental Europe and the US.
These include meetings following the announcement of the annual and interim results with the Companys largest institutional shareholders on an individual basis.
Our Finance Director also meets regularly with our debt investors.
All major shareholders have the opportunity on request to meet the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or, on appointment, any new Non-executive Directors.
On a regular basis, the Board is apprised of the views of the investment community through the circulation of brokers research notes and Dear shareholder feedback from analysts and investors, supplemented by occasional In this part of the Annual Report, we set out the measures that we have investor perception surveys.
taken to ensure that the Group continues to apply high standards of corporate governance.
We have complied with the provisions of the UK The remainder of this report contains the narrative reporting variously Corporate Governance Code 2014 throughout the year, however good required by the Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency corporate governance requires much more and I set out below how the Rules.
I hope that you find this an informative and helpful discussion of an Board has fulfilled its role in this area.
At Keller, the Board of Directors is accountable for ensuring that the highest Yours faithfully, standards of governance facilitate the success of the Company and sustain this over time.
The Board believes that Kellers effectiveness should be supported by a strong governance framework.
During the year, we reviewed and agreed anew version of our Code of Business Conduct and in 2016, the Groups Business Conduct Programme will continue to promote honesty, fairness Roy A Franklin and integrity in relations between the Company, employees and their work Chairman colleagues, customers, suppliers, competitors and the communities in which we work.
29 February 2016 Orderly succession planning is vital in running a sustainable business.
In May 2015, Justin Atkinson retired as CEO after 25 years with the business.
We were delighted to announce the appointment of his successor, AlainMichaelis.
Further information on how we dealt with our new CEO appointment can be found in the Nomination Committee report, togetherwith further detail on how the Nomination Committee, under theChairmanship of our Senior Independent Director, Paul Withers, iscarrying out the search for my successor.
At the end of 2014, an internal Board evaluation was undertaken which completed in early 2015.
The feedback from the evaluation confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees continue to operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an effective contribution and retains astrong commitment to their role.
The resulting development themes thatarose from the evaluation are discussed on page 49.
I have also setouthow we have progressed against the areas we identified for improvement as part of the 2014-15 review.
KELLER GROUP PLC 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and to the date B.
6 Evaluation of this report, we have complied with the provisions set out in the UK During 2015, the Company Secretary assisted the Chairman in a review Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code.
The Code is publicly of the performance of the Board, its Committees and Directors.
available at the website of the Financial Reporting Council www.
This Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts B.
7 Re-election describes how we have applied the main principles of the Code.
All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election at the 2015 AGM, as will be the case at the AGM in May 2016.
1 The role of the Board C. Accountability The Board met formally nine times during the year.
The Group is controlled C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting through its Board of Directors.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule The Strategic report on pages 4 to 39 provides information about the of matters reserved to it for decision.
performance of the Group, the business model, strategy, principal risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups future prospects.
2 Division of Responsibilities The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are defined and there is a C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Controls clear division of responsibilities.
Roy Franklin, the Chairman, is responsible The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
Alain Michaelis, the Chief evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
Principal risks, Executive, is the Director ultimately responsible for the running of the including potential impacts and mitigating actions are set out on pages 26 Groups business.
to 28 of the Strategic report.
3 The Chairman C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, ensures that adequate time is given The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit for discussion of all agenda items, facilitates effective Board processes, and Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial ensures that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and reporting processes, internal audit and work undertaken by the external constructive part in the Board and Board Committee discussion.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee provides regular updates Chairman ensures effective communication with shareholders.
4 Non-executive Directors D. Remuneration The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to develop D. 1 The Level and Components of Remuneration proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgement, knowledge The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration appropriately and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Periodically, the Chairman so as to attract, retain and motivate the Board, but also structures meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors remuneration so as to link it to both corporate and individual performance, present.
Apart from the formal Board meetings, there is regular informal thereby aligning managements interest with those of shareholders.
Effectiveness Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the B.
1 The Composition of the Board Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 66.
The Nomination Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of E. Relations with shareholders the Directors.
E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders The Board is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and B.
2 Appointments to the Board has an established cycle of communication based on the Groups financial The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination reporting calendar.
This includes preliminary results in February, publication Committee.
Further details of the activities of the Nomination Committee of the Annual Report in March, half-year results in August and Interim can be found on page 49.
Management Statements in May and November.
The Board is keen to understand the views of shareholders and ensures open dialogue B.
On appointment, Directors are notified of the time commitment expected from them.
External directorships, which may impact existing time E. 2 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting AGM commitments, must be agreed with the Chairman.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional shareholders and welcomes their participation.
4 Development detailing all proposed resolutions, is sent to shareholders at least On appointment, the Directors are provided with induction training 20working days before the meeting.
andinformation about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of BoardCommittees and the latest financial information.
This is supplemented by meetings with the Companys legal and other professional advisers, where appropriate, visits to key locations and meetings with certain senior executives to develop the Directors understanding of the business.
Also, theDirectors are continually apprised of best practice, regulatory andlegislative developments.
5 Information and Support The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that allBoard members receive timely and accurate information.
The Company Secretary ensures that there are effective information flows to the Boardand its Committees and between senior management and Non-executive Directors.
KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 43 Corporate governance statement continued Leadership The role of the Board and its Committees Board Strategy development, growing shareholder value, oversight and corporate governance provide entrepreneurial govern the Group within approve the Groups it delegates authority the Board has formally leadership of the Group, aframework of prudent strategic objectives tomanage the business adopted a schedule of driving it forward for the and effective controls ensure that sufficient tothe Chief Executive matters reserved to it benefit, and having regard which enable risk to be resources are available Officer and also for its decision to, the views of its assessed and managed toenable it to meet delegatesother matters shareholders and other toan appropriate level thoseobjectives toBoard Committees stakeholders andmanagement asappropriate Audit Committee HSE Committee Nomination Remuneration Executive Oversee the Groups Oversee the Boards Committee Committee Committee financial reporting, risk responsibilities in relation Review the composition Determine the Assists the CEO to management and internal to health, safety and of the Board and plan framework, policy develop and implement control procedures and environmental matters, forits progressive and levels of strategy, operational the work of its internal arising out of the activities refreshing with regard remuneration of the CEO, plans, budgets, policies and external auditors of the Company and to balance and structure Executive Directors and and procedures, monitor page 50 its subsidiaries as well as succession senior executives operating and financial page 48 planning page 49 page 52 performance, assess and control risks, prioritise and allocate resource, monitor competitive forces in each area of operation page 32 The terms of reference for each of the Boards key Committees, which are reviewed on an annual basis, can be found on our website.
Key roles Responsibilities Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
The Chairman is responsible for the following matters pertaining to the leadership of the Board: ensuring appropriate Board composition: ensuring effective Board processes: setting the Boards agenda: ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board and Board Committee discussions: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the formulation of strategy and the business of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters: formulating strategy proposals for the Board: formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how this strategy will be delivered: apprising the Board of all matters which materially affect the Group and its performance, including any  business activities: and leadership of executive management to enable the Groups businesses to deliver the requirements of shareholders: ensuring adequate, well-motivated and incentivised management resources: ensuring succession planning: and ensuring appropriate business processes.
The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are quite distinct from each other and are clearly defined in written terms of reference for each role.
Senior Independent Director Discusses any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication.
The role of Senior Independent Director provides a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, other than through the Chairman.
The Board has agreed that the Senior Independent Director will act as Chairman of the Board in the event that the Chairman is unable to do so for any reason.
Company Secretary Ensures good information flows to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and Non-executive Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with the governance framework it has adopted and that there are effective information flows to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a matter for consideration by the Board as a whole.
KELLER GROUP PLC 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board and Committee meetings and attendance Professional development On appointment, Directors are provided with induction training and Audit HSE Nomination Remuneration information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the 1 Justin Atkinson 4 4 Board Committees and the latest financial information about the Group.
2 This is supplemented by meetings with the Companys legal and other Ruth Cairnie 9 9 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 3 professional advisers, and, where appropriate, visits to key locations and Roy Franklin 9 9 3 3 meetings with certain senior executives to develop the Directors 2 Chris Girling 9 9 5 5 1 1 3 3 3 3 understanding of the business.
James Hind 9 9 3 Throughout their period of office, Non-executive Directors are continually Alain Michaelis 5 5 updated on the Groups business, its markets, social responsibility matters Wolfgang and other changes affecting the Group and the industry in which it operates, Sondermann 9 9 including changes to the legal and governance environment and the Nancy Tuor obligations on themselves as Directors.
2 Moore 9 9 5 5 3 3 3 3 2 2 Directors conflicts of interests Paul Withers 9 9 5 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation where 1 J ustin retired from the Board on 14 May 2015.
Justin Atkinson did not attend a they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or NominationCommittee meeting relating to CEO succession.
possibly may conflict, with Kellers interests.
The Act allows Directors 2 A ll Non-executive Directors were appointed members of all Board Committees on ofpublic companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where 24 September 2015. appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this 3 Alain Michaelis succeeded Justin Atkinson as Chief Executive Officer on 14 May 2015. effect.
The Articles of Association give the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest Board diversity to be dealt with.
To address this issue, at the commencement of each Keller continues to be supportive of the need for diversity on its Board Boardmeeting, the Board considers its register of interests and gives, toprovide the necessary range of background, experience, values and whenappropriate, any necessary approvals.
perspectives to optimise the decision-making process.
Gender is seen as one important aspect of diversity to which the Chairman and the Nomination There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to Committee must pay due regard when deciding upon the most appropriate authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only Directors who have composition of the Board.
nointerest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision, the Directors must act in a The Board has established a range of backgrounds, capabilities and waythat they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote Kellers experiences that are critical for the overall Board composition and this success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving forms the key objective and basis for the search and assessment of authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures on conflict candidates for future positions.
Within this context, in the ongoing process have been followed throughout the year and the Board considers the of refreshing the Board, the Company continues to encourage and welcome approach to operate effectively.
interest from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Boards diversity.
Against this overriding objective, the Company does not currently propose to set targets for the percentage of women or other aspects of diversity on its Board in future years.
The Board, as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, comprises 25% women two women: six men 25% at 2 March 2015 two women: six men.
Within the Keller Group, our overall senior management population comprises 6% women and women employees account for 9% of the organisation as a whole.
KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 45 Corporate governance statement continued Effectiveness Directors and Directors independence Board focus areas in 2015 The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four other Non-executive Strategy Directors and three Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors at reviewed and approved: thedate of this report, together with their biographical details, are set out the Groups strategic review and the recommendations arising on pages 40 and 41.
All of these Directors served throughout the year with seeChiefExecutives review page 6 for further details the exception of Alain Michaelis who was appointed on 14 May 2015. the annual budget the approach and process enabling it to make the viability statement The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to develop seepage 28 of the Strategic report for the process: and page 67 proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgment, knowledge oftheDirectors report for the statement and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Periodically, the Chairman evaluated and approved: meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors the acquisition of Bencor, a business providing diaphragm wall technology present.
Apart from formal contact at Board meetings, there is regular in the US see Strategy in action page 14 for further details informal contact between the Directors.
the acquisition of Austral, a marine piling business in Western Australia see Strategy in action page 16 for further details Ruth Cairnie, Chris Girling, Nancy Tuor Moore and Paul Withers are all considered to be independent Non-executive Directors.
Roy Franklin was Risk independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2009. considered the principal risks and uncertainties which could impact Roys other professional commitments are as detailed on page 40. theGroup Royhasannounced his intention to retire from the Board during 2016, reviewed the risk management framework with particular regard to oncea suitable successor has been recruited.
itsimpact on making the viability statement All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM CEO succession following their appointment and to annual re-election thereafter, in agreed the terms of Justin Atkinsons retirement as CEO from the Company accordance with the Code.
agreed the appointment of Alain Michaelis as CEO with effect from 14May2015 for further details on each of the arrangements please Board evaluation refertothe Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 66 Further to the 2014 Board evaluation, a number of actions were taken in the areas of: Chairman and Non-executive Director succession planning and Talent development increased interaction between the Board and the Executive Committee.
reviewed and discussed progress in developing a succession plan for the Groups senior management population Details of how those areas were addressed in 2015 can be found in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 49.
Finance considered and agreed the 2015 interim and final dividends Due to changes in the Boards composition during the year, no evaluation was carried out in 2015.
An external review is planned for 2016.
Operational performance received and considered strategic and operational performance The Chairman has confirmed that the Directors standing for election at presentations from the Presidents of the US, Australia, Asia and this years AGM continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate EMEAregions commitment to their roles.
attended an overseas Board visit in Singapore, where they met with thelocal management team, took part in a site visit to Changhi Airport, Information and support andmet with participants in the Global Engineering Programme The Board and each Committee are satisfied that they receive sufficient, reliable and timely information in advance of meetings and are provided withall necessary resources and expertise to enable them to fulfil their responsibilities and undertake their duties in an effective manner.
2015 Board meetings time spent For each Board and Committee meeting, Directors are provided with atailored Board pack at least one week prior to the meeting.
To improve the delivery and security of Board papers, the Company continues to useanelectronic system allowing the Board to easily access information, irrespective of geographic location.
Directors regularly receive additional information from the Company between Board meetings, including a Strategy 41% monthly Group performance update.
Where a Director was unable to Finance 27% attend a meeting, they were provided with all the papers and information Governance 23% relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues arising directly Procedural 5% withthe Chairman and Chief Executive.
People 4% KELLER GROUP PLC 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accountability Internal control h Internal audit The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal The Group has a structured programme of independent, outsourced audit control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is reviews, covering tendering, operational processes and internal financial designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve controls.
The intention is to conduct an internal audit of all material business business objectives, and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, units at least once every four years.
This programme has been carried out assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The programme is approved and monitored by the Audit Committee, which reviews the findings of each The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, suchexercise.
evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval i Electronic Internal Control Questionnaire EICQ ofthe Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by Each year, every principal business unit is required to complete an electronic theBoard and accords with the guidance of the Financial Reporting Council.
questionnaire responding to whether key internal financial and non-financial controls are in place.
The results of these questionnaires are summarised in Details on the identification and evaluation of risk can be found in the a heat map, which is presented to and discussed by the Audit Committee.
section headed Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 26 to 28.
The responses to the questionnaires are also reviewed by  during each internal audit.
The principal elements of the internal control framework are as follows: j Annual compliance statement a Authorisation procedures Once a year, managers are asked to confirm the adequacy of the systems of Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable trail of internal controls for which they are responsible: and their compliance with accountability.
These procedures are relevant across Group operations and Group policies, local laws and regulations: and to report any significant provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of control weaknesses or breakdowns identified in the past year.
management and, finally, to the Board.
k Business conduct b Management of project risk The Groups business conduct handbook sets out the Groups policies Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the bidding andprocesses with regards to conducting business in all business units stage to completion.
All business units are required to self-certify that they are compliant with the Groups business conduct handbook and compliance Detailed risk analyses covering technical, operational and financial issues are withthe handbook is considered as part of the independent reviews.
performed as part of the bidding process.
Authority limits applicable to the approval of bids relate both to the specific risks associated with the contract During 2015 the Code was revised and refreshed and its launch will take and to the total value being bid by Keller, or any joint venture to which place during 2016.
Any bids involving an unusually high degree of technical or commercial risk, for example those using a new technology or in a territory l Whistleblowing procedures where we have not previously worked, must be approved at a senior level Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice within the operating company.
In 2016 we are introducing a new externally facilitated whistleblowing hotline service for employees.
Any issues raised On average, our contracts have a duration of around six weeks but larger under our procedures are thoroughly investigated and reported back to contracts may extend over several months.
The performance of contracts theAudit Committee.
ismonitored and reported by most business units on a weekly basis.
Inaddition, thorough reviews are carried out by senior managers on any The management of financial risks is described in the Financial review on poorly performing jobs and full cost-to-complete assessments are routinely pages 36 to 39. carried out on extended duration contracts.
Further detail on the management of project risk is provided in the section headed Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 26 to 28. c Health and safety Regular reporting, monitoring and reviews of health and safety matters are made to the HSE Committee and the Board.
d Budgeting and forecasting There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
This budget includes monthly profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cash flows.
In addition, forecasts are prepared for the two subsequent years.
Forecasts for the full year are regularly updated during the year.
e Financial reporting Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which compare profitand loss accounts, balance sheets, cash flows and other information with budget and prior year, and significant variances are investigated.
f Cash control Each business reports its cash position weekly.
Regular cash forecasts are prepared to monitor the Groups shortand medium-term cash positions and to control immediate borrowing requirements.
g Investments and capital expenditure All significant investment decisions, including capital expenditure, are referred to the appropriate divisional or Group authority level.
KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47
