Corporate governance Chairmans introduction to governance As a board, we Phil White Chairman believe that the Group and the delivery of its strategy should bebased on stronggovernance.
As a board, we believe that the Group and the As we identified in our 2014 annual report, Board delivery of its strategy should be based on strong succession planning was one of the key priorities governance.
Wealso believe that good governance in2015.
During the course of the year, there have isessential tothe way in which we operate on a been a number of changes to the composition of day-to-day basis.
Asummary of how our governance theBoard.
On 1 September 2014, Kirsty Bashforth framework has supported our strategy and joined the Board as a non-executive director.
On operations is set out on page 61.
1January 2015, Bev Dew joined as the new Finance Director.
In March 2015, we announced thatNigel In this part of the annual report, we describe Brook Executive Director Construction and governance at Kier, the principal areas of activity of Infrastructure Services, Nigel Turner Executive the Board and its committees throughout the year Director Developments and Property Services and how we have complied with theUK Corporate andClaudio Veritiero Group Strategy and Corporate Governance Code September 2012 edition Development Director had been appointed to the theCode, demonstrating our commitment to Board and that Steve Bowcott, the former Chief applying high standards ofcorporate governance.
Operating Officer, would stand down from the Board.
It was particularly pleasing that the three new In this introduction, I set out a summary of how directors were internal promotions and we have been wehave applied the main principles of the Code.
delighted with their performance sinceappointment.
Compliance with the Code We believe that these appointments will enable the During the 2015 financial year, the Company Board to more effectively oversee progress against continued to apply the main principles of the Code the Groups strategy: two of the new executive and complied with the provisions of the Code, directors are actively involved in the day-to-day exceptin certain areas.
Further details are set out delivery of the Groups strategy through their onpage 63. respective businesses.
The appointment of Claudio Veritiero to the Board, asGroup Strategy and Wealso monitored the changes to the Code which Corporate Development Director, demonstrates the strength ofour commitment to deliver Vision 2020. were made in the September 2014 edition and are expressed toapply to financial years commencing onor after 1October 2014, in preparation for our The skills and experience of the executive directorsare balanced by those of the non-executive 2016 financialyear.
A full version of the Code can be directors, who bring a depth and breadth of foundon the Financial Reporting Councils website: experience in senior management roles, finance, http: www.
governance andrisk management, among other matters.
Pleasesee pages 64 to 66 inclusive for Leadership and effectiveness the directorsbiographies.
The Board is collectively responsible for the longterm success of the Group, for developing and Since the appointments of Nigel, Nigel and Claudio, delivering its strategy and for establishing a the Board has not complied with provision B.
1.2 of framework of prudent and effective controls to the Code, which requires at least half of the Board assess and manage risk effectively.
Kier continues excluding the Chairman to be independent nonto be led by a board with a range of skills and executive directors.
We were therefore pleased experience which will challenge, motivate and toannounce the appointment of Justin Atkinson support the business.
Please see page67 for an asanindependent non-executive director with overview of the governance and management effectfrom 1 October 2015.
Justins experience structure of the Group.
ofthe construction industry, both in the UK and internationally, complements the skills and 60 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 How governance has supported OLD ICONS NEW ICONS ourstrategy during 2015 Strategic priority The Boards governance role OLD ICONS NEW ICONS The Board considers health and safety at every Board meeting, with both the Chief Executive and the Group Safety, Health and Environment Director OLD ICONS NEW ICONS the Group SHE Director providing reports on the Groups current safety, health and environment SHE performance.
Operate a safe and sustainable The Safety, Health and Environment Committee considers the Groups business strategic SHE priorities and assists management to ensure that SHE OLD ICONS NEW ICONS risksare appropriately managed throughout the Group.
Please see pages 82 and 83 for the safety, health and environment Committee Report.
The Board oversaw the launch of the Groups strategy for a sustainable business in March 2015.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS The Board reviews and approves material acquisitions.
For example, during the course of the year, the Board approved the acquisition of Mouchel, which has significantly accelerated the delivery of the Groups Vision 2020 strategy.
Accelerate growth to During the course of the year, the Group Strategy andCorporate Development be a top three player Director Claudio Veritiero was appointed to the Board and, ateach Board in our chosen markets meeting, provides an update on progress against the Groupsstrategy.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS At each Board meeting, detailed reports are produced by the executive directors with operational responsibilities as to the performance of the businesses for which they are responsible.
In addition, further detailed Achieve top quartile discussions as to individual businesses performance and efficiency are performance and held at meetings of the Executive Committee, which comprises the efficiency executive directors and the Company Secretary.
Please see the divisional reviews set out on pages 38 to 53 inclusive forfurther information.
The Board reports produced by the executive directors with operational responsibilities also provide details of feedback both positive and negative from customers, together with examples of significant contract awards and Provide sectordisputes.
These reports are discussed by the Board, with the non-executive leading customer directors providing constructive challenge to the executive directors and experience mangement whch is designed to drive a sector-leading experience for the Groups customers.
Operational performance and issues affecting or relevant to customer relationships are also discussed at meetings of the Executive Committee.
At each Board meeting, the executive directors report on significant changes in personnel, any new senior appointments and steps being taken to ensure that teams remain highly motivated and high-performing.
Attract and retain The Board also supported the appointment of a new Group HR Director highly motivated, during the course of the year, who will oversee the Groups framework for high-performing attracting and retaining talent throughout its operations.
teams During the course of the year, the Nomination Committee also discussed in detail the succession plan relating to senior management below the Board and made three internal promotions to the Board.
Please see pages 74 and 75 for the Nomination Committee Report.
During the course of the year, a significant focus for the Board has been overseeing the planned introduction of a new ERP system.
Regular updates on progress against the project plan are provided to the Ensure we have Board and the Risk Management and Audit Committee the RMAC investment in receives detailed status reports at each committee meeting.
technology and back-office systems 61 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Corporate governance Chairmans introduction to governance continued The remuneration ofthe four executive directors who experience of the other non-executive directors.
were appointed during the year is within the policy Justin will be a member of all four of the Boards which was approved by shareholders last year.
In committees and will be present at the 2015 AGM addition, the terms agreed with Steve Bowcott on toanswer any questions about his new role.
hisdeparture from the Board are within the terms ofthe policy on payments for loss of office.
Further More details of our compliance with the leadership information on the remuneration of the newlyand effectiveness provisions of the Code can be appointed executive directors and a summary of the found on pages 67 to 72 inclusive.
terms agreed with Steve Bowcott are set out in the Remuneration Report onpages 84 to 106 inclusive.
Accountability As a board, we understand our responsibility The policy remains unchanged for the 2016 financial topresent a fair, balanced and understandable year: as a result, we will not be seeking approval for assessment of the Groups position and prospects any changes to our existing remuneration policy at inthis annual report.
We also understand the need the 2015 AGM.
to maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
We are aware of the changes to Relations with shareholders theCode, which will apply to Kiers 2016 financial Members of the Board have met a number of our year.
In particular, we note the requirement to make keystakeholders during the year to understand a statement as to the Groups longer-term viability in theirviews on matters of significance to them.
For next years report and accounts and the Board and example, our new appointments to the Board have, the RMAC are already working together to ensure during their first few months on the Board, met a that we can comply withthis requirement next year.
number of shareholders and analysts.
As Chairman, Iwelcome the opportunity to meet shareholders and During the course of the year, the RMAC has my discussions withthem during the course of the assisted the Board to discharge its obligations with year on avariety of governance and strategy matters respect to the management of risk.
A summary of have helped to ensure that I can keep the Board the matters considered by the RMAC during the informed about their issues and concerns.
Further course of the year is set out in the Risk Management details on our engagement with shareholders are and Audit Committee Report contained on pages setout on page 73.
Further information relating to our compliance with the accountability provisions of the Code are set out on page 72.
Remuneration Having received 76.24% of the votes in favour ofourRemuneration Report at the 2013 AGM, we were pleased to receive 98.87% of votes in favour Phil White ofour remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM: Chairman of the Board 88.52%of votes in favour of our Remuneration Report 16 September 2015 also represented a significant improvement on the number of votesinfavour of the report at the 2013 AGM.
Werecognise, however, that we need to continue to engage with shareholders on remuneration matters toensure thatwe understand their views.
62 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Compliance with the Code Application of the main principles of the Code During the 2015 financial year, the Company continued to apply the main principles of the Code, as follows: A.
Effectiveness A1 The Boards role B1 The Boards composition B5 Provision of information andsupport The Board met formally 10 times during theyear.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for regularly reviewing the composition of theBoard.
In Secretary, ensures that all Boardmembers receive the Board, together with delegated authorities making appointments to the Board, the Nomination accurate and timelyinformation.
Committee considers the wide range of skills, B6 Board and committee knowledge and experience required inorder to A2 A clear division of responsibilities performance evaluation maintain aneffective board.
The roles ofthe Chairman and Chief Executive During the 2015 financial year, the Board are clearly defined.
Phil White, the Chairman, is B2 Board appointments undertook an evaluation of its performance during responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of The appointment of new directors to the Board is the year.
Details of the evaluation can be found the Board.
Haydn Mursell, the Chief Executive, is led by the Nomination Committee.
Further details onpages 71 and 72. responsible for leading the day-to-day management ofthe activities of the Nomination Committee can B7 Re-election of the directors of the Group within the strategy setby the Board.
All directors were subject to shareholder electionor A3 Role of the Chairman B3 Time commitments re-election at the 2014 AGM, as will be the case at The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, On appointment, directors are notified of the the 2015AGM.
manages the meeting timetable in conjunction timecommitment expected from them which, in with the Company Secretary and facilitates open practice, goes beyond that set outin the letter of and constructive dialogue during themeetings.
External directorships, which may impact existing time commitments, must be agreed A4 Role of the non-executive directors with theChairman.
The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment in the boardroom and actively invites B4 Training and development the non-executive directors views.
The nonAll directors receive an induction on joiningthe executive directors provide objective, rigorous and Board and training is made available to members constructive challenge to management and meet ofthe Board in accordance with their requirements.
regularly in the absence of the executive directors.
C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders C1 Financial and business reporting D1 Levels and elements of remuneration E1 Shareholder engagement anddialogue The Board has established arrangements to ensure The Remuneration Committee sets levels of The Board takes an active role in engaging with that reports and other information published by the remuneration appropriately so as to attract, retain shareholders.
The Board particularly values Group are fair, balanced and understandable.
The and motivate the Board, but also structures opportunities to meet with shareholders and the Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 59 inclusive remuneration so as to link it to both corporate Chairman ensures thatthe Board is kept informed and this provides information about the performance andindividual performance, thereby aligning of shareholder views.
of the Group, the business model, strategy and managements interests with those ofshareholders.
E2 Constructive use of the AGM therisks and uncertainties relating to theGroups D2 Development of remuneration policy The AGM provides the Boardwith an important future prospects.
andpackages opportunity to meet with shareholders, who are C2 Risk management and internal Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee invited to meet theBoard following the formal controlsystems and the approach to setting the remuneration policy business ofthemeeting.
The Board sets out the Groups risk appetite and can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages annually reviews the effectiveness of theGroups 84 to 106 inclusive.
risk management and internal control systems.
The activities of the RMAC, which assists the Board with itsresponsibilities inrelation to the management of risk, are summarised onpages 76 to 81 inclusive.
C3 Role and responsibilities of the Risk Management and Audit Committee The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the RMAC, which is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes, internal control and risk management framework and the work undertaken by the external auditor.
Thechairman of the RMAC provides regular updates tothe Board.
Compliance with the Code provisions An explanation of the Companys non-compliance with certain Code provisions during the 2015 financial year is as follows: Code provision Explanation B.
1.2 at least half of the Board excluding Since the appointment of the three new executive directors in March 2015, theBoard has not complied with theChairman to comprise independent this requirement.
However, the appointment of Justin Atkinson as an independent non-executive director with non-executive directors.
effect from 1October 2015 means that, with effect from that date, the Board will comply with B.
2.3 non-executive directors to be appointed for The non-executive directors letters of appointment each contain notice periods of one month either way and aspecified term.
their appointments are subject to annual re-election and to statutory provisions relating to the removal of directors, but do not contain a specified term.
The Companys current policy is that all directors, including the non-executive directors, will be subject to annual re-election at the Companys AGM.
These arrangements are designed to provide the Company with the flexibility to maintain an appropriate range of skills and experience on the Board.
During the year, the Group changed internal auditor from PwC to KPMG.
For the RMAC to be able to assess its effectiveness as internal auditor, KPMG needs to have completed a sufficient number of internal audits.
The next formal assessment of the internal auditor will, therefore, take place in the 2016 financial year.
See the Risk Management and Audit Committee Report on pages 76 to 81 inclusive for further details.
E. 1.1 the Senior Independent Director During the year, the Senior Independent Director has met with a limited number of major shareholders.
The shouldattend sufficient meetings with a Chairman and other members of the Board have, however, met a number of major shareholders during the rangeofmajor shareholders.
year to discuss a variety of matters, so as to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
The Board intends to review the number ofmeetings between the Senior Independent Director and shareholders during the2016 financial year.
63 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
