Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction We believe that high standards of governance are an essential underpin to sustainable growth and the protection of shareholder value DEAR SHAREHOLDER REMUNERATION I am pleased to present the Boards annual report on corporate The Remuneration Committee has continued to focus on governance.
At Marstons we are continually striving to help strengthening and clarifying the link between rewards our people and our business develop and go from strength to and performance.
The Committee has also reviewed the strength.
We strongly believe that high standards of corporate requirements relating to clawback provisions and updated governance are an essential underpin to sustainable growth the 2014 LTIP and deferred bonus rules to incorporate this and the protection of shareholder value.
This review, together provision to ensure that they remain in line with best practice.
with the reports of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration The Remuneration Committees report is on pages 39 to 57.
Committees, provides an overview of our corporate governance AUDIT practices and summarises our activities in this area during The focus of the Audit Committee during the year has been on the period.
the new requirements of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Code the 2014 Code, the evaluation of the internal audit The Board is keen to review and further develop its function conducted by , and the effectiveness to support the Company in its ambitions.
commencement of the new internal audit co-source provision Details of the outcomes from this years Board evaluation by Grant Thornton.
More details are in the Audit Committee together with progress against last years action points are Report on pages 36 to 37. given on page 33.
Details of each Directors experience and STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE how that contributes to the effectiveness of the Board and the The 2014 Code has applied to the Company during the reporting Company are set out on pages 30 to 31. period under review.
I am pleased to confirm that the Board BOARD AND COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS considers it has fully complied with the main principles of the As previously reported, Catherine Glickman joined the Board Code.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils and the Remuneration Committee on 1 December 2014 and website www.
uk Rosalind Cuschieri retired from the Board following the 2015 AGM.
Catherine Glickman and Carolyn Bradley also joined the Roger Devlin Nomination Committee during the year.
Further details on the Chairman Boards composition are given on page 33.
26 November 2015 Shareholder Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration 1 2 3 4 5 Relations See page 29 See page 33 See page 34 See page 39 See page 35 See page 00 28 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information GROUP SECRETARY 1.
Leadership and the Anne-Marie Brennan is responsible for ensuring effective information channels within the Board and its Committees, and Board of Directors between senior management and Non-executive Directors, as ROLE OF THE BOARD well as facilitating induction activities for Directors and assisting The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the with their development as required.
long-term success of the Company.
A schedule of matters NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS specically reserved for the Boards decision has been Non-executive Directors are encouraged to spend time in the approved and this schedule includes matters relating to: business, accompanying the Executive Directors and other strategy, major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, senior managers on visits to a range of pubs, customers and capital structure and financial results, internal controls, brewery outlets during the year.
Together with their diverse governance and risk management, committee membership range of business experience outside of the Company, this and terms of reference.
The schedule was last reviewed in enables the Non-executive Directors to constructively challenge September 2015 and the latest version is available on our proposals on strategy and contribute to the development of website.
The Board met nine times during the year, allowing strategy in the long term.
sufficient opportunities to effectively challenge and monitor the Companys progress against its strategic aims and within the The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors at least risk management framework.
annually without the Executive Directors being present.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES More information about our Board and the relevant experience they There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of bring to the business is set out on the following pages.
the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer CEO which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Neil Goulden is the Senior Independent Director and acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for the other Directors.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
Neil also leads the Non-executive Directors in their annual assessment of the Chairmans performance.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Roger Devlin is responsible for: Ralph Findlay is responsible for: The operation, leadership and governance of theBoard.
The performance of the Company in line with the strategies and objectives established by the Board and under powers Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board.
Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions with Ensuring the Board is supplied with information relevant aparticular focus on strategic matters.
Ensuring each Non-executive Director makes an effective Leading the Executive Directors and senior management in contribution to the Board through debate and discussion dealing with the operational requirements of the business.
Providing clear and visible leadership in business conduct.
Ensuring through the Group Secretary that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
