32 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW We have built a team with the skills and experience to support our strategy.
In this section we look at their roles and their performance, and outline their independence, their eff ectiveness, ongoing professional development and succession.
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN OVERVIEW The Board, supported by the Audit Having Integrity as a value also means Committee, spent time discussing risk being honest in how we judge our own As I mentioned earlier in this report, this appetite across the business as well as performance as a Board and where we can has been another year of mixed progress our investment criteria.
Whilst fide ning our do things better.
We are disappointed not for the Company.
Our Food business approach to risk appetite remains a work to have made more progress against our delivered another very strong year in a in progress, we believe this will improve Board Action Plan this year.
We discuss this diffi cult market.
In Food we continue to the quality of our investment process, performance and our Board evaluation pursue a clear strategy with a distinct and the mitigation of associated risks and will and Action Plan on page 41 of this report.
diff erentiated position, remaining true to deliver improved project implementation We are clear about how we can be more our values and with a well articulated plan going forward.
A greater understanding eff ective, and what information we need to for future growth.
of risk appetite and its management will monitor and challenge our progress and We are encouraged by the improved also support our ambition to become a ensure proper debate.
performance across the business in the more agile, innovative and entrepreneurial I have highlighted before the importance of final quarter 2014 15, particularly in GM organisation, as embodied by Fit for the Board as being critical friends.
However, our full year the Future and our updated values, which a strong team and we have had a number of performance was constrained by a number were discussed earlier in this report.
robust discussions throughout the year on of issues associated with the necessary our execution issues at Castle Donington, and signi cant transformation of our CULTURE AND VALUES the performance of the website and our infrastructure, implemented in the last The scale of investment and transformation International business, the results of few years, and macroeconomic and of the business over the last few years has unsatisfactory audits, our financial performance issues impacting delivery in necessitated this shift in our culture and performance and progress against our a number of key international markets.
It will enable us to respond targets.
We have re ected, and will continue The launch of our new website and our to the changing consumer landscape, the to debate openly the results of our Board distribution centre at Castle Donington constant evolution in technologies, and evaluation and how we ensure we have represented the completion of two our aim to be a leading international, multithe highest quality of debate, coupled signi cant investments, essential for the channel business.
But while we adapt and with the right planning, information and long-term growth of our business.
This has move forward, we are clear that staying environment to support this.
We must do been a key area of focus for the Board over true to the M&S tenet of integrity is this to drive our eff ectiveness as a Board the last two years.
Yet, and despite rigorous non-negotiable.
planning and mitigation of potential risks, Integrity underpins all of our Board both experienced initial execution issues FIT FOR THE FUTURE discussions, from debate on the beyond those that we expected.
We believe management of our teams, to the safety The introduction of Fit for the Future these issues are now resolved, or that plans and integrity of our food supply chain.
It brings greater focus on high performance, are in place to resolve them, and both aff ects the way we implement the changes our teams, development and succession projects continue to be areas of focus required in our GM supply base to deliver planning, all of which remain a key part for the Board.
our ambitious gross margin targets, of our Board and Committee agendas.
This year we have sought to provide insight while staying true to our high sourcing Associated detail on the activities of into the scope of the Boards activities, standards.
It shapes how we operate the Nomination and Remuneration discussions and resulting actions.
These are in our international markets, and the Committees are provided on pages 42-43 provided on pages 38 and 39 of this report.
management of our property assets.
Our Action Plan Integrity has protected the M&S brand and for the 2015 16 year is stretching and sets As a Board we have taken away a number supported its reputation for over 130 years out speci c objectives to improve our of learnings, particularly about our and the Board is focused on ensuring it performance.
The plan aims to support management of and approach to risk.
continues to do so for the long term.
and enable greater debate and re ection, 33 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 THIS YEARS REPORT KEY FEATURES UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The structure of the Annual Report has been The Governance report provides: The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the updated this year, providing greater focus to Code is the standard against which we were A clear and honest review of the year: the key strategic messages within the Strategic required to measure ourselves in 2014 15.
Report, whilst still including the broader The outcome of our externally We are pleased to con rm that we complied information on later pages for those that nd facilitated Board Evaluation: with all of the provisions set out in the Code it interesting.
Greater disclosure around Board discussions for the period under review.
These changes have been made to promote and associated actions: and A summary of our governance pro le, outlining clear and concise reporting, focusing the report Information on our progress towards our compliance with key areas of the Code, has on those factors that are most important to understanding our risk appetite.
been set out on page 5 of the Strategic Report.
the long-term prospects of the business and ensuring key messages are clear, concise and As a Board we regularly discuss and debate: To keep this report interesting and engaging easy to locate.
we continue to focus on the key insights from Strategy and The M&S brand the business: however, further detail on how We have again focused on ensuring this report Company International we comply with the Code can be found in our is fair, balanced and understandable.
It is a performance Corporate Governance Statement, available at re ection of how we have done business and Supply chain Culture and marksandspencer.
how the Board has served its stakeholders.
behaviour Risk We believe this practical approach will support our performance for the long term and should Succession planning Property protect the trust and integrity of our values, Ecommerce Plan A 2020 and the M&S brand.
and enhance the quality of our decisions.
Governance at M&S is seen as an important In March 2015, Jan du Plessis retired after Through the Action Plan, we aim to ensure element of our Board environment, which six years on the Board.
Jan has been that our values underpin the manner in feeds into how we do business and is succeeded in his role of Senior Independent which we operate as a Board at all times.
re ected in our Board eff ectiveness review.
Director by Vindi Banga, who maintains We hope this report demonstrates how our his existing role as Chairman of the UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE governance helps us test whether we are Remuneration Committee.
Subsequently, doing the right things in the right way, with I have joined the Remuneration Committee The key themes of the Code form the the right safeguards, checks and balances, and Miranda Curtis has joined the Audit framework for articulating our narrative: and whether the right considerations Committee.
a model that we have consistently underpin every decision we take.
adopted for a number of years.
As such, As a result of Jans retirement, and in our approaches to Leadership and We continue to drive the agenda of order to provide the necessary balance, Eff ectiveness are outlined on pages 34 to diversity in its broadest sense across Richard Solomons was appointed to the 43, Accountability on page 44 and pages gender, experience, ethnicity and age.
We had a clear 23 to 25 within the Strategic Report and Further insight on this is provided on speci cation for this appointment and are pages 44 to 50 in the Directors Report, page 43 and in our Plan A Report.
delighted that he has joined our Board, Engagement and relations with bringing his experience as a serving CEO shareholders on page 51, Remuneration R MONITORING RISK with great knowledge of operating an on pages 52 to 76 and the Governance international, multi-channel consumer The Audit Committee has played a key of our Pensions Scheme on page 77. business.
Information on the inductions role in ensuring that the appropriate that both Richard and Helen are The required governance and regulatory governance and challenge around risk undertaking is provided on page 40. assurances are provided throughout this and assurance is embedded throughout Directors Report.
Where information that the business.
It is closely monitoring the These appointments bring new challenge would previously have been located within management of the problems generated and oversight to the Board.
Their skills the Directors Report has instead been by M&S.
and experience build on our existing incorporated into the Strategic Report, talent, standing us in good stead for the Read more on the work of the Audit a list of page references is available within year ahead.
the Other disclosures section on page 78.
We are a more capable business following As in previous years, we have sought to a sustained period of investment in our APPOINTMENTS AND SUCCESSION provide a genuine understanding of how infrastructure and people.
As outlined on governance supports and protects the 2014 15 saw signi cant changes to the page 16, our focus will continue to be on M&S business and stakeholders in a Board.
Following the resignation of delivery of our strategy and improvement practical way.
Alan Stewart in July 2014 we undertook a in shareholder returns.
thorough search process resulting in the Our governance framework is reviewed appointment of Helen Weir, who joined the and benchmarked against best practice business as Chief Finance Offi cer on 1 April every year.
Helen brings considerable retail and accountabilities and expectations for finance experience and we are delighted to our directors and our structures.
This welcome her to the Board.
format has been adopted widely across ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN the business and can be viewed at marksandspencer.
GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
