STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 49 Corporate governance report The main findings from our 2015 internal evaluation related Chairmans introduction toadministrative board processes and improvements in risk Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and to management and succession planning.
More details on the the date of this report, we have complied with the provisions set evaluation process and findings are later in this report.
out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
This Accountability excludes Code Provision B.
6.2, which is the requirement for the In 2015, the Audit Committee discussed and agreed the process board evaluations of FTSE 350 companies to be facilitated we needed to undertake to enable the Board to make the viability externally at least every three years.
Our last externally statement as required under the Code.
Adescription of the facilitated evaluation was in 2012.
The Board decided in 2015 process and the resulting statement is set out in the Risk that because of the timing of my appointment as Chairman in management report page 29.
The report also includes our April 2015, there would be more value in having an externally annual confirmations on risk management and internal control facilitated evaluation in 2016.
The Group has applied all other that were previously included in this Corporate governance main and supporting principles set out in the Code and report.
The risk management process has been further explanations are included in this report and in the Audit enhanced in 2015.
The process continues to evolve through the Committee, Nominations Committee and the Directors Group Risk Register, risk assurance map and revised risk remuneration reports.
The information required under appetite statement.
During the year, the Board provided authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 is located in the to the Audit Committee to oversee the risk management process.
The Board has confirmed that this Annual Report is fair, The Board is committed to maintaining the high standards of balanced and understandable.
You can find an explanation of the corporate governance, which are fundamental to discharging process we have used to make this determination on page 56. our responsibilities.
It is my responsibility to ensure that Meggitt is governed and managed in the best interests of shareholders Remuneration and wider stakeholders.
This includes encouraging open At our AGM in 2015, shareholders overwhelmingly approved our discussion and constructive challenge.
In this report, we set out Directors remuneration report.
The 2015 report pages 60 to 80 our governance framework and explain how sound and effective provides adetailed review of the Remuneration Committees corporate governance practices support our strategy to create 2015 activities and bonus and share scheme performance in sustainable shareholder value over the long term.
For ease of reference, we have also included the Remuneration Policy approved at our AGM in 2014 valid until the Leadership 2017 AGM.
The 2014 Code introduced new requirements relating As part of the planned and continued evolution of the Board, to remuneration, including inserting clawback malus into there have been anumber of Board changes in 2015.
Our remuneration package and policy retired on 31 January 2015 to take up the Chairmanship of approved in 2014 is compliant with those requirements.
I joined the Board on 1 March 2015, replacing Sir Colin Terry as Chairman at the end of the annual general meeting AGM.
On 1 October, Colin Day joined the Board as anon-executive director and assumed responsibility for the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee from David Williams who, after over nine years as anon-executive director, retired from the Board on 31 December 2015.
Paul Heiden took over from David as Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2016.
Sir Nigel Rudd On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Sir Colin, Phil and Chairman of the Board of Directors David for their significant contributions to the Board and to wish 22 February 2016 them well for the future, and to welcome Colin Day as anonexecutive director.
Effectiveness In 2015, Board processes were improved as aresult of the 2014 evaluation and the Board agreed to defer our externally facilitated evaluation to 2016.
