Melrose Industries PLC Governance 46 Annual Report 2015 Governance overview Christopher Miller Executive Chairman Introduction from the Chairman on the Melrose Board since 2005 and his advice and extensive financial experience have been invaluable to Melrose: we wish The Board remains committed to maintaining the high him every success in the future.
Perry will be replaced as senior standards of corporate governance required to ensure non-executive Director by John Grant, who will also continue to that the Company can continue to deliver on its strategic hold the position of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A search goals and to achieve long-term success for the benefit is underway for a new non-executive Director and a search and of its shareholders.
selection specialist has been engaged to support the recruitment process.
An appointment is expected to be made during 2016.
As part of this approach, the Board supports, applies and Remuneration complies with the Main Principles, the Supporting Principles The Directors Remuneration Report, comprising the Annual and the respective related provisions of corporate governance Report on Remuneration and the Directors remuneration policy, contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code is set out on pages 64 to 81.
The Directors remuneration policy issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC and is forward-looking and is subject to a binding vote at the AGM.
available to view on the FRCs website at: www.
uk Our existing remuneration policy was approved by shareholders Our-Work Codes-Standards Corporate-governance.
aspx at the 2014 AGM and would normally remain in place until the In support of this commitment, the Board carried out a number AGM in 2017.
However, following the introduction of a new holding of key governance activities during 2015 designed to ensure that company for the Group in November 2015, we are required to Melrose remains compliant with the provisions of the UK Code seek shareholder approval for the Directors remuneration policy and also to enable continuous improvement in line with best at this years AGM.
It is important to note that no changes have practice corporate governance guidelines.
been made to the remuneration policy being put to shareholders: it is wholly consistent with the remuneration policy approved Succession planning in 2014, to the extent that the policy remains applicable going Succession planning was an area of focus for Melrose in 2015 forwards.
In addition, our remuneration philosophy remains and a dedicated Board session was held to review the leadership unchanged: executive remuneration should be simple, transparent, needs of the Group, present and future, together with the support the delivery of the business strategy and only pay for skills and experiences needed from its Directors going forward.
We recognise that succession planning is an ongoing process and is critical to maintaining an effective and high-quality board.
Risk management and compliance With this in mind, a number of changes to the Board are planned During 2015, the Melrose risk management framework during 2016.
Perry Crosthwaite will be retiring from the Board was relaunched.
The Groups risk management strategy was at the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting AGM, updated, risk training workshops were introduced, an enhanced to be held on 11May 2016.
Perry has held a non-executive position risk register and risk mapping and profiling application was Board structure 1 Christopher Miller David Roper Simon Peckham Geoffrey Martin Perry Crosthwaite Executive Chairman Executive Chief Executive Group Finance Senior non-executive Vice-Chairman Director Director Audit Committee Nomination Committee John Grant Justin Dowley Liz Hewitt Justin Dowley Chairman Chairman Liz Hewitt John Grant Perry Crosthwaite Perry Crosthwaite Christopher Miller Governance Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 47 Board composition Industry background Board diversity Executive Chairman 1 Executive Directors 3 Non-executive 4 Finance 6 Male 7 Directors Industry 2 Female 1 adopted and a risk monitoring and assurance programme Main responsibilities was implemented.
Taken together, these initiatives have enhanced the Groups effectiveness at identifying and managing risks and of the Board: are promoting and embedding a more risk-aware culture across Effectively manage and control the business.
Further details on the Groups management of risk the Company via a formal schedule can be found on pages 28 to 35 of this Annual Report.
of matters reserved for its decision Melroses reputation for acting responsibly plays a critical role in Determine and review Company its success as a business and its ability to generate shareholder strategy and policy value.
We maintain high standards of ethical conduct and take a Consider acquisitions, disposals zero tolerance approach to bribery, corruption and other unethical and requests for major capital or illegal practices.
In 2015, we updated our Code of Ethics and expenditure developed a best practice compliance framework with policies covering anti-bribery and anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, Review trading performance competition and anti-trust, trade compliance and data privacy.
Ensure that adequate funding and Supporting these policies is a comprehensive online training personnel are in place platform and an industry-leading whistleblowing reporting facility.
The integrity of the compliance framework is further reinforced Maintain sound internal control systems by the use of independent assurance and compliance audits.
Report to shareholders and give Engagement with shareholders consideration to all other significant During 2015, the Company continued its programme of financial matters engagement with major investors and the governance bodies Agree Board succession plans and in respect of our remuneration policy and incentive arrangements.
consider the evaluation of the Boards The Board is pleased with the support and constructive feedback performance over the preceding year throughout these discussions and it is our intention to continue Review the Groups risk management this programme for the foreseeable future.
and internal control systems Christopher Miller Determine the nature and extent Executive Chairman of the risks the Group is willing to take 3 March 2016 Agree the Groups governance framework and approve Group governance policies Audit Committee Report 58 Nomination Committee Report 62 Directors Remuneration 64 Report 2 John Grant Justin Dowley Liz Hewitt Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director 1 P erry Crosthwaite will be retiring from the Board Remuneration Committee at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
2 S ubject to shareholder approval of John Grants re-election, John will assume the position of senior Justin Dowley John Grant non-executive Director at the conclusion of the Chairman Liz Hewitt 2016 AGM.
