Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Corporate governance Executive Chairmans introduction The board of Micro Focus International plc 2015 as an independent non-executive is committed to delivering outstanding director which has increased the number of shareholder returns and believes this is independent non-executive directors from underpinned by high standards of corporate four to five.
Tom Skelton will be retiring governance and a strong corporate from the board at the AGM in September governance framework.
To support this 2015 after nine years service and a framework, the board has established search for a replacement independent and embedded procedures and processes non-executive director has already started.
In April 2014, the Company announced, in During the financial year ended 30 April relation to succession planning for my role 2015, the Company acquired TAG on as Executive Chairman, that there would 20November 2014 Completion and be a transition back to the separate roles of as part of the acquisition, TAGs parent Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in the company: Wizard Parent LLC was issued following 12 to 24 months.
Over the coming shares in the Company equivalent to 10 months the board will continue to approximately 40% of the enlarged capital evaluate the orderly separation of the roles of the Company.
Prescott Ashe, Managing of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Director of Golden Gate Capital and David Internal and external candidates will be Golob, Partner and Chief Investment Officer evaluated for the role of Chief Executive at Francisco Partners, joined the board as Officer whilst at all times aiming to ensure non-executive directors on Completion.
appropriate continuity and continued focus To ensure an appropriate balance between on performance.
I believe that the board is independent and non-independent well balanced, with a broad range of skills directors, Stephen Murdoch stepped down and a good understanding of the market in from the board on Completion whilst which we operate and the challenges which remaining as an employee of the Enlarged we face.
During the next financial year, we Group and a key member of the Enlarged will continue to review proactively the Groups executive committee.
Additionally, business decisions made and the governance Karen Geary was appointed on 8 January framework in which we operate.
Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman 7 July 2015 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
