ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder, Your Board remains committed to high standards of governance and the fostering of an effective governance framework.
This underpins the Boards ability to set the overall strategic direction of PageGroup and supports its core values.
The following pages of this Corporate Governance Report set out how the Company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code: the work and activities of each Board Committee: and the annual evaluation process.
During the year under review the Board continued to build a strong and well balanced Board.
It appointed Patrick fide Smedt as a Non-Executive Director in August.
Patrick brings a wealth of experience to the Board, complementing that of the other Non-Executive Directors.
At the end of December Robin Buchanan stood down as Chairman of the Board and I was appointed as Chairman in his stead.
The Board is grateful to Robin for his contribution over the last four years and thanks him for his service to the Company.
Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith will complete nine years on the Board in May 2016.
Due to the recent Board changes and Rubys extensive experience, gained through the different parts of the economic cycle, the Directors have requested, and Ruby has agreed, to continue to serve on the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Consequently Ruby will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Ruby will cease to be a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees with effect from 23 May 2016 and will also step down as Senior Independent Director in due course.
Finally, the Board also wishes to note its thanks to Fabrice Lacombe, who joined the Group in 1996 and served as an Executive Board member from 2010 until his passing last December.
I hope you find our Corporate Governance Report informative and I will be available at the 2016 Annual General Meeting to respond to any questions you may have on this Report.
David Lowden Chairman 9 March 2016 Our Corporate Governance Framework The Board The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
More details on pages 56 to 60 Chief Executive Chief Financial Nomination Committee Officer CEO Officer CFO Responsible for ensuring that the Company has the executive and nonKey responsibility is to develop Responsible for managing the executive Board leadership it requires.
and deliver the Groups strategy financial risks, reporting and within the policies and values planning of the Group.
Details on page 61 established by the Board.
Audit Committee Responsible for the integrity of the Executive Board Companys financial statements and performance, ensuring the necessary The Executive Board is chaired internal controls and risk management by the CEO and includes the systems are in place and effective.
The Executive Board Details on page 62 is responsible for overseeing operations in our regions and for overseeing business Remuneration Committee operational functions Company Secretary Group-wide.
Responsible for the review, Details on page 55 Responsible for ensuring recommendation and implementation the Board comply with all of the Groups remuneration strategy, legal, regulatory and its framework and cost.
