Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders and other stakeholders for the groups activities and its long-term success.
The value of good governance is recognised by the Board as an area of great importance and, in this governance report, we explain how the main principles of good governance are applied across the group.
It also describes how the governance framework implements the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code.
The Board acknowledges the changes in corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2014 the 2014 Code and is actively considering its implications for the governance of the group.
Compliance with the Code I can confirm on behalf of the Board that the group has complied with the main principles and all the relevant provisions set out in the Code throughout the year.
Details of how we have applied the principles and complied with the provisions are explained throughout the report.
The Code and the 2014 Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
The Board considers that throughout the year sufficient time has been spent reviewing and discussing strategy, risk, financial performance, investor communication and engagement, and key matters of governance both at the Board and the Committee meetings.
An overview of the activities and the effectiveness of each of our Board Committees is explained further on pages 48 to 56.
Key areas of governance that have been reviewed in the year include: Ethics, compliance and code of conduct During the year the group has strengthened its existing policies and programmes which form the current ethical business framework.
This included the development, implementation and embedding of a Code of Conduct One Code, launched in July 2014, which provides clear expectations for all employees on behaviours and alignment with the groups core values.
The One Code can be found on our website at http: www.
In addition, enhancements have been made across the group in support of One Code, including assurance of core policy compliance and of the whistle blowing service.
Board composition As a Board, we are keen to ensure that a balance of views is available and that the right decisions are taken.
Our Board comprises directors with a breadth of professional and sector experience from various backgrounds.
As a result we have a balanced Board with the right range of skills and experience to contribute to and, where appropriate, challenge decision making.
During the year Jack Boyer was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Crawford Gillies will step down from the Board at the AGM in July.
Crawford will have been on the Board for three years, for a part of which he chaired the Remuneration Committee.
We would like to thank Crawford for his contribution.
David Jenkins will retire from the Board in December 2015.
He will step down as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director at the AGM in July.
We would like to thank David for his contribution to date, and for his commitment to the group by continuing on the Board to ensure a smooth transition to each of his successors.
Larry Hirst, who has been a Non-Executive Director for the past five years, will be appointed Senior Independent Director upon David stepping down at the AGM.
Mark Reckitt will be appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Mitie with effect on 1 July 2015, and we are delighted to welcome him to Mitie.
He will be appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee upon David Jenkins stepping down at the AGM, and will also be appointed to the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Mark brings significant expertise and experience, having held senior business, strategy and finance roles at Smith Group plc, Kraft Foods Inc. and Cadbury plc.
Mark is Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at both Cranswick plc and J D Wetherspoon plc.
Review of Committee Terms of Reference and Delegated Authorities During the year the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive, and the Committee Terms of Reference were reviewed and updated to ensure that they were in line with best practice.
The Board also reviewed and adopted updated Delegated Authorities for the group.
Mitie Group plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
