Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 35 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans introduction to Governance One of the key roles for the Board of Directors at Mitchells & Butlers is to provide leadership for more than 44,000 employees and maintain the highest possible standards of corporate governance.
Bob Ivell Chairman Dear fellow shareholder In line with the best practice recommendations of the UK Corporate It gives me great pleasure to take this opportunity to update you on Governance Code, last year we committed to carrying out an externally our progress in corporate governance over the past year.
facilitated review of the Boards effectiveness and you can read the results of this on page 48.
This dealt with focus areas of the 2014 One of the key roles for the Board of Directors at Mitchells & Butlers review, and also looked at Board composition.
is to provide leadership for more than 44,000 employees and maintain the highest possible standards of corporate governance.
The Board The remainder of this report contains the narrative reporting required continues to monitor developments in corporate governance and by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Listing Rules and the reporting regulations.
The Strategic report on pages 2 to 33 includes Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
I hope that you find this report the Groups strategy, progress and performance for the year.
to be informative and helpful in relation to this important topic.
We continue to benefit from a stable Board.
During the year the We are committed to maintaining an active dialogue with all our Non-Executive Directors reviewed the leadership of the Company shareholders, and we continue to offer our institutional investors and on 22 September 2015, the Company announced that Phil Urban, access to key senior management and our Investor Relations team who joined the Group as Chief Operating Officer in January 2015, via our Investor Roadshow programme.
I would like to encourage would assume the role of Chief Executive as Alistair Darby stepped shareholders to attend our Annual General Meeting, details of down and resigned from the Board and left the Company, after three which are set out in the separate Notice of AGM sent out with this years in the role.
Phil Urban is a strong leader with industry experience Annual Report.
Following the success of our Retail Support Centre and a proven track record of operational delivery, who the Board are in Birmingham as a venue for our 2015 AGM, we intend to use the confident will build on the progress made over the past few years.
same facility for the 2016 AGM and we look forward to welcoming you, where I hope you will take the opportunity of meeting our The Board recognises the significant contribution made by Alistair Executive and Non-Executive Board Directors.
as Chief Executive over the past three years, and is grateful to him for bringing the business to a stronger position and wishes him well I look forward to the year ahead, confident in the knowledge that the in the future.
Company is led by a highly competent, professional and motivated team.
I also look forward to the support of you, our shareholders, I am delighted to welcome Josh Levy to the Board as a nominated as our senior management team continues to focus on driving future Director of Piedmont Inc. Josh was appointed to the Board on profit growth and creating additional shareholder value.
13 November 2015, in place of Douglas McMahon who stepped down on the same date.
We look forward to working with Josh and our other Bob Ivell nominated shareholder representatives on matters affecting the Group.
Chairman Our Non-Executive Directors continue to bring much experience, diversity and challenge to the Board and, in the last year, we have appointed Stewart Gilliland to the role of Senior Independent Director.
My focus continues to be on maintaining a strong team, with a broad range of professional backgrounds and skills to drive further improvements where possible.
