OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 49 CORpORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS Dear Shareholder As Chairman, I am pleased to comment on some of the significant governance matters that the Board has approved, discussed or overseen during the year as follows: Since August 2015, when he commenced his role, the induction of pete Raby as Chief Executive Officer.
Collectively, the Board has focused on providing support to pete Raby as he familiarises himself with the business and sets the agenda for the year to come.
Supporting the Chief Executive Officer with the strategic review which commenced in the third quarter of 2015.
In addition to a full day on strategy at the Board meeting in June 2015, the Board had dedicated discussions on progress with the strategic review at its meetings in November and December 2015 and February 2016.
Selection and appointment of Helen Bunch as a non-executive Director.
As announced on 22 January, Helen Bunch will be appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 24 February 2016.
Helen Bunch brings particular experience of driving business performance and building businesses in new markets from her roles at ICI and Wates, and will offer the Board a valuable external executive perspective.
We look forward to welcoming Helen to the Board.
With the changes to the Board over the last three years, progress has been made in ensuring that future refreshment will be planned to ensure continuity of knowledge and experience.
Further work on talent and succession planning, an area of focus identified in the 2014 Board evaluation process.
The way the Board implemented this recommendation is explained further below in the section on performance evaluation.
The Board conducted an externally facilitated Board performance evaluation during 2015.
The review provided a number of useful insights to the Board and its Committees on potential areas for improvement in their effectiveness.
Supporting the Audit Committees review of internal controls and risk management processes, which is described in more detail in the Report of the Audit Committee.
Board visits to different sites which afforded Directors a close insight into our businesses.
In March 2015, the Board visited the Seals and Bearings site in Capellen, Luxembourg.
The meeting in September 2015 was held at the Technical Ceramics site in Southampton, uK.
In November 2015, the Board spent two days in the uSA and visited the Thermal site in Augusta.
These visits were organised around scheduled Board meetings and incorporated a meeting with the local management teams as well as a tour of the operations.
I am looking forward to working with the Directors during 2016 to further develop our effectiveness as a Board.
aNDrEw ShilSTON CHAIRMAN AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
