Chairmans Introduction to Governance The Board is responsible for the Bruce Carnegie-Brown long-term success of the Company.
Chairman Our governance We have a strong and balanced As a Board of Directors we aim to establish a governance structure which provides effective control and oversight of the Board, with a range of business whilst at the same time promoting the entrepreneurial spirit which has been central to the Groups success in striving complementary skills to support to help every household make the most of their money.
the strategic and operational In our Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 46, we aim direction of the Group.
to provide a clear and meaningful explanation of how we as a Board lead the Group and discharge our governance duties, including how we apply the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It also outlines the governance initiatives we have undertaken during the year.
Our statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out on page 46.
of years 31 December 2015 0-1 1 1-2 3 2-3 1 3-5 0 5-10 3 10 0 Board composition Board composition Board composition Chair Male % % % Gender Gender Gender Female Executive Directors Non- 1 12.5% 2.5% 12.5% Executive 75 75% % 75% Directors 25 25% % 25% 25% 25% 25% 6 62.5% 2.5% 62.5% 36 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Leadership We have a strong and balanced Board, with a range of complementary skills to support the strategic and operational Key areas of focus in 2015: direction of the Group.
As I reported last year, we appointed u We devoted more time to planning and Andrew Fisher and Genevieve Shore as Independent Nonreviewing the content of the Annual Report, Executive Directors in 2014, which was followed by Michael ensuring it is fair, balanced and understandable Wemms and Robin Klein, both Independent Non-Executive and in line with best governance practice: Directors, stepping down from the Board following the Annual General Meeting in April 2015.
We have since further u We introduced and reviewed an annual rolling strengthened the skills and experience of the Board with the agenda for the Board and each of the appointment of Robin Freestone in August 2015 as an additional Committees, with focus on deep-dives to cover a Independent Non-Executive Director.
Robin brings experience specific strategic priority at each meeting.
This of leading global and digital businesses and will provide included deep-dives into each of valuable challenge and insight to the Boards deliberations.
MoneySuperMarket, MoneySavingExpert and TravelSupermarket, key risks and controls, In October 2015, Graham Donoghue, Chief Product Officer, technology and innovation, people and culture, stepped down from the Board and left the Company in diversity and talent management.
December 2015 after a period of handover with his successor.
u We continued to enhance our effectiveness by: On 31 December 2015, Simon Nixon, our founder and first CEO, w introducing a greater focus on investment stepped down from the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
appraisal and post-investment reviews: w refining our KPIs to link directly to our three On conclusion of the 2016 Annual General Meeting, Rob Rowley strategic priorities best site, earn customer will step down as chairman of the Audit Committee and will be loyalty and preferred partner : and succeeded by Robin Freestone from that date.
Rob will remain a w introducing Committee effectiveness reviews to member of the Audit Committee, Risk Committee and identify how to improve the effectiveness of each Nomination Committee and will continue in his role as Senior of our Committees.
The membership of the Board Committees were reviewed during 2015 to ensure the Committees continue to operate effectively and have the skills required to support the increasing Ethics and governance complexity of the Group.
The current membership of each of There is a strong relationship between ethics and good the Committees is set out in each of the Committee reports on governance.
We remain committed to operating ethically, pages 47, 54, 56 and 71.
Sally James, Chairman of the Risk demonstrating integrity and acting responsibly in our Committee, is a member of each of the Committees to ensure undertakings with our customers, our shareholders and our that risk is appropriately considered in each Committee.
Further information on ethics and social responsibility is contained in our Corporate Responsibility Succession planning and diversity Report on pages 32 to 35.
We recognise that in order to maintain an effective and diverse Board, it is essential to plan for the future and to ensure the right Board operation individuals are appointed to the Board from a diverse pool of We continue to operate a clear line of distinction between talent.
We consider our Board to be diverse in terms of the management, led by Peter Plumb, Chief Executive Officer, who is background, skills and experience which each individual brings to responsible for the day to day running of the business, and the the Board.
Board, acting under my leadership, which provides constructive challenge to management ensuring an open culture of debate that All future appointments will continue to be based on merit.
creates and preserves value for our shareholders.
More detail on the work of the Nomination Committee and on our diversity policy can be found in our Nomination Committee During 2016 and beyond, I will ensure that the Board continues Report on pages 54 to 55.
Details of the proportion of women to operate in a constructive and open manner, with honesty on the Board, in senior leadership positions and within the and integrity as its core principles.
whole organisation can be found on page 33 of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman Board effectiveness Following our external Board evaluation in 2014, during 2015 we 29 February 2016 conducted an internal evaluation of the Board, the Committees and each of the Directors.
The evaluation process involved the completion of questionnaires and interviews by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, followed by a round table Board discussion, including a review of progress against actions from the 2014 evaluation.
More information on the process and the key action areas can be found on page 43.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37
