Corporate Governance Chairmans introduction to governance through his 15 years in the role of Group Committed values Finance Director within the listed company environment and latterly at Severn Trent plc.
Mike took over as Chairman of the Audit result in good governance Committee on 1 August.
The appointment of Dr Ashley Steel as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee from 1 January 2016 is also very welcome.
Ashley has a distinguished track record of providing strategic advice tocompanies across a range of sectors, particularly transport, and we will benefit fromher knowledge and experience.
Effective engagement withshareholders In line with Code recommendations, theBoard recognises and values the importance of maintaining healthy  with ourshareholders to ensure mutual understanding of the Groups strategy, objectives, governance and performance.
As a result of a maintained dialogue with our institutional shareholders during the firstfew months of 2015, I am pleased to report that we gained a substantial increase in the level of shareholder support for our remuneration framework from 64% at our 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM Sir John Armitt CBE to just under 99% at our 2015 AGM.
We Chairman remain committed to an open dialogue with our shareholders and to full disclosure 25 February 2016 of the rationale for the decisions made by the Remuneration Committee.
This year we are reporting in line with In January 2015, the Board appointed Similarly, we engaged with our investors the2014 version of the UK Corporate Matthew Ashley as Group Finance ahead of last years AGM on presenting Governance Code the Code which Director.
Matthew was formerly the Finance clearly the Boards position in response applied to the Company for the whole of the Director of the UK Bus business, having tothe Teamsters corporate campaign financial year ended 31 December 2015. also previously held the position of Group against National Express which included The full report detailing how we have Financial Controller.
Matthew has made a their requisitioned resolution put to the complied can be found on the following significant contribution to the business in 2015AGM.
In line with the Boards pages.
As a Board, we aspire to apply high his first year and we look forward to his recommendation that shareholders standards of governance to ourconduct continued support in developing and voteagainst this resolution, the special around the Board table and we commit to implementing Group strategy.
resolution failed to gain the support of 85% ensure that these standards, values and The Board had set itself the specific of our shareholders and was therefore not behaviours are applied consistently by the objective of recruiting a Non-Executive passed.
The Board remains firm that we will Executive team and cascaded throughout Director with a strong customer focused protect our employees right to freedom of the Group.
Strong governance remains a background with particular emphasis on choice in a free and fair election on whether framework within which the Board sets its digital marketing expertise.
I am delighted or not to join a union.
values and delivers long-term success for toreport that we filled this role with the the Company and itsinvestors whilst Governance in practice appointment, in May, of Matthew Crummack recognising its duties towards the wider This year, we have included an additional as an independent Non-Executive Director.
section within our Corporate Governance Matthew brings withhim significant Report which provides an insight into how our I would like to share with you a few key knowledge of the digital landscape from Non-Executive Directors play an active role areas which have received focus during his previous role as CEO at lastminute.
inengaging directly with our businesses 2015 as the Board puts into practice its His digital experience is directly relevant to andworkforce.
We focus on avariety of site governance procedures.
National Express as we place customers visits made during the year by our Nonand digital innovation at the heart of our Board changes and succession Executive Directors to show how they fulfil strategy and focus on delivering During the year, we have continued to their governance oversight role ina practical continuously improving services.
refresh the Board to ensure that, as the waythrough supporting and challenging I am also delighted to report that we have Group evolves to take account of changing management.
I hope you find this new further strengthened the financial expertise external dynamics, we have Directors section to be of value and that it adds to your on our Board with the appointment of with the appropriate balance of skills, understanding of how we operate as a Board.
He brings significant experience, independence and relevant financial andcorporate knowledge, coupled knowledge in order to deliver our strategy with wide-ranging international experience and fulfil our duties as Directors.
50 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Audit Committee Annual General Meeting The Audit Committee continues to play a key oversight role in the This year we are back in our heartland governance of the Company and I am pleased to report to you on inthe West Midlands with our AGM beingheld at 2.00pm on Wednesday thework undertaken by the Committee during 2015.
11May 2016 in Hall 9 at the International Mike McKeon, Audit Committee Chair Convention Centre, Broad Street, How the Audit Committee spent its time in 2015 Birmingham B1 2EA.
I would encourage you to attend to meet me and the Board.
Financial Statements and reports 33% External audit 10% Risk management 12% Internal audit 17% IT risk strategy Cyber security 8% Tax Treasury 9% Corporate governance 11% Sir John Armitt CBE Read more p64 Chairman 25 February 2016 Nomination Committee I am pleased to report to you on the work undertaken by the Committee during 2015.
Sir John Armitt CBE, Nomination Committee Chair How the Nomination Committee spent its time in 2015 New NED appointments 55% Election Re-election of Directors 10% New Executive Director appointment 15% Succession planning 10% Board diversity 10% Read more p68 Safety & Environment Committee Code principles I am pleased to report that in 2015 we continued to makeprogress in How the Company has complied with the oursafety performance and in the management of the Companys 2014UKCorporate Governance Code.
Leadership Chris Muntwyler, Safety & Environment Committee Chair How the Board provides leadership for the Groupanddirection for management.
How the Safety & Environment Committee spent its timein 2015 Read more p56 External audit of corporate governance of safety 9% Driving Out Harm annual review 10% Effectiveness Safety performance review 40% How we seek to build an effective Board with Environmental review 33% theappropriate balance of skills, experience, Health and wellbeing 8% independence and knowledge.
Read more p70 Read more p60 Accountability How the Board discharges its responsibilities topresent Remuneration Committee a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the I am pleased to report to you on the work undertaken by the Companys position andprospects.
Read more p62 Jane Kingston, Remuneration Committee Chair How the Remuneration Committee spent its time in 2015 Relations with shareholders Executive Directors remuneration 20% How we maintain relations with our investors.
Senior Management Group remuneration 15% Long-Term Incentive Plan 20% Read more p62 Bonus awards 20% Chairmans fee 5% Remuneration Executive Directors service contracts 5% How we align Executive pay with performance and Remuneration budget 5% thelong-term success of the Company and the Other employee share schemes 5% interests of shareholders.
Corporate governance Remuneration Report 5% Read more p72 Read more p72 www.
