Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Chairmans overview We strive to govern the business in a manner that is both straightforward and effective, and which promotes the long-term success of the Group.
One of the products of our continuous efforts to excel in corporate governance is the new Executive Committee, which was established earlier this year.
The Executive Committee is comprised of all of the executive directors together with Thomas Hartnett, Gudrun Wykrota and Heinz Wendel and was formed in order to better align thegoals and objectives of each business function and tosimplify the way in which we manage our business.
The biographies of each member of the Executive Committee can be found on pages 66 to 69.
We also look to achieve a better balance in the gender diversity of our Board.
Together with the Nomination and Governance Committee, I have been working to recruit asuitable female Board member to replace one of the Dear shareholder Companys current non-executive directors.
I hope to beable to report on this shortly.
Nostrum is a simple, sustainable and successful business these are our values and we apply them not only to our Alongside this, we will continue to foster Board diversity operational and financial goals, but also to our corporate inall regards in order that Nostrums directors have the governance.
Adopting and implementing good corporate appropriate mix of skills, experience, independence and governance is a core principle of the Groups relations knowledge to enable them to discharge their duties and with each and all of our stakeholders.
We strive to govern responsibilities effectively.
the business in a manner that is both straightforward During the coming year we will conduct an , and which promotes the long-term success facilitated Board evaluation and we look forward to of the Group.
deriving concrete benefits from that evaluation process.
The Group continues to embrace and address the I look forward to updating you on the progress of our demands of the additional regulatory obligations that ongoing efforts to achieve excellence in corporate areapplicable to the Group as a result of Nostrum moving governance during the year ahead.
toa premium listing on the LSE in 2014.
We highlight onour website the few areas where the Group does not fully comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code andexplain the reasons behind such non-compliance.
Forfurther information, please see page 76 and the governance section of Nostrums website http: www.
While our Company evolves in the short and the long Frank Monstrey term, both organically and through potential M&A activity, Chairman we will seek to place issues of corporate governance at the core of our decision-making processes.
We also continue to review and develop our corporate governance practices to ensure full compliance with regulatory requirements and to promote the success and sustainability of our business.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 65
