Governance Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 15.
Chairman s Governance Introduction addition, David Grigson will step down from the Dear Shareholder, position of Senior Independent Director with Lord Rose On behalf of the Board, I am delighted to present effect from the AGM on 4 May 2016.
David has Ocados Statement of Corporate Governance.
Chairman made a significant contribution to the Board over The Board remains focused on good corporate the last six years, and he leaves with our sincere governance as we believe that it provides a thanks and best wishes.
Further details are set out foundation for the creation of long-term value in the report on the activities of the Nomination of the Group.
While the Board recognises the Committee found on pages 68 and 69. importance of Ocados entrepreneurial culture It is also important to ensure that all of the to help with the rapid growth of the business Directors develop a good understanding of the and to enable the business to lead the online Groups operations and are best placed to make grocery retail market, the Board considers that informed decisions.
The report outlines many of The Board remains the Groups robust governance framework and the topics of Board discussion on page 60. its culture and values help sustain the Companys focused on good success.
A challenge for the Board is to adapt to Accountability the rapidly changing UK retail market, and as it corporate governance While the Executive Directors are responsible for begins to grow the platform business, to respond the day-to-day management of the business, to the challenges of, and to take advantage of the as we believe that it the entire Board leads the Group and provides opportunities presented by the international retail the debate and constructive challenge to and technology markets.
provides a foundation management necessary to create accountability and drive performance.
The Audit Committee for the creation of Leadership and Adapting has played an important role in overseeing to the Strategy the implementation of risk and assurance long-term value of the As well as providing entrepreneurial leadership systems in the Group, including in relation to Group.
and overseeing our strategy we have overall strategically important projects such as the responsibility for the Groups performance and Ocado Smart Platform and the new CFCs.
While mitigating the business risks we, and the industry crucial to delivering value to shareholders, more broadly, face.
monetising intellectual property and expansion of the platform business into overseas markets To ensure the Board is equipped to fulfil those present risks to the business, including those Read the Chairmans Statement on obligations successfully we need to ensure risks associated with the implementation of pages 4 and 5 that the Board has a diverse range of skills unproven technology and systems.
With the and experiences which collectively are both support of management, the Board and the complementary and directly relevant to Ocados Read more on Engagement with Audit Committee discussed these principal risks strategy.
This year, as part of the annual Board Shareholders on pages 61 and 62 and their mitigants as well as the processes for performance review, the Board conducted a identifying and managing the risks and assurance review of its skills and experience.
Understanding the Groups principal risks formed the basis of Board discussions about and related mitigating actions is an important succession plans and the desired make-up of the part of the assessment made by the Directors with Board for the future needs of the business.
On regards to the Groups viability over the longer 28 January 2016 we announced some changes term.
We make a viability statement for the first to the Board.
Firstly, the appointment of Andrew time in this Annual Report see page 39.
Further Harrison, as Non-Executive Director with effect information on accountability is provided in the from 1 March 2016.
This appointment brings fresh Audit Committee Report on pages 63 to 67. insight to the Board and we will benefit from his significant technology and retail experience.
In 52 slugline Ocado Annual Report 2015 Middle.
com Governance Remuneration and Engagement with Shareholders Our Executive Director remuneration arrangements are intended to support the achievement of our business objectives.
With the support of the Remuneration Committee oversight, we continue to believe that the current remuneration packages help to appropriately incentivise management to sustain longterm value for shareholders.
The Directors Remuneration Policy put in place in 2014, with its emphasis on long-term incentives, aims to reward achievement of core financial objectives and outstanding growth in the value of the Group relative to the FTSE 100 over the longer term.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 117 contains further details.
It is important that our shareholders remain supportive including with regards to the Directors Remuneration Policy.
We believe, based on shareholder feedback sought and the results of voting at general meetings, that the vast majority of shareholders consider that our remuneration arrangements are the most appropriate way to incentivise the Executive Directors and senior management to create and sustain long-term value.
I welcome the opportunity to discuss remuneration, governance and other matters with shareholders as this provides important feedback to the Company about its direction and performance.
Annual General Meeting Our Annual General Meeting will be held at 11 am on 4 May 2016 at Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet Street, London, EC4A 2BB.
It provides an excellent opportunity to meet the Directors and I would like to encourage our shareholders to attend.
Lord Rose Chairman Ocado Group plc 53 slugline Ocado Annual Report 2015 Middle.
