Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Corporate Governance introduction At Ophir, we are committed to ensuring that robust and effective governance processes are in place, as they are key to the future success of the Company.
Your Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate The information contained in this report, along with the reports of governance and is responsible for reviewing governance, risk theAudit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility management and internal controls.
These reviews bind the various Committees set out the processes in place that both protect net asset elements of our business and empower our staff to make decisions by value and foster the right conditions under which we can grow NAV.
establishing clear parameters for behaviour.
In 2015, we updated our During 2015 an independent external Board evaluation was Code of Conduct and established a clear set of Values that we expect conducted.
The principal conclusions from this were that the Boards to be demonstrated by our employees in all facets of their work.
Board governance had also continued to improve and is fully compliant with the Combined Code.
More details on this can be found on page 46 ofthis report.
Corporate governance framework at date Audit Committee Chairman: Ronald Blakely Four Independent Non-Executive Directors of publication Main responsibilities are monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and The Board has a coherent reviewing effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems.
corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and Remuneration Committee Chairman: Vivien Gibney accountabilities designed Four Independent Non-Executive Directors and Company Chairman Main responsibilities are determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration framework for tosafeguard and enhance the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and recommending and monitoring long-term shareholder reward of the senior management team.
valueand provide a robust platform to realise the Nomination Committee Chairman: Nicholas Smith Companys strategy.
Four Independent Non-Executive Directors, one Executive Director and Company Chairman Executive Main responsibilities are regularly reviewing structure, size and composition of the Board and identifying Committee and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies.
Board Chairman, three Executive Directors Technical Advisory Committee Chairman: Alan Booth andfive Independent Two Independent Non-Executive Directors and one Executive Director Non-Executive Directors Main responsibilities are advising the Board on technical aspects of operational business proposals and their potential risks and that they are consistent with the Company strategy.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman: Bill Schrader Four Independent Non-Executive Directors Main responsibilities are evaluating effectiveness of Groups Corporate Responsibility policies and systems as well as social, charitable and educational community projects across the Companys operations.
UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code applies to the year under review.
A copy of the Code can be found at www.
This report, which incorporates reports from the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Nomination Committees on pages 48 to 59 together with the Remuneration report on pages 64 to 88 and the Directors Report on pages 60 to 63 describes how the Company has applied the relevant principles of the Code.
The Board, along with its own assessment of compliance with the Code, therefore concludes that during the year the Company has fully complied with all provisions of the Code.
