70 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance overview From Vivienne Cox, Senior independent director Dear shareholders Vivienne Cox Senior independent director The past year has seen some notable changes at Pearson, in terms of both personnel and portfolio, and as senior independent director, the board felt it was appropriate for me to set out these changes for you in greater detail.
After ten years at Pearson, during which our business and the wider economy in which we operate have transformed markedly, Glen Moreno stepped down as During times of change, good chairman at the end of 2015.
Whilst the last few months of 2015 were challenging for Pearson, Glens legacy to the governance is paramount.
As a company can be seen in the well balanced and forwardboard we organise our work around thinking board of directors he has assembled which is working hard to steer Pearson back to growth.
Having four major themes where we believe worked alongside Glen for the past four years on the we can add value: governance, board, and on behalf of Pearson as a whole, I would like strategy, performance and people.
to thank him for his deep commitment to Pearson and its mission and wish him the very best for the future.
Glens successor as Pearson chairman, Sidney Taurel, In this Governance section o cially took up his post in January 2016 and we are Leadership & e ectiveness p72-81 con dent that his experience and dedication will help Accountability p82-89 guide Pearson towards successful delivery of its key priorities.
Read more about Chairman succession Engagement p90-93 on p79 Remuneration p94-117 Governance principles Additional disclosures p118-123 During times of change, good governance is paramount.
The board was closely involved with the strategic decisions to sell Pearsons interests in the Financial Times, The Economist and PowerSchool, providing input and challenge as matters progressed.
We will continue to do so throughout the current phase of change.
Our role and activities As a board we organise our work around four major themes where we believe we can add value: governance, strategy, performance and people.
Our board calendar and agenda provide ample time to focus on these themes and we have set out some examples of the business considered by the board, as well as the governance practices to which we adhere, on the pages that follow.
Learn more about Board meetings and activities on p75 UK Corporate Governance Code This year, for the first time, we are reporting against the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The board believes that during 2015 the company was in full compliance with all relevant provisions of the Code.
A detailed account of the provisions of the Code can be found on the FRCs website at www.
uk and we encourage readers to view our compliance schedule on the company website at www.
com governance Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & e ectiveness 71 Board and management Engagement See full section on p90-93 The Pearson board consists of senior executive Engagement with shareholders and society as a whole is management alongside a strong team of non-executive key to Pearsons mission to help people make progress directors drawn from successful international in their lives through access to better learning.
We have businesses and education institutions with experience announced important partnerships during the past year, of corporate strategy, education, emerging markets, such as Project Literacy and our partnership with Save technology and consumer marketing.
the Children, and the launch of the UNs Sustainable Development Goals has presented an opportunity for Board changes As is best practice, we continually Pearson to become engaged with a wide section of assess and refresh the board to ensure we maintain stakeholders.
As a result, our reputation & responsibility an appropriate balance and diversity of skills and committee continues to expand its areas of focus, with experience.
In April 2015 we also bid farewell to David increased sight of Pearsons social impact initiatives, Arculus and Ken Hydon, who each served on the board social and traditional media engagement activity, and for nine years, as remuneration and audit committee employee engagement matters.
We also welcomed a chairmen respectively.
In addition to our new chairman, number of shareholders to our Annual General Meeting we have also welcomed two other directors to our board AGM which, as always, was a valuable opportunity since our last report to shareholders.
Coram Williams for our board and senior management to respond to a long-time Pearson and Penguin Random House shareholders views and questions.
colleague joined the board on 1 August 2015, assuming the role of chief financial o cer following Robin Remuneration See full section on p94-117 Freestones departure, and in January 2016, Lincoln This years directors remuneration report refers to Wallen joined the board as a non-executive director further incremental changes we have made in line bringing with him a wealth of digital and technology with policy in 2015 to better align executive director experience.
We welcome Coram and Lincoln to the compensation with the interests of our shareholders board, where they are already making valuable and how this policy was operated in 2015.
To put our contributions to our governance and deliberations.
report into context, we have included a summary of the Learn more about our Board of directors on p72-73 approved directors remuneration policy report from Board and executive structure and balance Our board 2013 which is not subject to a vote.
Our remuneration consists primarily of non-executive directors, who policy was reviewed in 2013 to align with the companys bring a strong independent viewpoint, complementing strategy and organisation and was approved by the executive perspectives of John Fallon and Coram shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
We continue to operate Williams.
In addition, we invite members of the Pearson executive remuneration in line with the approved policy executive to attend a number of the boards sessions to and at present do not anticipate seeking shareholder bring insights and thoughts from across the business, approval for our policy again until required to do so at such as at the boards overseas strategy sessions in Palo the 2017 AGM.
Alto, California and New Delhi, India.
Learn more about Conclusion the Overseas strategy sessions on p93 I hope this report clearly sets out how your company is Accountability See full section on p82-89 run, and how we align governance and our board agenda A key element of the board and audit committees work with the strategic direction of Pearson.
We always each year is consideration of Pearsons risk appetite and welcome questions or comments from shareholders, the review of our principal risks.
The 2014 edition of the either via our website www.
com or in person Code introduced a requirement for the board to assess at our Annual General Meeting.
the companys prospects taking into account the current position and principal risks, and to make a viability statement on this basis.
The audit committee supported the board in this process by examining the analysis and assumptions underlying the viability statement, Vivienne Cox considering the required inputs and evaluating the Senior independent director proposed disclosures resulting from the process.
Learn more about Risk management on p38-40 and read the Viability statement on p118
