Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Chairmans letter to shareholders Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce my final corporate governance report on behalf of the Board, covering Pennon Groups 2014 15financialyear.
As explained on pages 10 and 11 strong governance is one of the core areas through which we create shareholder value and build and maintain a sustainable business.
Part of the role of the Chairman and the Board is to ensure that Pennon Group operates to the highest standards of corporate governance.
This will continue to be a priority for the Board when Sir John Parker takes on the role of Chairman following the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Annual Report continues to be the principal method of reporting to our shareholders on the Boards governance policies and the practical application of the principles of good corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code.
The UK Code is published on the Financial Reporting Council website, www.
In accordance with the FRCs requirements, we have reported against the September 2012 version of the Code.
co. uk 2015 53 53 Governance and remuneration Chairmans letter to shareholders Continued Role of the Board and its effectiveness Governance and subsidiary boards My primary role as Chairman has been to provide leadership During the year South West Water and Viridor continued to to the Board and to provide the right environment to operate under the enhanced governance frameworks that enable the Directors and the Board as a whole to perform were put in place during 2013 14.
For South West Water, effectively to promote the success of the Company for the this demonstrates our continued support for Ofwats board benefit of its shareholders.
In doing so we take account leadership, transparency and governance principles which of the interests of our customers, employees, suppliers, were published in January 2014.
Our corporate governance the communities in which we operate and other interested framework, including that of our subsidiaries, is set out on stakeholders including, in particular, Ofwat, the Drinking page 58 of this governance report.
Water Inspectorate and the regulatory bodies responsible for Governance and corporate reporting the environment in the UK.
Last year we revised our approach to governance and I believe we continue to demonstrate that we have good corporate reporting in accordance with the requirements governance in place and that we operate effectively and of the UK Code and the new reporting regulations that had cohesively as a Board.
Each year a detailed performance come into effect.
We have broadly maintained the same evaluation is carried out of the Board and each of the methodology this year but within those parameters have Committees as well as of the Directors and the Group sought to move to a more integrated approach to corporate General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The aim is to reporting, to present a holistic view of the business and to identify further areas for improvement and ensure that better reflect that sustainability is core to Pennons strategy, our knowledge, skills and methods remain relevant as the business model and the creation of value.
As such, there Groups businesses develop and grow.
Further details of is no separate sustainability report this year but rather the the review, which was facilitated by an external governance structure and content of the strategic report as a whole is consultancy, are set out later in this report.
derived from the strategic priorities through which the Group, via its two businesses, creates shareholder value.
These are It remains vital that all Board members continue to have set out on page 11. appropriate up to date knowledge and understanding of both South West Water, as it enters into a new regulatory Bournemouth Water period following Ofwats Final Determination in December Following our acquisition of Bournemouth Water we are 2014, confirming the award of enhanced status for the in discussion with the Competition and Markets Authority 2015-2020 business plan: and Viridor, as it implements its regarding ongoing governance and reporting in respect of strategic reorientation around its Energy and Recycling & Bournemouth Waters business.
Accordingly I have ensured that the Board has received presentations in the past year from senior management on, among other matters, the strategy for delivery of South West Waters business plan for the next regulatory period and, in respect of Viridor, developments in the recycling sector and progress in the construction and operational performance of its portfolio of Energy Recovery Facilities.
54 54 Pennon Gr Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 oup Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Shareholder engagement Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and other requirements Appropriate and regular communication with our shareholders is recognised by the Board as vital to ensuring I am once again pleased to report that throughout the year that we are able to explain our actions and that shareholders the Company complied with the provisions and applied the provide feedback on the matters they consider to be main principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance important and any issues which require addressing.
Code the 2012 edition with no exceptions to report.
Regular dialogue with the Companys institutional My introduction to this corporate governance report and shareholders is maintained through a comprehensive the following sections are made in compliance with the investor relations programme.
During the year some 80 UK Code, FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 and FCA Disclosure and meetings and conference calls were held with institutional Transparency Rules 7.1 and 7.2 and cover the work of our shareholders and prospective shareholders.
All were Board and its Committees, our internal control systems attended by the Group Director of Finance and the and procedures including risk management, our corporate Companys Investor Relations Manager.
The Chief Executive governance statements relating to share capital and control, of South West Water, the Chief Executive of Viridor and I our confirmation of the Company as a going concern and participated when appropriate.
Finally, in accordance with reporting requirements, on page 95 the Board confirms The Group Director of Finance continues to report to the to shareholders that the Annual Report and Accounts taken Board regularly on major shareholders views about the as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and Group, and every six months the Companys brokers give a provide the information necessary to assess the Companys presentation to the Board on equity market developments performance, business model and strategy.
This ensures that the Board is fully briefed on the views and aspirations of shareholders.
Those shareholders who attend our AGMs will know that I also actively encourage their participation and welcome questions on any business issues affecting the Group.
As usual at our 2015 AGM on 30 July all our Directors intend to be present together with a number of directors and Ken Harvey executives of South West Water and Viridor to meet with Chairman shareholders to further explain the business of the Group.
