94 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Report on directors remuneration Part 1: Letter from the chairman of the remuneration committee Dear shareholder Chairman of the remuneration committee On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present the Elizabeth Corley report on directors remuneration for 2015.
This is my Current Members first report as chairman of Pearsons remuneration Tim Score, Vivienne Cox, committee, having succeeded Sir David Arculus at the Elizabeth Corley, Josh Lewis Annual General Meeting AGM in April 2015.
The and Sidney Taurel opportunity to learn about and study the history, policies and procedures of remuneration at Pearson, with the support of fellow committee members, has been invaluable, as has the feedback and engagement with It has been a tough year for Pearson key shareholders.
My board colleagues and I are aware and our remuneration outcomes of the importance and sensitivity among investors and the public more generally, of remuneration topics and have re ected this.
2015 brought we feel our responsibilities keenly.
challenging market conditions and As outlined in our strategic report, 2015 was a year of signi cant changes.
As we continue change and challenge for Pearson with continued market into 2016 we will be considering our headwinds and the in-year disposals of PowerSchool, the Financial Times Group and our stake in The Economist.
remuneration policy proposals for While we have been performing well competitively and 2017 in this new environment and gained market share across many areas of our business, year end results were lower than projected at the start of context for the business.
This was largely driven by the persisting cyclical and policy-related turbulence in our major education In this remuneration section: markets.
While this is expected to abate over the next Part 1: Letter from the chairman p94 two years, we saw a reduction in our annual operating Part 2: Summary of remuneration policy p97 pro t for 2015 of approximately 230m from its peak.
Part 3: Annual remuneration report p101 Despite the challenges encountered, we remain focused on executing the business strategy, transforming Terms of reference Pearson to be the standout company in education globally and developing our long-term growth The committees full charter and terms of opportunities.
The 2015 divestments were an important reference are available on the Governance part of these aims.
We are con dent that education page of the companys website at remains an attractive investment opportunity with www.
com governance Key performance indicators [HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV VLQJOH JXUH EUHDNGRZQ 300 -RKQ DOORQ e P 96% 4% 250 &RUDP :LOOLDPV e P 200 150 5RELQ UHHVWRQH e P 93% 7% 100 50 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 %DVH VDODU DOORZDQFHV EHQHWV DQG SHQVLRQ Pearson TSR FTSE All-share TSR Pearson EPS Pearson ROIC RQJ WHUP LQFHQWLYHV Initial value of KPIs have been rebased to 100 for same timeframe as &RUDP :LOOLDPV DQG 5RELQ UHHVWRQHV UHPXQHUDWLRQ UHODWHV WR WKHLU chart on p114.
IXOO SHULRG RI HPSOR PHQW LQ See p114 for alignment of pay with Total Shareholder Return Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Report on directors remuneration 95 the growth potential to enable us both to serve more Committee responsibilities: students around the world, and to deliver good, 1.
Determine and review policy Determine and regularly sustainable returns to our shareholders.
review the remuneration policy for the executive directors, We do not intend to make any remuneration policy the presidents and other members of the Pearson executive who report directly to the CEO executive management.
revisions ahead of the 2017 AGM.
However, we keep the This policy includes base salary, annual and long-term e ectiveness of our current remuneration programmes incentives, pension arrangements, any other bene ts under review and, partly in light of recent trading and termination of employment.
conditions and the speci c strategic goals for 2016, 2. Review and approve implementation Regularly review we have concluded that some changes are warranted.
the implementation and operation of the remuneration These are detailed in this report and, for those yet to policy for executive management and approve the be nalised, we are engaging with our key investors.
individual remuneration and bene ts packages of the executive directors.
Approve performance related plans Approve the design Remuneration for executive directors is closely tied to of, and determine targets for, any performance-related business performance with a high proportion of total pay plans operated by the company and approve the total remuneration delivered through variable pay designed payments to be made under such plans.
to reward achievement of short and long-term strategic 4. Review long-term plans Review the design of the objectives.
As a result of the performance challenges companys long-term incentive and other share plans for approval by the board and shareholders.
noted in this report, the outcomes under these schemes were as follows: 5.
Set termination arrangements Advise and decide on general and speci c arrangements in connection with Annual incentives paid to executives for 2015 were zero, the termination of employment of executive directors.
re ecting below-threshold performance in a tough 6. Review targets Review and approve corporate goals and trading environment.
objectives relevant to CEO remuneration and evaluate the CEOs performance in light of those goals and objectives.
Long-term incentives vesting in 2015 did not pay out.
This is the third consecutive year of nil pay-out, re ecting 7.
Determine chairmans remuneration Delegated responsibility for determining the remuneration and below-threshold performance against the companys bene ts package of the chairman of the board.
three-year targets for earnings per share growth, return 8.
Shareholder engagement Ensure the company maintains on invested capital and relative total shareholder return.
an appropriate level of engagement with its shareholders Given the environment within which the leadership team and shareholder representative bodies in relation to the is expected to guide Pearson through a very signi cant remuneration policy and its implementation.
period of change, without receiving any bonus or long- 9.
Appoint remuneration consultants Appoint and term incentive payments, the committee agreed for 2016 set the terms of engagement for any remuneration consultants who advise the committee and monitor incentive and retention arrangements for selected key the cost of such advice.
employees, which will vest, or not, in 2017.
No executive directors participate in these incentives.
In these circumstances, we intend to design our incentive Future measures of performance against pay plans for 2016 to ensure that our executive and other We expect our business to stabilise in 2017 and return employees are motivated and incentivised to achieve to growth in 2018.
Our business plan until then focuses our important aims over the short term, while sustaining on operational execution, tight cost management a strategic focus on longer-term goals.
The plan targets and a sharper, more focused strategy.
The focus of are still to be nalised but the current thinking suggests: restructuring is not only to reduce costs but also to For the Annual Incentive Plan AIP : make the company faster, leaner and more agile.
The 2016 sales and cash metrics and weightings remain We are creating a single global product organisation, unchanged from 2015.
However, to align the AIP with integrating our school, clinical and professional the speci c restructuring achievements required in assessment operations in North America and are scaling 2016, as noted in the income statement measure in our back our exposure to large, direct delivery operations.
guidance to investors, Operating Pro t after the cost of We are also making productivity improvements across restructuring will be added to the metrics with a 30% all our enabling functions such as Technology, HR and weighting.
To accommodate this change, the weighting Finance and we plan to rationalise our property portfolio for earnings per share EPS would also be 30% down and consolidate major agreements to drive greater from 60% weight for 2015. cost e ciency.
96 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Part 1: Letter from the chairman of the remuneration committee continued For 2016, the range of normal rewarded performance in 2016 to test and ensure its e ectiveness and would be wider than in previous years and, in appropriateness for the company, which nds itself consequence, both the threshold performance and in a new operating environment and context to that the on-target funding are set to be lower than in 2015. prevailing in 2014.
We are committed to engagement with our shareholders during this review and will For the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP : welcome comments and feedback.
Targets for the 2016 LTIP awards are planned to be set The operation of the current LTIP will be considered as following the April remuneration committee meeting, part of the policy review, in parallel with a periodic review having allowed key shareholders the opportunity to of the remuneration committees terms of reference.
consider our plans on how to account for the revised Our new policy changed or not and any new or growth expectations explained in our January 2016 renewed plans will be put to shareholders for approval trading update, and in line with policy.
For information on our anticipated The targets will be fully disclosed in the 2016 report on changes to remuneration for 2016 see page 116. directors remuneration.
My meetings with shareholders in 2015 have been The targets and weightings will continue to be based on helpful in understanding perspectives and I look forward EPS one-half, ROIC one-third and TSR one-sixth with to continuing the dialogue in 2016 and beyond.
on-target levels planned to be in line with the delivery We are con dent that our response to the changes and of the market guidance operating pro t of 800 million challenges described here will make Pearson a simpler, in 2018. focused and stronger company and that we will position Looking forward to 2016 the company to achieve a sustained period of growth.
The committee has reviewed the base salary levels for executive directors in light of 2015 business performance and concluded that it would not be appropriate to award a salary increase for 2016.
Elizabeth Corley Chairman of remuneration committee In preparation for the policy vote in 2017, we expect to conduct a thorough review of our remuneration policy 4 March 2016 Principles of remuneration policy The purpose of the remuneration policy is to support the companys strategy to deliver sustained performance and create long-term value in the interests of all stakeholders.
Our remuneration policy principles are highlighted in the panel below and a summary of our directors remuneration policy report, approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, is provided on pages 97 and 98.
We continue to operate executive remuneration in line with the approved policy and do not anticipate seeking shareholder approval for our policy again until required to do so at the 2017 AGM.
Sustainability and Pay for performance Alignment affordability Robust and transparent Pay mix focuses on Designed to re ect Base Annual Annual variable pay shareholder value Link to pay conditions salary incentives incentives creation across the Group Funded through results Strong rationale Aligned fully with KPIs: for increases EPS, operating pro t, sales and operating Designed to re ect Funded through cash ow Long-term Annual shareholder value results Malus and clawback incentives creation incentives Strong link to 2-year holding performance Pay mix focuses on Long-term post-vesting variable pay Malus and clawback incentives Funded through results CEO: 300% Strong link to Shareholding Long-term CFO: 200% Aligned with strategy performance guidelines through KPIs: EPS, ROIC incentives Pearson Malus and clawback and TSR executive: 100% Malus and clawback
