Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & e ectiveness 79 Chairmans succession Commencing the search Chairmans selection process Following Glen Morenos announcement at the 2015 JCA Group was engaged with a clear set of criteria: to nd AGM that he was planning to step down as chairman by a highly experienced global business leader, with proven the end of the year, Pearson commenced its search for ability to lead an industry through a period of change, a suitable successor.
The selection process was led by of which technology is a key part, and in dealing with a complex regulatory environment.
Vivienne Cox, our senior independent director, and an external search rm, JCA Group, was engaged to assist 1.
Identify Using the agreed brief, JCA and the senior and advise Pearson on the search and appointment independent director considered and re ned a list of potential candidates, seeking input from the nomination process.
committee on which candidates should be approached.
Taking the findings from the 2014 board e ectiveness 2.
Interview The senior independent director led a series review as a starting point, and in consultation with the of interviews with the shortlisted candidates.
Preferred nomination committee and the chief executive, JCA candidates then met with the chief executive and with the designed a speci cation for the desired candidate which two members of the search committee, following which the included the following key attributes: nomination committee met to discuss feedback.
Highly experienced leader of large global businesses, 3.
Select After further meetings, including with Glen Moreno, Sidney Taurel was recommended for appointment.
ideally with a proven track record as a chairman He was selected having successfully led a global Truly global player in outlook, approach and multinational company, operating in some of the most challenging political and regulatory environments, and understanding with deep knowledge of and experience having lived and worked all over the world, including the US, in Pearsons key geographic markets UK and Brazil three of Pearsons most important markets.
Genuine interest in embracing digital technology to 4.
Appoint Sidneys appointment as chairman was bene t the customer and the company approved and announced in October 2015 to take e ect on 1 January 2016, the date of his formal appointment to In agreeing the speci cation, the board emphasised the the Pearson board.
importance of nding someone who was excited by and demonstrated empathy with Pearsons mission, values, goals and people.
Appointment and induction Choosing a successor Pearson approved and announced the appointment of Sidney Taurel on 26 October 2015, and he joined the Candidate pro les were prepared by JCA for board on 1 January 2016, assuming the role of chairman consideration by Ms Cox, who then consulted the immediately upon appointment.
nomination committee and chief executive to agree a shortlist of strong candidates.
She held initial meetings Mr Taurel met the independence requirements set out in with the shortlisted candidates, and recommended a the Code on appointment and has con rmed he is able number of them to progress through to the next stage, to dedicate the requisite time to the role.
where they met with the chief executive, following A comprehensive induction programme was put in which a search sub-committee was formed, comprising place for Sidney during the three months following the Linda Lorimer and Tim Score, who each met with the announcement of his appointment.
A series of one to strongest candidates.
one meetings was held with members of the Pearson Ms Cox reported regularly to the nomination committee executive to enable Sidney to understand all aspects throughout the search and interview stages, and of Pearsons global business, the challenges facing the following consideration of interview feedback it became enabling functions such as technology, HR and corporate clear to the board and the nomination committee that a airs, and the wider trends in education.
Sidney also Sidney Taurel was the most suitable candidate to met with Pearsons brokers, corporate advisers and succeed Glen Moreno as chairman.
Agreement lawyers to understand broader regulatory matters having been reached, the nomination committee and obligations.
During his US-based induction, Sidney recommended that the final decision be delegated attended Pearsons national sales conference focusing to a standing committee of the board to formalise on issues and hot topics in the US business, and spent Mr Taurels appointment once the necessary checks time in Washington, DC with the corporate a airs and had been satisfactorily completed.
