Chairmans introduction Dear shareholder Whilst 2015 continued to be operationally challenging for Petrofac, the Board took the opportunity to reinforce the risk management culture, which is a key discipline for the Rijnhard van Tets whole Group.
Non-executive Chairman Following Stefano Caos departure from the Board in April, we reviewed the The development of the existing governance structure and decided to return direct ownership of enterprise Companys governance risk management oversight to the Board.
Rather than continue with a separate Board framework has been Risk Committee, amendments were made to the Audit Committees terms of reference extremely important and, in order for it to assume full oversight of our internal control and risk management throughout this report, there processes, thereby enabling this Committee to provide the necessary Board assurances.
are examples of how we As a result of the substantial further losses are endeavouring to attain experienced on the Laggan-Tormore project, during the year, the Board commissioned our corporate goals whilst an independent review by KPMG of cost controls on that project as well as reviewing underpinning our core values.
other key projects within OEC and risk management systems in general.
This extensive analysis provided an in-depth 2015 objectives and highlights evaluation, highlighting areas which will inform the Companys risk assurance Execution both in terms of strategic implementation and operational delivery framework going forward.
Risk management following a change to the Committee structure I am pleased to report that, after detailed the Board increased its direct oversight of enterprise risks impacting search processes conducted during the Company to ensure our internal control framework remains robust 2015, we will announce the appointment Project delivery greater oversight, especially in the current of two new Non-executive Directors on unpredictable industry environment 24 February 2016.
Andrea Abt and George Pierson will join the Board in May 2016, Succession planning ensuring we have the right people in the right subject to shareholder approval, and the roles throughout the organisation to enable us to strive towards our goal Board very much looks forward to working of operational excellence with them.
Further details are set out on Board effectiveness to understand the benefits of performance page 83. evaluations in order to seek continuous improvement Stakeholder engagement to understand the views of all stakeholders, The development of the Companys particularly those of our shareholders governance framework remains extremely important and we will continue to strive towards attaining our corporate goals whilst Priorities for 2016 underpinning our values and focusing on our core strengths as we look to the future.
Strategy execution to ensure we are able to guide the Company back to its core strengths Risk management will continue to be a significant area of focus for Rijnhard van Tets the Board and executive management, ensuring the lessons learnt have Chairman been fully incorporated and understood throughout the organisation 23 February 2016 Succession planning will remain key to ensure all changes are managed effectively and any weaknesses or gaps identified Stakeholder engagement openly engaging with stakeholders to understand their views and discuss any areas of concern 68 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Related pages Our strategic review p20 Group Financial statements p108 Corporate Governance Corporate structure and framework compliance The Board is assisted by three committees, each of which is responsible for reviewing With a premium listing on the London and overseeing activities within its particular terms of reference copies of which are Stock Exchange, Petrofac is required available on the Companys website, www.
At each scheduled Board under the UKLA Listing Rules to comply meeting, the chairman of each committee provides a summary of any committee with the provisions of the UK Corporate meeting held since the previous Board meeting, with the minutes of all committee Governance Code 2014 UK Code, meetings circulated to the Board, when appropriate.
Individual reports from each copies of which are publicly available at committee chairman for 2015 are provided on pages 82 to 106.
The UK Code sets out Board committees, the Company has a number of executive management committees 18 main principles of good governance which are involved in the day-to-day operational management of Petrofac and have in relation to leadership, effectiveness, been established to consider various issues and matters for recommendation to the accountability, remuneration and relations Board and its committees.
with shareholders, with responsibility for compliance resting with the Board.
Corporate structure framework The UK Code requires the Board to acknowledge its responsibility for ensuring Shareholders the Annual Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, so that shareholders are provided with the Elect the external Elect the Directors Ongoing dialogue necessary information to assess Company auditors position, performance and strategy.
Board This governance report, including the Provides leadership and direction for the Group.
Sets overall strategy reports from the Nominations, Audit and and oversees its i mplementation.
Ensures appropriate systems and processes Remuneration Committees, describes how are in place to monitor and ma nage Group risk.
Responsible for financial the Company has applied each of the UK performance and corporate governance.
Code principles and provisions during the period under review.
It is the Boards opinion that, for the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company Audit Committee Remuneration Nominations has been fully compliant with each of the Reviews and monitors the Committee Committee principles and provisions of the UK Code.
integrity of the Companys Reviews and agrees Reviews the structure, The Companys auditors, Ernst & Young financial s tatements, reporting remuneration policy.
size and composition of LLP EY, are required to review whether processes, financial and Determines individual the Board.
T akes primary or not the corporate governance report regulat or y compliance : compensation levels responsibility for Director reflects the Companys compliance with the systems of internal for Executive Directors succession and for the the principles of the UK Code specified control and risk management, and m embers of senior Groups succession for their review by the UKLA Listing including viability assessment: management.
and the external and internal incentives are appropriate Rules and to report if it does not reflect audit processes.
to encourage performance such compliance.
No such report of and provide alignment non-compliance has been made.
Committee report on pages Committee report on pages Committee report on pages 84 to 89 90 to 106 82 to 83 Executive Management Responsible for day-to-day operational management, the communication and implementation of strategic decisions, administrative matters and matters for recommendation to the Board a nd its Committees, underpinned by a number of management committees: Executive Committee Chief Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Group Risk Committee Treasury Committee Guarantee Committee Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 69
