Introduction to corporate governance High standards in corporate governance The stewardship and good governance It is the Groups policy to promote its executive of our Company continues to be a high Directors from senior management within the Good governance priority for the Board.
We are determined Group, wherever possible.
Senior management of our Company to ensure that the Boards strategy and succession planning within the Regional Boards continues to be its requirements for excellence and good ensures future suitable executive candidates a high priority.
governance are instilled into the culture are identied and have experience within ofthe business.
the Group before promotion to the Board.
The Nomination Committee will continue to Our Executive and Non-Executive Directors review succession planning and the composition regularly meet with operational management of the Board and whether to make a further teams and staff across our 28 operating non-executive appointment.
businesses, ensuring that the Boards standards and values for integrity and honesty are During 2015 the Board conducted an externally successfully disseminated to all employees.
assisted evaluation of itself and its committees, The Groups excellent performance during with evaluation criteria linked to the Groups 2015 again provides assurance to shareholders strategy, performance and governance.
that the Directors, management and staff A number of recommendations were made are ensuring that the Groups strategy is to take account of changes in corporate implemented in accordance with the Companys governance best practice, including refreshing governance culture for honesty, responsibility, board and committee agendas and reporting.
A number of the recommendations have been or will be implemented shortly where improvement During the year the Nomination Committee can be made.
continued its focus on succession planning for the Board and senior management.
The Board held its annual strategy meeting in The Committee recommended the appointment October and undertook a full and detailed review of further non-executive Directors during the of its current strategy which is set out in the course of 2015, in the light of requirements Strategic Report on pages 439.
The strategy to refresh Board membership, specically includes ensuring the Group maintains for diversity and to comply with the appropriate levels of resource to successfully recommendations of the Davies Report.
execute Group policies in all key areas of the business, in particular with regard to strategic I am pleased to report that Rachel Kentleton land, health and safety, customer care and sales joined the Board on 24 June 2015 and in and construction activities.
addition, that Nigel Mills a Senior Advisor with Citigroup Global Markets will join the As a result of our significant increase in Board on 4 April 2016.
Their experience and production over the last three years the Board skills will be valuable assets to our business.
has also committed further resources to training Richard Pennycook and Mark Preston have both and recruitment.
I am in particular pleased that announced their intention to resign following our Combat to Construction training initiative the Annual General Meeting on 14 April 2016, continues to receive widespread support and and on behalf of the Board I thank them for their will provide a good career path for ex-UK Armed significant contributions to the Company.
Forces personnel and address the widespread industry shortage of skilled tradesmen.
Nigel Greenaway also announced that he will Overall we currently have 580 graduate trainees retire from the Board at the AGM after 30 years and apprentices working in the Group.
Nigel has made a significant contribution to the development of our business Finally, I am pleased to report that the over the years and the Board wishes him a long Company has complied with the UK Corporate and happy retirement.
Dave Jenkinson was Governance Code 2014 throughout 2015. promoted to Group Managing Director at the beginning of the year with further responsibilities Nicholas Wrigley across the Group.
Chairman 22 February 2016 Persimmon Plc 42 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Overview Key sections within the governance section LEADERSHIP ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION AND EFFECTIVENESS Our Board, Report Oversight of structure and from the Audit executive activities Committee remuneration The Boards strategy introduced During 2015 the The Groups strong in 2012 has proved very Audit Committee: performance has resulted successful, as shown by the inExecutive Directors recommended the significant overall improvement in achievingover 97% of their appointment of a new auditor: theGroups performance.
bonus targets in 2015. undertook a detailed review During 2015 the Board again Directors base salaries and of the principal risks facing placed particular focus on: fees have been increased the Group: from 1 January 2016 by 3% increased staff training: assessed the key risks of in line with increases given health and safety resources: misstatement of the Groups tosalaried staff.
financial statements relating measures to improve Executive Directors bonus to the carrying value of both customercare: and arrangements for 2016 are the Groups land and work in review of the Groups risk similar to the prior year, progress, including the accuracy register and systems of internal with stretching targets for of cost recoveries, and available financial control further improvement in the for sale financial assets: and in the light of our continued Groups performance.
undertook a detailed review increase in production.
of compliance with the UK TheBoard also undertook Corporate Governance anexternally assisted evaluation Code 2014. of its effectiveness.
Read more about the structure, role Read our Audit Committee report Read our remuneration report and activities of the Board See pages 4952 See pages 5671 See pages 4647 Persimmon Plc 43 Annual Report December 2015
