Governance Chairmans introduction to governance The Board continues to believe that high standards of corporate governance contributes to Playtechs performance and continued success.
Alan Jackson Chairman During 2015, PwC were engaged to perform The Board is cognisant of the need to strike Dear Shareholder a review on internal audit exercises covering a careful balance to ensure that shareholders I am pleased to present Playtechs key areas of our business both in terms and other stakeholders are appropriately Governance Reports to shareholders.
of a review of the effectiveness of our protected by robust processes and The Board continues to believe that processes and procedures, together with procedures while providing an environment high standards of corporate governance focused work on the identification and that fosters an entrepreneurial spirit that contributes to Playtechs performance and mitigation of risk to include IT security allows our senior management team and continued success.
This was a busy year for and disaster recovery arrangements.
We employees to continue to deliver the yearthe Group during which time the Board has recently recruited two experienced internal on-year growth that we have achieved been able to provide strategic leadership auditors managers to report directly to in recent years.
This balance enables us and I would like to pass on my gratitude Robert Penfold, our Head of Internal Audit.
to clearly focus on the key risks facing for the enthusiasm and dedication which The relationship with PwC has therefore the Group but to be flexible enough in the Directors and senior management have moved to a co-sourced arrangement.
our approach to accommodate changes demonstrated.
We have, however, continued resulting from developments in our strategy to focus on ensuring that we have an We continued to listen to and understand or changes in the regulatory environment.
appropriate governance framework in place.
the views of our shareholders.
In addition to the usual processes, we met with We have set out in the following sections The Board has confidence in the future institutional shareholders, particularly around how we seek to manage the principal risks of the Group and sees significant growth results announcements and at different and uncertainties facing the business, more opportunities, and remains focused on investor conferences with a focus on the details on our governance framework and looking for such opportunities in regulated strategic vision of the Group and the quickly have sought to explain how our corporate and soon-to-be regulated markets.
We evolving developments in our industry in governance practises support our strategy.
continue to work closely with regulators in terms of innovation, regulation and tax.
various markets to ensure our compliance The annual general meeting AGM with local laws and regulations.
The Board continues to strive to ensure that is an important opportunity for the Board the Groups governance structure protects to meet with shareholders, particularly The first half of the year saw the creation the sustainability of its businesses and the those who may not otherwise have the of our new Financials division through the communities in which it operates, while chance to engage with the Board and senior acquisition of TradeFX Limited, which was maximising shareholder value and treating management.
Our 2016 AGM is scheduled subsequently renamed Markets Limited.
The Board also sets the for 10.00 am on 18 May 2016 at The Sefton The regulatory backdrop under which tone for the Company.
The way in which it Hotel, Douglas, Isle of Man and we look Markets Limited operates has become conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, forward to seeing you there.
increasingly developed and against this its definitions of success and the assessment backdrop, we are taking a risk adverse of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere Alan Jackson approach with an ongoing review of within which the executive team works.
Chairman our business model to further enhance compliance, control and oversight, setting 25 February 2016 industry-leading standards in these areas.
46 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
