08 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Directors Remuneration Chairmans Statement Operating Model and the Group-wide implementation of Introduction a new SAP-enabled IT system, both of which will deliver On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our 2015 significant operational efficiencies.
This, combined with a Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee is focus on talent and succession planning, seeks to secure the responsible for overseeing the remuneration of the Executive long term health of the business.
In addition, actions taken in Directors and Chairman.
It is also responsible for the operation the year were consistent with the long term strategy to deliver of senior management incentive schemes throughout sustainable value and enable the Group to meet the carbon the Group.
emission and water consumption reduction targets set at the beginning of the year.
The Annual Report on Remuneration pages 19 to 27 sets out how we implemented our Remuneration Policy for the Key aspects of remuneration earned during the year were: year ended 31May 2015 and how we intend to implement Salary reviews As disclosed in last years report, the salary it during the year ending 31May 2016.
This will be put to an of the CEO was increased by 5 per cent on 1 September advisory Shareholder vote at our Annual General Meeting 2014.
The CFOs and COOs salaries were increased by AGM on 22September 2015.
There are no changes to the 4 per cent.
These increases were within the range of salary Remuneration Policy which was approved by our Shareholders increases provided to other employees elsewhere in the at last years AGM.
Our approved Policy is provided on pages PZCussonsGroup.
Bonus pay-out of 72.85 per cent of maximum opportunity In 2014 15 we continued to focus the Our approach to remuneration on-target element of the annual bonus on performance for executives against three key financial indicators: profit before tax and The principal aim of our Remuneration Policy is to drive the exceptional items, net working capital and operating generation of long-term sustainable shareholder value by contribution margin.
The balance of maximum bonus aligning the interests of our executives with those of our opportunity was dependent on delivery of i a profit before Shareholders.
We are committed to rewarding our executives tax stretch target and ii certain strategic and CSR stretch fairly based on their role, performance and contribution to the non-financial objectives which, at the end of the period, the business.
We also seek, when designing incentive structures, Committee concluded should have equal weighting, thereby to set challenging targets and reward sustainable performance better reflecting those priorities upon which the Executive while avoiding inadvertently encouraging risky or Directors had been focussed during the year.
Strong performance was delivered against all three financial measures and, in addition, the non-financial strategic and Remuneration earned in 2014 15 CSR stretch targets were largely achieved.
As a result, the The Group delivered a solid performance in the year ended Executive Directors qualified for total bonus payments 31May2015 with underlying revenue and operating profit equivalent to 72.85 per cent of their maximum opportunity growth of 2.3 per cent and 2.7 per cent respectively.
This in respect of the year.
performance was set against a background of tough trading The Committee has carefully considered the extent to which conditions in most markets and a significant weakening in it is appropriate to disclose the detailed targets and, whilst currencies which impacted profits by around 4m.
As a result, we believe that future targets are commercially sensitive, the Board was able to declare a further increase in the full the targets set for 2014 2015 are disclosed retrospectively year dividend, marking 42 consecutive years over which the in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
dividend has been increased year-on-year.
Long-term incentives As signalled in last years report, no long term incentives vested in 2014 15.
The performance In addition, a number of important strategic initiatives were conditions set in respect of the awards made to Executive successfully completed in the year as part of the Groups Directors in 2012 under the Performance Share Plan were long-term growth strategy to focus on higher growth and partially achieved over the three year period ended value add businesses.
Examples include the acquisition 31May2015, with the result that 32.5 per cent of the of the Australian food brand five:am and the buy out of the awards will shortly vest.
As required, details of those Nutricima beverage business from our joint venture partner.
awards are included in the tables within the Annual Report Good progress was also made in respect of the ongoing on Remuneration.
programme to evolve the organisation towards a new Target PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 09 Changes in 2015 16 In recent years, awards made under the Performance Share Last year, the Committee undertook a comprehensive review Plan have been subject to the attainment over a three year of executive remuneration arrangements, including the performance period of predetermined targets based on operation of each incentive plan, a benchmarking analysis and growth in Earnings Per Share EPS.
For existing awards a review of market developments and current best practice 25per cent of awards vest in the event of compound EPS approaches.
This culminated with the approval of a new growth of 6per cent p. a. over the period, rising on a Directors Remuneration Policy at our AGM in September 2014 straight-line basis to 100per cent of awards vesting where after a process of consultation with our largest Shareholders.
compound EPS growth of 12per cent p. a. is attained.
The Committee considered the introduction of an additional This year, the Committee is not proposing to make any performance measure but has concluded that EPS remains changes to the Policy which would require further Shareholder the most meaningful measure of long-term performance, approval.
I should like to draw to the attention of Shareholders providing a valuable line of sight for management and the following amendments to the implementation of our alignment with the interests of Shareholders.
Remuneration Policy: The Committee also reviewed the EPS performance targets Clawback in the context of the challenging economic and consumer Following the publication by the FRC of an updated version market in which PZCussonsis delivering performance.
The of the Corporate Governance Code in September 2014, the Committee is also aware of PZ Cussons ongoing significant Committee has resolved to revise the rules relating to the and unmanageable exposure to adverse foreign exchange recovery of incentives provided to executives in movements.
In these circumstances, and following certain circumstances.
consultation with our largest Shareholders, the threshold compound EPS growth target for 2015 16 awards will be The Directors Remuneration Policy already includes malus reduced to compound EPS growth of 4per cent p. a. provisions which give the Committee the ability to scale The target for maximum vesting will remain unchanged back deferred awards under both the Performance Share at compound EPS growth of 12per cent p. a.
Plan and our annual bonus scheme prior to vesting in the event of material misstatement, fraud or serious The Committee is satisfied that these targets are reputational damage.
appropriately challenging and the same stretching level of performance as applied in previous years will be required The new Code will apply to the Company for the first time in for the award to vest in full.
We will, of course, keep this the 2015 16 financial year and the Committee has resolved under review to ensure the performance targets for awards to introduce clawback provisions again under both the made in future years continue to remain appropriate.
Performance Share Plan and our annual bonus scheme.
The rules of each incentive plan will be amended to enable the Salary increases Committee to clawback awards made to Executive Directors The Committee has decided, with effect from and other senior executives for a period of up to two years 1 September 2015, to increase the base salaries of the from payment and or vesting in the event of i a material CEO by 3.4per cent and of the COO and CFO by misstatement of audited results, ii employee misconduct 2.8per cent.
These increases are based on individual associated with the governance or conduct of the business performance and are within the range of salary increases or iii an erroneous calculation of a performance outcome.
being awarded to the Groups wider UK-based These changes will be introduced with effect from the employee population.
awards to be made in respect of the 2015 16 financial year.
We will also take the opportunity to amend the existing I hope you will find the Report on Directors remuneration malus provisions so that they are consistent with clear, transparent and informative and that this Statement has these rules.
been helpful in setting out our approach to the 2015 16 financial year and our rationale behind the adjustments made.
EPS growth targets We are committed to engaging with Shareholders in respect of During the year the Committee reviewed the performance remuneration issues and welcome your views on the matters targets which will apply to the Performance Share Plan set out within the 2015 Report on Directors remuneration.
awards made to Executive Directors in the 2015 16 financial year.
Helen Owers Chair of the Remuneration Committee
