Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance We remain committed to the highest standards of corporate governance across the Group to underpin our strategy and promote our longterm success.
Adrian Bellamy Chairman Introduction In December 2015, Peter Harf stepped down from his position on the On behalf of the Board, Im pleased to present the Companys Board, to allow him to spend more time at JAB and its portfolio of Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended companies.
Throughout his tenure, Peter was a highly respected and 31 December 2015.
As in previous years, we report against the well regarded member and I would like to thank him for his valued UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial contribution over the past 16 years.
We will miss his expertise and Reporting Council FRC.
As your Board, we strive to work competently capabilities.
We have a number of other long-serving members on and effectively within that framework and Im pleased to report the Board who have served longer terms than those recommended that our high standards of compliance with the Code remain.
by the Code, their wealth of knowledge and experience is considered invaluable: Judy Sprieser and Ken Hydon have therefore been asked 2014 saw considerable changes to narrative and remuneration to remain with the Company and I am delighted they have both reporting requirements for listed companies, and over the past agreed to do so.
While the newer members of the Board continue year, we have built upon the changes implemented in last years to be developed into their new roles, Judy and Ken will continue report to maintain and further enlighten our Shareholders to serve as Chairs of the Remuneration and Audit Committee understanding of how their Company is being run, decisions respectively to ensure a successful transition in due course.
are made, risks properly managed and value returned.
On 16 March 2016, we announced that Jaspal Bindra, Sue Shim and New appointments have been made to the Board, a new set of Doug Tough would not offer themselves for re-election at the 2016 employee share option plans were introduced following approval AGM and they will therefore retire from the Board at the conclusion of at the 2015 AGM, our Supercharge programme has increased the meeting.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank each of business cost efficiencies, and a review of risks to the business as them for their contributions and wish them well in their future pursuits.
a result of an ever increasingly digital world have all helped drive forward RBs profitability, transparency and governance structure.
Effectiveness In view of the changes to the Board, it was determined that the 2015 Leadership evaluation of the Boards effectiveness would be best served by being Following significant changes in regulatory reporting requirements conducted internally, taking into account the principal themes raised last year and a focus on strengthening the composition of the over the previous two years.
Board, 2015 has been a year of integration and stabilisation.
The 2015 review concluded positively that members of the Board were Biographies of the members of our current Board of Directors can committed to spending more time on Board discussions, as well as be found on pages 46 to 49.
The strong base that our diverse Board becoming more involved in development of strategy and focus on risk.
offers enables us to draw on a vast array of skills and experiences The induction process was praised and it was acknowledged that, to ensure the long-term success of the business, comprehensively together with ongoing training, this was considered important in manage risk and deliver on our stakeholders expectations.
understanding the Companys key strategic priorities and emerging governance issues.
During the year I was pleased to announce the appointments of Chris Sinclair, Mary Harris and Pam Kirby.
They have all been supported It is the intention of the Board to carry out an external evaluation in with comprehensive inductions to the Company, its business and 2016, in line with the Code requirements and corporate governance its values and have added industry expertise and international best practice.
and gender diversity to further strengthen our Board.
Having an experienced, well-balanced and diverse Board with a wide range of Diversity skills enhances our decision-making capabilities and this Corporate We remain committed to a more balanced gender and ethnic Governance Report has been structured to demonstrate this, in background representation throughout our organisation, although addition to our compliance with the Code during the year.
we will always recruit the best placed candidate.
I am pleased that in the last 12 months two additional female Non-Executive Directors have joined the Board.
The Company continues to operate with a corporate diversity and inclusion policy adopted and reviewed by the Executive Committee.
52 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements The Executive Committee, with seven nationalities, and the Companys addition of a two-year holding period for unvested LTIP awards upon wider global leadership community, with 49 nationalities between cessation of employment.
The Policy also includes malus and clawback them, represent a broad background of collective skills and experience, provisions for LTIP awards and a reduction in the maximum number of helping to gain a greater insight into and better serve the needs of our shares and options that can be awarded under the LTIP.
Summary RB also supports gender balance and our DARE Developing, Attracting, The Board considers compliance with the Code of utmost importance.
Retaining and Engaging talented women programme was launched The Board authorises any instances of non-compliance only once it has during the year to provide support and flexibility to women to assist satisfied itself that the spirit of the Code and good corporate them with their career paths.
governance within the Company generally continue.
Accountability All of the existing Directors, with the exception of Jaspal Bindra, Sue The Board is responsible for confirming that the Groups Financial Shim and Doug Tough, will be offering themselves for re-election at the Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
Jaspal, Sue and Doug will retire from the Board following in its decision by the Audit Committee which ensures the integrity the meeting.
Whilst myself, Ken Hydon and Judy Sprieser have served of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls framework and beyond the period recommended under the Code, the Board believes risk management processes.
The Audit Committee works closely the mix of tenure is in the best interests of our Shareholders.
The Board with the Internal Audit function, as well as the External Auditor, regularly considers Board member succession and, in particular, and further details of their work can be found on pages 61 to 65. succession for the Chairman led by the Senior Independent Director and the Committee Chairs.
We look for your continued support for Engagement them to continue to serve the Board on your behalf and to promote We place considerable importance on the views of our Shareholders.
the long-term success of the Company.
As Chairman, I am responsible for effective communication with Shareholders and ensuring that the Board collectively understands their Through the Audit Committee, the Board has considered the views.
The Company has a regular investor relations programme of requirements of the Competition and Markets Authority Order in meetings between our institutional Shareholders, analysts, Directors respect of audit tendering, as well as the Code recommendations and senior management.
Additional dialogue is held with institutional and the related FRC guidance, and we will comply with the UK Shareholders as appropriate.
Private Shareholders have the opportunity implementation of the EU requirements on auditor rotation.
to speak with the Board and raise any concerns at the Annual General The Audit Committee has commenced a preselection process Meeting AGM.
with a number of audit firms in preparation for a possible audit tender in 2017, allowing for the appointment of a new Remuneration auditor at the 2018 AGM.
We are required to undertake an Our approach to remuneration is detailed more fully in the Remuneration audit tender and auditor rotation by the 2020 year end.
We remain committed to a policy of suitably rewarding effective performance and aligning the interests of Executive The Corporate Governance Report outlines the Companys governance Directors and employees with the interests of our Shareholders.
We will processes in greater detail and is on pages 54 to 59.
Except where be asking Shareholders to approve an enhanced Directors Remuneration otherwise mentioned above, the Company has complied with the Policy at the AGM.
Details of the proposed policy are set out on pages Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2015.
The primary change which will further strengthen the alignment of Executives interests with those of Shareholders is the Adrian Bellamy Chairman 22 March 2016 Key areas of Board focus in 2015 The Board considers reports from the CEO and the CFO on strategic and business developments as well as financial performance and forecasts for the business at every meeting.
In addition, the following areas formed substantial areas of focus for the Board in the year: Strategy and planning Leadership Group budgets, forecasts and key performance targets, On-boarding of three new Non-Executive Directors including assumptions, scenarios and projections Director and senior management succession planning Post-acquisition reviews Change of Company Secretary Performance relative to key competitors Review of Non-Executive Directors fees Group debt and funding arrangements The Supercharge programme Results and Financial Statements Pensions Compliance with reporting requirements Annual Report Risk management and internal control Results and presentations to analysts RBs principal risks, emerging risks and the Groups risk register Corporate Governance Consideration and approval of the new Viability Statement Board and Committee evaluation and effectiveness The effectiveness of the Groups compliance programme Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability and Environment Detection and response to cyber threats Interactions with institutional investors Internal controls Developments in corporate governance Evaluation of Internal and External Auditors Legal and regulatory updates Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 53
