Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 43 Chairmans Statement Dear Fellow Shareholder Challenge The Board takes seriously its responsibilities under the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code to provide appropriate challenge to the executive, and to ensure that it has sufficient understanding of the drivers of the business to do so effectively.
In March we visited our Global Science Centre to look in depth at the impressive pipeline of innovative products and services that the group has developed.
Many are now beingsuccessfully commercialised more details are available on pages 16 to 25.
In June the Board travelled to Marseille to review our French business, which has been under particular pressure this year, as well as the Workwear business generally.
This included a visit to one of our laundries.
In September the Board toured our UK Sales Academy to improve our understanding of the way that professional standards and careers are developed for our frontline sales and service colleagues.
In addition, During 2015 the Board and this year we have for the first time conducted deep dive reviews on all I have focused on our three five regional businesses see pages 51 and 54 : we also spent time with over 90% of the Senior Leadership Forum during the year, to primary responsibilities: improve our understanding of the internal talent pool and succession options for key functions and businesses across the group.
to determine the strategy Reporting and engagement of the group, to ensure that I hope that you have found the Strategic Report to shareholders on pages 2 to 41 a helpful explanation of our strategy and of how the the best team is in place to strategy is executed through our business model.
We have taken into execute that strategy and account the guidance of the Financial Reporting Council FRC on strategic report preparation, issued in June 2014, the Code and to ensure that effective ongoing developments inremuneration reporting under the new regulations.
Our Remuneration Policy, approved by shareholders at controls are in place to the Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2014, is available to view mitigate and manage on www.
Although that approval did not require the Remuneration Policy to be put to the vote again until 2017, risk.
Strong corporate there are some changes to the Remuneration Policy for details, see pages 66 to 72 of the Directors Remuneration Report, so we intend governance underpins to submit the proposed revised Remuneration Policy to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
I trust that the remainder of this report gives you a clear understanding This requires more than compliance with the latest regulatory of the governance process as well as how the Board complies with its guidance, but needs to be an overarching strategic and risk obligations under the Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and framework within which management can operate with confidence.
We will continue to keep these obligations under also sets the tone and expectation for the high standards of conduct review during 2016. and professionalism across the business.
Yours faithfully I remain confident that the Board and its Committees operate to the highest standards of governance and integrity, something supported by the outcome of the Board review in 2015 as well as in previous years.
Wehave worked during this year to implement the follow-up actions and areas for improvement identified in last years evaluation.
Those items as well as the suggestions of areas for focus in 2016 are set out on page 51.
John McAdam Chairman 24 February 2016 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
