68 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Following approval from shareholders at the Annual General We have further enhanced the Meetings of the parent companies in April 2015, effective 1 July 2015, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV formally changed their Groups corporate governance names to RELX PLC and RELX NV, respectively.
bysimplifying the corporate Equalisation arrangements To further simplify the corporate structure, the equalisation ratio structure and fully aligning of RELX PLC to RELX NV shares was changed from a ratio of 1.538 to 1 to a ratio of 1 to 1 from 1 July 2015.
The change of ratio was membership of the Boards.
implemented by way of a bonus issue of 0.538 new RELX NV shares for each existing RELX NV share held.
As a result, one ordinary share of RELX NV confers equivalent economic interests Introduction to Corporate Governance to one ordinary share of RELX PLC.
The Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc are committed to high standards of corporate governance and believe RELX PLC and RELX NV ADRs listed on the New York Stock that such standards are integral to the success of the Group.
The Exchange were also adjusted so that they each now represent one Boards have put in place policies and procedures that promote RELX PLC or one RELX NV ordinary share from their previous corporate responsibility, accountability and probity, and include 4:1and 2:1 ratios respectively.
the Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct which sets the Board changes and succession standard for our corporate and individual behaviour.
The Code Following the implementation of our simplified corporate ofEthics and Business Conduct applies to all Directors and structure, we fully aligned membership of the Boards with the employees of the Group and more information on its application appointment of Marike van Lier Lels as a Non-Executive Director can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 45. of RELX PLC and RELX Group plc.
Marike has served as a The Group is listed in the UK, the US and the Netherlands RELX Non-Executive Director of RELX NV and as a member of the PLCs shares are listed in London and New York, and RELX NVs Corporate Governance Committee since 2010.
The Boards are shares are listed in Amsterdam and New York and therefore it is now comprised of the same directors.
The biographical details subject to corporate governance requirements in those jurisdictions.
ofeach of the Directors are set out on pages 64 and 65.
This Corporate Governance Report describes the Groups governance Looking ahead, two of our long-serving Non-Executive Directors, arrangements and the work of the Boards and their Committees.
Lisa Hook and Robert Polet, will retire from the Boards after It is intended to provide shareholders with a clear view of how the ourAnnual General Meetings in April 2016.
In February, we Group has complied with the applicable corporate governance announced that Carol Mills and Robert MacLeod will join the codes during the year.
Boards as Non-Executive Directors, subject to shareholder approval.
Carol has more than 30 years in the enterprise Corporate structure technology and software sectors, including extensive US board RELX PLC is a publicly listed holding company with its shares experience, and Robert has considerable international experience traded on the London and New York stock exchanges.
Its principal in executive and non-executive roles in the engineering and asset is the shares it owns in RELX Group plc, which represent chemicals sectors, most recently as Chief Executive Officer of 52.9% of the outstanding shares of RELX Group plc.
With their strong strategic, financial and RELX NV is a publicly listed holding company with its shares technology skills, they will be valuable additions to our Boards.
traded on the Euronext Amsterdam and New York stock exchanges.
We also announced that Dr Wolfhart Hauser, who has served Its principal asset is the shares it owns in RELX Group plc, which as a Non-Executive Director since 2013, will succeed Lisa as represent 47.1% of the outstanding shares of RELX Group plc.
RELX Group plc holds all of the operating businesses, subsidiaries Board evaluation and financing activities of the Group.
In accordance with the UK and Dutch Corporate Governance The corporate structure is shown below.
Codes, we conducted evaluations of the Boards, their Committees and the performance of individual Directors.
Details of the review, which confirmed that the Boards and their Committees continue RELX PLC RELX NV to function effectively, are set out on page 71.
Taking into account the outcome of the evaluation, I believe that 52.9% 47.1% the Boards and the Committees operate effectively and have anappropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, RELX Group plc knowledge of the Group and diversity to ensure that they continue to do so.
Additionally, all of our Directors continue to contribute RELX PLC and RELX NV each have equal voting rights in RELX Group plc.
effectively and are committed to their roles.
Therefore, on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, all Directors RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc and its subsidiaries, other than those retiring in 2016 will stand for re-election at associates and joint ventures are together known as RELX Group.
theAnnual General Meetings in April 2016.
Simplification and name changes in 2015 Anthony Habgood During 2015, we implemented the simplification of the Groups Chairman corporate structure previously reported in detail in the 2014 24 February 2016 Annual Report.
