Corporate Governance Statement Executive Chairmans Statement Committed to the highest standards of governance.
Andrew Goodsell Executive Chairman Saga plc 54 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our report The Board has considered the reporting requirement that onCorporate Governance within the Group.
It was important theannual report as a whole should be fair, balanced and for asolid governance structure to be established in our understandable and asked the Audit Committee to give firstyearas a listed Group, so that we had a framework of assurance that the relevant systems and processes are in effective systems of internal control, to support and protect place to support that requirement.
Details can be found in our business in a practical way whilst promoting a solid theAudit Committee Report on pages 67-69. structure for us to report to our shareholders.
During the year, Stuart Howard announced his intention to retire as Group Chief Financial Officer by the end of 2015 after It was important that the independent Non-Executive 15 years at Saga and the Nomination Committee members Directors who joined us at flotation gained an understanding played an important part in identifying a suitable replacement.
of our key businesses and our short and long-term strategic Stuarts in-depth experience and knowledge of the Companys goals.
Astructured induction programme was developed to business was an invaluable resource during the period leading ensure that this happened quickly, and a strategy day was up to and immediately following our flotation.
In April 2015, held in November 2014 to provide a valuable opportunity for Jonathan Hill joined the Group so that a thorough handover Board members to review and discuss the objectives and could take place and so that he could assume the role of goals ofthose businesses directly with the business leaders.
I am confident that Jonathans The Board has played a fundamental part in deciding on the experience will have a positive effect on the Companys direction in which the business is travelling and in ensuring strategy andstewardship.
that the Group has the appropriate strategies, structures andprocesses in place to ensure good governance and The Remuneration Committee had much work to do to ensure stewardship, and to facilitate future growth.
growth and to draft a remuneration policy which is acceptable The establishment of the Board and Audit, Risk, Remuneration to our shareholders.
The full Remuneration Reportcan be and Nomination Committees the Committees was key found onpages 73-95. inthis respect.
We worked hard to ensure that the terms During this period of change, the Board continues to maintain ofreference of the Committees provided strong a dialogue with key investors and will make itself available to governancestructures.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The The Groups risk management processes were further governance process will continue to evolve as the Group strengthened with the establishment of aseparate Risk takes shape, and will take account of future changes in Committee, which is responsible for the oversight of principal regulation and best practice.
risks, and ofthe risk management process, including the identification, monitoring and mitigationof risk.
Andrew Goodsell Executive Chairman 29 April 2015 It was important for a solid governance structure to be established in our first year as a listed Group, so that we had a framework of effective systems of internal control.
Saga plc 55 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
