Chairmans introduction to corporate governance Sound governance is integral to Sage achieving its ambition Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code and its statement requirements Throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2015 and to the date of this report, Sage has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the UK Financial Reporting Council at www.
This corporate governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts describes how we have applied the principles of the Code.
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, The Board of the Company is commied to ensuring that it provides Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of practice although adherence may constitute a part of the evidence of good eective leadership and promotes uncompromising ethical standards.
One of the ways in which the Board achieves this is by requiring that governance but rather about the exercise of a mindset to do what is right.
One of the challenges facing any Board is the way in which the good governance principles and practices are adhered to throughout the Company.
The Board determined that the following is a helpful non-executive and the executive directors interact.
It is clear that they summary of its role.
each have the same legal responsibility but it is generally unrealistic to expect executive directors to speak individually with the same freedom Good governance is about helping to run the Company well.
It involves as the non-executive directors.
Equally, executive directors who just ensuring that an eective internal framework of systems and controls toe the executive line in contradiction to their own views may not be is put in place which clearly defines authority and accountability and eectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board promotes success whilst permitting the management of risk to needs to nd the right balance between hearing the collective executive appropriate levels.
view, being aware of the natural internal tensions in an executive team It also involves the exercise of judgement as to the denitions of and allowing independent input from the non-executive directors.
success for the Company, the levels of risk we are willing to take to One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog role of achieve that success and the levels of delegation to the executive.
The the Board and nding this balance between individuality and team exercise of this judgement is the responsibility of the Board and involves behaviour is driving more and more Boards to have fewer and fewer consideration of processes and assumptions as well as outcomes.
In our circumstances, the reduced Board size It also involves the creation of a sensitive interface for the views of works eectively and an appropriate balance is struck.
shareholders and other stakeholders to be given appropriate Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external expectations, consideration when reaching these judgements.
which may be wholly or in part unrealistic, a successful Board should, The executive team is required to provide such information to the ideally, be composed of a diverse group of respected, experienced Board as the Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement over and competent people who coalesce around a common purpose of these maers.
It must also evidence appropriate process.
There is a very promoting the long-term success of the Company, provide a unied ne distinction between the approval of processes and their denition.
vision of the denitions of success and appropriate risk, endeavour Only exceptionally would the Board intervene to initiate or define.
to support management i. e. those who honestly criticise at times but encourage all the time and who create confidence in all The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
The way in which it stakeholders in the integrity of the business.
conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its denition of success and the assessment of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere within which the executive team works.
Donald Brydon, CBE Chairman The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 59
