Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 48 Board of directors 2.
LEADERSHIP Committee membership key Q Audit Committee V Corporate Responsibility Committee Y Executive Committee O Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee x Treasury Committee 1.
James Bowling BA, ACA 46 x Y Senior Independent Non-executive Director Chief Financial officer Appointed to the board on 29 February 2008 Appointed to the board on 1 April 2015 Martin brings extensive experience to the board of managing and James is a chartered accountant, having started his career with developing large engineering businesses in all parts of the world.
Touche Ross and brings significant financial management, M&A His strong engineering expertise, commercial acumen, experience and business transformation expertise to the board.
Prior to of managing complex projects, and familiarity with current market joining Severn Trent, James was interim Chief Financial officer of pressures leave him well placed to add value to the Severn Trent Shire plc, where he had been since 2005, first as Head of Group business.
In May 2014, Martin left the board of IMI plc having Reporting and from 2008 as Group Financial Controller.
Prior to served as Chief Executive for 13 years and after 33 years with joining Shire, James spent nine years at Ford Motor Company in the company.
On 1 March 2014, Martin was appointed Chairman various finance roles of increasing responsibility.
of Evoqua Water Technologies and on 14 January 2015, he was 4.
Andrew Duff BSc FEI 56 V O appointed non-executive director of Mercia Technologies Plc.
On 24 April 2015, Martin was appointed Chairman of Rotork Plc.
Non-executive Chairman Previously Martin was a non-executive director of Spectris Plc.
Appointed to the board on 10 May 2010 and Chairman on 20 July 2010 External appointments Chairman of the Nominations Committee Chairman of Rotork Plc Andrews extensive experience of international and regulated Chairman of Evoqua Water Technologies LLC business, strategic management and customer service in high Non-executive director of Mercia Technologies Plc prole, dynamic environments has equipped him well for the Member of the Advisory Board of AEA Investors Management role of Chairman of the group.
Andrew spent 16 years at BP in UK Limited marketing, strategy and oil trading.
He joined National Power in 1998 and the board of Innogy plc upon its demerger from National 2.
John Coghlan BCom, ACA 57 O Q x Power in 2000.
He played a leading role in its restructuring and Independent Non-executive director transformation through the opening of competition in energy Appointed to the board on 23 May 2014 markets culminating in its subsequent sale to RWE in 2003.
Chairman of the Treasury Committee He became CEO of the successor Company, RWE npower, and John is a chartered accountant and is a valuable addition to the a member of the RWE Group Executive Committee.
He was boards existing skill set.
He became Chairman of the Audit a non-executive director of Wolseley Plc from July 2004 until Committee following the AGM on 16 July 2014 and Chairman of November 2013.
Andrew was appointed non-executive Deputy the Treasury Committee in April 2015.
John brings to the board Chairman of Elementis plc on 1 April 2014 and became extensive financial expertise.
Currently John is also Chairman non-executive Chairman of Elementis plc on 24 April 2014. of Inchcape Shipping Services and a non-executive director and External appointments Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Lavendon Group Non-executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination plc.
Previously, he was a director of Exel Plc for 11 years to 2006, Committee of Elementis plc where he was Deputy Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Since 2006, John has been a non-executive director of various Member of the CBI Presidents Committee publicly-quoted and private equity-owned companies.
Trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support and Earth Trust Fellow of the Energy Institute External appointments Chairman of Inchcape Shipping Services Non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Lavendon Group plc Chairman of Freight Transport Association Ireland Limited
