Introduction to Governance The Group supports the highest standards of corporate governance.
lESlIE VAN fide wAllE Chairman in last years Annual Report i reported that the Board had DEAR SHAREHOLDER discussed in December 2013 the matter of women on SiG is committed to business integrity, high ethical values Boards and had set out the aim of achieving at least 25% and professionalism in all of its activities.
At SiG, we female representation among the Boards membership by believe that good governance comes from an effective 2015. i am pleased to be able to report that, following the Board which provides strong leadership to the Group and appointment of Ms A. Abt on 12 March 2015, that female engages well with both management and stakeholders.
As representation on the Board has risen to 25%.
an essential part of this commitment, the Group supports the highest standards in corporate governance.
This All appointments to the Board will continue to be made section of our report outlines how the Board ensures that on merit, however, differences in background, skills, high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
experience and other qualities as well as gender will be considered in determining the optimum composition of the compliance with the uK corporate Governance Board and the aim will be to balance them appropriately.
code The Board considers that, throughout the year under GOVERNANCE WITHIN SIG review, the Company has complied with the governance As Chairman, i take responsibility for ensuring that good rules and best practice provisions applying to UK listed governance is operated at SiG in order that we can companies as contained in the UK Corporate Governance maintain the highest standards of corporate governance Code the Code of September 2014 issued by the to which we continually aspire.
The Board is accountable Financial Reporting Council FRC.
to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this Report, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages The Code can be accessed at www.
80 to 98, the Audit Committee Report on pages 72 to 77 Board evaluation and the Nominations Committee Report on pages 78 to The Board is required, under the Code, to undertake 79 describe how the principles of good governance set a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own out inthe Code are applied within SiG.
performance and that of its Committees and individual The Companys Auditor, Deloitte LLP, is required to review Directors.
in December 2015 the Board conducted an whether the above statement reflects the Companys internally facilitated evaluation.
Details of the process compliance with the ten provisions of the Code specified concerning this evaluation and its outcome are covered on for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing page 64 of this Corporate Governance Report.
Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
Board diversity The Board of SiG acknowledges the importance of diversity in its broadest sense in the Boardroom as a driver of Board effectiveness.
Diversity encompasses diversity of perspective, experience, background, psychological type and personal attributes.
The Board recognises that gender diversity is a significant aspect lESlIE VAN fide wAllE Chairman of diversity and acknowledges the role that women with 8 March 2016 the right skills and experience can play in contributing to diversity of perspective in the Boardroom.
The Board Diversity Policy is published on the Companys website www.
