Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dr John Hughes CBE GOVERNANCE PRIORITIES Chairman FOR2016 Looking forward to 2016, our governance priorities will be: Talent management.
I am pleased to present the Corporate to continue to generate shareholder value.
Corporate Governance Code Governance Report which sets out how the Toensure that the Group has the talent and Statement of Compliance Board functions and how it sets the culture capability to deliver these strategic objectives a As a company listed on the London andvalues of the Company.
At Spectris we are talent management programme was launched StockExchange, Spectris is subject to committed to maintaining high standards of during the year.
Further details on the Companys the2014 UKCorporate Governance Code governance, both at Board level and throughout strategy can be found in the Strategic Report theCode.
A copy of the Code is available the Group.
We see this as fundamental to the onpages 22 and 23.
Details of the talent atwww.
The Board considers effective and responsible management of the management programme are on pages 65 and 66. thatthroughout the financial year ended business and for the delivery of shareholder 31December 2015, and as at the date of this value over the long term.
Yours faithfully report, the Company was in full compliance with the provisions ofthe Code.
This report We particularly emphasise the strong Dr John Hughes CBE sets out how the Company applied the relationship that exists between ethics and Chairman principles of the Codeduring 2015. governance and the role of the Board in 16 February 2016 demonstrating ethical leadership.
The standards we require are set out in our Code of Business Ethics, which is communicated to all our employees and business partners.
Further details can be found in the Ethics Report on page 48.
During 2015, the Board agreed an evolution of the strategy with a renewed emphasis on growth, including a shift in emphasis from the supply of products towards the provision of complete solutions.
The implementation of the enhanced strategy aims to deliver long-term growth and build on the Companys strong financial position 59 www.
