Governance Report Chairmans introduction Governance is central to our business The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the Groups long-term success, forsetting its strategic plans and ensuring a framework of prudent and effective controls.
Bill Whiteley Chairman What governance Key actions during the year Key points in this section: means to us During 2015 we continued our open dialogue with the investment community Full compliance with the UK As a Board it is our responsibility to with a comprehensive schedule of visits, support management with meeting its Corporate Governance Code road shows and meetings undertaken by strategic aims, enabling the Group to 2014 myself, the Group Chief Executive and continue to perform successfully and the Finance Director.
This included a visit External Board evaluation sustainably for our shareholders and to our Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology wider stakeholders.
Underpinning this Promoting an integrated Group headquarters in Falmouth, UK, for is the Boards commitment to ensuring a number of analysts, to assist with their approach to risk management the business operates to the highest understanding of our business model.
and internal control standards of corporate governance.
I am pleased that an independent evaluation of A key activity undertaken this year was an Succession planning the Board and our Committees, carried independent Board effectiveness review, out during the year, confirmed that the carried out by Dr Long CBE of Boardroom Board operates effectively, in an open and Review Ltd.
This ensures we are compliant collegiate manner.
with the requirement to undertake an Our approach to external review every three years in In this section of the Annual Report, we accordance with the Code.
A summary of governance set out our approach to governance, using the findings and recommendations are set the five main principles of the Corporate out on pages 75 and 76 of this Report.
Governance helps us to: Governance Code 2014 as per the diagram on page 67 and explain how the Board and Succession planning has had increased Ensure our shareholders its Committees are structured and what emphasis during 2015 following the receive a good return on their they have done during the year.
independent review undertaken by investment DrLong CBE, with the need to ensure the Our Governance Report explains how Board is refreshed and remains compliant the Group has applied the principles Behave with integrity as with the Code.
We remain committed to and complied with the provisions of colleagues, making sure that achieving our target of at least 25% female the UK Corporate Governance Code each feels valued, motivated representation on the Board, and firmly 2014 Code.
We are fully compliant and rewarded believe we will come close to achieving with the requirements of the Code, as this in the near future.
Further information set out in detail on the Groups website, Treat our customers, suppliers is set out on page 74 in the Nomination www.
com, under and local communities Committee report.
properly With David Merediths announcement of his Regulatory disclosures required under the wish to retire, Kevin Boyd was identified as Respect the environment Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.
Further information can be found on page 112. on this appointment is set out in the You will find the Remuneration Report on Nomination and Remuneration Committee pages 86 to 100, where Krishnamurthy reports.
In addition, at our strategy review Fair, balanced and Rajagopal, the Remuneration Committee meeting in June we reviewed the skills and understandable Chairman, summarises our three-year experience of the executive team to ensure In accordance with the Code, the Remuneration Policy that was approved that the organisation has a pipeline of strong Directors confirm that they consider by 98.5% of shareholder votes at our and capable senior managers to meet the that the Annual Report taken as Annual General Meeting AGM in May future needs of the business.
a whole, is fair, balanced and 2014.
The Annual report on remuneration The requirement for premium listed understandable and provides the 2015 sets out the details of Executive businesses to provide a Viability information necessary for shareholders compensation throughout 2015, which will statement was introduced in 2014. to assess the Groups performance, be subject to the normal advisory vote at The Risk Management Committee, business model and strategy.
working with the Directors, has reviewed the business model alongside the Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 66 Annual Report 2015 principal risks and has satisfied itself that it will be viable for three years.
A copy of Our Corporate Governance Information our statement is set out on page 111. ispresented in accordance with the main With the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 we have taken reasonable steps principles of the Code to confirm that to the best of our knowledge there is no modern slavery or human Our Governance Report over the following pages explains how the trafficking within our supply chain and we Group has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of will continue to monitor measures to protect the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Code.
workers from abuse or exploitation in our organisation or supply chain.
A Modern We are fully compliant with the requirements of the Code, as set out Slavery Act statement is available on our in detail on the Groups website, www.
Integrated management framework 1 As a Board, we have ultimate responsibility Leadership for overseeing the Groups performance See pages 7074 and for overseeing the management of risk within the Group.
As a result of Code changes published in September 5 2 Remuneration Effectiveness 2014, the Board, the Risk Management See pages See pages Committee and the Audit Committee 86108 7576 have put in place new processes for the on-going monitoring of risk management and internal controls to ensure that there is a more robust and integrated approach.
These changes include: 4 3 health and safety as a standing agenda Relations with Accountability item at every Board and executive shareholders See pages management meeting 7783 See pages 8485 Non-Executive Directors have sight of the agendas and key papers considered by the Risk Management Committee risk management and the review of Compliance statement internal controls is now carried out by the Risk Management Committee and the The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on their website, www.
The edition of the Code published in September 2014 applied throughout our financial year Audit Committee ended 31st December 2015.
We have complied with the Code throughout the year.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee to attend the Risk Management Committee examination programme was introduced once a year into the business to ensure that we maintain Viability statement an on-going assessment of the this position.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of effectiveness of the internal and To ensure that our suppliers comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code external audit.
2014, the Directors have assessed the human rights principles we expect them to adhere to our Supplier Sustainability viability of the Group over a three-year The Groups culture period, taking into account the Groups Code which is in accordance with and values international standards such as the OECD current financial position, business strategy, the Boards risk appetite and Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, The Board takes seriously its responsibilities the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the potential impacts of the principal for promoting the Groups Core Values and, risks outlined on pages 32 to 33 of the Core Conventions of the International in particular, for ensuring that all employees Labour Organisation and the UN Guiding the Strategic Report.
Based on this and everyone associated with the Group are assessment, the Directors confirm that Principles on Business and Human Rights.
aware of their responsibility to act lawfully More information on this can be found in our they have a reasonable expectation and conduct themselves in accordance that the Company will be able to Sustainability report on page 59 and in our with high standards of business integrity.
Audit Committee report on page 80. continue in operation and meet its These values are embedded in our Group liabilities as they fall due over the threeManagement Code.
I am pleased to report that good corporate year period to 31st December 2018. governance is integrated into everyday life A strong anti-corruption culture is central Our Viability statement can be found atSpirax Sarco.
to the Groups values and all employees infull on page 111 of this Report.
are required to undertake anti-bribery I look forward to meeting you at our AGM training.
In June 2015 a biennial refresher onTuesday, 10th May 2016.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 67 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
