Directors Report Remuneration Report The Chairmans statement How executive remuneration links to our strategy I am pleased to set out Last year we re-shaped our performance measures to align them more explicitly with both shareholders and customers expectations.
We the Remuneration also took the opportunity to introduce additional holding periods for our long-term incentive awards, a feature which better aligns to the Committees Directors time horizons of our business.
The Committee continues to believe that our Remuneration Report overall remuneration policy is strongly aligned to our strategy through the following approach: - Simplicity Our executive pay is made up of DRR for the year ended just four elements: base salary, plus benefits: pension rights: an annual incentive scheme cash and shares : and a long term incentive 31st March 2015. scheme shares.
- A balanced assessment of performance We assess performance through a range This report gives me the opportunity to explain how SSE of measures to ensure a balanced view of pays its Directors and, importantly, how this links to the executives overall performance.
- Customer focus Reflecting our commitment companys strategy.
It is also allows me to give you an to customers, we include customer service insight into the decisions we took during the year and measures in both the annual incentive and the performance share plan.
the context surrounding those decisions.
- Delivering value for our shareholders Dividends and TSR performance continue to feature strongly in our incentive framework to ensure that management interests are aligned with those of our shareholders.
- Stewardship and alignment to the long-term Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a significant personal shareholding in the business, and a two-year holding period extends the overall time horizon of our performance share plan to five years.
We were delighted to receive overwhelming support from shareholders for our remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM, with 99.1% of votes cast in favour.
At our AGM in 2015, shareholders will have the opportunity to vote on our annual Remuneration Report for 2014 15, and we welcome this opportunity for our shareholders to have their say.
Performance out-turns in 2014 15 2014 15 was a challenging year for the energy industry, with the sector coming under significant political and regulatory scrutiny.
As set out on page 26 of our Annual Report, SSE has performed well against the range of measures, in the context of a testing climate.
At SSE we believe firmly that the purpose of our business is to work effectively for both our customers and investors, and the Committee seeks to implement policies that reward both effective customer service and financial performance.
Against this background, the performance outturns for Executive Director incentives were as follows: 90 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
- The out-turn under the Annual Incentive Members and meetings Plan AIP was determined against the new Independent non-Executive set of financial, strategic and personal targets Members Director Member since Attended scheduled set at the beginning of the year.
This resulted in an outcome of 64% of the maximum Richard Gillingwater Yes June 2007 4 4 opportunity: 25% of this award will be payable Committee Chairman in shares and deferred for a further three year Lady Rice Yes October 2003 2 2 period.
This year we have enhanced the level Lord Smith of Kelvin No March 2005 4 4 of disclosure of the performance targets which underpin AIP out-turns.
We have set out Katie Bickerstaffe Yes July 2011 4 4 details of SSEs performance against the range Jeremy Beeton Yes July 2014 1 2 of AIP measures and targets on page 101.
- For PSP awards granted in 2012, which were 1 Lady Rice retired from the Board on 17th July.
due to vest following the end of the 2014 15 2 Jeremy Beeton became a member of the Remuneration Committee on 17 July 2014.
Jeremy was unable to attend the Committee meeting in March due to a prior commitment which was approved by the Board.
financial year, measurement of performance over the three year period resulted in a payout of zero, reflecting that the targets were set in very different market conditions.
How Executive Directors incentives align to SSE strategy Changes to the operation of our Policy for 2015 16 Providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way Following a year of change in 2013 14, with the re-shaping of performance measures and Financial objectives Consistent strategy Long-term values implementation of new remuneration reporting Performance Share Plan regulations, 2014 15 has been a more business as usual year for the Committee.
TSR EPS During 2014 15, the Committee met four DPS times and, in addition to undertaking its usual Customer responsibilities, took the opportunity to review Annual Incentive Plan the remuneration framework against recent updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
PBT Following this review, we made the decision DPS to broaden the circumstances in which Cashflow malus could be applied in respect of unvested Teamwork Annual Incentive Plan AIP deferred shares Personal and Performance Share Plan PSP shares, and Customer to strengthen our ability to clawback any incentive plan payments which later transpire to have been inappropriate.
Further details are provided on page 104.
The Committee supports the strengthening of malus and clawback, as suggested by the Corporate Governance Code, In setting the salary levels for both Alistair change.
In this context, as well as overseeing as these provisions further align executives with Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander we the normal annual cycle items, in the summer the stewardship of SSE over the longer term.
considered their experience, performance and of 2015, Katie will oversee a review of SSEs the strength of their leadership in a challenging executive remuneration framework to ensure Finally, in order to ensure that the interests of environment.
The Committees assessment is its continued relevance and alignment with management and shareholders continue to be that they have both performed strongly during SSEs business plans.
strongly aligned, and to reflect market practice, the year, and have positioned the business well we increased shareholding requirements for for the year ahead.
Executive remuneration is a high profile issue, Executive Directors from 100% to 200% and we expect that to continue.
Next year benefited from open consultation and dialogue As I take up the post of SSE Chairman in July with our shareholders over the years, and will Salary review 2015, Katie Bickerstaffe, who has been a continue to engage with them to the extent that The Committee reviewed salary levels for member of the Remuneration Committee since any changes are proposed.
Executive Directors in accordance with July 2011, will become chair of the Committee.
SSEs approved remuneration policy, taking Katie has been a key member of the Committee Finally, as we have suggested in previous years into account a number of factors including and understands the approach and ethos that we would welcome any feedback or comments individual performance and market data.
The SSE has to executive remuneration.
Katies on this report and will continue to endeavour to two Executive Directors will receive a salary background, including a period as a Human report with transparency and clarity.
increase of 2.4% effective from 1 4 2015, Resources Executive, also brings an added which is in line with the average performanceexternal insight to the Committee.
based salary increases for the wider SSE Richard Gillingwater employee population.
The energy industry continues to be subject Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to an unprecedented period of scrutiny and 91
