GOVERNANCE Executive Chairmans governance letter Dear Shareholder, performance was separately led by the Senior Independent Director in conjunction Last year, in our first Annual Report, we took with the other Non-Executive Directors.
the opportunity to describe the governance challenges that the Company faced as a The principal conclusions were presented newly listed public limited company and and discussed at our meeting in November.
the steps we had taken to address these It was determined that the Companys Board including creating a new Board of Directors, was operating effectively in an open and establishing committees and implementing transparent manner, providing support and a robust system of controls since Admission.
The During 2015, we further developed these evaluation process did identify a small GARRY WATTS measures, at all levels, as we strongly believe number of areas for further review as follows: EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN that sound corporate governance standards to ensure appropriate resourcing, underpin sustainable growth and generates We recognise and support development and reporting of all risk shareholder value.
management activities: the principles of the UK I am very pleased to report that your the continued development of our Corporate Governance Code.
Board, with its diverse commercial skills Non-Executive Directors to cover both and experience, continues to develop good During 2015 we complied with their knowledge of the business and working relationships and Board synergies, exposure to senior management: and the relevant provisions of this which will aid our future stewardship of the Company and its overall governance.
the continued development of our code except in relation to succession planning to include a review I would especially like to draw shareholders director independence which is of the future skill sets and diversity needs attention to the following key governance of the Board.
described further in the report.
matters on which we have focused.
Progress against these areas will be reported MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL in our Annual Report 2016.
The Board will In June, our long-term major investor, Cinven again undertake an evaluation of its Funds, sold its 29.9% ordinary shareholding performance, and that of its committees, in the Company to Mediclinic International.
I would like to record my thanks to Cinven for the support it has given Spire Healthcare CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER and the wise counsel that both Dr Supraj In the last week, we have announced that Rajagopalan and Simon Rowlands have Rob Roger will step down as Chief Executive brought to Board discussions as Principal Officer and leave the Company on 30 June Shareholder Directors.
Supraj left the Board 2016, and that I will resume my previous role at this time but I was pleased that Simon as Executive Chairman.
I anticipate that my agreed to remain as a Non-Executive Director.
executive role will last for a period of up His knowledge of the Company and the wider to 12 months from Rob leaving and private medical care industry will continue succession planning to appoint a new Chief to be a valuable resource as we progress Executive Officer is well underway.
Finally, my Board colleagues and I look Following the acquisition of shares by forward to meeting as many shareholders Mediclinic International, we welcomed as possible at our annual general meeting its chief executive, Danie Meintjes, as a which will be held at 11.00am on Thursday,  Director to the 19 May 2016 at the offices of J. P. Morgan, Board in August.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the second half of 2015, the Board Garry Watts completed its first formal performance Executive Chairman evaluation.
The evaluation process was led 16 March 2016 by myself, with support from the Group Company Secretary, and consisted of a questionnaire that covered areas including strategy, Board and management succession, Board culture, balance and diversity, meetings and processes, investor relations, decision-making, risk management and Board committees.
The review of my own 62 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015
