Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 47 245 4699 100164 165176 Chairmans Introduction Good governance is crucial to ensuring we are well managed and can deliver our strategic priorities.
BILL SHANNON Non-executive Chairman As a Board, we are responsible for the stewardship of the business and are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance across the Group.
We believe good governance enhances business performance as well as our reputation within our marketplace and across relationships with our stakeholders.
In line with the development of our business, our governance framework is kept under close review in order to ensure that shareholders interests are safeguarded and to sustain the success of the Company over the longer term.
The composition of the Board is also refreshed and in the year John Salmon retired from the Board as Audit Committee The Board remains committed to: Chairman and Michael Dunn stepped down as Group Finance Driving the Groups long-term objectives.
Both have been ably replaced by Ian Bull and Rob Hudson respectively.
Oversight of operations to ensure competent and prudent management.
Our approach to governance is outlined in the following report, which describes how we integrate into our business the main Sound planning and internal control.
principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Developing leadership and succession plans.
The Codes principles on remuneration are addressed in Maintaining strong relationships with key stakeholders.
the Directors Remuneration Report which is set out on pages 70 to 93.
St. Modwens risk management and internal control framework together with details of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces are described on pages 36 Areas of focus for 2015 16: to 41.
This is the first year that the Company has been subject Competitive tender for the external auditor appointment.
to the 2014 Code and I am pleased to confirm that, throughout th Full review of remuneration policy for executive directors.
the financial year ended 30 November 2015, we complied in full with its provisions.
Monitoring of succession planning at Board and seniormanagement level.
I hope that you find the corporate governance section of this report informative and look forward to seeing you at our AGM in March.
Bill Shannon Chairman st 1 February 2016 Code principles how they are applied Leadership Remuneration Relations with Effectiveness Accountability Continued focus A strong, open and Close scrutiny of Prudent oversight shareholders on strategy and effective Board risks and controls of executive Open engagement its execution remuneration with shareholders Pages 52 to 54 Pages 55 and 56 Pages 36 to 41 Pages 70 to 93 Page 57
