GOVERNANCE | STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN How do we provide oversight?
Dear shareholder Board composition Focus for the 2016 financial year As discussed in this Annual Report, We welcomed two new directors to the We regularly review the Boards areas of Tate & Lyle has faced a number of challenges Board this year: Nick Hampton succeeded focus.
The key areas to which we will in our operations and our business Tim Lodge as Chief Financial Officer on continue to devote significant time at Board environment which have significantly 1September 2014 and Paul Forman joined and Committee level are as follows: impacted on our performance over the the Board as a non-executive director on Safety, including the ongoing course of the past year.
I am delighted that we implementation of initiatives to improve have been able to attract strong talent hazard identification and accident We have discussed our individual and to the Board.
prevention at all our sites collective learnings from this experience The implementation of the new planning and have implemented actions to address Robert Walker retired as a director on and forecasting system the issues that have arisen over the year.
31December 2014 having served on the The execution of action plans relating Board for nine years, latterly as Senior to the restructuring of our SPLENDA Board effectiveness review Independent Director and Chairman of the Sucralose business and the re-alignment Following on from the 2014 review which Remuneration Committee.
Liz Airey and of our Eaststarch European joint venture was facilitated by Schneider Ross, the Anne Minto respectively were appointed to The performance of the Speciality Food Board agreed that the 2015 review should succeed him in these roles.
I would like to Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients divisions be facilitated by our Senior Independent thank Tim and Robert for their commitment Communications with shareholders, Director, Liz Airey.
The review identified and hard work during their tenures with us.
employees, customers and other a number of improvements that could be stakeholders made to how we manage ourselves as a Tenure of non-executive directors Talent management, senior recruitment Board during times of turbulence in our 1.
0 to 3 years 3 and succession planning activities business environment and change within 2.
4 to 6 years 3 The Groups innovation pipeline.
Further details are 3. over 7 years 1 contained in the section on the Board I look forward to meeting shareholders 1 effectiveness review on page 49. at our forthcoming AGM.
3 Sir Peter Gershon Chairman 2 46 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
