68 GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FRANK MEYSMAN CHAIRMAN W e intend to achieve market best practice standards for compliance across all areas of our business.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 69 Dear Shareholder support the Company on its transformation journey, and help to handle and overcome any future challenges.
We held an internal Good corporate governance is crucial in creating a strong foundation review of our Boards performance this year and continue to keep from which our Company can operate and the following report sets thecomposition of the Board under close review.
out the key governance activities we have undertaken over the course of the last year.
We continue to adapt our internal governance policies and procedures to ensure that decision making best reflects the improvements in The Board oversaw the successful transition to our new Group our organisational structure and ways of working, as they evolve CEO Peter Fankhauser.
As we embark on the next stage of our and change through the execution of our strategy.
The Board fully transformation and strategy execution, it is essential that we have supports the New Operating Model being introduced by Peter and a Board equipped with the right motivation, skills and experience hisManagement Team.
Further details of these changes are provided to succeed and to ensure that the entire Group develops and on page 78. delivers together.
In recognition of our core value of keeping our customers at our heart We identified Peter during the succession planning process as an in everything we do, the Board undertook a number of activities extremely capable successor to Harriet Green and felt that Peters during the year to enhance their understanding of and exposure to proven track record in the Thomas Cook UK business, together with the customer experience.
The Board experienced various stages of his extensive knowledge and experience of the travel industry, made the customer journey and spent more time than in any previous year him the right choice to take the Company into the next stage of the getting to know our products and our people.
The increased responsibilities that Peter took on in positive feedback from my colleagues on the Board and also many his role as Group COO served to prepare him for a smooth transition of our people who contributed to the experience for us.
Given this into the role of Group CEO.
Peter is now leading the transformation success, we intend to hold similar activities over the course of the and execution of our strategy, which focuses on profitable growth, next year.
by providing our customers with a broad range of high-quality differentiated and flexible holiday experiences, backed up by worldI am pleased with the progress we have made in respect of class customer service.
Recognising that the hotel and flight is key to governance this year, but at the same time recognise that we cannot any holiday experience, we are putting our own portfolio of controlled be complacent.
I will continue to work with the Board and Group hotels and flights at the centre of our customer proposition, Company Secretary to ensure continuous improvements are made complemented by a broad range of products supplied by third-parties.
in this important area and a compliance culture is embedded across the Thomas Cook Group, reflecting the standard of behaviours and We recognise that succession planning is an ongoing process decision making expected of us.
We intend to achieve market best and therefore in July the Board oversaw a Group-wide talent and practice standards for compliance across all areas of our business succession review, covering the most critical 130 roles in the and to demonstrate this culture through the behaviours of each and Company.
The review identified both talented individuals to be every one of our employees.
developed and any gaps in our succession planning that need to be addressed, which will enable us to ensure the continuation of highcalibre senior management and Board for the Thomas Cook Group.
FRANK MEYSMAN CHAIRMAN This year has seen additional change at the Board level, as Carl Symon, our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, stepped 24 November 2015 down at the end of the year.
I am delighted that Dawn Airey has agreed to take on the position of Senior Independent Director and we have engaged an external search consultant to assist in recruiting a new Non-Executive Director.
I am confident that we have a strong and diverse Board in place with a good mixture of high-profile personalities, with the right motivation, experience and skills to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
