CHAIRMANS LETTER conditions to be measured at the normal vesting date and awards being pro-rated for length of service.
Full details of the payment DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, relating to Jean-Marc Huts cessation of employment are set As the new Compensation Committee Chair, I am pleased to out on page 78.
Graeme Pitkethlys remuneration for his role as present Unilevers 2015 Directors Remuneration Report.
I outline Executive Director with effect from the 2016 AGMs is structured below our performance and the decisions we have made on wholly in line with our Remuneration Policy and details are set remuneration, all of which have been made in the context of the out on page 69.
Committees long-held remuneration principles, as set out below.
REMUNERATION FOR 2016 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND REMUNERATION In accordance with our Remuneration Policy, the base salary OUTCOMES FOR 2015 of Executive Directors is reviewed every year.
The Committee undertook this review in November 2015.
Based on his firmly ANNUAL BONUS ANOTHER YEAR OF CONSISTENT established and sustained track record of good performance, the PERFORMANCE DELIVERY Committee believes further increases to the CEOs salary would Despite a continuing tougher external environment, 2015 saw a be justified.
However, it agreed to Paul Polmans request to not good delivery of our targets for financial performance, operational increase his base salary in light of his view that the CEO should be excellence and sustainable development.
Unilevers efforts to rewarded through performance-based pay rather than a salary deliver sharper category strategies, greater focus on the core and increase.
Annual bonus opportunity and GSIP and MCIP award the sustained investments we are making behind our innovations levels will remain unchanged.
The fees for the current Chairman have improved growth.
Despite the increasingly volatile and Non-Executive Directors will also be unchanged for 2016. environment, we achieved underlying sales growth of 4.1% with a step-up in volume growth and have continued to grow ahead of our STRATEGIC LINKAGE OF REWARD TO BUSINESS markets.
By challenging our costs and taking out any non-valuePERFORMANCE added activity that is not helping to build the business, we delivered In preparation for the 2016 annual bonus and long-term incentive core operating margin improvement of 0.3 percentage points.
plan awards, the Committee has undertaken a review of the In 2015 the Committee decided to focus on the importance of performance measures and targets that will determine vesting cash generation in view of lower global growth rates by replacing of these awards.
Unilevers success is driven by continued focus on underlying volume growth with growth in free cash flow FCF.
delivering consistent and competitive growth in a sustainable and For the purpose of the annual bonus calculations, we adjusted profitable manner.
Accordingly, underlying sales growth and core FCF delivery from 4.8 billion for one-offs to 4.3 billion up operating margin improvement are key measures in our annual 0.4 billion from last year.
On a formulaic basis the outcome of bonus plan and long-term executive incentive plans.
Cash flow Unilevers 2015 performance was 118% of target.
Adjusting for generation remains central to the success of the business quality of results and relative performance, the Committee agreed in terms of both returns to shareholders and investment for future an above-par 2015 annual bonus outcome of 110% of target.
growth and therefore remains a performance measure in both our The Committee believes this represents a fair assessment of annual bonus plan free cash flow and long-term incentive plans Unilevers overall performance over 2015.
Personal performance operating cash flow.
The Committee therefore concluded that the of the Executive Directors has been recognised by the Committee performance measures for our 2016 annual bonus plan and for the through the remuneration outcomes for 2015 with a bonus of 2016-2018 performance cycle of our long-term executive incentive 185% of salary 92% of maximum for the CEO, Paul Polman, and plans should remain unchanged.
For reasons of commercial a bonus of 110% of salary 73% of maximum for the former CFO, sensitivity the target ranges for our performance measures will be Jean-Marc Hut.
disclosed together with the outcomes of incentive plans at the end of the respective performance periods.
GLOBAL SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN GSIP AND MANAGEMENT CO-INVESTMENT PLAN MCIP REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE DELIVERY Having considered various alternatives, the Committee decided not Over the past three years, Unilever has delivered consistent to make material changes to Unilevers remuneration framework financial performance.
Underlying sales growth during this period or Remuneration Policy for 2016.
The current remuneration was 3.8% per annum and core operating margin improvement over framework has served Unilever well and this view is endorsed the period was an average of 0.37 percentage points per year, generally by the majority of our largest shareholders whom demonstrating managements drive for consistent top and bottom Michael Treschow and I met in September 2015.
Unilever also generated strong operating cash in advance of the renewal of Unilevers Remuneration Policy and the period, with cumulative operating cash flow of 16.6 billion.
the GSIP in 2017, we are continuing the process with a further full Total shareholder return TSR over this three-year period was review of our remuneration framework in 2016. below the performance of many of our peers and, as such, no part This will ensure that future remuneration arrangements are of the GSIP and MCIP awards related to TSR will vest.
On the basis fully aligned with our long-term strategy to deliver value to of this performance, the Committee determined that the GSIP and shareholders and that performance measures for incentive plans MCIP awards to the end of 2015 will vest at 98% of initial award are transparent and fully aligned with our business plans.
The levels ie 49% of maximum for GSIP and 65% of maximum for MCIP Committees views on this will be developed over the coming which is capped at 150% for the Executive Directors.
months and I look forward to consulting our shareholders and receiving feedback in shaping our proposals to extend, modify EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHANGES or replace our Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGMs.
Jean-Marc Hut stepped down from the role of CFO and Executive Director on 1 October 2015.
Graeme Pitkethly became CFO on that same date and he will be proposed for election to the Boards at the AGMs in April 2016.
In line with our shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy, Jean-Marc Hut was treated as a good Ann Fudge leaver for 2013-2015 GSIP and MCIP awards with performance Chair of the Compensation Committee Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 67
