CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE GOOD GOVERNANCE SITS AT THE HEART OF UNITE On behalf of the Board, Im pleased to present our Corporate Governance report.
The Groups continued strong performance in 2015 derives from the businesss continued focus on our three strategic objectives: our governance framework is aligned with these objectives.
During the year, conscious of the changes in the Corporate Governance Code regarding a robust assessment of principal risks and the viability statement, the Board conducted a detailed review of our risks and viability.
The way we did this and the output from that process is set out on pages 28 to 30.
Our governance framework is designed to ensure the Board provides appropriate oversight and challenge.
This is essential to ensure the business can continue its excellent momentum from recent years especially against the backdrop of a sector that has seen unprecedented levels of investor interest during 2015.
Healthy scrutiny and forward thinking vigilance is ever more important.
PHIL WHITE, CHAIRMAN HOW GOVERNANCE HAS SUPPORTED OUR STRATEGY DURING 2015 Strategic objective Boards governance role 2015 Board activity To become the Home for Success Board review of the ongoing implementation of the 40m Home for most trusted Governance of the implementation Success reinvestment programme visiting properties and hearing brand in the of Home for Success our core business directly from Universities as well as overseeing our customer satisfaction sector purpose, ensuring the substantial investment and University trust scores, which are at their highest ever levels see is translating into real and improved customer page 27 showing the investment is translating into tangible results.
experiences and stronger University Strategic review of the next phase of Home for Success to ensure the relationships.
Group can continue to deliver improved customer experience in an increasingly competitive marketplace.
Health & Safety Review of the H&S aspects of our Operations and Property business As we develop a stronger brand, the risk of a units, overseeing the safety of our customers and contractors, at every health & safety H&S miss damaging our Board meeting.
The Boards governance H&S Committee a subcommittee of the Board determines our H&S of the health & safety, wellbeing and security strategic priorities, scrutinizes our H&S performance and benchmarks of the 46,000 students who make Unite and ensures our policies and procedures are appropriately embedded Students their home is critical to the Groups and implemented, see pages 60 to 69. continued success and trusted reputation.
To operate the Board oversight of portfolio activity to enhance Board ensured delivery of the two 2015 developments Orchard Heights, highest quality both the quality and scale of our estate across Bristol and Angel Lane, London on time and to budget.
Board ongoing portfolio the UK in a disciplined way.
review and approval of future pipeline in line with targets for regional development Portsmouth, Aberdeen and Coventry on track for 2016 Development pipeline delivery and oversight of 2017 and 2018 deliveries, see page 40.
Board scrutiny of city and site selection for new developments against the backdrop Board review and approval relating to USAFs acquisition of the AUB of increasing competition for the best sites.
Governance of developments acquisitions Board review of the capital spent during 2015 on refurbishments and to ensure they run to budget and schedule, extensions to our existing properties.
Acquisitions and disposals Board oversight on acquisitions and disposals.
To maintain Group Board focus on a strong and flexible Board review and approval of the 115m before fees raised via the strongest capital structure, which can adapt to market a placing in April 2015 whilst USAF raised 306m.
capital conditions, as well as reducing and diversifying Ongoing Board review of our capital operating guidelines.
Continued structure the cost of funding.
focus on locking in debt at historically low rates for new debt facilities and forward starting interest swaps for future borrowings for secured development pipeline.
At the end of 2015: Loan to value fallen sharply 35% 2014: 43% : Average cost of debt fallen to 4.5% 2014: 4.7% 50 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information STRATEGY AND OVERSIGHT 2016 GOVERNANCE PRIORITIES The Boards meetings are split between strategy to consider the Continued focus on our three strategic objectives: Groups longer term strategy having regard to emerging risks or the review and approval of specific investments above certain To become the most trusted brand: roll out of our new thresholds and routine operational, property and financial operating platform, Prism, in April 2016.
Continued focus updates to provide context for the strategic discussions as well on overseeing the implementation of Home for Success and as governance oversight of in-year activity.
tangible and measureable improvements for our customers, as well as developing the next phase of Home for Success Meetings take place throughout the UK, often at Universities in order for the Board to meet Vice-Chancellors and learn about To operate the highest quality portfolio: overseeing delivery their experiences with Unite, their accommodation requirements of the development pipeline as new supply filters into the more generally and broader developments in the Higher development market from new investors in the sector Education sector.
our continued focus in towns and cities with the strongest growth prospects.
Continued governance of our portfolio The Board is able to oversee the setting and implementation of recycling having regard to the ongoing strength of the the Groups strategy due to its flat management structure: four investment market members of the Board are Executive Directors and are therefore actively involved in the day to day implementation of the To maintain the strongest capital structure: overseeing strategy.
This executive perspective is balanced by five Nona strong and flexible capital structure that will enable Executive Directors, including the Chairman, who bring depth us to adapt appropriately to market conditions as the and breadth of experience in senior management, Higher cycle evolves Education, finance, customer service and real estate.
GOVERNANCE AND OPEN CULTURE Following this review and having regard to the ever more The Board has ultimate responsibility to Unite Students demanding expectations of our customers and Universities shareholders for all the Groups activities and also a broader and our key strategic objective to become the most trusted responsibility, extending to environmental and social issues, brand in the sector, Patrick Dempsey was appointed as a Nonrecognising that the Group is home to over 46,000 students Executive Director to join the Board on 1 March 2016.
The Board during a crucial stage of their personal development and believes that Patrick Dempseys significant experience with Universities right across the UK.
To discharge this broader and knowledge of running and growing large service orientated responsibility effectively, the Group needs to operate in an brands will help strengthen the expertise of the Board.
open, harmonious and transparent manner.
One way in which UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE this is achieved is by ensuring open communication between During 2015, our governance framework was built on the UK the Board and senior leaders.
Corporate Governance Code the Code as revised in 2014.
Various members of the senior leadership team regularly The Code remained the minimum standard against which present to the Board.
During 2015, Unites Operations Director, we measured ourselves during 2015.
We complied with all Student Experience Director, Head of Digital, Area Managers, the provisions in the Code during 2015 and expect to be fully Development Director, Funds Director representing our various compliant during 2016.
Awards under the Performance Related co-investment vehicles, University Partnerships Director and Bonus and the LTIP are subject to malus and, from 2016, clawback Head of Legal & Company Secretary among others presented in accordance with the proposed new executive remuneration to the Board.
This direct access to management opens dialogue policy see page 76 in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC Further, with Board meetings located in cities across the UK, the and is available at www.
Board visits our new developments as well as existing properties, meeting with our operations teams and giving them a grounded PHIL WHITE insight into the implementation of our strategy.
Chairman of the Board 23 February 2016 APPOINTMENTS AND SUCCESSION During 2015, the Nomination Committee reviewed the composition of the Board to ensure it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge in order to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively, as well as reviewing succession planning and our senior leadership skills development.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51
