Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 103 Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman For determining bonus, the business performance for the year has been evaluated in terms of the metrics approved for the year 2014-15.
Following evaluation against the set metrics, the achievement of targets is 37.2% of the maximum, and subsequently a bonus of 55.8% of salary is proposed for the Executive Chairman and Vice Chairman.
MrTom Albaneses contract for the fiscal year 1April 2014 to 31 March 2015, entitled him to an incentive bonus up to a maximum of 50% of salary.
Considering his contributions and performance during the year, the Committee determined that he should receive a bonus payout of 37.20% of salary.
Under the remuneration policy, all the Executive Directors bonuses will be paid half in cash, with the balance in deferred shares.
Under the Companys legacy Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the final 2011 award lapsed in August 2014 as a result of the TSR performance condition not being met.
Remuneration for the year ending 31 March 2016 Recognising the challenging market context, the Remuneration Committee has determined that there should be no salary increases Dear Shareholder, for the Executive Directors for this year.
No changes will be made to On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors the fees of the Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The report sets out details of the Remuneration Policy, which received The Committee intends to make limited changes to the proposed shareholder approval in 2014 and is restated here for ease of implementation of the Remuneration Policy for this year.
Consistent reference, together with our Annual Report on Remuneration which with our policy, this means a bonus maximum of 150% of salary for details the remuneration paid to the Directors last year and the the Executive Directors, accompanied by a scorecard of targets intended application of the policy for the current financial year.
which will be linked to our financial, sustainability and strategic performance.
Role of the Remuneration Committee Following a full and detailed review of the Remuneration Policy The Executive Directors will receive Performance Share Plan awards during 2014, this was a quieter year for the Committee, in which valued at 150% of salary this year, with vesting based entirely on we focused on ensuring that the new Remuneration Policy was Vedantas Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative implemented diligently.
Particular matters which the Committee to a peer group of comparators.
We have made some changes to considered were as follows: the composition of the TSR comparators group to reflect those Introduction of the new PSP as set out in the policy last year: companies listed both in the UK and internationally, which are felt to Introduction of new share ownership guidelines of 200%: be of most relevance to Vedantas diversified structure, and the new group is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Introduction of the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, requiring the deferral of 50% of the annual bonus for Executive Directors, Conclusion and improvement to the structuring of the annual bonus plan Since we are not proposing any changes to our remuneration policy including revision of its performance metrics: this year, there will only be an advisory vote on the Annual Report on Introduction of withholding and recovery provisions claw-back Remuneration, which provides details of the remuneration earned in both the annual bonus and LTIP: by Directors in the past financial year as well as the way in which Freezing of salary for 2015 16: we propose to operate the policy in the coming year.
However, for clarity, we have reproduced the Remuneration Policy which was Introduction of a new subsidiary share plan for Vedanta Limited: and approved by shareholders in 2014.
Consultation relating to bonus metrics.
We hope that we will receive your support the policy for the Annual Report on Remuneration at the forthcoming AGM.
Performance and Reward in the year to 31 March 2015 Despite the challenging macroeconomic environment, the Groups Yours sincerely, performance on various financial and production parameters has been encouraging and noteworthy.
Vedantas performance during Euan Macdonald 2014 is largely impacted on account of headwinds faced due to Chairman, Remuneration Committee the significant fall in global commodity prices.
The fall in short to medium-term oil prices has impacted on our reported financial results in respect of carrying some goodwill value of certain oil and gas assets with impairment charges booked in the income statement as set out in the financial review.
We fully recognise the impact of the overall decline in market conditions has had on our shareholders.
We propose, for our Executive Directors, for 2015 no increase to their fixed compensation.
