Governance 69 Governance Structure The Board Responsible for Group strategy, risk management, succession and policy issues.
Sets the tone, values and culture for the Group.
Monitors the Groups progress against the targets set Chairman Chief Executive Provides leadership and guidance for Develops strategy for review and approval of the Board, promoting a high standard the Board.
Directs, monitors and maintains of corporate governance.
Sets the Board the operational performance of the Company.
Independent Responsible for the application of Group policies, on appointment, he is the link between the implementation of Group strategy and the Executive and Non-executive Directors resources for their delivery.
Accountable to the Board for Group performance Senior Independent Director Non-executive Directors Company Secretary Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, Exercise a strong, independent voice, challenging Advises the Chairman on governance, together an alternative contact for shareholders and an and supporting Executive Directors.
Scrutinise with updates on regulatory and compliance intermediary for other Non-executive Directors.
performance against objectives and monitor matters.
Supports the Board agenda with clear Leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman financial reporting.
Monitor and oversee risks information flow.
Acts as a link between the and recruitment process for his her replacement, and controls, determine Executive Director Board and its Committees and between Nonwhen required remuneration and manage Board succession executive Directors and senior management through their Committee responsibilities Board and Committee Attendance The attendance of Directors at the Board meetings and at meetings of the principal Committees of which they are members held during 2015 is shown in the table below.
The maximum number of meetings in the period during which the individual was a Board or Committee member is shown in brackets.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman John McDonough CBE 7 7 6 6 Executive Directors Franois Wanecq 7 7 Guy Young Appointed 1 November 2015 1 1 Chris OShea Resigned 17 September 2015 5 5 Non-executive Directors Nelda Connors 6 7 5 5 4 5 5 6 Christer Gardell 7 7 6 6 Hock Goh Appointed 2 April 2015 4 6 2 4 2 4 3 5 Jeff Hewitt Retired 14 May 2015 2 2 2 2 1 1 2 2 Jane Hinkley 7 7 5 5 5 5 6 6 Douglas Hurt Appointed 2 April 2015 6 6 4 4 4 4 5 5 Nelda Connors was absent from the Board and Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings held in December for personal reasons.
Hock Goh was absent from Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings held in October and December whilst recuperating from a surgery.
To the extent that Directors are unable to attend scheduled meetings, or additional meetings called on short notice, they receive the papers in advance and relay their comments to the Chairman for communication at the meeting.
The Chairman follows up after the meeting in relation to the decisions taken.
In 2015 for both absences of Hock Goh and of Nelda Connors, the Chairman pursued this process for feedback, conducting conversations on the Board topics, the outcome of discussions, and seeking feedback from each Director.
