Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Chairmans introduction How we work is as important as what we do Good corporate governance provides the foundation for long-term value creation and is therefore a core focus for your Board.
Your Board believes that diversity, in the Dear shareholder boardroom and throughout the executive, The Boards primary role is to exercise is a key component of business success.
objective and informed judgement I am pleased to report that with effect from in determining the strategy of the Group, the date of our annual general meeting this having the best team in place to execute year we will have achieved our aspiration that and closely monitor business performance women should hold 25% of Board roles.
and maintain a framework of prudent and effective controls to mitigate risk.
Two critical Vodafone has a rigorous approach to the factors determine the extent to which the assessment and management of risk which Board is equipped to fulfil those duties and is coupled with clear policies and standards obligations successfully: that define the actions and behaviours expected from everyone who works with us.
a a diverse and deep range of skills and A commitment to operating with integrity experiences around the boardroom is central to the Groups culture: an overview table which, taken together, are both of our Code of Conduct on page 92 provides complementary and highly relevant an insight into how that commitment in the context of Vodafones strategic is embedded within our  and challenges: and making processes.
a processes to ensure that all of the We will continue to develop the Directors Directors develop a good understanding understanding of market dynamics of the Groups operations and external in a complex and ever-changing sector.
environment and are therefore well-placed That intention is supported by the findings to take informed decisions.
of an internal evaluation during the year, set out on page 58.
In this years report and During the period under review, there were in light of the number of Board changes a number of changes to the Board.
In January outlined above, on page 59 we also provide 2015, we announced that our Group an overview of the approach taken to provide Technology Officer, Stephen Pusey, intended The committee reports, beginning with Directors with a comprehensive induction and to retire with effect from the annual general the Audit and Risk Committee report, training programme.
Stephen has played can be found on pages 63 to 71. a pivotal role in developing the networks and Vodafone is undergoing a significant strategic Further detailed information on how services that will drive Vodafones growth for transformation as the data revolution gathers the Group complied with the 2012 years to come and leaves with our thanks pace worldwide.
Your Board will continue UK Corporate Governance Code during the and best wishes.
Sir Crispin Davis joined the to ensure the Group has the leadership and year is set out on pages 72 and 73.
Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2014 insights necessary to achieve its ambitions.
followed by Dame Clara Furse in September.
We comply with the corporate governance In December, it was announced that Omid statement requirements pursuant to the Kordestani intended to stand down from the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules Board with effect from the end of 2014.
In April by virtue of the information included in this 2015, we welcomed Dr Mathias Dpfner to the Governance section of the Annual Report Gerard Kleisterlee Board.
We also announced the appointment Chairman together with information contained of Philip Yea as the Senior Independent in the Shareholder information section 19 May 2015 Director with effect from the date of the annual on pages 186 to 193. general meeting, replacing Luc Vandevelde who will stand down from the Board on that date.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Luc for his many years of service to Vodafone and also express our gratitude to Omid for his contribution.
