William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION 51 Governance A COMMITMENT TO GOOD GOVERNANCE Financial statements THIS REPORT EXPLAINS HOW THE BOARD OPERATES AND HOW GOOD GOVERNANCE CONTINUES  OVERSIGHT  BUSINESS.
Gareth Davis Chairman Effective strategic leadership from the We had prepared a comprehensive brief The Board has a total of eight directors, Board and its committees remains critical and prole for what is a very demanding two of whom are executive directors.
to promoting the long-term success role and gave a great deal of thought Diversity on the Board is still an important of William Hill.
I continue to be greatly and discussion on the CFO needed to way to help ensure the Boards reassured by the dedication of our Board, succeed Neil Cooper.
I would like to performance remains optimised and I their commitment to good governance express my thanks to Neil for his significant consider that we retain a wide skill set and by the way the Board has effectively contribution to the business.
In line with of experience and expertise to provide transitioned to working with a new Chief our philosophy, we looked at both internal effective leadership.
In respect of gender Executive officer CEO and a new Chief and external candidates for the role of CFO diversity, 25% of the Board are women, Financial officer CFO over the last and following an extensive search we were which is in line with the recommendations two years.
very pleased to announce in August 2015 of Lord Davies following his review into the appointment of Philip Bowcock as the women on boards.
Whilst the Board This report explains how the Board new CFO.
recognises the benets of greater diversity, operates and how good governance it is not supportive of the setting of quotas continues to contribute to strategic In addition to refreshing the composition and appointments will continue to be of the Board, it is also critical to maintain oversight and the effective running made on merit.
The Board has reviewed ofthe business.
the highest calibre of senior executives at the recent final report by Lord Davies the level which is immediately below the on gender diversity, which includes a Positioning the business Board.
I was pleased to welcome three recommendation as a next step for changes to the Executive Committee for the future increasing the voluntary target for womens team which will help to maintain a strong I am pleased to present the Boards 2015 representation on boards of FTSE 350 senior management bench strength for the annual report on corporate governance.
companies to a minimum of 33% over the business.
Elsewhere in the business, during The Board considered many important next five years.
We will be reviewing this in the year, members of the Board went to matters and decisions during 2015 and more detail in due course.
our businesses in the US and Australia and continued to devote much time to the met with many of our managers and other Recognising that there are always business.
This places the business in highly talented colleagues.
improvements that can be made, the good shape for 2016.
Ensuring the best Board benefited from an annual evaluation leadership for the business has been a key An effective Board with of its performance and I was encouraged theme in recent years.
James Henderson a strongcomposition by the actions taken to ensure that the was appointed CEO in 2014.
However, Board continues to work well.
I am pleased there were further changes in 2015 and The Board keeps its composition under with the progress made by the Board and the Board and in particular the Nomination regular review and recognises the the Statement on Corporate Governance Committee devoted a significant amount of importance of maintaining an effective explains further our evaluation process time in the search for a new CFO.
blend of skills, background and tenure and outcomes.
Three of the directors have served for two years or less on the Board and this helps to contribute fresh thinking to augment the substantial experience accumulated by the other members of the Board, each of whom has served at least four years.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION 52 Strategic oversight and An important part in the governance framework of a major business is the commitment to our stakeholders appointment of the external auditor to I was pleased with the significant time the the Company.
During the year, the Audit Board devoted to considering strategy & Risk Management Committee closely in the business.
In addition to regular monitored developing legislation which discussions at Board meetings, once again means that listed companies such as we held a very successful Board Strategy William Hill must consider changing their Conference during the year, which both external auditor at certain intervals and re-afrmed our strategic direction and that the external audit must also be put to provided solid actions to implement over a competitive tender at certain intervals.
the medium to longer term.
The Board also The Committee considered this matter had regular discussions during the year on very carefully and recommended to the the following as part of its ongoing review Board that now would not be the right of important business developments and time to seek a tender.
The Committee new opportunities across the Group: further recommended that the Company Project Trafalgar and other associated should rotate the external auditor by no later than the expiry of the five-year initiatives which support the strategic objective of increased differentiation term of the external audit partner i. e. by 2019.
The Board has endorsed these through technology: recommendations.
Further information is several developments in Online provided in the report from the Audit and products and services: Risk Management Committee.
Apart from the foregoing, I can report that William the operational and structural changes being progressed to support the Hill was in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 which delivery of Omni-channel via Retail and Online: was applicable for our 2015 financial year.
further opportunities for investing Annual General Meeting AGM and expanding internationally.
Following Board approval, the I would like to thank those shareholders Company was pleased to announce who voted or attended at the 2015 AGM.
in August 2015 that William Hill We received a very high level of support for had acquired a 29.4% interest in the resolutions, each of which was passed, NeoGames, whose primary focus is and I am grateful for the continuing support currently on the US: and from our shareholders.
in Australia, the expansion of digital The AGM remains an important opportunity for the Board to meet with services and increasing our digital capability.
The plan to migrate the shareholders, particularly those who do not normally have the opportunity to Australian brands to William Hill was also approved by the Board to ensure meet with the Board.
Our 2016 AGM is scheduled for 11.00 a. m. on 11 May 2016 that risks had been considered at Board-level and that there was a full at The Cavendish Conference Centre in London and we look forward to seeing strategic plan to maximise success.
shareholders who are able to attend.
The Board kept focus on the mutual benets of good communications with Gareth Davis our investors.
We maintained a Chairman comprehensive contact programme with analysts and institutional investors for which there were many meetings during the year.
Furthermore, the Board received regular feedback during the year on the views of some of our largest shareholders.
