Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Governance overview Dear Shareholder Wolseleys governance structure To reflect the importance to your Board of maintaining high Board and Committees of the Board standards of good governance, this year I have highlighted the main These take decisions of a strategic or substantive nature.
themes of our Governance section in my Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9: in particular the composition of your Board, Board the externally facilitated effectiveness review of your Board and its Committees, the way we approach governance, our priorities for 2015 16 and the review and proposed simplification of our executive remuneration structure.
To avoid duplication I will not repeat those Major Audit Remuneration Nominations comments in this letter.
This section of our report outlines how the Announcements Committee Committee Committee Committee Board ensures that high standards of corporate governance are For more details see For more details For more details For more details pages 66 to 70 seepage 93 seepage 71 maintained and provides the details behind the main themes which seepage 72 Ihave highlighted in my Chairmans statement, how we have applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and other important information on governance.
Other committees These implement strategic Your Board is committed to fostering an effective governance decisions and executive or administrative matters.
framework which underpins our ability to set the overall strategic direction of the Wolseley Group and supports the Companys Executive Treasury Disclosure core values.
The Companys core values and the Wolseley Group Committee Committee Committee policies and procedures ensure that all businesses are acting with For more details For more details For more details seepage 72 seepage 72 seepage 72 integrity, driving for results and improvement and valuing our people.
This approach promotes excellence in governance both in the boardroom and throughout the Group.
The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Geographic regions Group functions Exchange, and is therefore subject to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Although the Company being Jersey incorporated is not subject to the UK Companies Act, the Board retains its standards of governance and corporate responsibility as if it were USA UK subject to the Act.
It continues to provide shareholder safeguards which are similar to those that apply to a UK registered company IT Legal and complies with relevant institutional shareholder guidelines.
I hope you find our Governance report informative and I will be available at the 2015 AGM to respond to any questions shareholders may have on this report.
Nordic Canada HR Finance Gareth Davis Central Europe Chairman Compliance with the Code Following the publication of the new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2014, applicable to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014, as far as is practical the Board has taken the opportunity to implement certain changes earlier than required.
We confirm that, throughout the financial year, the Company applied all of the principles set out in sections A to E of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and has complied with the detailed Further information on the Groups core values and a copy of the Groups Code provisions set out therein.
The Companys auditors,  LLP, are required to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the 10 provisions of the of Conduct are available on the Wolseley plc website www.
Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
A copy of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website www.
Code principles how they are applied Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Relations with Continued close A strong, open and Close scrutiny of risks Prudent oversight shareholders focus on strategy and effective Board.
of executive Open engagement its execution.
See page 63 and Principal risks and their management on See pages 57 to 60 See pages 61 to 63 See pages 77 to 102 See pages 64 and 65 pages 44 to 51 Wolseley plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
