77 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Chairmans governance letter Governance Risk management and corporate culture Your Board, under my Chairmanship, has Our risk culture is centred on risk awareness, made a firm commitment to apply the openness, continuous improvement and highest standards of governance across encouraging the right behaviour to ensure the Group.
The appropriate governance an appropriate outcome for both the practices in place prior to the IPO in Company and its customers.
Our colleagues October 2015 have been strengthened are required to consider risk in their decision with the structures and processes making and take personal accountability for required of a publicly listed company and the risks they take.
The distillation of a set of these will be enhanced during the course everyday working principles and behaviours of 2016.
Our first governance report into the Worldpay Way sets the tone from explains our current arrangements and the top, which together with comprehensive Your Board has made a firm areas for further development in 2016. development opportunities to drive our capabilities and specific training commitment to apply the The Board programmes to reinforce our legal and The appointment of Deanna Oppenheimer regulatory compliance, supports a positive highest standards of on 1 January 2016 further strengthens our corporate culture.
She is a leading figure in international finance and, with her unusual Participation in these training combination of banking, retail, innovation, programmes and the output from our brand and communication skills, will be annual colleague survey is regularly invaluable to Worldpay.
Her appointment reviewed by the Executive Committee and Sir Michael Rake brings the number of Independent the Board to ensure we maintain a positive Chairman Non-Executive Directors to three.
We culture across the organisation.
recognise that the ratio of Independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board falls Engagement with our shareholders short of UK corporate governance and We place great importance on active shareholder expectations and we will engagement with our shareholders and continue to build our new Board in 2016.
In have put in place a programme of meetings furtherance of this objective, we will have to discuss our strategy and performance.
In regard to our Board Appointments Policy, addition, we have also engaged with our which provides for diversity across a range major shareholders and a number of of measures, including skills, experience, governance organisations in respect of our knowledge and gender in order to meet performance measures and targets for our the needs of our business.
bonus and long-term incentive arrangements, which are fully aligned with With new Independent Directors joining our targets and key performance indicators the Board, we will provide thorough for the delivery of our strategy.
induction and on-going education programmes in the form of a series of We look forward to engaging with you in development and strategy support 2016 and beyond and look forward to your presentations for the entire Board at the support at our first annual general end of each of its meetings.
This series, meeting on 10 May 2016. together with our normal on-going business reviews, will ensure that the Further details of our governance and Non-Executive Directors build sufficient remuneration arrangements are detailed knowledge to be able to contribute fully on pages 82 to 112. to the Boards review and development of strategy.
We recognise the benefit of a thorough Board effectiveness review and believe the time to do this will be around the Sir Michael Rake anniversary of our IPO, towards the end Chairman of 2016.
