Corporate governance Chairmans introduction to governance Mike Evans, Non-Executive Chairman We have made significant progress inall aspects especially with the appointment of a further Independent Non-Executive Director, Vin Murria Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Companys Corporate governance report for the year.
The Board has been fully committed to maintaining the highest standards Therefore, I will be suggesting an equivalent review to be externally of corporate governance and to setting and following a rigorous structure facilitated either next year, or in the financial year after that.
for the supervision and management of the Group.
In this report we provide details of that structure and framework, and how they have changed Board composition from last year.
The Board is currently comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman and nine other Directors, of whom four are considered to be wholly independent.
I wrote in last years Annual Report that it had not been practicable to fully comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code The Governance Code recommends that at least half the board of directors Governance Code since the Company had listed only recently: of a UK-listed company, excluding the chairman, should comprise however, we would endeavour to progress towards full compliance non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent in inareasonable period of time.
We have made significant progress in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances allaspects especially with the appointment of a further Independent which may affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
Non-Executive Director, Vin Murria, with effect from 1 July 2015, after Assuch, the Company does not currently fully comply with the requirements acareful and rigorous search.
of the Governance Code due to its listing only taking place in the second half of the previous financial year.
We have made progress in this regard Following Vins appointment, our Board is closer to becoming compliant with the appointment of Vin Murria and it remains the Companys intention with the requirements of the Governance Code.
With this addition, the Board to move towards compliance with this requirement within a reasonable now comprises 10 Directors, two of whom are female, with a good diverse period of time.
balance of backgrounds, skills and experience to meet the challenges ofour year ahead, whilst implementing and driving the Groups strategic Board Committees direction and ensuring that the Group operates within the principles of In accordance with the Governance Code, the Company has established good corporate governance.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
All Committees are compliant in respect of the composition requirements of the Governance Board review Code.
Vin Murria became a member of the Audit Committee and the During this past year, we carried out our first internal review of the Remuneration Committee upon the commencement of her appointment effectiveness of the Board and its various Committees.
This review, which and Robin Klein stepped down as a member of the Remuneration covered the period from the IPO to the end of the current financial year, Committee as of 24 September 2015. was facilitated by me and involved individual discussions with each of the Directors and the Company Secretary.
I was pleased with the outcome based upon the interaction and feedback received from the Board and believe the Board is operating effectively.
Mike Evans The Governance Code provides that evaluation of the Board of FTSE 350 Non-Executive Chairman companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
32 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Governance framework The Board The Board comprises 10 Directors.
We have two Executive Directors, a Non-Executive Chairman, four Independent Non-Executive Directors and three further Non-Executive Directors.
Board Committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee The Audit Committees role is to assist the The Nomination Committee assists the The Remuneration Committee Board with the discharge of its responsibilities Boardin reviewing thestructure, size and recommends the Groups policy on in relation to financialreporting.
executive remuneration and determines the levels of remuneration for Executive Directors, the Chairman andManagement.
Senior Leadership Team Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 33
