"Corporate governance overview In this section Board composition 54 Innovation committee 68 Board evaluation 55 Nominations committee 69 Board of directors 56 Risk committee 70 Group Management Board ""GMB"" 60 Remuneration report 72 Corporate governance report 62 Directors report 89 Audit committee 65 Directors responsibilities 91 UK Corporate Governance Code The FRC published a new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2014 that applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014 ""the Code""."
The Group has complied throughout the year with the Code except where noted in the report below.
This report describes Aberdeens corporate governance arrangements, explaining how the Group has applied the principles of the Code.
Corporate governance framework and responsibilities Board of directors Group management board Set the Groups strategy, goals and objectives.
Review Group and divisional strategy plans and budgets.
Set, with advice from the risk committee, the Groups risk Review and consider risks within the Group.
appetite, ensuring consistency with the Groups strategy.
Take decisions on the day to day management of the Group Approve budgets and business plan.
except where matters are reserved for decision by the Board.
See biographies on pages 56 to 59.
See biographies on pages 60 to 61.
Board composition The Board currently comprises of the Chairman, seven nonWe did not comply during the year, nor do we currently comply executive directors and six executive directors.
Val Rahmani was with the code requirements on the number of independent appointed to the Board on 3 February 2015 and there were no directors.
Whilst not complying, we believe we meet the other changes to the Board during the year.
underlying principle of having a Board that is well balanced between executive and independent non-executive directors.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, clearly We do not believe it would be beneficial to increase the size of defined and have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman, the Board further, as the number of executive directors adds value.
Roger Cornick, is responsible for the leadership of the Board Further, we have one non-executive director appointed by a long and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
All directors are subject to annual election The Chief Executive, Martin Gilbert, is responsible for the day to by shareholders.
day management of the Group.
Simon Troughton continues in his role as the Senior Independent Director providing a sounding Split of Directors board for the Chairman and serving as an intermediary for the other directors, where necessary.
Further information regarding the experience of the Board is given in their biographies on pages 56 to 59.
Non-executive Chairman Independence Executive directors In considering director independence, the Board has taken Non-executive directors into consideration the guidance provided by the Code.
Of the independent non-executive directors, Akira Suzuki has been appointed by a significant shareholder, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, and he is therefore not considered to be independent.
The Board, having given thorough consideration to the matter, considers the other six non-executive directors to be independent.
54 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Board evaluation A formal process has been established, led by the Chairman, The non-executive directors also met without the Chairman for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its present to discuss the evaluation of his performance, having appointed committees and each director, to ensure that they taken into consideration the views of the executive directors.
continue to act effectively and efficiently and to fulfil their The results of this meeting were subsequently discussed respective duties, and to identify any training requirements.
between the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman.
Additionally, the Chairman and the non-executive directors held The Board undertook an external performance evaluation in 2014. a meeting without the executive directors present at which the This year, the performance evaluation of the board, its committees executive directors performance was discussed.
and its individual directors has been conducted internally, with the Chairman meeting each director individually in order to discuss personal performance, training and development needs and to facilitate discussion on the wider performance of the board and its committees.
The results were discussed by the Board and the committees.
The exercise also focused on the external review undertaken in 2014 and has noted the importance of ensuring that Board and committee reporting remained relevant and complete, being mindful of the continuing growth in the Group and its activities.
Committees The Board has set up five committees, to assist in the oversight and control of the Group and its activities.
Audit committee Innovation committee Nominations committee Monitor the integrity of annual, interim Encourage staff to share their ideas of Regularly review the structure, size and and preliminary financial statements of where the Group can grow and composition required of the Board the Group.
provide input to the existing compared to its current position and in corporate culture.
Review and assess the annual internal audit plan and internal audit Agree what aspects of innovation are Consider appropriate succession function, and monitor managements important at Aberdeen.
planning for directors and other responsiveness to the findings senior executives.
Encourage staff to offer their blue and recommendations of the sky thinking.
Keep under review the executive and internal auditor.
non-executive leadership needs of Focus on exploring and prioritising Assess annually the independence and the organisation.
objectivity of the external auditor and See page 69 for the nominations oversee quality of audit work.
See page 68 for the innovation committee report.
See pages 65 to 67 for the audit committee report.
Risk committee Remuneration committee Support the Board in its consideration of the business Determine the remuneration strategy for the Group to activities that expose the business to current and future ensure staff retention and incentivisation, to meet with material risks.
current best practice and to align the interests of all stakeholders, in particular shareholders and employees.
Advise the Board on setting risk appetite.
Determine the remuneration packages for the Chairman, Ensure that senior management has in place procedures and all executive directors and the senior employees.
mechanisms to identify and control all fundamental operational, financial, reputational, and regulatory risks.
Review any performance-related pay schemes and all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders.
See pages 72 to 88 for the remuneration committee report.
See pages 70 to 71 for the risk committee report.
