Chairmans introduction The Board is committed to maintaining the  Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
The focus of the We believe that having Board continues to be on maintaining high standards of corporate governance asound corporate governance which it achieves by ensuring the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups management and control framework.
This Report sets out the Admiral framework enables effective framework of governance and the approach the Board has taken during 2015 to promote the standards of good corporate governance that are rightly andefficient decision making.
We believe that having a sound corporate governance framework enables effective and efficient decision making and promotes the right balance of skills and experience to assess and manage the risks in the markets in which the Group operates.
As you will have seen from my Chairmans letter earlier in this report, succession planning has been a key area of focus for the Board in 2015.
With Roger Abravanel and Manfred Aldag stepping down from the Board in April and August 2015 respectively, and with Lucy Kellaway and Margaret Johnson each having served nine years on the Board during the year and, therefore, stepping down at the 2016 AGM, the balance and composition of the Boardwas reviewed to ensure that the right mix of skills, experience and background was reflected in the membership of the Board.
We were, therefore, pleased to welcome Penny James, Manning Rountree, and Owen Clarke who joined the Board respectively at the beginning of the year, in June, and in August.
Penny comes with considerable insurance experience and risk management skills, whilst Manning brings a deep knowledge of the US insurance market, and Owen great commercial experience and a strong understanding of Admiral, its culture and business model, having previously served as a Director from 1999 until we floated in 2004.
As the next external Board evaluation facilitated by an independent external consultant will not take place until later this year, the process of evaluating the Boards performance this year consisted of each Board member completing a questionnaire detailing specific areas of focus for the Board including the composition of the Board, the performance of the Company in capturing strategic opportunities and the top priorities for improving the Boards performance over the coming year.
The results of the evaluation and areas for development were discussed by the Board at the meeting in December 2015 and are set out in more detail on pages 45 and 46 of this report.
We confirm the Groups compliance, with the principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which was revised by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 and is applicable to the year under review.
This Corporate Governance Report is structured in order to demonstrate to shareholders that the Board has complied during 2015 in all respects with each section of the Code Leadership: Effectiveness: Accountability: and Relations with Shareholders.
Remuneration is dealt with in the separate Remuneration Report.
Alastair Lyons Chairman 2 March 2016 Alastair Lyons, CBE ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 40 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
