Chairmans governance letter Dear Shareholder Board changes and succession I am pleased to present this years directors planning and corporate governance report, which is There were several changes to the composition of the Board in 2015 which my first as Chairman are detailed in the directors and corporate governance report in this report.
During the year, the Nomination Committee discussed matters relating to Board composition, succession and talent planning at executive level and this is an area that will continue to be part of its agenda during 2016.
In addition to those changes made in 2015, on 8 February 2016 we were pleased to announce the appointment of Claudia Arney to the Board as an Independent NonExecutive Director.
Our Board and executive team have a wide and diverse range of skills as indicated in the charts opposite.
Gender diversity is considered as one aspect of those discussions: we have made progress towards achieving our target of 25% female representation on the Board, and we remain committed to improving this position further when the appropriate opportunity arises.
The Nomination Committee report contains further information on our approach.
As Chairman and as a Board, we take our principles also articulate our governance Effectiveness and evaluation governance responsibilities extremely expectations at every level in our corporate As Chairman it is my role to provide seriously: we take pride not only in what we structure.
leadership to ensure that it is possible to do but also in the way that we conduct our In other areas of the business, we have make high-quality decisions and ensure the business and deliver our strategy.
Our announced our desire operation of an effective governance structure is key to this: good to maximise our Board.
I am supported governance helps to deliver value for competitive advantage by all the directors but customers and shareholders and to manage as a composite insurer particularly by Sir Good governance the inherent risks of the business prudently.
and asset manager by Malcolm Williamson, helps to deliver value launching UK Digital, a the Senior Independent Governance in 2015 new business structure for customers and Director, who meets During the year, we have sought to ensure to develop our digital independently with the shareholders and to that our governance structures at Board, service and capability.
other directors and with manage the inherent committee and subsidiary company levels UK Digital has required the Companys major continue to be appropriate for the businesses an evolution in our shareholders when risks of the business and the markets in which we operate governance processes.
This report prudently around the world, while supporting our An example of how our contains an interview overall strategy and culture.
It is important governance structure with Sir Malcolm who that our approach to governance matches has adapted over the Sir Adrian Montague reflects on his Chairman our values: Care More: Kill Complexity: Never year to support our impressions of Aviva Rest: and Create Legacy.
work on UK Digital is since joining the Board In 2015, we have strengthened contained within this report.
Other areas of in April 2015. governance within the Group by codifying business focus which have featured on our During 2015, the Board and each the principles for subsidiary governance and governance agenda have included Solvency II committee conducted its annual issuing specific guidance for individual legal readiness, IT infrastructure, conduct risk and evaluation of its own performance.
This has supported effective the integration of Friends Life.
was externally facilitated and the findings decision-making by providing clarity on the provided a clear agenda for us to continue relationship between Aviva plc, as ultimate to improve as a Board, including the shareholder and subsidiary boards.
These opportunity to focus on succession 68 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Board and Group Executive Diversity At Aviva we believe that diverse leadership in terms of experience, skills, tenure and gender is important.
The charts below illustrate our diversity at both Board and senior management level.
Figures are correct as of 9 March 2016 planning and on the quantity and quality 9 10 of information being presented to the Board of Directors Group Executive Board.
Further detail on the results of the Gender Board evaluation can be found in this Male 77% Male 69% report.
Female 23% Female 31% Governance framework 3 4 This year the Board and each of its committees have applied the revised UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, to the Group for the 2015 financial year.
Experience & skills % Whilst many of the recommendations were adopted in our 2014 annual report, 77 Insurance 92 one new element for 2015 is that the 8 IT Digital 15 Board is required to make a statement of 23 Operations 31 Avivas longer-term viability.
The Board has 23 Accountancy 15 decided to present a viability statement 15 Retail 8 that will cover the three year period to 54 Banking 38 2018 and the assessment of the Groups Transformation 31 46 prospects are underpinned by Government managements 2016-2018 business plan.
38 Actuarial The longer-term viability statement can be 15 31 found in Other Statutory Information later Law 15 15 in this report.
Note: percentages are shown as a proportion ofthe Board Group Executive and do not equal 100%.
The directors and corporate governance report and the directors remuneration report have been prepared International experience % in order to provide shareholders with a comprehensive understanding of how the 46 69 Europe Board and its committees operate within 23 Asia 38 Avivas governance framework.
The 31 31 America reports demonstrate how we meet the 8 23 Australia requirements of the Code and other 15 Middle 15 guidance and how we structure ourselves East & Africa to meet the changing regulatory Note: percentages are shown as a proportion ofthe Board Group Executive and do not equal 100%.
environment and deliver value for customers and shareholders.
Communication with shareholders is Tenure extremely important to the Board and I very much look forward to discussing the 10 yrs 4 Groups progress with you at our 2 510 yrs 1 forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
