com Annual report 2015 83 Letter from the chairman of our remuneration committee Dear shareholder In the following pages we set out the directors remuneration report for 2015.
The importance of talent at Beazley Talent management remains one of the cornerstones of Beazleys business success, as we seek to recruit and retain people who rank among the best insurance professionals in the world.
The main focus of our retention strategy is through our culture and shared values.
Ensuring Beazley has a competitive remuneration mix that rewards sustainable performance remains important to our future success.
Remuneration policy and link to strategy Our executive remuneration policy is governed by two guiding principles alignment to shareholders interests and performance of the group.
The following are some of the key features of our policy and the way that it is aligned to our strategy: NAVps growth growth in NAVps is a key performance indicator for Beazley, and is the measure used for our LTIP.
The framework is simple and aligned to shareholders interests.
For maximum awards to vest NAVps growth of 15% above the risk-free return must be sustained for five years: Five year performance for a number of years now we have operated an LTIP where performance is measured over five years as well as three years.
This longer term performance period means that out-turns are aligned with the long term performance of the business: and Risk our remuneration structure incorporates a number of features which are aligned with risk.
These include longer time horizons, deferral of bonus into shares and shareholding requirements.
The committee receives an annual report from the chief risk officer on remuneration policy to ensure it is consistent with and promotes effective risk management.
The committee considers the overall package to be appropriate, responsible and balanced.
DRR reporting and operation of our policy In the interests of succinct reporting we have not reproduced the full policy report.
The approved policy table is included at the end of this report for ease of reference.
The full policy report can be found on our website.
There are no significant changes to the operation of our policy this year.
Culturally, one of Beazleys strengths is teamwork at every level.
Our approach to the annual bonus reflects this culture through the operation of our bonus pool.
The pool is based on profit before tax and ROE out-turns and is strongly aligned to outcomes for shareholders.
A broad senior management team, beyond executive directors, is then made awards from the pool.
This reinforces the collegiate culture at Beazley.
As demonstrated by historic bonus payments, our bonuses are strongly aligned with ROE performance.
Individual allocations for the senior team are based upon their contribution and performance during the course of the year, not through any pre-determined formula.
Last year we significantly increased the disclosure of our annual bonus performance framework and targets.
We provide full details of the ROE targets underpinning our bonus approach along with the guideline levels which are used by the committee in their determination for each executive director.
We hope that shareholders continue to find this helpful in demonstrating the link between pay and performance.
com 84 Letter from the Chairman of our remuneration committee continued Letter from the chairman of our remuneration committee Salary increases The average salary increase for 2016 for executive directors was 1%, which was below the average increase throughout the organisation.
Performance out-turns Beazley sustained strong performance in 2015 with a pre-tax profit of $284m and ROE of 19%.
The remuneration out-turns, as reported in the single total figure of remuneration, reflect that performance.
Bonus out-turns were comparable to last year reflecting the sustained performance year on year.
This is in line with our bonus framework.
In terms of LTIP out-turns, the second tranche of our five year LTIP is due to vest during 2016, reflecting an excellent sustained NAVps outcome for shareholders of 16.80% p. a.
Shareholders Each year the committee pays careful attention to shareholders views, not only in terms of developing best practice, but also by considering the views and voting of our shareholders on director remuneration at Beazley.
We continue to welcome our shareholders views on our remuneration policies and practices.
Padraic OConnor Remuneration committee chairman
