com Annual report 2015 69 Letter from our chairman The company continues to be committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and the groups robust system of governance has been designed to establish, implement and maintain effective controls, internal reporting and communication of information across all levels within the group.
We believe these to be fundamental to the long term success of the company.
The boards role is to set the companys strategic aim, scrutinise managements performance and ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives.
The board met regularly through the year, set direction and risk appetite and provided oversight and control of management in the day-to-day running of the business.
As chairman, I seek to ensure open and collective discussion and debate of significant issues is achieved, that appropriate decisions are then reached, and that we empower management to then execute those decisions, with our on-going oversight and support.
In May, we held a board strategy day and reviewed the current and expected business conditions against our strategic objectives and long term plan.
The board and its committees met regularly during the year with near 100% attendance from all members.
We promote a culture of openness and debate at each meeting and seek to receive constructive challenge from the non-executive directors to help develop proposals on strategy and other matters.
Each of the strategic initiatives has been assigned a non-executive sponsor.
During 2015, we welcomed Sir Andrew Likierman to the board and appointed Catherine Woods to the board with effect from 1 January 2016.
Details of the search process are set out in the nomination committee report.
Ken Sroka left the board in December, and we would like to thank him for his valuable contribution during his time on the board.
The group recognises the value from regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the board.
We commissioned an external review of the effectiveness of the board and its committees in 2015.
Deloitte LLP conducted the review which included interviews and observation of board and committee meetings.
Whilst there are no matters of significance to report, we have developed some actions to support continuous improvement in our governance processes.
Details of Deloitte LLPs other connections with the company is explained in the directors remuneration report on page 99.
We ensure directors continually update their skills through individual development plans and board training.
Talent development and succession planning are critical components of sustainable success and this starts at the very top, in the boardroom.
It is vital that we have on the board the right balance and diversity of expertise, skills, experience and perspectives, in addition to independence of thought and action.
The group believes in the importance of diversity for board and group effectiveness and has developed a diversity strategy to support our commitment to being an equal opportunities employer.
During 2015, we set gender diversity goals for the group and board.
Of the last three appointments to the plc board, two were made to female non-executive directors.
We are committed to ensuring appointments are made on merit against selection criteria.
Further details of our policy and goals are set out in the nomination committee report.
The provision of timely, accurate and appropriate information to the board and committees is key to good governance.
We regularly review the board information to ensure it is in a form, and of a quality to enable the board to discharge its duties.
I am pleased to confirm the company has complied with the principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 and explained the independence of Rolf Tolle on page 73.
The appointment of George Blunden and Vincent Sheridan for terms of longer than six years is explained on page 73.
Details of the activities of the board and its committee also are set out on pages 70 to 71.
