Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE A company which is able to deliver value to customers is underpinned by high governance standards set by the Board and implemented across theorganisation.
Simon Miller Chairman 44 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Dear Shareholder, Diversity Good corporate governance is critical to the delivery of value to In last years Annual Report, the Board indicated that it wished the Groups stakeholders and this section of the report describes to achieve the recommended diversity target of at least 25% how the Group is governed and managed.
It also explains female Directors on the Board by September 2015.
This was how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code achieved with the appointment of Kath Cates in December the Code have been applied throughout the year.
She became Chairman of the Board Risk Committee on is responsible to shareholders for the overall management 1 September 2015 as part of the planned changes to refresh and oversight of the Group and for its long-term success.
In particular, the Board is responsible for agreeing strategy, monitoring financial performance, setting and monitoring risk Annual General Meeting appetite and maintaining an effective system of internal controls.
I would like to encourage our shareholders to attend our AnnualGeneral Meeting which will be held at 11.30 am on Following the 2014 Board evaluation, some changes have been implemented to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
5February 2016, at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
Agendas have been restructured to ensure that more time is devoted to strategy and other forward looking issues.
There have been further improvements to the flow of management information which is critical in enabling good Board debate and challenge of management.
The Board evaluation process Simon Miller was conducted internally this year and the open feedback from Chairman all Directors has been valuable in clarifying what is working well and what would benefit from change.
The main issues 1 December 2015 raised included the growth of the business in the context of the Groups strategic objectives, the scope of internal audit and the connection between the Groups Board Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Actions to improve the Boards effectiveness in these areas are being developed.
Succession Since I became Chairman in 2013, four new Non-Executive Directors have been appointed, bringing new skills and experience to the Board.
Angela Knight will reach the ninth anniversary of her appointment in July 2016.
The Board believes that it is in shareholders best interests for her to remain on the Board so that we can benefit from her extensive knowledge and experience of both the Group and the wealth management industry.
The Board believes that she continues to make a valuable contribution, both as a Non-Executive Director and as the Senior Independent Director and remains independent in every respect.
45 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
