Chairmans introduction Following Glyn Jones resignation after the 2015 AGM, we Final dividend 2014 Our values changed the Committees membership.
Clare Thompson became As explained in last years Annual Report & Accounts, due to the Corporate the Chair of the Investment Committee and Priscilla Vacassin uncertainty around the timing of the completion of the sale of the was appointed a member of the Nomination Committee.
International division, the Board decided to pay an additional Do the right thing interim dividend for 2014 on 17 April 2015 in place of a final I am pleased to report that Dr Richard Ward was appointed For our people, our customers, our shareholders and our wider governance dividend.
We will ask shareholders to approve a final dividend a Non-Executive Director NED and the Senior Independent stakeholders: make decisions based on what is right, not what is for 2015 at the Annual General Meeting in May 2016.
He brings a deep easy: demonstrate personal and professional integrity: do whats knowledge of the insurance industry to the Group.
I would also Share consolidation right for the long-term sustainability of our business.
like to thank Andrew Palmer for agreeing to act as SID while The Board proposed a share consolidation based on a we were in the process of completing Richards appointment.
consolidation ratio of 11 new shares for 12 existing shares Aim higher due to the size of the special dividend relating to the sale As we announced on 16 February, Priscilla Vacassin has of the International division, and to maintain comparability Strive to be the best in every area of the business: be ambitious, decided to step down from the Board with effect from 1 March of share price and earnings per share before and after courageous and innovative: relentlessly challenge and improve: 2016.
Clare Thompson has agreed to act as interim Chair payment of the special dividend.
Shareholders approved seek and embrace change: learn from our mistakes: persevere, of the Remuneration Committee from 1 March.
At the same this on 29 June 2015. always deliver our promises and dont settle for second best.
time she will step down as Chair and member of the CSR Committee and the Investment Committee and as a member of Vesting of LTIPs the Board Risk Committee.
Andrew Palmer will be appointed The Remuneration Committee considered and approved the Work together as Chair of the Investment Committee and Sebastian James as first vesting of the Direct Line Group LTIP on 9 November Collaborate across all levels and across all functions: leverage Chair of the CSR Committee with effect from the same date.
2015, at 89.2% of the potential maximum award, which the skills, knowledge and experience, irrespective of hierarchy, reflected good progress against the objectives set at the time to deliver the best possible results: develop relationships based Key matters of the IPO.
upon trusting each other, partnerships and win-wins: recognise I highlight the following key governance and shareholder and celebrate success.
UK Corporate Governance Code matters from the Corporate Governance report, which the Board considered during the year.
We, the Board of Direct Line Group, are committed to the principles of the UK Governance Code issued by the Financial Take ownership Change and IT migration Mike Biggs Reporting Council.
I am pleased to report that we have Treat it like its OUR business: take the initiative, if you can The Board oversaw the Groups major change programmes Chairman complied with substantially all of the provisions of the UK see a better way, go and make a difference: take decisions, and associated risks and challenges relating to the migration Corporate Governance Code September 2014.
You can be accountable for your actions in whatever role you carry of IT infrastructure from RBS Group and development of the Dear shareholders and other find further details in the Corporate Governance report.
out: take responsibility for your own personal development next generation of customer systems, including focusing on risks stakeholders and performance.
relating to IT systems stability, cyber security and the internal The way we do business Our commitment to good corporate governance control environment.
The way we do business and our underlying values are central Say it like it is An important part of the Boards role and mine as Chairman is to the Groups success.
Our Code of Business Conduct Solvency II to oversee the good governance of the Group.
It is now more Be real, authentic and true to self: have adult to adult governs the way we treat our stakeholders, and our values Preparation for the transition to the Solvency II regulatory than three years since the Group was floated through an IPO.
conversations with all audiences: listen, seek to understand determine our behaviours.
Both determine how we do business regime was a priority for the Board, the Board Risk Committee In that time, we have continued developing and refining our and respect diversity of views: be open, call out issues we throughout the Group and define our corporate identity.
They and the Audit Committee during the year.
Additionally, the governance processes and procedures so that they remain fit see: share information and keep things as simple as possible.
also influence our business relationships and reputation, which Remuneration Committee considered how Solvency II might for a FTSE 100 company.
are key to our long-term success.
Bring all of yourself to work Board and Committee structure and membership Yours sincerely Sale of the International division The Board has established Committees to focus on specific Be the best you can be, the real and whole you: celebrate our The sale of the International division completed at the end governance areas and to help it to meet its obligations and diversity of skills, experiences and personalities: be a role model of May.
The Board resolved to return substantially all of discharge its duties.
The following Committees have been to others, demonstrate can do spirit, have fun and make this the net proceeds to shareholders through a special dividend, established with effect from the IPO: Audit, Board Risk, a great place to be: be excited about our Company and our which was paid on 24 July 2015.
Remuneration, CSR, Nomination and Investment.
You can find future: believe in yourself, feel confident and empowered.
a report from each Committee in the Governance section of Succession planning this Annual Report & Accounts.
Other than the CSR Committee, Michael N Biggs The Nomination Committee focused on succession planning all Committees only have Non-Executive Directors as members.
Chairman for the Board and Executives, and on recruiting Richard Ward as the SID.
Our Code of Business Conduct Business practices Dealing with customers Dealing with shareholders Dealing with employees Dealing with suppliers of Dealing with communities Dealing with competitors Dealing with regulators We shall engage in honest, We shall treat customers and other stakeholders We shall maintain a working goods and services and and the environment We shall compete with We shall maintain a professional and ethical fairly, openly and honestly, We shall seek to maximise environment that attracts, business partnerships We shall contribute to the competitors honestly and constructive and open conduct and maintain effective and operate an effective shareholder value over time, motivates and retains We shall maintain the social and economic wellin accordance with the relationship with our regulators procedures to prevent complaints process to address recognising that wealth employees, and shall be highest possible standards being of those communities relevant competition law.
to foster mutual trust, respect confidential information any perceived departure generated also benefits intolerant of any type of of integrity in business where we are an employer, and understanding, and will being misused.
customers, employees and discrimination, harassment relationships with suppliers and encourage employees not offer anything to officials in the communities where or victimisation.
and partners by treating them to participate in projects return for favourable treatment.
honestly and with respect, and initiatives to strengthen and avoiding compromising those communities.
offers of gifts and hospitality.
46 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 www.
com 47 46 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Final dividend 2014 Our values As explained in last years Annual Report & Accounts, due to the uncertainty around the timing of the completion of the sale of the International division, the Board decided to pay an additional Do the right thing interim dividend for 2014 on 17 April 2015 in place of a final For our people, our customers, our shareholders and our wider dividend.
We will ask shareholders to approve a final dividend stakeholders: make decisions based on what is right, not what is for 2015 at the Annual General Meeting in May 2016. easy: demonstrate personal and professional integrity: do whats Share consolidation right for the long-term sustainability of our business.
The Board proposed a share consolidation based on a consolidation ratio of 11 new shares for 12 existing shares Aim higher due to the size of the special dividend relating to the sale of the International division, and to maintain comparability Strive to be the best in every area of the business: be ambitious, of share price and earnings per share before and after courageous and innovative: relentlessly challenge and improve: payment of the special dividend.
Shareholders approved seek and embrace change: learn from our mistakes: persevere, this on 29 June 2015. always deliver our promises and dont settle for second best.
Vesting of LTIPs The Remuneration Committee considered and approved the Work together first vesting of the Direct Line Group LTIP on 9 November Collaborate across all levels and across all functions: leverage 2015, at 89.2% of the potential maximum award, which the skills, knowledge and experience, irrespective of hierarchy, reflected good progress against the objectives set at the time to deliver the best possible results: develop relationships based of the IPO.
upon trusting each other, partnerships and win-wins: recognise and celebrate success.
UK Corporate Governance Code We, the Board of Direct Line Group, are committed to the principles of the UK Governance Code issued by the Financial Take ownership Reporting Council.
I am pleased to report that we have Treat it like its OUR business: take the initiative, if you can complied with substantially all of the provisions of the UK see a better way, go and make a difference: take decisions, Corporate Governance Code September 2014.
You can be accountable for your actions in whatever role you carry find further details in the Corporate Governance report.
out: take responsibility for your own personal development and performance.
The way we do business The way we do business and our underlying values are central Say it like it is to the Groups success.
Our Code of Business Conduct Be real, authentic and true to self: have adult to adult governs the way we treat our stakeholders, and our values conversations with all audiences: listen, seek to understand determine our behaviours.
Both determine how we do business and respect diversity of views: be open, call out issues we throughout the Group and define our corporate identity.
They see: share information and keep things as simple as possible.
also influence our business relationships and reputation, which are key to our long-term success.
Bring all of yourself to work Yours sincerely Be the best you can be, the real and whole you: celebrate our diversity of skills, experiences and personalities: be a role model to others, demonstrate can do spirit, have fun and make this a great place to be: be excited about our Company and our future: believe in yourself, feel confident and empowered.
Michael N Biggs Chairman Dealing with suppliers of Dealing with communities Dealing with competitors Dealing with regulators goods and services and and the environment We shall compete with We shall maintain a business partnerships We shall contribute to the competitors honestly and constructive and open We shall maintain the social and economic wellin accordance with the relationship with our regulators highest possible standards being of those communities relevant competition law.
to foster mutual trust, respect of integrity in business where we are an employer, and understanding, and will relationships with suppliers and encourage employees not offer anything to officials in and partners by treating them to participate in projects return for favourable treatment.
