28 Corporate Governance Chairmans letter Peter Wood Chairman Dear Shareholder Other Committee appointments through the year were Shirley Garrood and Peter Ward appointed as members I am pleased to present the esure Groups Corporate of the Nomination Committee and Maria Dolores Dancausa Governance Report for the year ending 31 December 2015. appointed as a member of the Investment Committee.
The Boards role is to provide leadership to the Group to assist For the previous two years, the evaluation of the performance us in achieving its strategic aims, and to promote the long-term of the Board, the Board Committees and the Directors was success of the Group.
We keep our corporate governance undertaken internally by myself and the Company Secretary.
framework under continual review and our Board Committees This year, the Board has engaged the services of an external play a vital role in ensuring its effectiveness.
Each Committee facilitator to conduct the review.
You can find details of the Chairman has provided a report on the Committees role and Board effectiveness review on page 35. these can be found on pages 36 to 41.
I, together with the Nomination Committee, continue to There have been a number of changes to the Board.
keep the membership of our Board under review, ensuring Following her appointment as CEO of M&G Investments, we have the right mix of skills, experience and background.
Anne Richards stepped down as a Non-Executive Director Currently, 37.5% of our Board members are women.
As previously announced, Dame Helen We remain committed to diversity and equality within Alexander and Tony Hobson stepped down as Non-Executive our organisation, whilst continuing to make appointments Directors in May 2015.
Due to a potential conflict of interest based on objective criteria.
following Zooplas acquisition of uSwitch, Mike Evans decided I believe this report demonstrates how, through their to step down as a Non-Executive Director in August 2015. actions, the Board and its Committees continue to fulfil I would like to take this opportunity to thank Anne, Dame their governance responsibilities and how the Board works Helen, Tony and Mike for their support over the years: they proactively to embed good governance practices across have been exceptionally valuable members of the Board.
the Group on an ongoing basis.
As a result of Dame Helens retirement, Shirley Garrood was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in May 2015 and Deputy Chairman in June 2015.
I am delighted to welcome Martin Pike and Angela SeymourJackson, who joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors in August and October 2015 respectively.
Martin was appointed Peter Wood Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and as a member Chairman of the Risk Committee and Angela was appointed as a member of the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 29 Our governance structure in 2015 The Board Audit Nomination Investment Risk Remuneration Chief Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Officer Read the Read the Read the Read the Read the Read the Report Report Report Report Report Report on page 36 on page 39 on page 40 on page 40 on page 41 on page 6 Group Executive Committee The UK Corporate Governance Code The Group also complies fully with the corporate We are firmly committed to high standards of corporate governance requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and governance and maintaining a sound framework for the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and regulations control and management of the business.
Throughout made thereunder applicable to it as a result of its insurance the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, and insurance mediation businesses.
the Group has been in compliance with the principles Further information on the UK Corporate Governance and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
uk As a major UK general insurer, the Group has, since 2000, been regulated, most recently by the FCA and the PRA.
We are, therefore, familiar and comfortable with the corporate governance practices and principles expected of a listed company as many have been long established in the business.
Governance contents Leadership 32 Effectiveness 34 Accountability 36 Directors Remuneration Report 42 esure Group Annual Report 2015
