GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW FROM THE CHAIRMAN Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance, as befits a FTSE 100 company entrusted with looking after the investments of its valued clients.
This section of the Report and Financial Statements provides an insight into the governance of the Company.
The Group complies with the UK Corporate Michael Evans Governance Code the Code.
The Chairman statement of compliance can be found on page 36.
Key areas of note are the disclosures surrounding the support that the Audit Committee has provided to the Board STRATEGY thought and action.
All Board appointments in making the statement that the Report are made on merit, while at the same time considering the diversity required for an and Financial Statements when taken as a As a Board, we set strategic direction, define effective Board, including diversity of skills, whole are fair, balanced and understandable, risk appetite and provide oversight of the experience, background and gender.
Details and the further disclosures on the Audit day-to-day running of the business.
As of our diversity policy can be found on page Committees role in the appointment and Chairman, I seek to ensure that adequate 31, and a copy of our full statement on Board interaction with the external auditor.
time is set aside at Board meetings for the Diversity can be found on www.
discussion and debate of proposed strategic initiatives and direction.
Once a decision is BOARD reached, management are responsible for WORKING EFFECTIVELY executing that decision with the Boards We are in the process of strengthening our ongoing oversight and support.
As Chairman my prime responsibility is Board following the resignations during to ensure that the Board is operating the year of Peter Hargreaves and effectively and focusing its time, attention Tracey Taylor, and of Dharmash Mistry PEOPLE and efforts on the right matters.
Each year subsequent to the year end.
We have the Board undertakes a formal evaluation appointed a new Chief Financial Officer, Within the Group we want to ensure that we of its own effectiveness, and this year the Chris Hill, and a new non-executive director, have the right talent, and the right balance Board Effectiveness Review was externally both subject to Regulatory Approval: details and diversity of expertise, skills, background, facilitated.
More details can be found on of the process involved can be found on gender and perspectives.
We set out on page page 38. page 37.
31 improvements we have made through the introduction of our Career Development Michael Evans During the year, we strengthened our Path and our Learning Management System.
Chairman governance framework with the creation of a It is also vital that we have on the Board 16 September 2015 Board level Risk Committee.
sufficient diversity, and also independence of Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 33
