Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 53 letter from the chairman Dear shareholder We are committed to conducting business responsibly and to achieving a high standard of corporate governance.
This is essential to our reputation and to the continuing support of our shareholders, clients, colleagues and other stakeholders.
The Company is subject to the provisions and principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code and the Board believes that the Company has complied with the principles and spirit of the Code during the year.
However, as a newly listed entity, the Board recognises that there are some principles with which the Company has yet to Mike Fairey Chairman fully comply.
In my Chairmans statement I noted that the composition of the Board is not fully compliant with Code requirements for at least half of the Directors excluding the Chairman to be independent of the Group.
The Board is also conscious that it is not representative in terms of gender diversity.
The Board will continue to seek appropriate, well qualified candidates irrespective of race, gender, disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation or age.
The Board intends to become fully compliant during the next financial year.
Prior to the Companys Admission to the London Stock Exchange in October 2015, entrepreneurial leadership for the Hastings Group was provided by the Board and Committees of Hastings Insurance Group Investment plc.
As a private Group, the Board and its Committees at that time applied the requirements of the Code as appropriate and adhered to best practice corporate governance where possible.
Since the IPO, the Company has established successor Committees with Terms of Reference in line with the Code.
These Committees will continue to provide robust challenge and oversight on matters within their remit, continuing work to date.
It is noted that some of these successor Committees did not meet during the financial year ended 31 December 2015: however, meetings were convened early in 2016.
This Corporate Governance Statement and the Committee reports on pages 58 to 64 explain how the Board and its Committees operate and how the Company has complied with the Code during the year ended 31 December 2015.
