CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE The Board of Directors is responsible for the governance of the GOVERNANCE Company.
We are committed to maintaining the highest standards in the way the Company is directed, governed and managed.
We believe that good quality governance underpins IGs ability to This is my first report to you on deliver sustainable future growth and long-term value creation.
I was After a long and extremely successful career at IG, as both CFO elected Chairman of the Board of and CEO, Tim Howkins has informed the Board of his intention IG in October 2014, succeeding to retire.
He will step down from the Board as a director and CEO at the AGM in October.
We have commenced a search and Jonathan Davie, who retired at selection process for his successor.
Peter Hetherington, currently the AGM, having served ten years Chief Operating Officer and an IG Board member since 2002, will assume the position of Interim CEO at the end of the AGM.
In 2014 we announced that, after nine years of service, RogerYates will stand down from the Board as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
We have begun a search for his successor to enable a smooth handover ahead of his departure at the AGM in October this year.
More information is set out in my Nomination Committee report that can be found on pages 66 to 67.
I would like to thank Roger, on behalf of the Board and the whole of IG, for his commitment and exceptional contribution and wish him well for the future.
To ensure that the Board has the appropriate balance of relevant experience, knowledge and skills to discharge its responsibilities, we review its membership on a regular basis.
Our latest review identified the need for greater digital experience and so we have begun a search for a Non-Executive Director with these skills.
Last year, we strengthened our governance framework by creating a Board Risk Committee to provide more focus on risk and risk management issues.
There is continuous interaction between the Audit and Board Risk Committees.
Stephen Hill and Jim Newman report on the activities of the Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee respectively later in this report.
At the 2014 AGM, our shareholders approved our Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration Committee has operated in accordance with the policy and its report can be found on pages 68 to 93.
As Chairman, my primary role is to provide leadership for the Board and to ensure we have an effective and well-functioning Board.
Each year, a formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees is conducted.
This year, we undertook a questionnaire-based independent external evaluation of the Board and its committees.
Next year, we will conduct externally facilitated face-to-face interviews.
The results were reviewed by the Board along with the actions from the 2014 internal review.
In summary, the review concluded that the Board and its committees continue to operate effectively.
More information on the evaluation process and its findings can be found on pages 63 to 64.
The Corporate Governance Report that follows details the Groups governance framework and its management practices and, together with the Directors remuneration report, addresses how the Company has applied the principles of the Code for the year ended 31 May 2015.
