CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Increasing focus on risk management DEAR SHAREHOLDER THIS YEARS GOVERNANCE Controls in this area are regularly reviewed Your Board is committed to maintaining REPORT IS DIFFERENT and, where necessary, enhanced.
high standards in the area of corporate The Group has formed an Operational Risk We have engaged with shareholders governance.
This has been an important area Group ORG, which meets monthly and throughout the year better to understand of focus for the Board during the year, as we is comprised of the heads of the Groups their requirements and have enhanced continue to be mindful of our duty to manage the report to reflect this.
The ORGs remit is to the Company for the long term benefit of identify and monitor potential operational On pages 52 to 53, we explain how ICG our Shareholders.
risks and recommend solutions or is governed, what the Board has been up To fulfil this duty, the Board provides improvements to processes and controls: to during the year, how our Directors are leadership of the Group within a framework it will be chaired by the Groups Chief trained and introduced to the business, of controls which enable risk to be assessed Risk Officer, a new appointment, and the results of the Board evaluation and and managed, and which ensure that the reports its findings to the Risk Committee.
how we engage with our stakeholders.
necessary financial and human resources In addition, the Group has established The Committee Reports, beginning with are in place for the Company to meet its an Internal Audit function to review the the Audit Committee Report, can be objectives and increase shareholder value.
functionality and effectiveness of our risk found on pages 59 to 97.
In fulfilling these roles we aim to exercise management process.
Please see page 67 robust supervision while fostering a Further, detailed information on how the for more details.
corporate culture that permits growth and Group complied with the UK Corporate The appointment of a new Non Executive empowers the entrepreneurial spirit of Governance Code during the year is set Director the appointment of Kathryn our employees.
Purves as a Non Executive Director in Some of our key priorities in this area during October 2014 is detailed in the report the last financial year were: of the Nominations Committee on page 73.
Kathryns executive experience and Receiving detailed reports on business background in risk management provides units the Board is keen to ensure support and insight to our increasing risk that areas of significant expansion are management focus.
monitored and has received detailed presentations from a number of business unit heads about their products, markets and operations.
Holding a Board strategy session separate from the normal cycle of Board meetings, a detailed strategy session was held in March 2015 at which Executive Directors presented a strategic update for review and discussion by the Board as a whole.
As a result of the session, an update to the five year business plan is being prepared for Board sign off.
Please see page 54 for more details.
JUSTIN DOWLEY CHAIRMAN STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS Conducting a Board evaluation this I find each of my fellow Directors to BOARD OF DIRECTORS process, led by me as Chairman in May be a valuable contributor at Board and 2014, generated 360 degree feedback for Committee meetings, and Board discussions As at 31 March 2015 and at the each Director and highlighted areas for remain robust and detailed.
Our strong date of publication, the Board the Board to focus on in future to ensure governance framework will remain integral comprised a Non Executive Chairman, proper oversight of the Group.
This was to our business model during the coming four independent Non Executive supplemented by a further evaluation financial year as we seek to grow our assets Directors and three Executive in May 2015.
Please see page 57 for under management and deliver growth for Directors.
Having duly considered more details our shareholders without compromising our their independence in accordance risk management and internal controls.
with the Code, the Board considers Increasing the level of shareholder each of its Non Executive Directors meetings members of the Board have If any shareholder has questions on the work to be independent in character and met with a greater number of shareholders of the Board, I am very happy to respond judgement.
They each provide effective to deliver updates on the performance to these, at the Companys Annual General challenge both at and outside of and strategy of the Groups business and Meeting or at any other time.
The Non Executive to allow shareholders to air any concerns.
Directors are considered to be of the We have made a number of changes to our appropriate calibre and experience to approach as a result of the input received Justin Dowley bring significant influence to bear on the from shareholders, including disclosing Chairman Boards decision making process.
Executive Directors KPIs and introducing 21 May 2015 Malus and Clawback provisions in During the financial year, Kathryn Executive Directors remuneration.
Purves replaced Lindsey McMurray as Please see page 77 for more details of our a Non Executive Director.
Please see the interactions with stakeholders.
report of the Nominations Committee on page 73 for further details of I can confirm that throughout the year to this change.
31 March 2015, the Group was in compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate The Chairman has acted as a Governance Code the Code issued by Non Executive Director of Melrose the Financial Reporting Council.
A copy Industries PLC and the National Crime of the Code is publicly available on the Agency during the year.
We do not Financial Reporting Councils website consider these appointments to have www.
any adverse impact on his ability to perform his role effectively as Chairman of the Board.
