52 GOVERNANCE Letter from the Chairman As Chairman, it is my role to ensure that we adhere to the highest standards of governance and that these standards cascade through the group.
As we have seen over recent years, governance best practice continues to evolve with the publication of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2014 and the recent publication of the Financial Reporting Councils consultation on further changes to the Code.
Keeping abreast of governance developments is of upmost importance as we continue to strive to remain at the forefront of best practice whilst recognising that we will almost always nd some room for improvement.
Our approach to governance As a Board, we aspire to the highest standards of corporate governance which for us means how we conduct ourselves every day, our culture, behaviour and how we do business.
Governance is not something that we consider once per year, it is a framework that we use to support the Board in ensuring that it is led in the right direction as we develop and pursue our future strategy.
We have a Corporate Governance Committee which meets regularly to consider matters relating to governance on behalf of the Board.
The role of the Board is to lead the company and to oversee the governance of the group.
The Board plays a key role in ensuring that the tone for the groups culture and values is set from the top.
Management, on the other hand, is responsible for delivering the strategy within the | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 53 GOVERNANCE LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN framework set by the Board and ensuring that the standards set by the Board are maintained.
At the heart of good governance is our culture and doing business according to our guiding principle, Every Day Matters.
Good governance is key to the Governance is an important aspect of our Board ensuring the Board performs environment and our governance helps us test whether we are making decisions in the right way, with the right effectively and our strong considerations underpinning each of our decisions.
governance ethos and framework Our delegated authority framework ensures that our decisions are taken by the right people and at the right contribute to both the growth level and means that we have a robust decision making and success of our business.
process and a clear framework within which decisions can be taken.
John Stewart, Our shareholders also play an important role in supporting Chairman the company and the investor community continues to be an inuential force in shaping corporate governance.
There are a number of areas that shareholders are more interested in than ever and Boards will continue to face investor scrutiny on their activities.
Shareholders provide meaningful contribution to promote effective governance through open and constructive two-way dialogue with boards.
We place great value on the engagement we have with our shareholders and believe that open communication provides our investors with the opportunity to discuss particular areas of interest or concern as they arise.
As our business continues to evolve, both with the development of the groups strategy and as we respond to an ever changing regulatory environment, it is important for us to ensure that our governance framework evolves with us.
With the shift in regulatory focus in relation to governance towards culture and individual accountability, our framework needs to support us at not only a group level but also at a subsidiary level.
As a Board we need to ensure that this framework meets the needs of the whole business and supports the delivery of our strategy.
John Stewart Chairman | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
