B1 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dear Shareholder As I noted earlier, governance is central to the operations and structure of the Paragon Group and corporate governance is an essential part of the ethos of the Board.
During the year ended 30 September 2015 we have built on and embedded the revised governance framework introduced from May 2014.
The Risk and Compliance Committee has now completed its first full year of operation, together with its sub-committee the Operational Risk and Compliance Committee, and June 2015 saw the appointment of the Groups first Chief Risk Officer who will lead a newly established and reinforced Risk and Compliance team.
In July 2015 Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed as Senior Independent Director.
Fiona holds this position in another organisation and this experience, together with her knowledge of the Group and the Board means that she brings significant expertise to this important role.
I would like to express my thanks and those of the Group as a whole to Ted Tilly who has been a director since 2008 and helped steer the Group through both the financial crisis and its developments over recent years.
We wish him well in his retirement.
In November 2014 we welcomed Hugo Tudor to the Board and he has proved a strong and positive fit, bringing an investor perspective to the Boards discussions.
A tailored induction was provided for Hugo and this is reported on further in section B3 below.
The major activities of the Board during the year, in addition to its regular business, were: Reviewing and ultimately approving the potential acquisition of Five Arrows Leasing Group Considering, in conjunction with the Risk and Compliance Committee, the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and, in addition, reviewing that of Paragon Bank PLC.
These represented the first ICAAPs undertaken across the Group since the Bank became fully operational Approving the Audit Committees recommendation for the appointment of KPMG LLP KPMG as external auditors to the Company and the Group, in succession to Deloitte LLP Deloitte Updating its Conflicts of Interest policy to ensure that it reflects current best practice and the current operations of the Group In the financial year ending 30 September 2016 a main area of focus for the Board will be on ensuring that the incorporation of Five Arrows Leasing Group into Paragon Bank maintains the high level of governance that the Board expects.
In addition the ongoing regulatory developments in certain areas of the business will be reviewed and considered by the Board from an independently objective standpoint.
The Board will also be undertaking its triennial externally facilitated board evaluation during the coming year and the results of this exercise will be reported on in the next annual report and accounts.
In addition the Board will review guidance arising from the FRCs recently published discussion paper on UK board succession planning against its current practices.
I have had the pleasure of engaging with various shareholders and other stakeholders during the year and I look forward to continuing to reflect on their views and challenges as part of the Boards ongoing commitment to corporate governance, as both the Groups operations and the corporate governance environment develop in the future.
Robert G Dench Chairman 24 November 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
