Chairmans introduction Strong, effective and transparent governance To achieve all these aims means that Dear Shareholder managing the development of the Board is As Chairman of the Board, vital, and as Chairman that duty falls to me.
I am pleased to report on our I have sought to cast the Board so that its governance and stewardship composition and balance best supports the throughout the year.
business in delivering sustainable long-term value.
This means ensuring that Succession was understandably a key we have the right skill sets and experience, focus in 2015, but there were many other and ensuring that succession planning is areas that commanded attention.
supported by a strong bench with a depth Alongside the ongoing items of strategy of talent.
and business performance, the Board and its committees also spent time on We adhere to the relevant principles and Solvency II and preparations for the codes and also work to remain abreast of G-SII regime.
trends and developments in corporate governance.
This is an ever-evolving field, Good corporate governance makes an which rightly attracts close scrutiny.
indispensable contribution to the growth I have an ongoing programme of and long-term success of any business.
engagement with our major investors Providing appropriate support, focused and meet retail shareholders at the oversight and constructive challenge are Annual General Meeting.
I have been critical elements of a well-functioning pleased with the feedback we have board.
This means ensuring that our own received on our progress.
processes, mechanisms and structures are best matched to the business and Our stakeholders not only expect its strategy.
high-quality governance, they also expect to be able to see that it is being delivered.
Alongside this, there is also the important As such, we remain committed to clarity role of the Board in establishing and and transparency in our reporting.
promoting the culture and values of the Company.
Prudential has a proud heritage which shapes how we conduct our business.
Our role as custodians of that legacy is one that we take seriously.
Paul Manduca Chairman 70 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
