40 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Chairmans governance letter RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans governance letter on merit.
These new appointments are part of our Board succession planning and address a need identified by the Board in its 2014 evaluation, and subsequent discussions, to add directors whose skills complement and strengthen the Board.
There have also been some changes to the Executive Committee during the year with the promotion of Ralph Daals as Group Chief Auditor, following Caroline Ramsays retirement and the departure of Vanessa Evans, the Group Human Resources Director.
Paul Whittaker, Group Chief Operating Officer, has taken on responsibility for HR, given his previous experience in this role.
Derek Walsh, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary is due to leave the Group on 29 February 2016 after five and a half years, and will Martin Scicluna Leadership Chairman be succeeded by Charlotte Heiss who We are pleased to welcome Scott Egan currently heads the Group Legal Team.
who joined the Board as an Executive The Board was pleased to be able Director and Group Chief Financial to appoint internal candidates to Officer on 1 October 2015, replacing these roles, in line with internal Richard Houghton.
Scott has substantial succession plans.
experience in senior finance roles and at Board level in a number of companies in Effectiveness the insurance industry and is a welcome The Board has monitored progress addition to the Board.
with the actions it agreed from the Whilst this means that we currently only 2014 self evaluation and is satisfied have 22% female representation on the with the progress made.
The Board Board, we are actively recruiting two and Committees effectiveness was additional Non-Executive Directors, evaluated internally again this year, at least one of whom we would prefer with the results discussed by the to be female.
We remain committed to Group Nomination and Governance achieving Lord Davies recommendation Committee in late 2015.
Key areas of on female Board representation, focus identified for 2016 include the although all appointments are made recruitment of two additional NonThe Groups systems of internal control have been strengthened during the year which, together with the remediation of the Group being almost complete, will allow the Board to focus on long-term strategy during 2016.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Chairmans governance letter RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Executive Directors: spending greater The Zurich approach was naturally an The Group Remuneration Committee time engaging with the business: unsettling time for employees, and the agreed a remuneration package re-focusing on the Groups long-term Board and executive management for Scott, in line with our current strategy to drive the business forward: showed strong leadership during this remuneration policy, tested performance and to increase focus on our customers, time.
The efforts made by all employees conditions on outstanding awards people, brand and culture.
Further to ensure continuity of service for our under executive share schemes, and information on the evaluation can customers during this period is greatly reviewed incentive principles for 2016. be found on pages 51 to 52. appreciated.
Conclusion The Board has had an extremely busy The Board visited the Groups office in The Groups systems of internal control year with seven additional meetings in Copenhagen in October where we held have been strengthened during the year response to the unsolicited approach a Board meeting and met with the which, together with the remediation of from Zurich Insurance Group Ltd Danish regulator and local employees the Group being almost complete, will Zurich.
All directors made themselves to deepen our understanding of our allow the Board to focus on long-term available at short notice and robust Scandinavian businesses.
I would like to discussions were held with good Non-Executive Directors also attended thank the Board and our employees interaction between the Board, local board and committee meetings for their contribution and commitment management and advisers to ensure or made site visits across the Group.
throughout 2015 and to date in 2016 the Board made the best decisions for the progress achieved.
possible for the benefit of shareholders, Board Committees customers and employees.
The Board cannot cover all areas in detail and focuses on strategy, Accountability performance and approval of material The Board Risk Committee and Group transactions.
It therefore delegates Audit Committee have monitored authority and oversight to its Martin A. Scicluna managements implementation of Committees in certain areas.
During Chairman the global programme to enhance the the year, a key focus for the Board 24 February 2016 effectiveness of the Groups internal Risk Committee has been the control systems to ensure that this implementation of Solvency II and has been embedded, that the intended the submission of the Groups internal improvements have been achieved model for calculating our capital and that the ongoing changes are requirements under Solvency II to sustainable.
The Board believes that the Prudential Regulatory Authority.
the Groups internal control systems The Group Audit Committee reviewed are stronger as a result of this work.
each financial results announcement The Company has complied with the and the Annual Report and Accounts UK Corporate Governance Code prior to Board approval as well as throughout the year as detailed considering areas from the new throughout the Directors and viability statement to the Groups Corporate Governance Report.
anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and whistleblowing processes.
Engagement The Group Nomination and Governance Non-Executive Directors are actively Committee played a crucial role in encouraged to engage with stakeholders Scotts recruitment.
It carried out an including shareholders, customers, annual effectiveness review of the employees and regulators, and we also current Board and continues to look forward to answering shareholder work on the recruitment of new queries at the Annual General Meeting Non-Executive Directors.
During the year, over 360 meetings were held with The Group Investment Committee has institutional investors to discuss areas continued to oversee the Groups such as the Groups future ambitions, investment policy and strategy and Solvency II implementation, and capital.
It has also commenced overseeing the disposition and performance of the investment portfolios of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
