Chairmans governance overview A s a Board, we spent a great deal of timereviewing and discussing all aspects ofthe Strategic Review which culminated inthe new strategy announced in November2015 Sir John Peace, Chairman Dear Shareholder Financial Crime Risk Committee and add further perspective with a deep knowledge of financial crime compliance.
As I mentioned earlier in this report, 2015 was a challenging year.
While our results were poor, they are set against a backdrop of Diversity is an important factor for us as we address Board continuing geo-political and economic headwinds and volatility succession, and in 2015, we made significant progress in across many of our markets.
2015 has also been in many ways increasing the representation of women on our Board to awatershed, when we embarked on aclear path and revised 20 per cent, up from 11 per cent at the end of 2014. strategy under a new Management Team led by Bill Winters, Furthermore, the proportion of women represented at senior prioritising returns for shareholders and allocating capital and positions below the Board is significantly higher.
investment capacity to areas where we have a long-term As I indicated at the start of 2015, it remains my intention to competitive advantage and can generate attractive returns.
step down from the Board during the course of 2016.
Until then, As a Board, we spent a great deal of time reviewing and I will continue to focus on the strategic transformation, providing discussing all aspects of the strategic review which culminated all possible support to Bill and the Management Team, and in the new strategy, announced in November 2015.
Further providing continuity at a time of significant change.
details on the Boards oversight through the formation of the In addition to strategy, one of the most important roles of the new strategy is set out on page 68.
We believe that the new Board is setting the right tone and culture of the organisation, strategy will enable us to weather current market conditions and we have considered how to sustain our values and ensure andto reposition the Group for improved and sustainable we have a strong culture supportive of our strategy during performance.
Our markets remain attractive through the thistime of significant change.
The Board and its committees medium to long term, and we remain well positioned to have focused on many aspects of culture throughout the year, servewealth creation in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
from leadership, performance, conduct and remuneration, I would like to thank shareholders for their support of the rights torisk taking and risk tolerance.
One feature has been a focus issue, which was a key enabler of the new strategy and ensures on well-defined individual accountability, which aligns very well that the Group is well capitalised, providing a strong foundation with the new Senior Managers Regime commencing in 2016 for the future.
In light of the new strategy and the Boards inthe UK.
commitment to balancing returns to shareholders with The Group is one of the founder members of the Banking investment in the franchise in order to support future growth, Standards Board BSB, established in April 2015.
We place we took the difficult decision to pay no final dividend in 2015. significant importance on all aspects of banking standards The Board recognises the importance of dividends to our andthe frameworks and culture needed to underpin, sustain shareholders and therefore this decision was not taken lightly.
and grow healthy behaviours, professional expertise and During the year, we have made further changes to the competence.
The Group engaged with the BSB as it composition of our independent non-executive directors as commenced its analysis and assessment of the Groups culture partof the ongoing Board succession plan.
This was aimed and conduct today, and this will feed into our own work in 2016. atstreamlining the Board while ensuring a balance of tenure, Despite the broad range of uncertainties and challenges ahead, diversity, geographic knowledge and industry experience.
many of which are outside our control, I am confident that the Additionally, after 26 years with the Group, Mike Rees has taken actions we have taken as a Board ensures that the Management the decision to retire and will step down from the Board at the Team is well-positioned to deliver against the comprehensive end of April 2016.
Details of changes to our Board can be found actions and revised strategy, and that we are able to continue on page 71.
I would also like to welcome David Conner, who toadapt to the changing external environment and restore the joined the Board on 1 January 2016, and Liz Lloyd, who Groups performance to realise fully the opportunities present replaced Annemarie Durbin as Group Company Secretary from across our markets.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Mike, Ruth Markland, Paul Skinner, Lars Thunell and Annemarie for their significant contributions to the Group.
These changes, together with the appointment of Gay Huey Evans and Jasmine Whitbread in April last year means that the Board will consist of the Chairman, two executive directors and Sir John Peace Chairman 11 independent non-executive directors.
I would also like to mention the four external advisor members who sit on the Board 66 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015
