Strategic report Group overview Governance overview Supporting decisions and guiding behaviours across the Group Our approach to governance Details of the changes to the composition of the Board can be found on page 71.
We have a Group structure operated through both subsidiaries and branches, and maintain a consistent approach to overall governance, while respecting local legal, regulatory and Code compliance governance requirements.
During the year under review, We apply the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance governance was managed across the Groups eight geographic Code 2014 the Code.
The directors confirm that the Group regions through the respective regional chief executive officer has complied with all of the provisions set out in the Code offices, the business and functions.
As part of the business during the year ended 31 December 2015, subject to Peter 1 reorganisation the number of regions has been reduced to Sands not seeking re-election at the 2015 Annual General four.
This ensures that theGroup is effectively managed and Meeting AGM.
This was a conscious decision following the controlled in line with thenew strategy, announced in November announcement, made prior to the AGM, that Peter would 2015, the Groups values and culture, and with regard step down from the Board on 10 June 2015, shortly after totherequirements of all the Groups stakeholders.
toclients, these stakeholders include governments, regulators, shareholders, employees, suppliers and the communities We have complied with the code provisions of the Hong inwhich it operates.
Kong Corporate Governance Code Appendix 14 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules, save that the Board Risk As a leading international bank, we strive for best practice in Committee, instead of the Audit Committee, is responsible corporate governance across our footprint.
We believe that for the oversight of internal control other than internal control simply complying with written corporate governance standards over financial reporting and risk management systems Code is not enough.
It is vital for companies to have an underlying provision C. 3.3 f, g and h of Appendix 14.
The Groups culture with behaviours and values that support effective governance structure of a separate Audit Committee and corporate governance.
It is the responsibility of all of our Board Risk Committee complies with recent amendments to employees to be responsive and vigilant to ensure compliance the above provisions which apply to the Groups accounting with both the letter and the spirit of our governance framework.
At Standard Chartered, every employee is expected to live the Groups brand promise, Here for good, and be part of a culture The Group confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct that is open and challenging, yet cohesive and collaborative.
We regarding directors securities transactions on terms no less take care to ensure that all employees have, and demonstrate, exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong the necessary skills, values and experience commensurate with Listing Rules.
Having made specific enquiry of all directors, their responsibilities.
We place as much emphasis on the way the Group confirms that all directors have complied with the employees behave as on what they deliver.
required standards of the adopted code of conduct.
An overview of the activities of the Board and its committees can be found on pages 66 to 141 Our Board and its committees Who is on our Board The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its committees to assist it in carrying out its function of ensuring independent The Boards composition, structure and size underwent further oversight.
With the exception of the Governance and significant change through the course of 2015 and into 2016.
Nomination Committee which, in keeping with the provisions The changes will result in a smaller Board of 14 directors at ofthe Code, is chaired by the GroupChairman, all of the theend of April 2016, consisting of the Chairman, two Boardcommittees are made up ofindependent non-executive executivedirectors and 11 independent non-executive directors and play an important role insupporting the Board.
This ongoing refreshment of the Board ensures Inaddition to four independent non-executive directors, the wemaintain acombination of broad-based banking, finance, Board Financial Crime Risk Committee also comprises four risk andaccounting skills and experience, representation independent external advisor members.
fromacrossour key markets, and a diversity of perspective.
A list of the Board directors and their biographies are set out on pages 62 to 65.
Biographies of the four external advisor 1.
The reorganisation of our business was implemented on 1 October 2015, and will be members can be found on page 97. reflected in our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Standard Chartered PLC Board Audit Board Risk Brand, Values Remuneration Governance and Board Financial Committee Committee and Conduct Committee Nomination Crime Risk Oversight and Oversight and review Committee Oversight and review Committee Committee review of financial, of fundamental risks Oversight of the of remuneration, Oversight and review Oversight and review audit and internal including credit, positioning of the share plans and of Board and of all financial crime control issues.
market, capital, Groups brand, other incentives.
More details on liquidity, operational, conduct, culture and More details on overall Board More details on page 79. country cross-border values, reputational page 99. effectiveness and pages 96. and pension risks.
risk, government and governance issues.
More details on regulatory relations, More details on page 85. and sustainability page 93. issues.
