Governance and remuneration CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE REVIEW Welcome to the Corporate Governance and Remuneration sections of our Annual Report The Board considers that British Land has complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year and this compliance is detailed on pages 72 to 77.
Our governance structure shapes the way that information flows throughout the Company.
We constantly strive to improve the procedures and processes we have in place.
British Land has performed strongly throughout the year, with underlying profit before tax increasing by 5.4%, EPRA NAV increasing by 20.5% and an increase in the total portfolio valuation of 12.1%.
Our portfolio is close to being fully occupied and our development pipeline has been replenished, following the near completion of the 2010 pipeline which has delivered 1bn of profits.
Our good governance practices and solid governance structure continue to be an integral part of the decisions and actions we have taken to achieve this.
We undertook an independent external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness during the year.
The overall conclusion was that the Board operated very effectively with a continuous, high standard Directors attendance during the year ended of performance throughout the past year.
31 March 2015 Dido Harding resigned as a Non-Executive Director during the year, Director Main Board following her appointment as a non-executive director on the Court John Gildersleeve 6 6 of the Bank of England.
I would like to thank Dido for her valuable Chris Grigg 6 6 contribution to British Land, both as a Board member and a member Lord Turnbull 5 6 of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and wish her well Aubrey Adams 6 6 for the future.
I am delighted that Lynn Gladden and Laura Wade-Gery Lucinda Bell 6 6 have recently been appointed as Non-Executive Directors and members of the Remuneration Committee.
I look forward to the Simon Borrows 6 6 1 fresh perspective that Lynn and Laura will bring to the boardroom, Lynn Gladden 0 0 and the insight and ideas that they will contribute.
2 Dido Harding 3 4 William Jackson 6 6 The Board also recognises the importance of continuity and the Charles Maudsley 6 6 value that Directors who serve for many years are able to bring.
Tim Roberts 6 6 We were therefore happy to approve the recommendation of the Tim Score 6 6 Nomination Committee that it was appropriate for Lord Turnbull to remain in office, notwithstanding the length of his service 1 Lynn Gladden was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 20 March 2015.
Board meetings took place between her appointment and the year end.
2 Dido Harding resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 10 December 2014.
The Operations Committee was established in the previous financial year and I am particularly pleased with the success it has achieved during the year.
The Committee consists of senior individuals across British Lands business functions and exists to facilitate the flow of information between the Executive Committee and employees.
Throughout the year the Committee has developed and become a forum for discussion, effectively disseminating information about strategic and tactical decisions throughout the Company and in turn allowing timely feedback to be passed back to the Executive 68 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our good governance practices and solid governance structure continue to be an integral part of the decisions and actions we have taken.
Small working groups have been established within Compliance with the Code The Board has continued to apply good governance practices during the Operations Committee, each with a focus on improving a specific the year, operating in compliance with the Code.
For ease of reference, this aspect of British Lands business.
is how we demonstrate our compliance throughout the Governance and remuneration section of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015: The Executive Committee has addressed its remit during the year and undergone a rigorous exercise to challenge and further define its role, working with an external facilitator to increase the effectiveness with which it operates and improve its approach to leadership of the Company.
Effectiveness C. Accountability developed its forward looking plan and terms of reference.
To build on this success a similar evaluation will now be applied to the Operations Committee.
D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders Good governance requires engagement with a wide range of stakeholders.
As ever, the Board welcomes feedback from shareholders.
Investors comments and opinions inform the structure within which we lead British Land, and I look forward to receiving these at and in advance of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
As well as engaging in two-way communication with our shareholders, we continue to maintain an active dialogue with our lenders to help us to understand their appetite and investment criteria.
To truly achieve our strategy of creating Places People Prefer we must also engage with the stakeholders that have an interest in our buildings.
These include customers, local communities, staff, suppliers, investors and analysts, and local and central government.
Extensive research has been carried out throughout the year to ensure that this range of stakeholder views is heard and incorporated into strategic discussion.
John Gildersleeve Non-Executive Chairman British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
