CHAIRMANS LETTER ON CORPORATEGOVERNANCE Dear Shareholder, New legislation The Modern Slavery Act 2015 came into force in October On behalf of the Board I am again pleased to introduce the 2015.
Whilst we do not have to report under this legislation in Groups Corporate Governance report.
respect of this year end, we have completed an initial review of In terms of regulation, the Company is subject to the provisions of the requirements and carried out a risk assessment.
As a result the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which was last of this we have identied the high risk area of our business and updated in September 2014, and I am pleased to report that the supply chain and inserted compliance clauses into the contracts Company has applied the main and supporting principles of the of our higher risk suppliers.
During 2016 it is intended to Code, and has complied with all provisions.
The Companys prepare a formal policy dealing with slavery and human position regarding the independence of Stuart Corbyn, is trafcking and to roll out a programme of staff training.
Future developments However, in addition to the regulations represented by the Over the last few years I have commented on the volume of Code, it is increasingly being questioned whether compliance changes to the corporate governance environment and the with the Code is sufficient to ensure a viable and sustainable introduction of the Modern Slavery Act shows that change is business.
This revised perspective, nearly 25 years after the still happening.
However, in January 2016 the FRC announced introduction of the original Cadbury Report, is demonstrated that it does not intend to make substantial changes to the by the Culture Project launched by the Financial Reporting Code for the next three years.
Subject to changes arising from Council FRC last October, and signies a greater emphasis the EU Audit Regulation and Directive, this period of relative being placed on the culture of a company.
This is referred to stability is to be welcomed.
in the preface to the Code but recent studies have emphasised As always, I would encourage you to attend the Groups its importance in underpinning a companys behaviour and Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2016.
This important event also stressed that, to be truly embedded, it must be set by gives you the opportunity to meet both the chairmen of the the Board.
Board committees and members of senior management.
At Derwent London, we have always appreciated the importance of setting the tone from the top and have strived to promote a collegiate, honest and open culture throughout the ROBERT A. RAYNE business.
This is supported by the Groups Whistleblowing CHAIRMAN policy.
The importance of our culture has become increasingly 25 FEBRUARY 2016 evident over the last year as we have formalised the Groups Risk Appetite Statement, reviewed the Groups Bribery Act procedures and considered the requirements under the new Modern Slavery Act.
In all these instances the successful implementation of the new processes depends at least as much on the culture established throughout the business by the Board as the detailed procedures that are introduced.
Within this overall context, there are a number of governance issues that I would like to provide further details on.
Risk One of the key risks to the Groups strategy that was identied last year and which has been carefully monitored by the Risk Committee during 2015 is cyber risk.
This takes many different forms and has been the subject of guidance issued by the UK Government.
The Group has adopted a three pronged approach to reduce the risk.
The first was to improve the resilience of the IT infrastructure and to enhance the forensic capabilities of the business which will allow an attack to be identied and remedied more quickly.
Secondly, staff awareness training has been increased with particular emphasis on social engineering techniques.
Finally, the Groups Business Continuity Plan was updated and fully tested at the disaster recovery suite.
Whilst in no way becoming complacent, these improvements to the controls and mitigating actions resulted in the Executive Committee lowering its assessment of this risk during its review of the Risk Register at the end of the year.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 85
