LETTER FROM THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE RISKCOMMITTEE RISK COMMITTEE The Committee was chaired by Richard Dakin and served by Stephen Young, June fide Moller, John Burns and Damian Wisniewski throughout 2015.
At the end of the year, June fide Moller retired and Cilla Snowball joined the Committee.
Rules and responsibilities The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Meetings Three meetings are scheduled for the year with extra meetings convened if necessary for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Work of the Committee During the year the Committee undertook the following tasks: Reviewed the Groups risk register twice during the year and RICHARD DAKIN considered the top ten risks at each meeting.
CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE Received presentations from senior management concerning the controls over certain parts of the business or Dear Shareholder, specic risks.
The areas of focus were determined by the review of the top ten risks and key presentations covered I am pleased to present the report of the Risk Committee for 2015. cyber risk and cost control.
The latter was considered Conditions in our central London market remained strong particularly important by the Committee due to the level of throughout 2015 and the political uncertainty caused by the capital expenditure planned for the next few years on the pending UK general election that I mentioned last year was Groups development pipeline.
However, in terms of political risk, this has been Considered the operation of the Groups risk management replaced by the uncertainty now being created by the Brexit process and non-financial internal controls.
referendum and this, together with a number of external global Oversaw the development and testing of the Groups factors, has caused the overall risk level to increase over Business Continuity Plan.
The nature of these external factors which include, Considered a report from the Groups legal advisers amongst others, terrorism, a hard landing for the Chinese concerning potential regulatory risks over the next economy and cyber-attacks, means that we expect this level 12months.
of risk to persist for at least the next year.
Regularly reviewed the Groups quarterly register of The Committees work during the year was concentrated on hospitality and gifts maintained under the Groups Bribery two areas.
The first of these was cyber security and the Act procedures.
second was the Groups business continuity plan.
At the start Reviewed the Groups register of potential conicts of the year an external rm of consultants produced a review ofinterest.
of the Groups exposure to cyber security risk.
This included a Received training on the objectives and operation of Risk roadmap towards further improving our resilience to this type Committees in the light of the recent FRC guidance.
A timetable was agreed with the IT department for the Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
implementation of these improvements and the Committee Considered the content of the annual appraisal of the was kept informed of progress.
At the year end, all of the key Committees performance.
The update of the Groups business continuity plan was again facilitated by a third party.
The exercise was initiated by a full RICHARD D. C. DAKIN business interruption assessment which formed the basis for CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE the updated plan and the recovery times included therein.
In November the plan was subject to a full live test which 25 FEBRUARY 2016 included successfully switching the Groups IT systems over to the back-up suite.
These risks are likely to remain at the top of the agenda through 2016 but in the first half of the year the Committee will be reviewing the internal reporting that is being introduced in response to the new monitoring requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code following the 2014 update.
RICHARD D. C. DAKIN CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE 25 FEBRUARY 2016 114 Governance
