LETTER FROM THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF NOMINATIONS THENOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE At the start of the year the Committee consisted of June fide Moller, Simon Fraser and Richard Dakin under the chairmanship of Stuart Corbyn.
Cilla Snowball joined the Committee in September 2015 and June fide Moller stepped down at the end of the year.
In January 2016, Simon Fraser took over chairmanship of the Committee.
All members are considered independent by the Company having no day-today involvement with the Company.
Rules and responsibilities The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Meetings The Committee meets at least once a year to arrange for the annual appraisal of the Board and its Committees.
Further meetings are arranged, as required, to discharge the SIMON FRASER Committees responsibilities in connection with identifying and CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE nominating new Board members.
The Committee met twice in 2015.
Dear Shareholder, Work of the Committee I am pleased to present the Committees report for 2015.
During the year the Committee has carried out the followingtasks: During the year, the Committees main activity was the recruitment of two non-executive Directors.
This brought into focus a number Led the annual appraisal of the Board, its Committees and of the Committees key responsibilities relating to the maintenance the Chairman.
The appraisal was carried out by Lintstock, an of a stable and appropriately constituted Board.
The first was to independent corporate advisory rm which provides no other identify the skills that the new non-executives would need to services to the Group.
possess for the Board to retain both the necessary skills and the Completed the recruitment of two non-executive Directors.
required level and breadth of knowledge.
Arranged a comprehensive induction process for the new The second matter to consider was the diversity of the Board.
The Committee had previously made a commitment to appoint Considered whether the Committees recruitment procedure at least one additional female director to the Board by 2015. was adequate given the gender diversity matters raised in Fullling this undertaking whilst preserving the Boards policy the UK Corporate Governance Code and by Lord Davies.
of only recruiting on merit was largely dependent on the Reviewed the Groups succession planning for executive candidates put forward by the executive search agency.
and non-executive Directors and senior management.
In this instance the Committee appointed Spencer Stuart who Reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee.
subscribe to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Considered the results of the annual appraisal of the Search Firms and they were instructed accordingly.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the Company.
Once the new non-executives had been identied, the final matter to consider was their induction to the Company and SIMON W. D. FRASER its culture.
Together with the Companys executives, the CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Committee arranged a comprehensive process that included meetings with the Groups auditor and corporate lawyer as well 25 FEBRUARY 2016 as visits to some of the Groups properties with members of staff.
It is rewarding to note that in the latest Board and Committee appraisal exercise, the recruitment process was judged to have achieved its objectives.
Looking to next year, we expect the performance of Nominations Committees to receive more attention from the FRC following the publication of its discussion paper on UK Board Succession Planning and the launch of its Culture Project, both in October 2015.
Guidance arising from these two projects is expected to be issued during 2016.
SIMON W. D. FRASER CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 25 FEBRUARY 2016 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 113
