LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Conditional awards made in 2013 under the Groups 2004 Performance Share Scheme PSP will vest in April 2016.
These awards were subject to two performance conditions each over 50% of the award.
The first element was based on total shareholder return TSR performance compared with thatof a group of other real estate companies.
This measure will be nalised in April 2016 and was estimated at the year end.
The second part was based on net asset value growth compared to properties in the IPD Central London Ofces Total Return Index and was measured to 31 December 2015.
The combined assessment of the two performance measures as at 25 February 2016 was that 65% of the total award was expected to vest.
The final vesting percentage will be ascertained in April 2016.
The Committee believes that the outturn of both the annual bonus and the PSP fairly represents the Groups performance over their respective performance periods.
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 The Committee reviewed the executive Directors salaries in SIMON FRASER December 2015 and agreed a basic increase of 3% for 2016.
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE This increase is in line with the average salary increase across the rest of the Group and reects another year of excellent performance by the management team as demonstrated by Dear Shareholder, the achievements discussed in the Strategic Report.
I am pleased to present the report of the Remuneration During 2016 the Committee will make a conditional award of Committee for the year ended 31 December 2015. shares under the Groups PSP equivalent in value to 200% of the Directors 2016 salary and confirm that the maximum The Groups objective remains to be to deliver above average entitlement under the Groups annual bonus scheme will long-term returns to shareholders.
In order to deliver this be 150% of salary for 2016, both unchanged from 2015. through the successful operation of our business model we need to recruit, retain and motivate the best people.
At a senior As a Committee we are committed to ensuring that rewards level, the Remuneration Committee is responsible for this and for executives are aligned with the interests of shareholders aims to achieve it by implementing and maintaining a and other stakeholders through having all their incentive remuneration structure that meets this requirement and arrangements linked to stretching performance targets that are promotes long-term sustainable performance whilst ensuring rigorously applied.
These targets focus the management team that the structure does not create incentives for management on increasing net asset value and total return whilst also having to operate outside the Groups risk appetite.
regard to a number of non-financial and sustainability targets.
Our remuneration policy supports the Groups objective by The current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders linking a majority of variable pay to targets which require in 2014 and the Committee is aware that since then the outperformance of our competitors.
Payments under these executive remuneration landscape has continued to evolve arrangements only begin to be made if we achieve at least and that in particular there has been a move towards average performance against the relevant peer group.
The Committee has considered the long-term aspects of the The Committee has reviewed the existing policy in the light of remuneration structure and is satisfied that the deferral part these changes and remains confident that it continues to meet of the annual bonus, additional holding periods for vested its objectives.
Consequently, no changes are proposed to the Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP awards, clawback provisions remuneration policy and therefore the Committee will not be and shareholding guidelines adequately promote long-term, seeking any new approval for the Directors Remuneration sustainable performance.
Policy Report at the forthcoming AGM on 13 May 2016.
Performance and reward in 2015 The Groups strong results for 2015 are discussed in the SIMON W. D. FRASER Strategic Report and include a 21.6% increase in EPRA net CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE asset value per share and a total return of 23.0%.
Both these KPIs are measures of performance used in assessing the level 25 FEBRUARY 2016 of performance related pay for the Directors.
To ensure that remuneration reects a balanced performance, a scorecard ofadditional metrics are taken into account by the Committee when considering the non-financial element of the Groups annual bonus scheme.
Taking all these measures into accountresulted in a bonus entitlement of 74.2% of entitlement being earned.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 95
