Chairmans Corporate governance statement As Chairman, I am responsible for the Groups Corporate governance framework.
During the year the Board achieved and maintained high standards of corporate governance and will continue to adapt this framework as necessary in 2016.
Following the Board evaluation, I remain satisfied that the performance of all the Directors proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that each Director demonstrates commitment to their role.
Succession planning Richard Mully retired as a Non-Executive Director of the Company at the Annual General Meeting on 8 June 2015 and Richard Cotton retired as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 30 September 2015.
The Board welcomed two new Non-Executive Directors, David Rough and Margaret Young, to the Board on 1 October 2015.
David was appointed to the Remuneration Committee and Margaret to the Audit Committee effective from 14 October 2015.
Melvyn Board evaluation Egglenton succeeded Richard Mully as the Senior The Board formally evaluates its performance and that of Independent Director upon his retirement from the Board at its Committees annually.
Having undertaken its first the Annual General Meeting in 2015 and, in addition, externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2013 in line with the succeeded Richard Cotton as Chairman of the Remuneration requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Committee on 30 September 2015. undertaken an evaluation using a series of questionnaires in 2014, the Board has undertaken a further evaluation Humphrey Price has indicated that he will retire from the using a series of questionnaires in 2015.
In addition, I met Board at the Annual General Meeting in 2016 and he will not with each of the Non-Executive Directors to evaluate their propose himself for re-election.
Rebecca Worthington will individual performances and the Non-Executive Directors succeed Humphrey as Chair of the Audit Committee upon met without me present to evaluate my performance as his retirement.
Richard Mully and Richard Cotton both made a major Overall, the findings of the evaluation were positive, contribution to Hansteen during their time as Directors and recognising the amount of work that the Board and senior their experience and advice has been invaluable during a management team has undertaken during the year to period of rapid growth.
improve procedures in a number of areas.
Board sessions have been scheduled to provide the Board with the opportunity to discuss fully those topics which the Directors indicated needed further consideration by the Board.
The Board is confident that the performance of the Board and the Committees was and is effective and that all Directors James Hambro demonstrate full commitment in their respective roles.
Chairman 14 March 2016 26 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
