58 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Governance Dear shareholder I am pleased to introduce intus corporate governance report for 2015.
A revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code was issued in September 2014 and is applicable to the Company for the first time for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Board has reviewed its revised obligations under the 2014 version of the Code and determined that it remains fully compliant with all Code provisions.
This reects the Boards robust approach to good governance, with a continuing emphasis on matching or exceeding the best practice expectations of a major quoted company.
Key strategic matters discussed in 2015 We have maintained Optimise asset performance UK development momentum our commitment to the review and approval of the Groups management and oversight of the highest standards of strategic plan Groups capital investment programme review and approval of Board visit to intu Bromley governance, with a focus centre-focused renancings regular Capital Projects during the year on Board visit to intu Merry Hill Committee meetings refreshing composition of the Board and its Make the brand count Seize the growth opportunity in Spain supporting development of the Committees in line with the Groups Spanish strategy Groups digital strategy and operations the strengthening of the Groups our succession plans focus on Group net promoter partnership with CPPIB, announced score performance in June, to include our Puerto Venecia shopping resort in Spain extended Board visit to review our Spanish operations during the year Other key matters discussed appointment and induction of two new Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the Boards succession planning formal commencement of succession planning for the Chairmans scheduled 2017 retirement Committee governance, as a result of new appointments and the extension of the Senior Independent Directors term continuing focus on risk modelling and analysis, including cybersecurity risk the new viability statement Areas of focus in 2016 continuation of progressive refreshing of the Board, in line with agreed succession planning progression of Nomination and Review Committee processes for the new Chairman appointment monitoring and progression of corporate objectives for 2016 rigorous maintenance of a strong controls environment around UK and Spanish development pipeline continuing oversight of strategic and operational delivery intugroup.
co. uk Governance 59 2015 governance highlights Board communication The Group has presented a viability Composition and succession planning Having identied enthusiasm for statement for the first time this year in During the year I led our annual additional informal update meetings line with the provisions of the Code.
While review of the Boards composition and by conference call, as an important area the requirement to include the statement succession plans.
The review took into for improvement last year, we improved is new, the key inputs to this assessment account the fact that experienced and and streamlined the quality and focus are those which the Group produces valued Board members were approaching of Board materials both formally and as a matter of course and would consider the maximum tenure permitted for informally, further integrated electronic to be best practice.
These include the independent non-executive directors papers and have encouraged more Groups strategic plan, analysis of under the Code.
informal interaction between Board sensitivity to risks, operating metrics members.
We took advantage of this such as the weighted average life of As a direct consequence, the Board during centre visits, at the away day in debt and features of the industry in decided to strengthen its composition October, on Board update calls and at the which we operate.
and in September welcomed two Chairmans twice-yearly working dinners.
new Non-Executive Directors, The Audit Committee assessed the Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard and John The Board visited intu Bromley in April Groups viability position alongside its Strachan, with expertise in digital and and the annual strategy away day was review of going concern and reported global real estate matters respectively.
held at intu Merry Hill, our super-regional its recommendations to the Board.
centre in the West Midlands.
The viability statement is presented The processes which led to Rakhi and on page 71.
Johns selection and appointment were In June the Board travelled as a group to co-ordinated by the Nomination and intu Asturias and Puerto Venecia in Spain Patrick Burgess Review Committee, in line with relevant to carry out an assessment of the newly Chairman Board policies, and with appropriate input acquired centres, receive presentations 26 February 2016 from an independent executive search from local advisers regarding local market adviser Korn Ferry.
Further information dynamics and prospects and gain closer can be found in the Nomination and familiarity with the Spanish market.
Review Committee report on page 76.
Risk In the light of Neil Sachdev not seeking The effective assessment and re-election at the 2016 annual general management of risk is key to the delivery meeting, we have made changes in the of the Groups strategy.
The setting composition of our Committees.
During of the Groups risk appetite by the Board provides the framework within the year the Board also extended the which the Groups risk management term ofthe Senior Independent Director, process operates.
Andrew Huntley, for one year.
Risk management is embedded The Board has previously outlined its throughout the business with all support for the recommendations of employees aware of the role they play in The Davies Review, and I am therefore this.
The Board has overall responsibility particularly pleased to confirm that, for risk management and the Audit as a result of the recent appointments Committee monitors and reviews the to the Board, intu met the target for The Group has presented effectiveness of the risk management 25 per cent female representation a viability statement for process.
The Groups risk management before the end of 2015.
We outline process is set out in more detail on pages our approach to diversity further in the first time this year in 70 and 71, and the Groups principal risks the main report on pages 67 and 76. line with the provisions are discussed on pages 37 to 39. of the Code.
While the Given the high prole of cybersecurity requirement to include risks, Trevor Pereira, Group Digital and Commercial Director, attends all this statement is new, Board meetings to advise on digital the key inputs to this and cyber matters.
assessment are those which the Group produces as a matter of course
