Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance L La an nd d S Se ec cu ur ri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 0 049 49 Changing risk landscape Fair, balanced and understandable LETTER FROM THE The Committee again made use of an additional The changing business environment has caused us to closely monitor the impact on our risk landscape.
meeting and the due diligence framework introduced CHAIRMAN OF THE last year in assessing and then recommending to the Macro-economic risks, such as the maturing property cycle and structural changes in the retail Board that, taken as a whole, the Companys 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
market, were considered by the Board as part of its annual review of significant Group risks.
More UK Corporate Governance Code specific and emerging risks were considered by the The Committees terms of reference have recently Committee, including: been updated to reflect relevant changes introduced key people where we are exposed to a very to the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2014 and buoyant and competitive London employment which apply to the Group for the first time in respect market of the 2015 16 financial year.
These relate to the more forward-looking nature of the going concern political and public affairs both in respect of the Scottish referendum and the UK General Election statement, a more rigorous and regular review of risk management and the introduction of a longer-term terrorism where we undertook simulated incident viability statement.
We are preparing for these in response exercises at some of our shopping centres consultation with management and the external cyber security in relation to data security, data auditor.
I am confident we will be in a position to protection, safeguarding business continuity, confirm our compliance with the new requirements incident response and critical building at the end of next year.
We also continue to monitor management infrastructure.
progress of the growing pipeline of new and potential regulations and governance initiatives emanating Through the Group risk register we reviewed Dear Shareholder from both the UK and EU.
managements plans and mitigation actions to ensure During the year, the Audit Committee has continued all key risks were appropriately prioritised and resourced.
Committee effectiveness to play a key oversight role for the Board.
Its principal Committee members used their experience gained in The regular challenge and engagement with activities have focused on maintaining the quality other businesses to challenge and advise management.
management, the external auditor and valuers of our financial reporting, considering significant We continue to monitor these key risks and agreed and the risk management and internal audit team, accounting judgements made by management and mitigating actions with the assistance of the Groups together with the timely receipt of high standard the work of the external valuers.
It has also focused risk management and internal audit function.
reports and information from them, has enabled on ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the Committee to discharge its duties and External valuations and valuers the internal and external audit processes and driving responsibilities effectively.
On behalf of the A significant focus of the Committees work relates improvements in the Groups internal control and Committee, I thank them for their contributions.
In addition, the to the half year and full year valuation of the Groups I hope you find my review and the report that Committee has considered a number of new property portfolio as the output and movements follows helpful in understanding the work of the challenges, opportunities and risks arising from both represent a key contribution in determining the Committee during the year.
within and outside the business.
Groups results and certain executive remuneration.
The portfolio valuations are now carried out by three Acquisitions and disposals Kevin OByrne external valuers, namely, Knight Frank our principal During the year, the Group made a number of Chairman, Audit Committee valuer, Jones Lang LaSalle in relation to X-Leisure acquisitions and disposals, most notably the and CBRE in relation to Bluewater.
Property acquisition of a 30% interest in the Bluewater valuations are inherently subjective as they shopping centre in June 2014.
In relation to these, include the making of significant judgements and the Committee considered: assumptions by the valuers and management, at what point each transaction should be some of which are derived from similar recent recognised market transactions.
Based on the degree of the recognition of an intangible asset and the oversight and challenge applied to the valuation impairment of goodwill in connection with process, as explained on page 51, the Committee Bluewater was confident that the valuations had been conducted appropriately, independently and in the impact of third-party co-investment rights in accordance with the valuers professional standards.
respect of one particular transaction Each of the external valuers provides a high quality the Bluewater integration programme and its service and contribution, and indeed Knight Frank have subsequent implementation.
However, in line with good governance and best practice, we have decided to put the Groups portfolio valuation requirements out to competitive tender.
This process, which includes Knight Frank, is already underway.
I will Chair the selection panel and the successful firm s will be expected to undertake the September 2015 valuation.
External auditor Following their appointment in 2013, Ernst & Young LLP EY successfully completed their first audit Committee members last year.
Our internal review of their performance confirmed they delivered a high quality audit and are Details of member appointments and biographies, Kevin OByrne Chairman and performing well in their new role.
The objective of and full attendance at Committee meetings held this years audit plan was to build on EYs increased Senior Independent Director during the year, appear on pages 40, 41 and 44, familiarity with the business and ensure it remained respectively.
Stacey Rauch focused and challenging.
The Committees terms of reference are available on Cressida Hogg CBE the Companys website at www.
