0 04 46 6 L La an nd d S Se ec cu ur ri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 Dear Shareholder Like all Boards, there are additional specialist LETTER FROM THE With last year having seen a number of changes at skills that we wish we had from time to time.
both Board and senior management level, succession However, it is simply not possible to cover every CHAIRMAN OF THE planning has been a key area of discussion at both base.
We fill the gaps by inviting external specialists the Nominations Committee and the full Board.
to address the Board at strategy days and by NOMINATIONS A Board dinner was devoted to the topic.
We maintaining a list of skills and qualities we will require discussed the business plans for restocking the of future appointees.
We continue to monitor COMMITTEE talent pipeline for the future.
Much of the existing suitable candidates.
pipeline had been depleted by a large number of Whilst much of the Committees work in the year promotions last year.
centred around succession planning, time was also Property is a long-term business with many years devoted to a number of other topics.
These included passing between some decisions and their ultimate the consideration of potential conflicts of interest fruition.
I look for and welcome the commitment of amongst Directors, updating our standard Letters of Non-executives to stay on our Board for extended Appointment for Non-executive Directors and the periods of time.
This could mean that some stay individual evaluation of Directors and their beyond the nine-year period when the UK Corporate independence.
The Committee has also assumed Governance Code, and some investors, may begin to responsibility for monitoring trends in governance question their independence.
and making recommendations to the Board.
This year, we considered the likely pattern of You will find more information on these Board vacancies in the future.
I made my particular topics and on the other work of the expectations clear in terms of the amount of notice I Committee, including our progress on Board would like a departing Director to give so that a effectiveness, on the following pages.
thorough process to find a successor can be conducted in a timely manner.
Dame Alison Carnwath We looked, in detail, at the skills that each Chairman, Nominations Committee Director brings to the Board and those that would be required from new joiners.
We discussed who would be responsible for the appointments of Executives, Non-executives and the Chairman.
We also considered our ability to cope with unexpected departures at senior management level, with a strategy agreed to speed replacement.
Committee members Details of member appointments and biographies, Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman and full attendance at Committee meetings held during the year, appear on pages 40, 41 and 44, Kevin OByrne respectively.
Chris Bartram The Committees terms of reference are available on Simon Palley the Companys website at www.
