Introduction from the Chairman Good governance is embedded into the way we manage thebusiness.
The Board remains committed to upholding This year the Nomination Committee led the the high standards of corporate governance first externally facilitated Board evaluation, that underpin the successful management a process the Board is committed to of the business and its long-term success.
The findings Good governance is embedded into the of the evaluation were very positive and way we manage the business to create a concluded that the individual Directors, culture of appropriate decision making, the Board and its Committees continue risk assessment and transparency at all tooperate effectively.
The high level of There were significant changes to the involvement of the Executive Directors in the regulatory regime last year with more on the day to day business operations promotes agenda for next year.
The Board continues good governance practices beyond the to monitor and respond to these changes Boardroom, supporting the successful and the Audit Committee report on page delivery of strategic objectives.
70 incorporates improvements to the The Corporate Governance report which process undertaken to assess and support follows demonstrates how the Board is the statement that the Annual Report and committed to the principles and provisions Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, of the UK Corporate Governance Code balanced and understandable.
the Code and the steps it has taken this In September 2014 the Financial Reporting year to improve compliance, which include Council published latest revisions to the my role as a Non-Executive Chairman Code which will become effective next and the retirement of Humphrey Price as a year.
The Board has considered these Non-Executive Director.
The Board would revisions and has taken steps to improve like to thank Humphrey for his dedication, the review and reporting of risks at Board commitment and valuable contribution to meetings as further discussed in the Audit the Board as a Non-Executive Director of Committee Report on page 70. the Company.
Patrick Vaughan Chairman 2 June 2015 Statement of Compliance The Board has considered the Companys compliance with the main principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012, publicly available at www.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the main principles set out in the Code throughout the year under review and to the date of this report.
LondonMetric Property Plc 56 Annual report and accounts 2015
