Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairmans Introduction Promoting a strong management structure to propose improvements.
One of the I am pleased, once again and recommendations from the 2014 external for the last time, to introduce evaluation was making sure that when the the Governance section of the Directors were together we used this valuable time effectively.
We have sought to streamline Annual Report where we explain the number and volume of papers being how corporate governance works presented to the Board to ensure we have at SEGRO, how it is central the maximum amount of time for discussion and debate.
Further information about the to all aspects of our business Board evaluation process and conclusions are and is designed to create an onpage80.
environment where matters can In this Report, we explain how the Board, be considered and decisions theExecutive Committee and their respective made at the appropriate level committees interact.
It is important that there is good communication between management inthe organisation.
and the Board and, in particular, an effective working relationship between the Chairman As you will have read in the Strategic Report, in andthe Chief Executive.
2015 we delivered a strong year of operating and capital performance.
I believe that in In the Nomination Committee report, Baroness In order for the Company to continue order for the Company to continue to deliver Ford has explained the process which was to deliver resilient performance and resilient performance and attractive returns followed to appoint Gerald Corbett as Chairman attractive returns for shareholders the for shareholders the Board must remain to succeed me following the AGM in April.
Board must remain committed to high committed to high standards of corporate His successful career across different industries standards ofcorporate governance.
Good corporate governance is will both complement and add to the wealth of about more than simply box ticking.
It is about Nigel Rich CBE experience and expertise on the Board.
communication and information flows, trust Chairman and respect and open and honest debate in a structured environment.
Nigel Rich CBE Chairman Throughout 2015, the Company complied with the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and this Report sets out how we applied its principles to the running of the business.
This year, both the Board and the Audit Committee spent time considering our response to the new Code requirement to prepare a viability statement.
A working group reported to us on the stress tests it undertook on our medium term plan in order to assess our viability.
The Audit Committee report provides more information about this process while the viability statement is included with the Principal Risks.
The annual Board evaluation continues to be a valuable opportunity for all the Directors to reflect on how the Board operates and 72 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board culture I believe that it is vital for the Board and the Executive Access to people Whenever there is a suitable opportunity, we will invite Committee to work together to set the values and managers to present to the Board or its Committees Individual Non-Executive Directors are encouraged standards of behaviour for the business and make sure on their areas of specialism.
For example, our Director to spend time in the business, outside scheduled that these are maintained in order to ensure we deliver of Tax presented to the Audit Committee on tax Board meetings, and have access to anyone who on sustained long-term value for shareholders.
risks and one of our Investment Directors attended a a one-to-one basis may be able to help further their Remuneration Committee meeting to explain the TPR understanding of the Company.
These presentations are fantastic Purpose and Values During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met with development opportunities for our people and a Alongside the successful execution of our strategy, I 14 of the 19 members of the Leadership Team, who chance for them to see the Board at work.
felt articulating our Purpose was an important and comprise the Executive Committee and the senior integral part of ensuring the long-term success of executives immediately below the Executive Directors.
I wanted everyone in the Company I wanted the Non-Executive Directors to meet these to be clear about the reason why SEGRO exists As mentioned elsewhere, two Board meetings each leaders and to see the quality and talent that we have and understand what binds us together as One year are held off site.
We receive positive feedback in the business.
The Board regularly reviews talent SEGRO.
In reviewing our Values, we wanted to make from every Board evaluation about the value the Nonand succession planning and getting to know the sure that everyone was crystal clear about how we Executive Directors derive from these visits.
Of course individual members of the Leadership Team assists work together, our core beliefs about how we do it is important for these Directors to see the assets to with this process.
business and how they guide our decision making, help them understand the investment decisions we To enhance his understanding of the day-to-day as well as how we interact as a team.
The Executive make but it is also helpful for them to hear from the issues facing the Group, the Chairman has regular Committee led the process, working alongside our local asset and leasing managers, to see them interact lunches at different office locations with employees senior teams from across the business.
Once finalised, with customers, to witness their enthusiasm and varying in seniority from a cross-section of the the Leadership Team invited every employee in the sometimes to understand their frustrations.
He also visited various sites during the year, business to a roll-out session where they led interactive including Milan and Slough.
At the 2015 Employee Conference we Office culture Employee Conference.
recognised those individuals and teams who were role We are fortunate that with a relatively small head count, models in living the Values during the year.
The Board When the new Chairman joins the business, an along with my Executive Committee colleagues, I have had received regular updates on progress with this extensive induction programme will be arranged for met personally practically everyone in the business.
project and the Non-Executive Directors took part in a him.
The Executive Directors will be keen not only for We operate with short lines of communication and roll-out session.
I am delighted that our Non-Executive him to get to understand the business but also to have pride ourselves on being nimble in our decision Directors have embraced these Values and feel unfettered access to our people around the Group.
Each of our offices is open plan, we comfortable challenging the Executive Directors, and Therefore his site visits and one-to-one meetings will encourage people to use different office facilities within each other, to live up to them.
Further information not be escorted.
the Group and our IT systems allow people to hot about our Purpose and Values is in the CSR section.
desk in all of our offices.
Presentations to Board meetings andCommittee meetings I am always keen not only for the Non-Executive David Sleath Directors to hear from a range of people in our Chief Executive Officer business but also for our employees to understand how the Board and our Committees work.
73 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
