Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW Since its inception in 2013, the Company has undergone substantial growth and in June 2015 was included in the FTSE 250 Index.
Throughout this period, as a Board, we have been committed to maintaining and improving the structures and processes required to underpin such growth and befitting a Company of our size.
We are committed to the highest standards of corporate In addition to the Board effectiveness review, the Management governance, which meet the statutory and regulatory Engagement Committee undertook a detailed review of requirements for companies listed in the United Kingdom.
In the performance to date of the Companys Manager, Tritax this section of the Annual Report we set out the principles of Management LLP the Manager and, with the Managers corporate governance that the Board has adopted, we highlight assistance, the performance of the Companys corporate our corporate governance activities and our compliance with advisers and principal suppliers.
I am pleased to report that, the codes of corporate governance we have chosen to adopt.
overall, we are satisfied that the Manager and the Companys corporate advisers and principal suppliers are performing in line As an investment company, we comply with the AIC Code with our expectations and providing good value to Shareholders of Corporate Governance the AIC Code published by the as evidenced by the Companys TER of 1.09%, which compares Association of Investment Companies the AIC and the relevant favourably against our contemporaries.
Further details of this provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code September review are set out in Stephen Smiths Management Engagement 2014 the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of our Committee Report for 2015. compliance with the AIC Code are included in the Corporate The Board understands the importance of presenting a fair, Governance report.
balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys The AIC Code and AIC Guide can be found at position and prospects and the importance of effective www.
co. uk sites default files uploads files reporting, risk management and control procedures.
pdf details regarding these key areas are set out in Jim Prowers The UK Corporate Governance Code is available at Audit Committee Report for 2015. www.
uk Our-Work Publications Corporate-Governance Statement of compliance .
pdf The Board has considered the principles and recommendations See The Board of Directors p54-55, for biographical details of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance of the current Directors and their roles Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, incorporates the UK Corporate There have been no changes to the Board over the course Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and of the year.
Following an assessment of the composition of recommendations on issues that are specifically relevant to the the Board by the Nomination Committee we have appointed Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the AIC Jim Prower as Senior Independent Director and we are in the Codes principles and recommendations by reference to the AIC process of seeking an additional Independent Non-Executive Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, Director to ensure that we continue to have the right balance will provide better information to Shareholders.
of skills, experience and independence in place to support the future development of the Company.
This is detailed in my The Company has complied with the recommendations of the 2015 Nomination Committee Report.
AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
We believe that an annual review of the Boards effectiveness is an important process to assist in identifying areas for future improvement or focus.
In 2015, we invited Board Evaluation Limited, an independent corporate advisory firm, to undertake an evaluation of the competence and effectiveness of the Board.
Details of the evaluation are set out on page 56.
For more details of our compliance with the provisions of the AIC Code and AIC Guide and actions taken since the Board effectiveness review, See Application of the Principles of the UK Governance Code p50 See Effectiveness p56 See Management Engagement Committee Report p63-64 48 See Nomination Committee Report p57 See Audit Committee Report p60-62 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions Other key statements relating to: The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the role of the Chief Executive: The Company is well placed to manage its financing and other business risks.
The Board is, therefore, of the opinion that the Executive Directors remuneration: and going concern basis adopted in the preparation of the Annual the need for an internal audit function.
Further details regarding this opinion are set out in the Accountability section of this Corporate For the reasons set out in the AIC Code, and as explained in Governance report on page 58: the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers that Taking into account the Groups current position and the impact these provisions are not relevant to an externally managed of the principal risks documented in the Strategic Report, the investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-toDirectors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will day management and administrative functions are outsourced remain viable, continuing to operate and meet its liabilities as to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no Executive they fall due, over the period to 16 March 2019.
Further details Directors or employees.
Further, under the AIFMD regulations, of the Boards assessment of the viability of the Company Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP provides a service which is are set out in the Accountability section of this Corporate similar to an audit of the internal control and risk management Governance report on page 58 and also Our Principal Risks systems of the Companys corporate governance and control and Uncertainties on page 29: environment.
See page 72 for a summary of their work and conclusions.
The Company has, therefore, not reported further A continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing in respect of these provisions.
the risks the Company faces has been established and the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company voluntarily systems.
Further details are set out in the Accountability complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance section of this Corporate Governance report on page 58: Code, except as follows: The Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information A.
4.1 the appointment of a Senior Independent Director: necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys the Company appointed Jim Prower as Senior Independent performance, business model and strategy.
See the Audit Director in March 2016 following the rapid growth of the Committee Report, for further information: Company and its inclusion in the FTSE 250 Index in 2015: The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development D. 1.2 and 2.1 as an externally managed investment and performance of the business and the position of the company, the Board does not have any Executive Directors.
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and As such, the UK Corporate Governance Codes provisions uncertainties that it faces : and in respect of Executive Directors remuneration are not applicable.
The Board has decided that there is no need for The continuing appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed a separate Remuneration Committee: is in the interests of the Companys Shareholders as a whole.
Further details on the basis for this conclusion are set out in the E. 1.1 the Senior Independent Director meeting with the Management Engagement Committee Report on page 63. major Shareholders: Jim Prower was appointed to this role on 15 March 2016.
While there has been no Senior Independent Director during 2015, we have been in close communication Richard Jewson Chairman with Shareholders throughout the year.
The appointment of 16 March 2016 Jim Prower to the role will now provide Shareholders with a formal channel for communication.
See Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties p29-31 See Accountability p58-59 See Audit Committee Report p60-62 49 See Depositary Statement p72 See Management Engagement Committee Report p63-64
