CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Daniel Kitchen Non-Executive Chairman Dear Shareholder We believe that good On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the governance, based Companys Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended 31 March 2015. on robust practices The Board of Workspace is committed to conducting and processes, is a business responsibly and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance in terms of leadership, fundamental part of remuneration matters, accountability, Board effectiveness and in our relationship with our being a responsible shareholders.
business and delivering This Corporate Governance Report is intended to give an insight into how the Board operated during for shareholders.
Throughout the year, the Company complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Full details of the Companys governance arrangements in compliance with the Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code are included on page 62 to 103.
As you will have read in the Chief Executives Report on page 18, it has been a strong year for the business, which has achieved strong returns and is well placed to deliver its strategic goals.
An effective Board In order to ensure we uphold best practices and operate effectively, the Board benefited during the year from the insights gained from an external evaluation of its performance.
We appointed Sean OHare of Boardroom Dialogue Ltd who facilitated an external Board effectiveness review in March 2015 to consider the way in which we carry out our role Related information: as Directors of Workspace and conduct ourselves Nominations Committee in the boardroom, as well as the Boards structure Report p. 73 to 74 and processes.
The review covered the Board, its Committees, individual Directors and the Company Induction, training and development p. 70 Secretary and included interviews with each of the 56 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Corporate Governance structure The Board Audit Executive Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Page 75 Page 67 Page 73 Page 80 Risk External Investment Senior External Finance Advisors Committee Auditor Committee Management Recruitment Directors, members of the Executive Committee and Stephen has no involvement, at any stage, in the the Company Secretary.
The findings were reported Groups valuation exercise and takes no part in any back to me and the output was reviewed at the discussion concerning CBREs role and fees.
A report on the recruitment process is described I am pleased to report that the thorough exercise in the Nominations Committee Report on page 74. conducted by Boardroom Dialogue Ltd, an independent organisation which provides no other Communication with shareholders and services to the Group, concluded that the Board other investors operated in an efficient and effective manner.
Communication with all our shareholders is a high priority for the Board.
On publication of As you would expect, the evaluation resulted in the Companys annual and half year results, the certain specific recommendations for increased focus Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer on a small number of key areas and these will form present to institutional investors and analysts, the basis of our action plan for 2015.
Details of these as well as holding one-to-one briefings.
recommendations can be found on page 71 of the Corporate Governance Report.
In October 2014, Workspace hosted two events for investors and analysts.
The events showcased the Board changes and succession planning Groups recent acquisitions, current refurbishments Since my last report to you, there have been a and development activity and demonstrated how number of changes to the Board and its Committees.
Workspace plans to continue to drive value and After the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2014, growth.
Workspace also participated in EPRAs Annual Bernard Cragg retired from the Board and Chris Conference in September 2014 and took registered Girling assumed the role of Senior Independent guests on a tour of a selection of the Groups assets.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Also in July 2014, we were delighted to Finally, Dr Maria Moloney, Chairman of the welcome Stephen Hubbard to the Board.
His strong Remuneration Committee, and I met with investors and in-depth knowledge of the property industry during the year to discuss proposals on Executive complements the skills of the Board.
Stephen is Chairman of CBRE UK and is a member I am pleased with the progress we have made this of their Management Board.
The Valuation Advisory year across the governance agenda.
We have built a Division of CBRE acts as the Groups external valuer committed Board that is working well in the interests of and, recognising the effect that this may have on the all shareholders and each Director continues to contribute perception of his independence, the Board reviewed effectively, demonstrating commitment to their role and Stephens position prior to his appointment in July to the continued strong performance of the Company.
Following this, the Board was and is completely satisfied that he remains independent in judgement Daniel Kitchen and character.
This will be assessed by the Board Non-Executive Chairman each year prior to his reappointment at the AGM.
2 June 2015 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57
