Strategic Report Business Review Research and Development We are investing in key programmes and focused Achieve scientific leadership As outlined in Strategic priorities from page business development, as well as using our distinctive 16, achieving scientific leadership is critical capabilities to push the boundaries of science to deliver to our success.
During 2015, we continued to redeploy R&D spend towards late-stage development Overview further expanded our immuno-oncology research and development activities Focused on science-led innovation across small molecules, biologics, entered into numerous strategic immunotherapies, protein engineering and devices collaborations to access novel science Strengthened our pipeline, portfolio and capabilities in 2015 through focused and technology.
investment and business development Simplified programmes, processes and systems while prioritising resources Our biotech-style operating model enables towards late-stage development us to access the best science, both internal Launched seven diagnostic tests linked to our products in line with our personalised and external, which is a prerequisite for healthcare PHC strategy achieving scientific leadership.
Further, our Promoted open innovation and collaboration by co-locating to strategic R&D centres productivity and pipeline continue to benefit and collaborating with leading research organisations from investments in key capabilities, such as Published 58 articles in high-impact publications compared to seven in 2010 payer partnering, PHC, predictive science Committed to working responsibly and in accordance with our global and clinical trial design.
bioethics standards In recent years, we have created a leaner, simpler and smaller organisation, focused on driving distinctive science across our key therapy areas.
We have also made progress in co-locating our teams to our strategic R&D centres.
The move to Gaithersburg, Maryland US is complete and the move to 58 7 Cambridge, UK is progressing rapidly with 1,600 roles now located in Cambridge Record number of Launched seven diagnostic where the new R&D centre and corporate high-impact publications tests linked to our products headquarters is under construction.
Research and early clinical development Our two biotech units conduct innovative discovery research and early-stage development from initial target selection to Phase II trial completion.
Our IMED biotech unit focuses on scientific advances in small 42 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report molecules, oligonucleotides and other collaboration with Celgene to extend our Scientific innovation is the life-blood of emerging technologies and drug discovery extensive anti PD-L1 inhibitor programme, PHC.
We are now expanding the benefits platforms.
The MedImmune biotech unit is durvalumab, into trials for serious blood of PHC to patients in all core disease areas, responsible for global biologics research cancers.
The recent exchange of chemical such as asthma, where we are developing and early-stage development.
Both units compounds with Sanofi is an example of diagnostics for periostin and DPP-4 for are responsible for delivering projects to our our open innovation collaborations.
potential use with tralokinumab with Abbott Global Medicines Development GMD unit and lupus, where we are evaluating a for late-stage development.
For more information on our collaborations type-I-IFN-inducible gene signature for please refer to the Oncology section from pages use with anifrolumab with Qiagen.
34 to 38 Working collaboratively and fostering open innovation Oncology from page 34 In order to enhance our innovation To better understand the biology of disease, Respiratory, Inflammation capabilities and ensure that we have our biotech units announced the first wave and Autoimmunity from page 26 access to the best science, we are open of projects from our joint venture with the to exploring new and different kinds of MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology and collaborations.
Current small molecule have agreed to support more than 80 PhD Looking ahead, we announced a partnership models include in-licensing scholarships and eight clinical lectureships collaboration with the Montreal Heart of new chemical modalities and platforms: with the University of Cambridge.
Institute to search the genomes of up to partnerships to leverage our compound 80,000 patients for genes associated with collection to uncover novel target Additionally, and through our IMED open cardiovascular diseases and diabetes.
opportunities: and strategic collaborations innovation portal, our teams reviewed more Finally, our membership of the GENE designed to build our understanding of the than 350 proposals for new drug projects Consortium, a public-private consortium mechanisms of disease.
In biologics, we in 2015. with Genomics England in the UK, is aimed are actively engaged in strategic university at accelerating the development of new research collaborations, clinical partnerships For an analysis of our R&D spend, please see diagnostics and treatments arising from Infrastructure on page 61 designed to explore the full potential of our the 100,000 Genomes Project.
immuno-oncology assets, and numerous in-licensing and joint development Our personalised healthcare strategy Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases from page 30 arrangements.
In both biotech units our 2015 saw us using the science of PHC to scientists work side-by-side with partner match many more patients to AstraZeneca scientists, advancing science together as medicines from which they are most likely to Late-stage development a single team.
We launched seven diagnostic tests GMD is our R&D function focused on linked to our products a total of 11 in two large Phase III clinical trial programmes In 2015, our IMED biotech unit announced years.
Three of our products Iressa, across our therapy areas that support the several scientific collaborations.
A number Lynparza and Tagrisso are now coupled approval, launch and reimbursement of collaborations enhanced the use of with companion diagnostic tests that select of new medicines, as well as life-cycle clustered  short patients for therapy based on their management.
GMD also delivers studies palindromic repeats CRISPR technologies molecular profiles.
PHC expanded in our that demonstrate evidence of how our across our discovery platforms, including clinical pipeline to over 80% with over 60 medicines work in the real world to help those with the Innovative Genomics planned drug launches by 2024 requiring healthcare professionals and payers Initiative, the Whitehead Institute at the a diagnostic test.
understand the therapeutic as well as Massachusetts Centre for Technology, economic value of our medicines.
During The Sanger Institute and Thermo Fisher Our increasing investment in diagnostic 2015, we have continued to sharpen focus Scientific.
We also expanded our partnerships achieved two world firsts: on our three therapy areas by identifying collaboration with Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc. the EGFR mutation test for Tagrisso is the opportunities to collaborate on developing to discover and develop antisense therapies first diagnostic test for both circulating assets within our late-stage pipeline for for cardiovascular, metabolic and renal tumour DNA and tumour tissue EU, with example, an externalisation agreement for diseases.
MedImmune also forged several Roche Molecular Systems, while our the development of brodalumab for patients key collaborations in 2015, including a PD-L1 Class I diagnostic with Ventana with psoriasis and the divestment of one of research collaboration with Joslin Diabetes was the first immuno-oncology test our established products Caprelsa, as a Center to develop new medicines to treat launched in the US.
In addition, we treatment for rare diseases.
diabetes, obesity, and related metabolic launched tests for tumour BRCA analysis disorders.
In addition, we launched a for Lynparza EU, with Myriad : for EGFR Accelerating the pipeline and biotherapeutics research centre in T790M for Tagrisso US, with Roche increasing efficiency collaboration with Cambridge Research Molecular Systems : for circulating tumour GMD is pushing boundaries to help ensure UK.
MedImmune was also very active in DNA EGFR for Iressa EU, with Qiagen : new treatments get to patients more quickly finalising collaborations to maximise the and for PD-L1 EU, with Ventana.
Improvements include the value of the immuno-oncology portfolio, development and use of smart clinical trials, such as through the externalisation data-modelling techniques and proactive AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 43 Strategic Report Business Review Research and Development continued regulatory approaches, as well as help ensure our medicines address the accelerating drug formulation and supply needs of patients as well as healthcare chain solutions.
In support of this as presenting regulators with scientific rationale detailed in the Pipeline and Therapy Area based on robust early clinical data in Introduction on page 24, we have signed respect of Tagrisso, while fast delivery times an agreement with PatientsLikeMe.
to secure data from PEGASUS-TIMI 54, our 21,000-patient study for Brilinta, supported Our scientific reputation wider approvals in the US and additional Demonstrating the quality of the regulatory submissions in the EU and US.
research conducted in our laboratories, GMD has created dedicated oncology through publication in high-quality and delivery teams and recruited more medical high-impact journals, is an essential expertise to bring potential new cancer element in building our scientific reputation Values in action: We put patients first treatments to patients more quickly, where and achieving scientific leadership.
It is Personalised healthcare aims to match there is significant unmet medical need.
also critical for recruiting and retaining medicines to patients who will benefit the best scientists from around the world.
Advances in science See Therapy Area Review from page 24 Scientists from IMED, MedImmune mean we can now design diagnostic tests and GMD have published a record to tell us how individual patients are GMD also pursues opportunities to number of high-impact publications likely to respond to a medicine before simplify processes to increase efficiency with 58 manuscripts in peer-reviewed prescribing it.
We are also using new and productivity.
A new information journals with impact factor exceeding technology, such as blood-based tests in management system for all regulatory 15 Thomson Reuters 5yr IF score.
This lung cancer, so that this science reaches submissions, registrations and product represents an eight-fold improvement more patients.
Developing medicines in changes provides improved access to since our drive to publish in high-impact this way helps deliver the right medicine documentation.
We have also completed journals in 2010, and demonstrates to the right patient and means better, the outsourcing of routine regulatory recognition of the quality of our science more effective treatment.
maintenance and publishing tasks to a by industry and academic peers.
data-handling provider, so our internal resources can focus solely on activities to Responsible research support our regulatory submission priorities.
We are committed to achieving scientific In clinical operations, we are adopting new leadership and delivering life-changing technology and approaches to improve medicines in a trustworthy and ethical monitoring of clinical trials and ensure manner.
Our global standards of bioethics patients are protected.
apply to all our research activity, whether conducted by us or third parties on Investment in disease area and scientific our behalf.
capabilities With the consolidation of R&D activities to Patient safety strategic centres, we continue to hire new Patient safety is very important to us and employees to strengthen our disease area we strive to minimise the risks and maximise expertise and technical capabilities.
This the benefits of our medicines.
Through a helps to meet the needs of our expanded pharmacovigilance programme, we monitor late-stage portfolio and support the our medicines to learn of any side effects increasing number of clinical trials.
not identified during the development process and provide information concerning Payer and real-world evidence capabilities the safety profile of our medicines to are helping us to show how our medicines regulators, healthcare professionals and, may improve outcomes compared to where appropriate, patients.
We also work other treatments, and to demonstrate how with regulatory authorities worldwide to raise they may reduce the need for hospital pharmacovigilance awareness.
or specialist care, and make a difference to patients lives.
Our patient safety team helps fulfil our commitment to patient safety.
Each We continue to engage with medical developing and marketed medicine is experts to provide important insight into our allocated a Global Safety Physician and drug programmes.
Such engagements will a patient safety scientist.
In addition, each market is supported by a dedicated patient 44 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Animal research safety manager.
Our Chief Medical Officer During 2015, we implemented a number We are committed to helping the public has accountability for the benefit risk profiles of changes in response to the new EU understand our use of animals in research of our products in development and on the Clinical Trial Regulation, EMAs Policy 70 and our methods for reducing, refining, market.
He provides medical oversight and and the EFPIA PhRMA Responsible Data or replacing them.
Our commitment is enforces risk assessment processes to Sharing principles.
reflected in our Global Bioethics Policy, and facilitate efficient and informed safety along with other signatories, progress has decision making.
Clinical trials by region been published in the 2015 Annual Report Small molecule Biologics on the Concordat on Openness in Animal Clinical trials and transparency Europe 16% 14% Research in the UK.
In 2015, we conducted clinical trials at US Canada 26% 34% multiple sites in various countries and Asia Pacific 15% 6% In response to a routine internal audit regions as shown in the chart over.
Central Eastern Europe 27% 25% of our animal welfare assurance, we have This broad span helps ensure that study Japan 3% 12% improved our governance structure by participants reflect the diversity of patients Latin America 10% 7% providing a single point of accountability for whom our medicines are intended Middle East and Africa 3% 2% with oversight across AstraZeneca effective and identifies the patients for whom the 1 January 2016.
Our approach will provide medicine may be most beneficial.
Our consistent implementation of policies and global governance process for determining Research use of human biological samples procedures, and will ensure that all new where we locate clinical trials provides The use of human biological samples, organisations that join AstraZeneca have the framework for ensuring a consistent, such as solid tissue, biofluids and their support in fulfilling their obligations under high-quality approach worldwide.
Protecting derivatives, plays a vital role in developing the Code of Conduct.
participants throughout the trial process is a deeper understanding of human diseases a priority and we have strict procedures and their underlying mechanisms, thereby Further information on our governance to help ensure participants are not exposed helping to develop effective, new and structure can be found on our website, to unnecessary risks.
com All our clinical studies are designed and In carrying out this important area of Animal research use varies depending on finally interpreted in-house but some are research, we maintain policies and numerous factors, including our amount of conducted by CROs on our behalf.
In 2015, processes to ensure that we both comply pre-clinical research, the complexity of the approximately 36% of patients in our small with the law and meet regulatory concerns.
diseases under investigation and regulatory molecule studies and 56% of patients in our We place an emphasis on informed consent requirements.
We believe that without our biologics studies were monitored by CROs.
that protects the rights and expectations active commitment to reducing, refining, or We require these organisations to comply of donors and families throughout the with our global standards and we conduct process of acquisition, use, storage and replacing animals in research, our animal risk-based audits to monitor compliance.
Protecting the use would be much greater.
In 2015, we We also engage and collaborate with confidentiality of a donors identity is of the used 182,055 animals in-house 2014: external scientific experts to support the utmost importance and a key part of our 194,162.
In addition, 33,220 animals were design and interpretation of these clinical process includes the coding of biological used by CROs on our behalf 2014: 15,634. studies.
Committees oversee study samples and associated data including For further information on AstraZenecas approach execution and progress, and we frequently genetic data.
to doing business sustainably please refer to collaborate with academic research In the wider world from page 55 and on our website, www.
organisations, particularly for larger In rare circumstances, AstraZeneca multicentre outcome trials.
may use human fetal tissue or embryonic stem cells.
In these circumstances, an We believe that transparency enhances internal review of the scientific validity of the understanding of how our medicines the research proposal will be conducted work and benefit patients.
We publish and permission to use the tissue will be information about our clinical research, granted only when no other scientifically as well as the registration and results of reasonable alternative is available.
our clinical trials regardless of whether AstraZeneca also insists its third party they are favourable for all products and vendors adopt the highest ethical standards all phases, including marketed medicines, and we rigorously assess the ability of tissue drugs in development and drugs where suppliers to meet our quality and ethical development has been discontinued.
We are committed to minimising the use of fetal tissue by For more information, please see our exploring technological alternatives.
com, or our clinical trials website, www.
com AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 45 Strategic Report Business Review Manufacturing and Supply Our new strategic framework provides a focus for our New operations strategy In 2015, we developed a new investments to help ensure we are able to respond to transformational strategic framework for patient and market needs for our medicines.
Global Operations to help ensure we are fit for the future.
Our strategy, which is focused around a set of strategic imperatives and strong foundations, will drive our thinking and actions in the years ahead as we strive to become more agile, flexible and able to Overview respond to patient and market needs.
Developed a new transformational operations 2020 strategy focused on helping New manufacturing facilities AstraZeneca to achieve its strategic purpose Following the successful introduction of our Opened our new facility in Russia to supply local markets better Taizhou facility in China at the end of 2014, Announced plans to invest more than $285 million in our Sweden biologics centre, regulatory validation work continues at our and acquired a facility in the US to meet growing demand for manufacturing biologics Vorsino facility in Russia, which opened in Continued to combine internal capabilities with cost-efficient external resources using 2015.
This marks the largest foreign established process for third party risk management including suppliers, their investment in the construction of a new partners and local business development partners pharmaceutical plant in Russia.
First commercial production is scheduled to commence in early 2016, improving our ability to supply local markets.
Also during 2015, we announced major investment plans to develop our capability in biologics, including the acquisition of Amgens facility in Boulder, Colorado in the US, as well as a $285 million investment in a new manufacturing facility in Sdertlje, Sweden.
These projects, in addition to a previously announced expansion plan at Frederick, Maryland US, will increase production capacity to support the growing demand $285m 11,236 for biologics, which represents half of our Plan to invest more than Undertook 11,236 development pipeline.
$285 million in our risk assessments Sweden biologics centre in 2015 Innovation Partnerships and innovation are playing an increasingly important role for Operations in delivering medicines to patients.
New science, and ways of working are continually assessed, with pilots progressed to challenge established practices.
During 2015, we have seen innovative practices 46 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Values in action: We put patients first We have established a secure and low-cost supply chain in support of our Healthy Heart Africa programme see page 51.
Understanding the patients circumstances was key as we worked to enable access to, and affordability of, high-quality anti-hypertensives to middleand lower-income patients.
We are working with our distributors and NGO partners to gather and share reliable data so that we can respond to changing patient needs.
employed around readiness for launch In 2015, we hosted 38 independent To achieve this, we have an established of Tagrisso, while our Healthy Heart Africa inspections from 16 regulatory authorities.
process for third party risk management.
programme has been further developed We reviewed observations from these This process, which consists of four steps as we aim to reach 10 million patients inspections, together with the outcomes and applies to all our suppliers, downstream across Africa.
Further pilots are already of internal audits, and, where necessary, supply chain partners and local business under development for 2016, as we implemented improvement actions.
development partners, assesses risk based look to improve the end-to-end supply upon defined criteria.
These include risks chain performance.
Our strategy reflects our commitment to related to bribery and corruption, data maintaining the highest ethical standards privacy, the environment and wages.
Each Product quality and supply chain and compliance with internal policies, laws step of the process provides an additional We are committed to high product quality, and regulations.
We review and comment level of assessment, and we conduct more which underpins the safety and efficacy of upon evolving national and international detailed assessments on those relationships our medicines.
To help assure compliance compliance regulations through our identified as higher risk.
Through this and quality, we maintain a comprehensive membership of industry associations risk-mitigation process we seek to better quality management system.
understand the partners risk approach and ensure the partner understands and can Our continuous improvement programme Working with suppliers meet our standards.
We conducted a total allows us to upgrade our systems and With most of our API manufacturing of 11,236 assessments in 2015, taking our minimise environmental impact.
By applying outsourced, we need an uninterrupted total number of assessments to 13,845.
Of Lean methodology to our manufacturing supply of high-quality raw materials.
We these 4,613 were in the Asia Pacific region, plants and supply chain, we have been therefore place great importance on our followed by 4,115 in Europe and 3,538 in the successful in reducing waste and inventory global procurement policies and integrated Americas.
We have also improved efficiency, risk management processes.
We purchase relate to global suppliers and those based in quality, lead times, equipment effectiveness materials from a wide range of suppliers the Middle East and Africa.
and work to mitigate supply risks, such as We are continuing to establish more natural or man-made disasters that disrupt In addition, we conducted 49 audits on efficient processes, with global supply supply chains or the unavailability of raw direct materials suppliers to ensure they chain experts providing support throughout materials.
Contingency plans include using employ appropriate quality, health and the organisation.
dual or multiple suppliers where appropriate, safety practices.
35% of suppliers met our maintaining adequate stock levels and expectations and 65% implemented Regulation and compliance working to mitigate the effect of pricing improvements to address minor instances Manufacturing facilities and processes are fluctuations in raw materials.
During our due diligence subject to rigorous regulatory standards.
process, we identified and rejected 326 These continuously evolve and are not We also seek to manage reputational risk.
suppliers, including 65 for reputational harmonised globally.
They are also subject Our ethical standards are integral to our related concerns.
to inspections by regulatory authorities, who procurement and partnering activities For further information on AstraZenecas approach are authorised to mandate improvements to and we continuously monitor compliance to doing business sustainably please refer to facilities and processes, halt production and through assessments and improvement In the wider world from page 55 and on our website, www.
impose conditions for production to resume.
We work only with those suppliers whose standards of ethical behaviour are consistent with our own.
We will not use suppliers who are unable to meet our standards.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 47 Strategic Report Business Review Sales and Marketing Our return to growth strategy is built on maximising the Organisation and approach To improve health and bring benefits to potential of our strong portfolio of primary care and patients around the world, we need to specialty care medicines by leveraging our global ensure the right medicines are available and that patients have access to them.
To that commercial presence, particularly in Emerging Markets.
end, our Sales and Marketing teams, which We are also investing in our Growth Platforms.
comprised around 34,800 employees at the end of 2015, are active in more than 100 countries.
In most countries, we sell our medicines through wholly-owned local Overview marketing companies.
We also sell through distributors and local representative offices.
Our Sales and Marketing teams operate in more than 100 countries Sales increased by 15% in China, which is now our second largest market We market our products largely to In the US, declines in revenue from Nexium, Crestor and Synagis were offset by strong primary care and specialty care physicians.
performance of our Growth Platforms We aim to meet their needs by having Despite an austere macroeconomic climate, we continued to launch innovative highly accountable local leaders who medicines in Europe understand their customers and focus Japan continues as one of our Growth Platforms with revenue growth of 4% in 2015 on business growth.
We worked closely with payers and providers to help deliver cost-effective medicines We increased access to healthcare through programmes in Emerging Markets, We group our Sales and Marketing function serving some 3.5 million people into Japan, one of our Growth Platforms, We reaffirmed our commitment to ethical sales and marketing activity through and three Commercial Regions: North employee training, monitoring, corrective actions and reporting America US and Canada : Europe: and International Emerging Markets, Australia and New Zealand.
Underpinning all our efforts is a commitment to operate responsibly and conduct sales and marketing activity in accordance with applicable laws and our Values.
For more information on Product Sales in our 100 3.5m markets, please see Geographical Review from page 227 Active in more than Patient access programmes in 100 countries Emerging Markets reached US 3.5 million people by the end As the sixth largest prescription-based of 2015 pharmaceutical company in the US, we have a 4.5% market share of US pharmaceuticals by sales value.
Declines in revenue from Nexium, Crestor 48 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report and Synagis were partially offset by strong In 2015, our sales in Europe decreased by Emerging Markets: expansion and performance of our Growth Platforms, 6% to $5,323 million 2014: $6,638 million.
collaboration including Farxiga, Bydureon and Brilinta, the Key drivers of the decline were continued Emerging Markets, as defined in Market launches of Lynparza and Tagrisso as well competition from Symbicort analogues, definitions on page 247, comprises as the impact of completing the acquisition ongoing volume erosion of Atacand and various countries with dynamic, growing of Actavis rights to Tudorza and Daliresp Seroquel XR following loss of exclusivity, economies.
As outlined in Marketplace from in the US.
pricing and volume pressure for Crestor page 12, these countries represent a major and Nexium, and lower net pricing on growth opportunity for the pharmaceutical The Affordable Care Act ACA has had, Synagis.
The continued macroeconomic industry due to strong demand and sound and is expected to continue to have, a environment, increased government economic fundamentals.
significant impact on our US sales and the interventions for example, on price and US healthcare industry.
In 2015, the overall volume and parallel trade across markets Emerging Markets are not immune, reduction in our profit before tax for the also affected sales.
Despite these conditions, however, to economic downturn.
Market year, due to discounts on branded we continue to launch innovative medicines volatility is higher than in Established pharmaceutical sales to Medicare Part D across Europe and saw significant progress Markets and various political and economic beneficiaries and an industry-wide excise within our Growth Platforms.
These include regulatory fee, was $786 million 2014: $714 million.
Established Rest of World ROW : For more information on pricing pressure and opportunities and challenges With revenues of $5,822 million, the ACA, please see Marketplace from page 12 In 2015, sales in Japan increased by 4% to AstraZeneca was the eighth largest, as and Geographical Review from page 227 $2,020 million 2014: $2,227 million.
Strong measured by prescription sales, and the performance of Nexium and Crestor, and fourth fastest-growing top 10 multinational While there is no direct governmental price the Diabetes franchise helped to drive this, pharmaceutical company in Emerging control for commercial prescription drug offsetting the headwinds from generic Markets in 2015. sales in the US, some publicly funded competition.
In Japan, we hold ninth programmes, such as Medicaid and position in the ranking of pharmaceutical In China, AstraZeneca is the second TRICARE Department of Veterans Affairs, companies by sales of medicines.
Despite largest pharmaceutical company, as have statutorily mandated rebates and biannual government price cuts and measured by sales.
These effectively serve as price increased intervention from the government sustainable growth through strategic brands controls for such programmes.
Other to rapidly increase the volume share of investment, expanded hospitals coverage challenges include continuing pressure generic products, Japan remains an and systematic organisational capability on pricing, and the availability and use of attractive market for innovative improvements.
Sales in China in 2015 prescription drugs for commercial and public pharmaceuticals.
The higher EGFR increased by 15% to $2,530 million 2014: payers continues to increase.
This is due to, prevalence in Asian markets makes Japan $2,242 million.
We delivered sales growth among other things, an increased focus on a key market for the launch of Tagrisso at above the growth rate of the market, and generic alternatives.
Increased generics use expected in 2016. initiated several long-term market expansion is also due to rising patient co-insurance or programmes in therapy areas.
The industry co-payments for branded pharmaceuticals Canada has a mixed public private payer growth rate is expected to be moderated to and budgetary policies of healthcare system for medicines that is funded by the high single digits, impacted by increased systems and providers, including policies provinces, insurers and individual patients.
price pressure, hospital cost containment about the use of generics only formularies.
It has also now become common for public and delays in new product registration.
In 2015, 84.0% of prescriptions dispensed in payers to negotiate lower non-transparent Nevertheless, the healthcare environment the US were generic compared with 83.4% prices after they have gone through a review in China remains dynamic.
While the adoption of a broad by the Canadian Agency for Drugs and are arising from incremental healthcare national price-control scheme in the near Technology in Health CADTH, a health investment, strong underlying demand and future is unlikely, increased focus on technology assessment body.
Most private the emergence of innovative medicines.
pharmaceutical prices and their impact insurers pay full price although there is on healthcare costs is likely to continue.
increasing pressure to achieve lower pricing.
Growth drivers for Emerging Markets Overall, the split for AstraZenecas portfolio include our new medicines, notably Europe is 66% funded by private payers and 34% Brilinta, and our Diabetes, Respiratory, The total European pharmaceutical with public plans.
Oncology, CV and Gastrointestinal market was worth $194 billion in 2015. portfolios.
To educate physicians about We are the twelfth largest prescriptionOur sales in Australia and New Zealand our broad portfolio, we are selectively based pharmaceutical company in Europe declined by 19% in 2015.
This was primarily investing in sales capabilities where with a 2.5% market share of prescription due to the continued erosion of Crestor and opportunities from unmet medical need sales by value.
Europe comprises countries Atacand by generic medicines.
We are also expanding our reach as defined in Market definitions on page 247. exclusivity in Australia in 2014 and generic through multi-channel marketing and medicines were launched.
Established ROW comprises Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Japan.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 49 Strategic Report Business Review Sales and Marketing continued Innovative collaborations are giving us help ensure lower-priced products reach There were 1,749 instances, most of them access to novel science, technology and the patients who need them and are minor, of non-compliance with our Code of medicines.
These complement and not diverted for sale and use in more Conduct, Global Policies or related control strengthen our portfolio.
One example is affluent markets.
standards in our Commercial Regions, our collaboration with FibroGen in China to including instances by contract staff and develop and commercialise roxadustat, a Our medicines help treat unmet medical other third parties 2014: 1,847. potential first-in-class oral compound for need, improve health and create economic treating anaemia in patients with CKD.
Effective We removed 339 employees or contractors treatments can lower healthcare costs by from their roles as a result of these breaches Increasing access to healthcare reducing the need for more expensive care, a single breach may involve more than one We have made significant progress in preventing more serious and costly diseases person.
We also formally warned 490 broadening the access to our products by and increasing productivity by reducing or others and provided further guidance or making medicines more affordable and we preventing days lost to illness.
Nevertheless, coaching on our policies to 1,476 more.
are working towards greatly increasing pricing pressure remains, as outlined in The most serious breaches were raised access, particularly in low income countries, Marketplace on page 12.
We are acutely with the Audit Committee.
through our patient access programmes.
aware of the economic challenges faced by Our efforts to improve affordability are payers and remain committed to delivering US Corporate Integrity Agreement and particularly focused on ability to pay based value to payers and patients alike.
We work The Physician Payments Sunshine Act on disposable household income.
We closely with payers and providers to reporting continue to grow our capabilities and build understand their priorities and requirements.
In April 2010, AstraZeneca signed an on the experience of wellbeing initiatives and We also conduct real-world evidence agreement with the DOJ to settle an patient access programmes which provide studies to demonstrate how our products investigation relating to the sales and discounts on our medicines and other improve health outcomes, offer value and marketing of Seroquel IR.
The requirements patient services, for example FazBem in support cost-effective healthcare.
of the associated Corporate Integrity Brazil, Disfruto Mi Salud in Central America Agreement CIA between AstraZeneca and and the Caribbean, MAZ Salud in Mexico Sales and marketing ethics the Office of the Inspector General of the US and Karta Zdorovia in Russia.
We have We are committed to employing high ethical Department of Health and Human Services significantly expanded these initiatives standards of sales and marketing practice OIG included a number of monitoring and across Latin America, the Middle East and worldwide.
This is consistent with our Global self-reporting obligations that differ from the Africa, and Asia Pacific, and the number of Policy on Ethical Interactions.
We report self-reporting required by authorities in the patient access programmes in Emerging publicly on the number of rest of the world.
To meet these obligations, Markets has more than doubled since 2013, AstraZeneca provided notices to the OIG reaching 3.5 million patients in total by the confirmed breaches of external sales describing the outcomes of particular end of 2015. and marketing codes investigations potentially relating to violations breaches of our Code of Conduct or of certain laws.
We also submitted an Improved access is bringing down supporting policies by employees and annual report to the OIG, summarising healthcare barriers, particularly in developing contractors in our Commercial Regions, monitoring and investigation outcomes countries.
In 2015, we expanded our and associated corrective actions.
relevant to the CIA requirements.
Under efforts in Africa to enable greater access to the CIA, AstraZeneca also disclosed, on a hypertension medication and other essential During 2015, we continued to train publicly available website, certain payments services for patients who are otherwise employees on the global standards that to US physicians and institutions.
The unable to access medication or other forms govern the way we operate.
We have CIA was for a period of five years and of treatment.
comprehensive processes as well as successfully concluded on 30 April 2015. dedicated compliance professionals who AstraZeneca continues to maintain a For more information, please see the Healthy monitor adherence to our Code of Conduct robust compliance framework to ensure Heart Africa case study over and Global Policies.
These professionals compliance with all applicable laws and also support our line managers locally regulations, and that the business is Pricing and delivering value in supervising their staff.
A network of operating with high ethical standards.
Our global pricing policy helps to ensure nominated signatories review our AstraZeneca also continues to report to appropriate patient access while optimising promotional materials against applicable the US government, detailed information the sustained profitability of our products.
In 2015, audit professionals relating to payments to physicians and When setting the price of a medicine, we also conducted compliance audits on teaching hospitals in the US, as required consider its full value to patients, payers and selected marketing companies.
by The Physician Payments Sunshine Act.
We also pursue a flexible For further information on AstraZenecas approach pricing approach.
For example, we support We identified 11 confirmed breaches of to doing business sustainably please refer to the concept of differential pricing, provided external sales and marketing regulations In the wider world from page 55 and on our website, www.
that appropriate safeguards are in place to or codes in 2015 2014: six.
50 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Created training materials for healthcare providers and community health workers Healthy Heart Africa on hypertension prevention, screening, diagnosis and treatment.
In many cases, Healthy Heart Africa HHA is our innovative programme these community healthcare workers had never received training about to support African governments in reducing the burden hypertension before.
of heart disease and, specifically, hypertension.
This To reach our objectives, HHA has adopted challenge is huge.
According to WHO, Africa is home to an innovative model: the highest prevalence of adults living with hypertension Raising awareness by leveraging and an estimated 46% have high blood pressure.
Training providers and driving care to lower levels in the healthcare system.
Ensuring access to and availability of The programme was launched in October By the end of 2015, we had: treatment by ensuring that healthcare 2014 in collaboration with the Kenyan workers are equipped to provide Ministry of Health and a portfolio of Screened one million patients in Kenya.
screening and have a consistent supply well-respected implementing partners.
Trained over 2,600 healthcare workers, of appropriate medicines.
Addressing non-communicable diseases including doctors, nurses, community such as hypertension in middleand health volunteers and pharmacists to low-income populations in a healthcare provide education and awareness, system that, historically, has prioritised screening and treatment services for We especially communicable diseases and infections, hypertension.
However, in a short Equipped at least 250 health facilities space of time, the programme has achieved ranging from small dispensaries staffed approach to partnership remarkable progress which will enable by a handful of people to large-scale in order to design and HHA to expand operations to other facilities to provide hypertension geographies in order to achieve our services, including the establishment implement a leading ambition of reaching 10 million hypertensive of secure supply chains for low-cost, programme that is patients across sub-Saharan Africa by high-quality antihypertensive medicines.
2025 in line with WHOs goal of a 25% Worked with the Ministry of Health and integrated into healthcare reduction in the prevalence of raised blood key scientific societies to develop a platforms.
Dr Joseph Kibachio, Head of Division of Non-Communicable Diseases, Ministry of Health, Kenya 1m Screened one million patients in Kenya for hypertension in 2015 Watch the video at www.
com AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 51
