16 Business line review Hospitality Attention to the detail.
Our strong operational setup matches every need, enabling our customers and their guests to have a great experience every time.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 17 Niels Peter Hansen Managing Director, Hospitality Our services The continued steady growth of the hospitality sector in our UK, Scandinavian and Irish markets is unlocking opportunities across our core textile rental services: providing our customers with bed linen, towelling, table linen and chefswear.
We are developing our operating model in terms of physical processing and advanced delivery systems by using technology such as online portals and RFID, to enhance the customers experience and strengthen our service differentiation.
Our customers a Hotel groups, independent and boutique hotels 10 rooms a Ferry companies a Restaurants a Events companies a Corporate canteens Market drivers a New openings a Increasing trend for a greater proportion of the hotel sector to be owned by groups, evident through new openings and industry consolidation a Greater outsourcing tendency, particularly in catering a Increased leisure and tourism, including from India and China Market size 650m Addressed market Estimated Hospitality share of group revenue 18% The addressed market is a subset of larger total market.
The information has been extracted from internal analysis.
Internal analysis of revenue by end market.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 18 Business line review continued Healthcare Providing a lifeline.
For patients, the highest standards of cleanliness mean everything.
As experts in infection control and linen management, we are devoted to continuous improvements.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 19 Steve Finch Managing Director, Healthcare Our services In 2016, we will be expanding our elderly care services, particularly into the UK care sector, unlocking opportunities by building on our expertise and experience in providing similar services in Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Ireland.
Our core hospital textile services, which continue to benefit from a drive towards outsourcing in many of our markets, are complemented by new opportunities for our sterile supplies anddecontamination businesses.
Our customers a Public and private hospitals and healthcare providers in the UK and across Continental Europe a Elderly care organisations in both theprivate and public sectors a Hospices a Private sector manufacturers of medical devices Market drivers a Increasing trend towards outsourcing among public hospitals as part of efficiency programmes a Ageing population driving demand for elderly care a Increasing concern over regulation relating to infection control a Continued innovation of new productsand services Market size 1,350m Addressed market Estimated Healthcare share of group revenue 30% The addressed market is a subset of larger total market.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 20 Business line review continued Workwear Setting the standard.
As innovators in our markets, we integrate regulatory requirements, functionality and specic customer needs in every solution.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 21 Peter Havus Managing Director, Workwear Our services Our efficient and cost-effective outsourced workwear solutions unlock opportunities by providing our customers with a supply of functional and legally compliant workwear solutions.
Our services include workwear rental and delivery, repair, stockholding and stock management, including specialised garment dispensing systems.
We are dedicated to being the natural partner for workwear and protection management.
Our customers a Private and public industries across Continental Europe and the UK a Non-sector specific but we have a strong track record in: food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, energy, construction, light industry, catering, automotive, and petrochemical businesses, amongst others a Large and medium sized companies, which are potentially present in more than one country Market drivers a Increasing focus on outsourcing to reduce administrative complexity and or business risk a Stricter health and safety regulations for workwear a Increasing demand for  solutions that reduce water usage and use of chemicals a Increasing role of workwear to underpin customer branding, values and image Market size 3,500m Addressed market Estimated Workwear share of group revenue 33% The addressed market is a subset of larger total market.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 22 Business line review continued Facility Uncompromising approach.
As hygiene experts, we constantly innovate and develop our services, adding value to our customers.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 23 Christian Ellegaard Managing Director, Facility Our services This business line has three distinct services: Washroom, Mats and Cleanroom.
We unlock opportunities in this highly regulated and compliance driven area by providing serviced washroom and mat solutions to a broad range of officesand industries.
With our support, our customers are able to access high standards of hygiene, in-door climate and safety.
We also supply individually customised solutions for controlled areas and cleanrooms to protect sensitive products and processes from human particles.
Our customers a Washroom and Mats: a wide range of businesses requiring facility services, including offices, government organisations, retailers, restaurants and garages a Cleanroom: specialised companies, primarily within the pharmaceutical and high-tech industries Market drivers a Washroom: increasing hygiene awareness and the growing trend towards the outsourcing of fully serviced solutions a Mats: significant and largely undeveloped market supported by increased demand for outsourced solutions a Cleanroom: greater regulation and need for documentation, plus increasing hygiene awareness Market size 1,200m Addressed market Estimated Facility share of group revenue 19% The addressed market is a subset of larger total market.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
