strategic report sustainable Our sustainability priorities We conduct a stakeholder materiality review annually to ensure that business our sustainable business programme is focused on the key issues identified by our stakeholders.
This year we received over 500 responses from a mixture of review customers, suppliers, NGOs, investors, analysts, media, consumers and employees.
Based on this feedback, we believe that our programme is appropriate, although we have identified a need to Sustainability is at the heart of our communicate our activity and progress on a more regular basis.
We balance the need to remain commercially successful, with Consumer health the need to make a positive We believe that all of our drinks can be enjoyed as part of a balanced diet and healthy lifestyle, however we recognise that issues associated contribution to society and limit our with declining consumer health is a growing problem in many of the impact on natural resources.
markets in which we operate.
We intend to take a leading role in the soft drinks industry in inspiring and enabling people to make informed choices to live healthier and more active lives.
We measure our performance annually through the Business in the Community BITC Corporate Following the withdrawal of added sugar Fruit Shoot from the UK market in 2014, we also removed added sugar Robinsons as part Responsibility CR Index.
We are proud of the of the relaunch of the brand.
In Ireland we continued to support Club progress we are making but there is more to Zero and launched MiWadi Zero.
We also ran an impactful marketing do.
This year we achieved a two-star rating as campaign in both markets, to remind consumers that both a result of our BITC CR Index submission.
Our Robinsons and MiWadi are a low calorie way for families to drink ambition is to achieve four stars by 2020. more water.
We have continued to encourage active lifestyles through our marketing campaigns, including our sponsorships of Find out more about our sustainable business the Tour fide France and Wimbledon tennis championships and programme at www.
com and through our annual the launch of Fruit Shoot Mini Mudder in GB, Ireland and the USA.
Sustainable Business Report 22 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements other information strategic report sustainable business review continued Our health strategy commits us to reducing the average calories per Each and every employee is guided by a common purpose, our 250ml serve across our portfolio by 20% by 2020 and to using the ambitious vision and our values, which are integrated into our people power of our brands to inspire 20 million people to actively play together.
processes and programmes, including our new performance In the last year, across the business, we reduced our average calories management, reward and talent programme  250ml serve by 5.8% to 35.4 and we encouraged and inspired Success.
2.6 million people to get active.
We measure our overall employee engagement through the Great Place to Work survey, which allows all our people to anonymously Supporting our communities feedback their views.
We have now completed the survey for three We encourage our people to support local communities by offering successive years and have achieved continued improvement.
three paid days a year or two hours per month to volunteer.
This Performance against our key indicators shows the progress we have year nearly 50% of our employees volunteered, following a promotional made: call for help to facilitate sessions with disadvantaged young people.
Whilst our total cash-led contributions are down this year to 822,609 Great Place to Work 70% we believe our volunteering activity made a significant contribution to 2020 goal: 80% 64% last year our communities.
We also continue to support young peoples charity, Diversity 37% Street League, in the UK.
2020 goal: 40% female managers 35% last year In October 2014, for the third consecutive year, MiWadi, Irelands number one dilute brand, supported Trick or Treat for Temple Learning and development Street to raise much-needed funds to help provide care and We are committed to nurturing and growing our employees at all lifesaving equipment for children undergoing medical treatment.
The levels, enabling them to lead Britvic into the future.
We encourage results exceeded expectations with the campaign raising 320,000. them to own and grow their careers within Britvic.
Creating a great place to work for our We continue to run an extensive learning and development curriculum, employees which offers all employees the chance to improve their core business skills and managers the opportunity to enhance their line management We recognise that our people are central to our success and to skills.
We also run programmes tailored to the needs of specific achieving our future ambitions.
We currently employ over 3,000 areas of the business.
people around the world excluding Brazil and have a talented and dedicated workforce.
We want Britvic to be an inspiring, safe place to be and for our people to realise their ambitions.
making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 23 strategic report sustainable business review continued We are currently rolling out the Great Britvic Manager standard, to Sharing in success facilitate development discussions between employees and their line We proactively monitor our total pay and benefits offering as part of manager and support either existing managers or those who want to our reward philosophy which is based on delivering competitive progress into a management role to optimise their personal growth plans.
salaries and benefits, performance-related bonus opportunities and widespread share ownership opportunities.
In the past year we have continued to recruit a number of senior leaders from outside our industry to bring new capabilities to our team.
In a number of our markets pay for large populations of our employees is determined with trade union representatives on the Communication and engagement basis of fair terms and conditions for all members.
Engagement with our employees is a priority for us and we keep GB based employees on average currently hold shares equivalent to people informed about our business, its performance and things that 14,000 or 34% of average basic salary as a result of their participation affect them through a variety of channels.
These include our intranet, in our longstanding Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP provides free Teamlink, our monthly digital update, and Teamtalk, our regular face share awards to participants each year, subject to company to face engagement meetings.
Our quarterly magazine, Britvic Life, performance, which they then hold for a minimum of three years.
The is available to all employees.
SIP also provides participants with the opportunity to purchase We have well established Employee Involvement Forums in GB and additional shares in Britvic as well as receive further matching awards.
Ireland as well as a Britvic Group Forum, with nominated employee Profit sharing plans also operate in Ireland and France to allow representatives who ensure that employees views are taken into participants to share in the success of Britvic and similar account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
Where the arrangements will be extended to other countries in the near future.
group has entered into a recognition agreement with a trade union, it fulfils its obligations to consult and negotiate accordingly.
Management pay and bonuses are linked to business performance and their personal contribution.
Selected senior executives also receive annual awards of long-term incentives to directly align their packages Health, safety and wellbeing with sustainable shareholder creation.
Pay outs under these plans The health, safety and wellbeing of our employees is paramount to depends on Britvics performance over a three-year period.
We have a Health, Safety and Wellbeing Committee We also provide competitive pension and healthcare benefits in which is chaired by our General Counsel and which has cross-functional addition to statutory arrangements.
representation and is also supported by health and safety specialists from across the group.
Diversity A key focus of our health and safety programme this year was driver safety.
Previously, all drivers within the business completed basic risk Our 2020 diversity goal is to have at least 40% female representation assessments but this year we have launched a new driver risk within senior management levels.
This year our proportion grew to assessment e-learning module which identifies high risk and high 37%, an increase of 2% on last year.
Following the resignation of mileage drivers to receive on-road training.
This latest development Silvia Lagnado from the board during the year, our current female has been launched to all new starters within GB with plans for a representation on the board is one 12.5%.
Across the wider further roll-out in 2016. workforce, females make up 42%.
At Britvic, we consider diversity to be broader than gender, ethnicity, We currently run a Wellness@work programme in GB and Ireland.
In disability or sexual orientation.
We are committed to encouraging an the past year we have reviewed our future strategy and over the next environment where we celebrate individual genius through the 12 months will deliver the first steps of the new programme, promotion of diversity of thought.
enhancing the support for our employees.
Gender diversity BOARD SENIOR MANAGERS WIDER WORKFORCE including non-executives 12.5 42 37 % % % 87.5 63 58 24 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements other information strategic report sustainable business review continued Equal opportunities Climate change We are committed to providing equal opportunities to our current and Climate change remains a very real threat and we recognise that potential employees, and apply fair and equitable employment policies.
businesses like ourselves, along with the Government and society as a whole must act together to deliver a sustainable solution.
People with disabilities Anticipating a number of changes this year, we set ourselves a moderate 1% reduction target on our direct CO emissions per We accord equal opportunities to people with disabilities, whether 2 tonne of product produced from our manufacturing sites across the registered or not, when applying for vacancies and in subsequent group against last year.
However, we significantly improved on the training and career development.
For those employees who become target, with a 5.8% reduction in our emissions relative to production disabled while employed by the company, we do everything we can and 5.4% in absolute emissions to 53,673 tonnes.
These emissions to provide the opportunity for them to remain with Britvic: this may are solely from our manufacturing sites.
This equated to a 3,100 involve retraining or redeployment.
tonne saving in CO emissions over the course of the year, 2 equivalent to the energy used to power 1,648 UK homes.
Encouraging disadvantaged young people We also continued to participate in the CDP Investor Response to develop new skills survey and improved our disclosure score significantly from 79B last Our in-house Learning Zones continued to welcome teachers and year to 91C this year.
This result affirms our progress on this students via our Enterprise and Employability workshops, reaching important topic and our commitment to being open and transparent 500 teachers and 30,000 students in total since 2009.
committed to building upon the foundations set by our Learning Zone programme and next year will evolve the programme to focus The table below sets out the quantities of greenhouse gas emissions on building impactful relationships between industry and the in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e for our office and 2 education sector through career inspiration days.
The programme manufacturing locations for the 52 weeks ended 27 September will be aimed at those studying either STEM subjects looking for 2015.
The table also contains the previous years reported emissions careers in engineering or business studies where they are perhaps to show our progress.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Water stewardship Regulations 2013: these sources fall within our consolidated This year we have continued to drive water efficiency in our financial statement.
Emissions outside of our responsibility, including production processes and reduced our absolute water footprint shared office locations and those originating from our franchise across our manufacturing sites by 2.2% compared to 2014 to partners, have been omitted from our disclosure.
We set ourselves a 2.5% reduction relative to the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard production, however our water intensity ratio increased by 1.3% to revised edition and emission factors from the UK Governments 1.96 across all our manufacturing sites.
This can predominantly be GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015. attributed to the reclassification of some Pepsi products CAT 3 which has led to the need for more frequent cleaning interventions.
2014 water figures have been updated as a reporting discrepancy was identified.
Correct figures across the plc are displayed in the 2015 Sustainable Business Report 2014-2015 emissions 2013-2014 emissions 2012-2013 emissions tonnes CO e tonnes CO e tonnes CO e 2 2 2 Total Scope 1 and 2 CO e emissions 60,613 60,669 66,756 2 Emissions from: Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and 19,745 17,965 22,402 operation of facilities Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and 40,869 42,704 44,354 cooling purchased for our own use Scope 3: Downstream transportation and 90,220 111,431 112,618 distribution, business travel, downstream Excludes business travel Excludes business travel Excludes business travel for Ireland for Ireland and downstream for Ireland and downstream and France and downstream leased assets refrigeration portfolio transportation in France transportation in France transportation in France Intensity measure: Scope 1 and 2 emissions reported above 32.4 tonnes CO e 1000 32.5 tonnes CO e 1000 34.9 tonnes CO e 1000 2 2 2 normalised to per thousand tonne of Tonne produced Tonne produced Tonne produced product output Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 25 strategic report sustainable business review continued be available by 2020 and beyond.
With the planned investment at Packaging waste our Rugby and Beckton manufacturing sites, together with the new Making our packaging more sustainable is an important element of line at Leeds coming into operation during 2016, we are excited our sustainable business programme.
We recognise that packaging about the future prospects for our packaging.
Alongside the is a critical component of our products and we have a responsibility investments being made at our GB manufacturing sites we are also to ensure the environmental impacts are minimised throughout its investigating lightweighting opportunities in Ireland with testing life cycle, from the materials we use to produce the packaging carried out this year on our Ballygowan pack.
through to how our consumers dispose of it.
This year we developed our Sustainable Packaging Policy to Responsible sourcing address these considerations.
The policy, due to be launched in Our supplier quality assurance programme is designed to ensure 2016, outlines our approach to producing packaging formats that our suppliers consistently provide materials that meet our stringent have been ethically sourced with the lowest possible environmental specifications in accordance with the Britvic Technical Code of footprint, whilst ensuring the required functionality to protect, Practice.
The Technical Code of Practice ensures any potential risks transport and present our products and brands.
to the safety, legality and quality of the final product originating from Lightweighting our packaging has been a major focus for us over raw materials including packaging are fully understood and the past decade as we strive to reduce the environmental impact of managed accordingly.
In addition to internal regulatory checks and our packaging.
We are now reaching the limit of our ability to do laboratory tests on new raw materials, all new suppliers are required this, and have taken the decision this year to begin a programme of to provide detailed information on their manufacturing, quality and investment in our supply chain to enable our access to the next level food safety control processes for risk assessment purposes.
of environmentally sustainable technologies and those we expect to Our sustainable business performance Pillar FY15 target Performance Healthy lifestyles Reduce the average number of calories consumed 5.8% reduction achieved.
Average calorie count per per serve across the entire portfolio by 4% 250ml serve of 35.4 across the group Display calorie content of our drinks on front of All drinks, excluding sports and water, now display pack in GB calorie content on front of pack in GB Inspire and encourage two million people to 2.6 million people inspired and encouraged to actively actively play together play together across the group Update and relaunch our Responsible Responsible Marketing Code updated and launched Marketing Code across the group Great Place to Work Achieve 65% in Great Place to Work Trust 70% Trust Index rating achieved Index survey in GB Achieve 85% in Great Place to Work Diversity 87% Diversity Index rating achieved Index survey in GB Prosperous communities Double the number of our GB employees 6.6% of GB employees volunteered in our Learning involved in volunteering in our Learning Zone Zone programmes programmes to 5%, enabling over 3,000 disadvantaged young people into jobs or back into education since FY13 Responsible sourcing Achieve 20% increase in direct supplier sites 90% increase on FY14 achieved.
using Sedex against FY14 77% direct suppliers now linked to us.
Instruct third party ethical audits for 50 supplier 53 supplier sites instructed sites Water stewardship Achieve 2.5% reduction in water intensity ratio 1.3% increase achieved in water intensity ratio across across the group against FY14 group to 1.96 Sustainable packaging Develop sustainable packaging strategy Sustainable packaging policy drafted ready for launch in 2016 Climate Change Achieve 1% reduction in direct CO emissions 5.8% reduction achieved in direct CO emissions per 2 2 per tonne product produced from our tonne product produced from our manufacturing sites manufacturing sites across the plc against FY14 across the plc against FY14 baseline 26 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015
