28 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Business Review This review reports on our performance READ MORE ABOUT OUR BUSINESS UNIT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ON during 2015 under the business unit CENTRICA.
reporting structure in place at the time.
In January 2016, we announced fundamental changes to the way that Centrica will be organised.
Our new reporting segments, aligned to support the delivery of our strategy, are set out on page 13.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 29 British Gas: Operating profit British Gas: Residential energy accounts 809m 14.7m 2014: 823m 2014: 14.8m British Gas The report is helping to improve levels CONNECTED HOME, INNOVATION of customer satisfaction and the overall AND SMART METERING perception of British Gas, with a 21 NPS Innovative customer offerings, including improvement for customers engaging with connected home products, are increasingly the report.
We are also trialling my energy important to improve customer satisfaction live which allows customers to access and retention.
We have established a many of the in-home display functions significant position in connected homes in on their smart phone or tablet device.
the UK and in March 2015 we completed the acquisition of AlertMe, the provider of BRITISH GAS RESIDENTIAL the technical platform that underpins our British Gas Residential operating profit existing connected home activity, including increased, reflecting a 5% increase in our in-house developed Hive smart average gas consumption despite the thermostat.
The acquisition means warmest December on record, with more Centrica has ownership and control British Gas operating profit fell 2% in normal UK temperatures on average in the over a scalable technology platform, 2015, with an operating loss in British Gas year compared to a mild 2014.
In addition, software development capability and Business BGB caused by issues resulting costs associated with delivery of the ECO data analytics, to enable us to provide from the implementation of a new billing and programme were lower, predominantly a full end-to-end customer experience.
customer relationship management CRM reflecting improved efficiency and the system mostly offset by an increase in In July 2015, we launched Hive Active phasing of expenditure on the programme TM British Gas Residential BGR operating Heating 2, the next generation of our as we accelerated delivery in 2014 to ensure profit, with consumption returning to more smart thermostat.
We have now sold over we met our obligations under Phase 1 of normal levels following a mild 2014.
In a 300,000 smart thermostats in the UK, the programme.
We have helped nearly competitive environment we are focused on providing us with the largest installed 500,000 households under the ECO delivering increased efficiencies, improved base of connected thermostats.
customer service and innovative customer 80% of Hive customers say they have Our residential energy customer accounts propositions across British Gas.
recommended the product, and 42% fell by less than 1% over the year, in a of Hive customers who also have one of CUSTOMER SERVICE competitive market environment.
We are our energy or services products say they adapting to the changing market with Improving our levels of customer service feel more positive about British Gas as a competitive fixed price and collective switch is a key focus and in April we announced result.
In early 2016, we launched a range offerings and our fixed-price Sainsburys we were dedicating a further 50million of connected home products in the UK, tariff delivered particularly strong sales, of resources over three years in serving our including Hive Window or Door sensor, TM generating new to brand customers.
In residential energy customers, to help achieve Hive Active Plug and Hive Motion Sensors.
February 2016, we announced a further cut our goal of delivering excellent service.
We We have a strong development pipeline in our residential gas prices, becoming the completed recruitment of more than 350 of further innovative products planned only major UK energy supplier to cut prices additional customer service agents by the for 2016, including Hive Active Lights and three times since the start of 2015.
The end of September, which enabled us to our connected boiler, which is currently average British Gas customer bill is around provide resilient service levels in the fourth on commercial trial.
100 less now than at the start of 2015. quarter and our residential energy contact Smart meters will bring significant benefits centre NPS increased by nine points over to customers, including an end to estimated BRITISH GAS SERVICES 2015, to 28.
In Services, our engineer NPS bills, greater ability to monitor and reduce The sales environment remains challenging increased to a record high of 70 for the consumption and simpler and faster for our UK services business, with a year.
Our nationwide network of around switching between suppliers, helping to continued shift in customer demand 8,000 highly trained service engineers with improve trust in the UK energy industry.
towards cheaper on-demand and home trusted access to customers homes remains We have now installed more than two emergency products.
Against this a competitive advantage for British Gas.
We million residential smart meters in the backdrop, we are focused on improving have also seen a consistent improvement UK, significantly more than any of our sales performance through enhancing the during 2015 in our brand reputation.
competitors, as we scale the business to online journey and the development of new Providing customers with the tools to ensure we are fully mobilised for delivery propositions to better meet this changing interact and engage through digital channels of the mandated roll-out by 2020.
In the fourth quarter is increasingly important, to improve currently trialling smart meters to our of 2015 we launched our new, simpler customer satisfaction and to help reduce pre-payment customers, with around Homecare product range and although costs, and we are focused on transforming 50,000 customers participating in the trial accounts declined during the second half the digital customer experience.
We have and a full commercial launch is planned for of 2015, the net rate of loss was reduced made good progress in developing our the second half of 2016.
Over 800,000 of compared to the first half.
The market for digital platforms and during the year we our smart meter customers now regularly central heating installations is also proving launched a new simplified homemove receive our unique smart energy report, my challenging, with market demand changing customer journey, which has helped energy, which provides a comprehensive towards simpler and faster installations.
increase retention of customers moving analysis of their energy consumption.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 30 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Business Review Direct Energy: Operating profit Direct Energy: Residential energy accounts continued 328m 3.0m 2014: 150m 2014: 3.3m British Gas continued Direct Energy Reflecting this, in the second half of 2015 DIRECT ENERGY BUSINESS we launched new propositions, such as Direct Energy Business reported a straight swaps, targeted at these significant increase in operating profit in customer segments.
2015, even after taking into account the absence of the one-off Polar Vortex costs British Gas Services operating profit fell in 2014.
This reflects higher margins on by 5%, with the impact of lower contract contracts sold from 2014 onwards, lower holdings partly offset by a continued focus amortisation costs related to the Hess on cost management.
Costs are a key Energy Marketing acquisition and a more area of focus and we are committed to balanced business between power and managing our cost base to improve gas.
In addition, natural gas pipeline and efficiency and effectiveness.
In support storage capacity contracts were utilised of this, we made changes to our defined to deliver strong optimisation performance benefit pension schemes, resulting in during periods of cold weather in the first a 23million credit.
Direct Energy delivered significantly higher quarter of the year.
Much colder BRITISH GAS BUSINESS than normal weather at the start of 2015 Overall gas and electricity volumes delivered British Gas Business was affected by benefited the business, as a more stable to customers were slightly down compared issues following the migration of customer physical infrastructure, in addition to market to 2014 due to a warm December.
However, accounts and associated data onto a redesign and management action meant Direct Energy maintained its position as new billing and CRM system from multiple we did not see a repeat of the additional the largest C&I gas supplier and the second legacy systems, which had a significant network system charges resulting from the largest C&I power supplier in the United impact on customer service, including polar vortex in 2014.
Unit margins on new C&I gas and difficulties in producing timely customer was partially offset by un-seasonally warm power sales have remained broadly at the bills.
To help resolve these issues we weather in the fourth quarter of 2015.
In levels achieved in 2014, with increased recruited additional resource and customer addition, our C&I business benefited from margins on power sales and lower margins service levels have begun to improve.
higher unit margins on contracts sold in on gas sales.
Complaints in the second half were down prior years and our residential energy During 2015 we continued to enhance our 9% compared to the first half of the year, business benefited from acquiring higher online customer experience, through the while unresolved complaints fell by 50% consuming customers.
However, the launch of MyAccount.
This online platform in comparison to the peak in early 2015. services business reported an operating simplifies online bill payment and account loss, primarily due to ongoing investments All our business customer accounts have management.
We are currently experiencing in residential solar.
been migrated onto the new system and over 14,500 MyAccount log-ins each month.
billing performance is now better than In November, we announced we were We continue to look for opportunities under the old legacy system, with cash combining our residential energy and to enhance our offerings to our C&I collection continuing to be a key area of services activities, organising the business customers.
Through our relationship with focus.
The new system is enabling us to around our customer segments.
This will SolarCity, we completed a number of digitise the customer journey, allowing us allow us to develop a more sustainable commercial solar installations for customers to target further improvements in customer residential business, improving commercial across the US.
In November, we completed service at reduced cost.
performance and delivering cost efficiency.
the acquisition of Panoramic Power with We also made good progress in building the The number of business energy supply whom we have had a successful Direct Energy brand across North America.
points fell by 11% during 2015, with our partnership since 2014.
The acquisition During the year we joined a range of focus on resolving the billing issues for provides Centrica with leading capabilities well-known brands to launch Plenti, the existing customers limiting the opportunity in energy management technology and first United States-based coalition loyalty for new sales in a competitive market.
In data science expertise, with around 25,000 programme, and we re-launched our Direct addition, the business incurred temporary sensors deployed across 700 sites in 30 Energy and First Choice Power brands in increases in operating costs to help resolve countries, and enables us to offer enhanced residential energy.
the system issues and an increase in the and innovative propositions to customers bad debt charge.
As a result, the business which allow them to better understand reported an operating loss in the year.
It will also help advance our Distributed Energy & Power Business services and distributed energy offering in North America.
are key sources of differentiation and will help us retain existing customers and acquire new ones, as well as providing growth opportunities in their own right.
We have good capabilities in this space, and will continue to develop propositions for our C&I customers through the newly established Distributed Energy & Power business unit.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 31 Bord Gis Energy: Operating profit 30m 2014: 7m Bord Gis Energy DIRECT ENERGY RESIDENTIAL We remain focused on delivering high levels of customer service and in 2015 Direct Energy Residential operating profit our right first time metric increased by increased in 2015.
We also continue to reflects the absence of polar vortex costs drive digital customer interactions, helping incurred in 2014. improve the customer experience and The number of customer accounts declined reducing costs, and 21% of new customer by 223,000, reflecting competitive market acquisitions in 2015 were obtained pressures in the US North East and the through digital channels, an increase of continued impact of the Energy Consumer 2 percentage points in comparison to 2014.
Protection Act ECPA in Ontario.
Against Cost efficiency is also a key focus and in this backdrop, we continue to build our 2015 we delivered a 2% year-on-year capabilities to deliver enhanced and reduction in residential energy cost to innovative customer propositions, including serve per customer.
the bundling of energy and services Bord Gis Energy performed strongly in products as we aim to retain and attract 2015, ahead of its acquisition case, and DIRECT ENERGY SERVICES the highest value customers.
In 2015, reported an operating profit of 30million Direct Energy Services reported an 46% of residential customers acquired also in the first full reporting year since its operating loss of 34million in 2015, took a services protection plan or smart acquisition in June 2014.
Employee compared to a 4million like-for-like thermostat, up from 11% in 2014.
We engagement has remained high since the operating profit in 2014, which excludes the also began to execute on our strategy of acquisition.
Having introduced a more robust contribution from the Ontario home services attracting higher consuming customers.
procedure for measuring contact NPS in business, which was sold in October 2014. the first quarter, we recorded an overall The loss in 2015 reflects an accelerated We continue to offer innovative products NPS of 16 for the year including an NPS investment in Direct Energy Solar.
and have now sold nearly 200,000 smart of 66 in our boiler servicing department.
thermostats in North America, enabling We continue to grow our services annuity our customers to reduce and better control Bord Gis Energy was the first energy business and the number of contract their energy consumption.
Our Direct Your provider to announce price reductions in relationships across North America Energy insight tool, launched in July 2015, the Republic of Ireland in both January and increased by 12% and is now over one allows customers to itemise their energy September 2015, with residential gas and million.
During the year we re-priced our usage by major household appliance.
electricity price cuts totalling 6% and 4.5% protection plan offerings to better reflect the In addition, we launched Reduce Your respectively.
These reductions positioned us costs and risks associated with the portfolio Use Rewards which incentivises customers with the cheapest standard dual fuel offering of product offerings, while maintaining a to use less energy in peak demand periods.
Reflecting competitive offer to our customers.
Our In July 2015, we launched Direct Your this, the business returned to residential residential new construction business Plan, a personalised service enabling energy account growth in both gas and performed well, as did our franchise residential customers to build their own electricity, the first time this has grown since operations as we expanded our reach energy plan from a number of options such 2011, while the number of multi-product to 78 new locations and now serve 650 as length of contract, energy type, energy customers increased by 30% during 2015. in total.
The combining of our residential efficiency tools, reward programmes and In addition, the number of business energy activities into fide Home will help us to home services.
service supply points also increased by achieve our goal of building long-term 16% to 36,000 in the year.
Bord Gis Energy is also leveraging Our Energy Supply & Services Centricas expertise in deregulated energy markets, having launched the first residential businesses in the UK and North fixed price tariff in the Republic of Ireland America will share a common TM and also introduced Hive Active Heating.
Early take up has been positive.
operating model and be In power generation, our flexible 445MW supported by common Whitegate gas-fired station operated ahead operating functions.
of expectations and delivered high reliability, protecting our customers from power price volatility during peak times in a highly vertically integrated market.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 32 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Business Review Centrica Energy: Operating profit Centrica Energy: UK power generated continued 255m 19.3TWh 2014: 648m 2014: 22.1TWh Restated see page 1 for details.
Centrica Energy In Europe, total production was down Our gas midstream business delivered a 1%.
Norwegian production increased by strong trading performance in the second 16% reflecting consistently high production half of the year, including recognising a from Kvitebjorn and Statfjord and a first 24million gain following the settlement contribution from the large-scale Valemon of a disputed long-term gas field contract.
project in the North Sea, which came This more than offset a first half operating on-stream in January 2015.
UK and loss, following the optimisation of a number Netherlands production decreased by of flexible gas contracts for value during 14%, reflecting the natural decline of a period of falling prices in 2014, with a producing fields and an extended consequential impact on 2015.
In LNG, maintenance shutdown at Morecambe.
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC issued authorisation in April 2015 In the Americas, total production decreased to allow Sabine Pass Liquefaction LLC 2%, with the benefit from new wells to construct and operate the fifth train acquired and drilled in Canada in 2014 Centrica Energy delivered good operational expansion at their LNG facility in Louisiana.
largely offsetting natural decline in the performance in 2015, with higher than At the end of June 2015 the project received portfolio.
Trinidad and Tobago production planned levels of E&P production and a Non-Free Trade Agreement licence from was down 5% compared to 2014. nuclear generation.
However, the business the Department of Energy DOE, and with reported a significantly reduced operating We have made significant progress in a positive final investment decision now profit and recognised post-tax impairments refocusing our E&P business.
A number having been made on the project Centrica and onerous provisions totalling 1,950 of initiatives have enabled us to deliver cost expects to take delivery of its first cargo million on E&P and power generation efficiencies, including management action under its US export contract in late 2018 assets, predominantly reflecting the impact to renegotiate contractor rates, headcount or in 2019.
We continue to increase our of falling wholesale commodity prices, reductions in support roles and working with capabilities and presence in global LNG and spark spreads and forecast capacity licence partners and operators to deliver have completed a number of FOB cargoes, auction prices.
Against this backdrop we savings.
European unit cash production including our first delivery to South America, made significant progress in repositioning costs were down 6% compared to 2014. and have secured further cargoes scheduled the business, achieving reductions in both In the Americas, unit cash production costs for delivery in 2016.
E&P cash production costs and capital reduced by 13%, in part reflecting reduced Overall, Gas operating profit fell 73%, expenditure, and the E&P business was Canadian royalties as a result of lower North predominantly reflecting lower achieved oil free cash flow positive in the year.
We have increased and gas prices and a reduced contribution our target reduction in lifting and other cash GAS from the gas midstream business.
We also production costs in 2016 to 15%, or recognised exceptional post-tax impairments Our E&P business delivered good 150million, compared to 2014. of 1,477million relating to our E&P assets, production performance, with total gas and liquids production down 1% to 78.6mmboe.
Organic capital expenditure in 2015 was as a result of declining oil and gas prices.
Gas production was down 3% and liquids 728million, 33% lower than in 2014.
This POWER production was up 7%.
included spend on the large-scale Cygnus Our share of nuclear power generation project, which is expected to achieve first for the year was up 8%, reflecting good gas in the first half of 2016.
In the current reliability from the fleet.
The four reactors price environment we have acted to We have clarified the role of at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool power stations minimise other capital expenditure, including E&P in the portfolio to were all operational in the year, albeit at exploration.
We are focusing on maintaining reduced load, having been temporarily and optimising production from our assets provide diversity of cash flows shut-down in the second half of 2014 and on completing committed development and balance sheet strength.
following the identification of an issue on projects.
These projects include Cygnus and one boiler spine at Heysham 1 in 2014.
Maria, on which we took a final investment A programme of cooling modifications decision during 2015 and which is due to was successfully implemented during 2015, produce first oil in 2018.
We expect capital and temperature restrictions have now been expenditure to be around 500million lifted.
This means that three of the reactors in 2016.
Centrica Energys proven and can now reach 100% output, with further probable 2P reserves of 528mmboe at the work planned in 2016 at Heysham 1 to end of 2015 were 10% lower than in 2014, increase power.
with positive revisions to reserves in Norway and Canada partially offsetting the impact of production during the year.
C Ce en nt tr riic ca p a pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 33 Centrica Storage: Operating profit 37m 2014: 29m Centrica Storage In thermal power generation, market spark In July 2015 Centrica Storage received spreads and our plants load factors consent from the Oil and Gas Authority remained low during the year.
Gas-fired to increase the reservoir size of Rough volumes were down 37%, which also by 4.5TWh.
As a result, the capacity of reflects an unplanned outage at Langage in Rough has been partially recovered and the first half.
In December 2015, the second a proportion of the cushion gas associated UK power capacity auction took place for with this was sold in the second half of the 2019 20 capacity, clearing at 18.0 kW year.
Operating profit was slightly higher year.
Our Humber and Langage plants were in 2015 than in 2014, with the sale of this successful in the auction, as were all the cushion gas more than offsetting the nuclear reactors in which we have a 20% negative impact of the pressure limitation equity interest.
Humber and Langage on Rough.
remain core assets, alongside Brigg, which In September 2015, the CMA announced is now operating as a distributed energy a consultation on the Rough Undertakings, Seasonal gas price spreads fell to asset and Peterborough, where we have following a request from Centrica Storage historically low levels over the second half of the potential to make a similar conversion.
in light of the operating pressure limitations 2015, with an abundance of flexible supply Killingholme will close in March 2016 once of the Rough wells.
The final report is across Europe, and they remain at these its Supplemental Balancing Reserve SBR expected in April 2016. low levels creating a challenging outlook for contract ends, while Barry will only continue the Rough asset.
It was announced in April to operate if profitability can be secured in Against a challenging external environment, 2015 that all SBUs for the 2015 16 storage short-term flexibility markets.
Centrica Storage has completed a year had been sold at 21.1p, only marginally reorganisation of the business, allowing it Our wind assets delivered increased higher than the 20.0p achieved in 2014 15, to focus on health and safety, efficiency and wind yields but generation volumes fell which was the lowest SBU price since cost control, while maintaining the integrity by 3%, reflecting the disposal of our share Centrica acquired the Rough asset in 2003. of the ageing Rough asset.
in the Barrow offshore wind farm in In March 2015, Centrica Storage December 2014. announced that during a routine inspection Total Power operating profit increased by of Rough a potential technical issue had We do not see Storage as a 40%.
Nuclear profit was up, with the higher been discovered.
As a result, we decided growth option in the current volumes and good cost management more to limit the maximum operating pressure of than offsetting the impact of lower market the Rough wells to 3,000 psi, the equivalent environment.
The operating loss from our of limiting the stock in the Rough asset gas-fired fleet was broadly flat.
The highest level reached in profit increased, with 2014 including net 2014 was 41.1TWh.
Reflecting the reduced negative one-off impacts of 17million maximum operating pressure, Centrica resulting from development project Storage has reduced the number of SBUs write-downs partially offset by profits on it will sell for the 2016 17 storage year to disposal.
Midstream profit was lower in 340 million, from 455 million in 2015 16, comparison to a strong performance in 2014. and in February 2016 announced that it had sold over 80% of this lower capacity.
We also recognised an exceptional post-tax It is anticipated that the limitation will remain impairment of 372million relating to our in place at least until the testing and nuclear investment and 101million relating verification works are completed between to our Spalding contract asset, which September 2016 and December 2016. includes an onerous contract provision of 70million.
These arose primarily as a result of declining baseload power, clean spark spread and forecast capacity auction prices.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
