Strategic report Business review Broking Dry cargo The dry cargo market endured one of its most difficult years in 2015, experiencing lows not seen since the mid-1980s.
The Baltic Dry Index BDI established a new all-time low in February 2015 which has since dropped further in 2016.
Charter rates across all four main vessel segments hovered around cash operating costs, causing a substantial decline in fleet valuations and exerting pressure on shipowner balance sheets.
The main cause of the weakness has been the slowdown in Revenue industrial activity within China, which has had a pronounced impact on the seaborne trade of dry commodities.
China US$365.3m represents nearly 40% of the major bulk trade of iron ore, coal and grain and accounts for two-thirds of the iron ore 2014: US$313.2m trade alone.
In 2015 total global dry cargo trade is estimated to have remained flat with levels from 2014, a material change from the 5-7% growth rate seen during the previous Revenue four years.
The dry cargo fleet grew by a net 3% in 2015 after taking 239.5m into account a relatively high 4-5% of scrapping.
Charter rates remained at low levels, irrespective of this scrapping, 2014: 190.2m as the lack of any demand growth meant additional newbuilding tonnage could not be absorbed.
Segment result Against incredibly challenging trading conditions, the Clarksons Platou dry cargo team have worked hard to increase fixture volumes and build market share.
Following 49.1m the smooth and successful integration, we have further 2014: 34.6m strengthened our combined team to ensure we have the right people to compete in what is a very challenging marketplace.
Encouragingly we have also seen greater interaction between our teams across our expanded office Forward order network and this has been evidenced by the increasing book for 2016 number of deals co-broked between offices.
US$151m At 31 December 2014 for 2015: US$110m Directors best estimate of deliverable FOB Dry cargo ships on the water 10,600 14 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Containers Tankers 2015 was another difficult year for the container shipping The tanker market in 2015 had its best year since 2008. market, with volumes growing 2-3% compared to over VLCC spot earnings averaged US$60,000 day, above the 5% growth during 2014.
Although boxship charter market 2009-2014 average of US$23,000 day, and comparable earnings registered increases in the first half of the year, the to the 2003-2008 bull market average of US$68,000 day.
second half saw earnings trend back down to historically There are several key drivers behind this market strength, low levels.
some of which are expected to continue for 2016.
Lower oil prices have catalysed demand with global oil consumption In early 2015, the more positive charter market was driven growing at an estimated 2% compared to 1% on average by limited supply side growth in the small and medium annually during the previous 10 years.
Oil consumption in sized containership fleets.
The key driver of the deterioration China is estimated to have grown over 5% in 2015, despite in the charter rate environment in the second half of 2015, the general slowdown in its economy, as lower oil prices however, was the significant slowdown in demand growth.
appear to have had a positive impact on demand.
In addition, sentiment weakened with regard to charterers vessel demand, and idle capacity increased once again, Other key factors supporting the tanker market have been reaching around 7% of the fleet late in the year.
higher refining margins, increased long-haul trade from the Middle East and Atlantic Basin, a persistent contango in the The box freight market across 2015 was not only volatile oil futures curve supporting inventory-building and a lack of but also subject to severe downward pressure, significantly meaningful tonnage additions.
At the end of December 2015, the spot freight rate on the key Far Crude tanker demand is estimated to have grown by East-Europe trade stood at US$313 TEU, 73% lower 4-5% during 2015 compared to fleet growth of just 1-2%, than the 2014 full year average, with rates having hit levels causing a substantial increase in fleet utilisation.
The clean around historical lows on more than one occasion during products market saw demand increase by an estimated 6%, the year.
in line with the 6% supply growth.
The combination of higher refining margins worldwide and new refinery capacity in the On the demand side, the outlook has softened considerably.
Middle East and Asia supported product carrier earnings.
Global container trade growth is estimated at 2.5% in 2015, Stronger crude tanker rates helped drive product carrier significantly down on original expectations.
Volumes on the rates higherespecially considering the switching capability key Far East-Europe trade have contracted on the back of between the crude aframax and clean aframax LR2 classes.
weak European economic performance, reduced Russian LR2s averaged US$30,000 day in 2015, double the volumes and cutbacks in inventory stocking.
Meanwhile, earnings average seen since the financial crisis while MRs growth in intra-Asian volumes has slowed to around 3% earned US$21,500 day also double the annual averages due to slowing economic expansion in China and weaker since 2008. economic progress elsewhere in Asia.
Global container trade is expected to expand by around 4% in 2016, but this is clearly subject to downside risk.
On the supply side, the fully cellular fleet stood at 19.7 million TEU at the end of 2015 having grown by 8.1% in the full year.
The order book of 3.8 million TEU represented 19% of fleet capacity at the end of 2015.
In this challenging trading environment the Clarksons Platou container team leveraged its truly global network to drive fixing volumes.
Following the integration with our colleagues from Platou, we have seen greater interaction with our expanded securities business which has broadened our offer to our corporate clients.
We have also strengthened the team further and expanded into Japan.
Global containership capacity Growth in crude tanker fleet expansion in 2015 8% 2.2% 15 www.
com Strategic report Business review continued Broking continued Tankers continued Specialised products There has been a sizable increase in long-haul trade Despite volatile commodity markets and an uncertain as OPEC has publicly sought to maintain and increase economic outlook, we have seen overall improvements its market presence.
Looking ahead there are signs of in seaborne cargo volumes within the specialised production risk in the US, with non-OPEC supply in 2016 products industry.
projected to decline for the first time since 2008.
This is Whilst the Clarksons Platou specialised products Spot supportive of continued long-haul movements on both Chemicals Index recorded an average decrease of 2% crude tankers and product carriers.
Potential output year-on-year and the Spot Edible Oils Index posted a declines also position the US as a growing importer gain over the same period of just 5%, the average price of oil after several years of declining imports.
of 380 CST fuel oil has also fallen by 49%.
The drop in the Crude vessel additions are projected to increase price of crude oil and the effect on marine fuel pricing has meaningfully in 2016 as the fleet is expected to grow by significantly reduced the cost base for our industry, with 5-6% compared to 1-2% for 2015.
Product carrier fleet those owners operating predominantly on the spot charter growth is expected at 5%, below the 6% for 2015.
While markets gaining the most immediate benefit.
The interlinked crude tanker supply growth increases in 2016, demand is period charter markets experienced an increased appetite projected to maintain pace with 2015 and thus the market from market participants as they sought to gain access to outlook remains positive.
the improved returns on offer.
As a result, average one year time charter rates for benchmark units increased by 11% International agreements allowing for potentially higher Iran in 2015 when compared to 2014. oil volumes are expected to lend some support while there are increasing geo-political risks particularly within the The fall in crude oil price has had numerous ramifications Middle East following the recent tensions between Saudi for chemical producers around the globe.
Those producers Arabia and Iran.
It is early to provide a proper assessment using naphtha as a feedstock, primarily in Europe and Asia, but this is a development requiring close attention.
have experienced lower feedstock costs but also lower end-product prices and therefore typically maintained their The Clarksons Platou tanker team has been at the forefront margins.
Other key regions, such as the US, have seen their of all activity across the sector, leveraging its leading market competitive advantage eroded somewhat as input costs position, unrivalled global market coverage and scale.
for shale gas fed crackers have remained largely unchanged over the period.
Whilst these shifts have resulted in some projects stalling in the planning phase, the region remains extremely competitive on a global scale and there have been a number of new project announcements in recent times.
The fleet of available specialised products tankers has seen moderate growth in 2015 of 4% to 47.9m dwt when compared to 2014.
The end of year scheduled order book has now reduced from 14.6% of the in-service fleet by dwt in 2014 to 12.3% at the end of 2015.
There have been pockets of fresh contracting activity, but in many cases this is now for vessels which are part of strategic tonnage replacement programmes by established operators, rather than new entrants into the marketplace.
The Clarksons Platou specialised products team has had a busy year and 2015 has seen us develop and expand our service offer in this market.
The integration of the Platou team has played a key role in this with their strong relationships bringing new growth opportunities.
Over the course of the year we also strengthened the team further with key hires.
New investment in US chemical projects as a result of shale gas US$145bn 16 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Gas LNG The biggest factor underpinning the strength of the The expectation at the start of 2015 was for global LNG market was the continued growth in US export volumes demand to grow by around 6% on the back of the new which ran at very close to terminal capacity levels to hit supply coming from Australia and Papua New Guinea.
Throughput However, a decline in production from Yemen and Algeria of existing facilities was expanded as new terminal resulted in a modest growth of approximately 2%.
meant that trade volume remained almost unchanged since 2011 in the range of 240-250 mt of LNG.
Having broken previous market highs in 2014, the VLGC sector enjoyed another strong year.
The continued fall in With the northern hemisphere experiencing its third oil prices and bunkers served to further boost earnings consecutive mild winter, the consumer demand for heating with time charter equivalent earnings averaging over and power generation remained low, adversely impacting US$2.7m a month compared with US$2.3m last year.
LNG imports to key markets in the Far East.
Japan and Despite the addition of 35 newbuildings during the course Korea, by far the largest importers of LNG, maintained very of the year, strong growth in LPG trade volumes combined high inventories throughout the year and have therefore with an increase in the percentage share of US exports been all but absent from the spot market.
headed for Asia most notably China continued to support Nevertheless, the market has by no means been static.
This strength was largely A number of new importing markets emerged in 2015 which mirrored in the sizes below, particularly the LGCs.
were actively seeking new supply and thus impacted the The midsizes continued to benefit from the growth in LPG dynamics in the spot shipping and trading marketplaces.
export volumes despite trade growth in ammonia proving Floating storage and regasification units played a major role fairly unsensational in 2015.
The combination of minimal in unlocking these new markets, which proved the centres deliveries three in the year, rising US exports and growing for demand growth in 2015. import demand in the Med and South America helped The spot market once again saw increased activity of continue to underpin midsize requirements.
The handysize approximately 30% from 2014 levels and 80% from 2013 sector, however, did not fare so well as there have been levels.
The decline in LNG imports in the Far East and the more additions, both in number and cubic size, to the fleet.
lower tonne-mile demand due to the closer proximity of Smaller sized gas carriers have not performed as well as the new supply to the consumers, combined with the tonnage larger units as the sector has been hit by the dual effects of oversupply, pushed charter rates down.
The spot market for fleet growth and a slowdown in trade.
The exception to this modern tri-fuel carriers averaged approximately US$36,000 has been the smaller semi-refrigerated and ethylene sectors day, while steam powered LNG carriers on average earned which have performed better.
approximately US$26,000 day decline of approximately 50% from 2014 average in both segments.
Modern The Clarksons Platou gas team continued to grow and tonnage dominated the spot market, with approximately increase market share during 2015.
75% of fixtures concluded with modern tri-fuel tonnage, whilst steam turbine ships competed in a limited number of trades.
In 2015, the fleet expanded by approximately 7% with around a third of this expansion being speculative, adding pressure on the charter market.
However, most of the speculative tonnage ordered in the 2011 2012 period has now been delivered, which should start easing pressure on rates going forward.
Around 35 vessels are scheduled for delivery in 2016, of which only three remain without a charter.
Against this backdrop, the Clarksons Platou LNG team have worked hard to significantly increase volumes, despite the poor freight rates, and have taken market share in the sector.
Seaborne trade in 2015 Spot fixtures concluded in 2015 c. 79m mt 30% 17 www.
com Strategic report Business review continued Broking continued Newbuilding Sale and purchase The Clarksons Platou newbuilding team performed well Secondhand in 2015.
Integration post-merger brought a number of key With dry cargo freight rates in the doldrums and the opportunities and the enlarged team delivered growth in tanker markets both crude and clean continuing at firm new market sectors whilst at the same time continuing levels, the secondhand sale and purchase markets were to drive heritage relationships.
challenging for wet and dry over the course of 2015 but Ordering volume globally fell year-on-year by some 30%.
This was partly in response to an incredibly challenging dry The complete disconnect between the performance of cargo market but also a reduced appetite from the capital the wet and dry sale and purchase markets in all sizes is markets backed players that were responsible for driving historically very unusual.
Tonnage oversupply caused pain significant volume into the global order book over the past in dry cargo whilst at the same time the collapsing price two years.
of crude oil drove tanker rates back to historic highs.
Key industrial and end user relationships within the group Surprisingly this has translated into more sale and purchase were, however, capitalised upon and a number of notable activity within dry cargo than perhaps we might have projects were concluded.
Poor charter rates coincided with traditional of the global LPG order book in 2015, by capitalising on shipping banks coming under increased pressure to reduce established project structures with major participants, and their loan books and private equity seemingly unwilling to the continuing development of key private relationships.
The result in some instances has Similarly in the tanker segments, the group was the major been forced decisions, as so-called distressed sellers have service provider to the prominent Korean builders.
had to exit their investments at any price or risk having their Looking forward, we expect that 2016 will continue to be vessels taken by their lenders, who are becoming more challenging as regulatory shifts put pressure on shipyards active as the weeks go by.
to manage their cost base in an environment that is Some of our more traditional, private family-owned clients becoming increasingly price sensitive.
It is likely that the have seen this as an opportunity to purchase modern market will need some time to adjust and re-establish assets at knockdown prices and so volatility has produced fundamentals, but the team is well positioned to capitalise liquidity and those with cash reserves have been leveraging on all opportunities that present themselves.
their strength at the expense of those without.
We have been able to conclude a good number of transactions, albeit at reduced price levels, and have enjoyed growth in market share.
There is no doubt that the increased level of information we have enjoyed from our new merged team has supported this.
In addition, 2015 saw a dramatic increase in the levels of tonnage being scrapped.
Our market share in this sector has increased due to our specialist demolition desk where revenues have doubled.
For the tanker markets it has been more difficult as the lack of pressure on sellers, due to improved earnings, has resulted in them asking for higher prices throughout the year.
These have become ever harder to achieve, with buyers questioning how long they might be able to enjoy these very positive earnings.
Long-term uncertainty has had a negative effect on activity levels as buyers found themselves unable to find period employment beyond two years at anything close to the spot market.
Nevertheless, we have once again concluded some very high value transactions.
Reported value of secondhand vessel Shipyard deliveries in 2015 sales in 2015 US$23.6bn 96.8m dwt 18 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Offshore Futures 2015 was a challenging year for the offshore market 2015 started with levels very close to historic lows.
as charter and spot rates continued to fall.
The cape index opened at US$3,580 and, despite a brief move upwards in late January, maintained an average over The year started with falling utilisation and increasing the first half of the year below US$5,000.
The panamaxes availability of vessels as contracts came to an end.
similarly averaged below US$5,000 for the same period This trend continued and was exacerbated as contracts whilst the supramaxes provided the only surprise in were terminated and renegotiated.
Oil companies were performing best over the first six months of all sizes at aiming for 20-30% cost reduction across the board and close to US$6,600.
continue to be relentless in their pursuit of these cost savings.
Those national oil companies that are managing Q3 provided some relief from the negativity of the first half to maintain activity levels are more than offset by those and values on capes rose to nearly US$19,500 in August, state-owned companies which are struggling and super whilst panamaxes peaked at US$9,403 and supramaxes at majors who are cutting back.
The anticipated spike in Q4 failed to materialise and the cape Q4 index declined steadily to end the year Towards the end of the year, the reduced oil price increased at US$4,028.
Average value for the year on capes was demand and this trend is expected to continue for 2016.
US$6,996 whilst panamaxes averaged US$5,560 and Whilst much of the growth is being met by increased supramaxes averaged US$6,965.
onshore and shallow water offshore production by Saudi Arabia and US shale gas, it is not clear how much further Volumes on freight swaps were generally similar to this can continue.
If Iran becomes a significant supplier, it 2014 but the options market proved more interesting may create further demand for replacement offshore assets.
On the supply side, utilisation rates fell as increasing Disappointing though the market was in 2015, we numbers of rigs and OSVs have been stacked up.
continued to build market share in the options market and As a result, we saw multiple bidders and as many as offset some of the difficulties in the swaps market, where 30 rigs being offered for one job, implying further downward we continue to have a strong market share in all sizes.
The subsequent financial cost of not Iron ore market volumes grew and ended the year at having regular revenues on assets is resulting in rig and 844,119,300 mt up 70.32% on 2014.
Values deteriorated OSV players having to restructure, to the potential benefit steadily with the year starting at US$71.20 for TSI 62% of the securities team.
There are also some signs that and ending the year at US$42.90.
By comparison, 2014 owners are being more realistic about asset prices which values fell from an open of US$135 to a close of US$71.20.
may create opportunities for sale and purchase transactions.
Our swaps volume in this growing area has improved and Although not immune to the challenging markets, the we have recently entered the iron ore options market where Clarksons Platou offshore team has fared comparatively we expect further growth.
We have worked hard to further build and strengthen In these challenging markets we continue to see a our significant share of the OSV chartering market and flight to quality as clients want reassurance that they have seen good sale and purchase activity levels, albeit are working with expert teams at highly credible and at comparatively low values.
The strength of our teams sustainable brokerages.
coupled with our high quality analysis and research has positioned us to take advantage of the flight to quality in our markets and wherever there have been signs of activity the scale of our team and placing power has meant we have been at the forefront.
Offshore proportion of the worlds Freight options growth in 2015 oil production 25% 68% 19 www.
com Our team boasts some of the most experienced and knowledgeable people in the industry.
We have invested heavily in research and technology to ensure they have the best tools at hand to enable them to offer the best client service, wherever they may be across our global network.
Experts Expertise Hans Lund Securities credit analyst Clarksons Platou Securities AS Oslo Strategic report Business review continued Financial Securities The global stock markets have been severely depressed over the course of 2015 reflecting the tumbling oil price and broader global economic uncertainty.
Investors confidence by the end of 2015 was drained.
Developments across various asset classes in the US and European financial markets were largely influenced by international factors, including a weakening global growth outlook and falling commodity prices.
The first half of 2015 was dedicated to integrating the Revenue former Clarkson Capital Markets CCM with the Platou markets group, establishing the Clarksons Platou securities US$43.8m group located in Oslo, New York and Houston.
Our enlarged team has a strong sales force covering investors globally 2014: US$14.3m focused on energy and maritime industries, in addition to a strong research team providing industry leading research to our customers.
Revenue Corporate finance revenues in 2015 were driven by equity capital markets transactions, however the markets became 28.7m increasingly difficult during the second half.
Although volumes were substantially down from 2014, the securities 2014: 8.7m group has strong market share in our core segments.
We have maintained our leading position in raising capital for the energy and maritime industries, raising a total of US$1bn for Segment result companies within our core sectors.
We have also continued to hold a very strong position in global shipping transactions 1.2m profit working with the most active issuers listed in the US.
On the fixed income side, securities has been one of the most 2014: 1.9m loss active restructuring and divestment advisors, a position maintained during 2015.
Commission from the secondary trading of equities has also increased compared to 2014.
Companies covered globally within maritime sectors 180 22 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Project finance Debt and leasing solutions The first half of 2015 was an active year in shipping project 2015 started with a wave of optimism from the debt and finance, with special focus on the tanker and feeder leasing markets.
Many of the financial institutions that had container segments.
In the dry cargo market, the recent slowed their lending in the wake of the financial crisis and drop in secondhand and vessel resale values has once enhanced regulatory pressure were showing signs of using again created interesting opportunities for asset play their balance sheets with renewed vigour.
However, as the projects that can be financed using 100% equity, as todays year moved on, the traditional debt and leasing structures charter rates are not high enough to cover debt servicing began to slow again and by the third quarter there was a as well as operating expenses.
very noticeable caution around the market.
By the end of the year the traditional lenders were essentially inactive and The traditional shipping banks appetite to look at new looking into 2016, the outlook remains tight.
transactions has slowed down noticeably, as their exposure in offshore, container and dry cargo is challenging loan-toAgainst this challenging trading environment, we delivered values and earnings in the spot market are only enough a satisfactory trading performance, whilst rebranding our to cover operating costs.
In projects with newer vessels, business as Clarksons Platou Debt and Leasing Solutions.
long underlying time charters or bareboat charters to large The enlarged team focused on continuing the development owners, debt financing for projects is still available.
of our excellent relations with alternative shipping lenders and Asia Pacific banks in particular China.
The new and Over the course of 2015 we have grown our team with a enhanced relationships are allowing the desk to provide new project sales desk designated to focus on increasing viable funding solutions to our clients and add further both our investor base and the liquidity of shares in the value to the Clarksons Platou platform.
secondhand market within shipping offshore and real estate.
Our real estate team had a very busy year in 2015 and delivered a strong performance.
The Nordic real estate market reached all-time highs in the first half of the year, and yields on prime assets are under pressure from institutional funds seeking stable dividends in stable macro-economies like the Nordic.
Foreign investors have had an increasing appetite for the Norwegian market over recent years, and we saw this trend continue in 2015 with the year ending with record high transaction volumes.
For the first time the Norwegian market outperformed the Swedish market, that has traditionally been one of the top five in Europe.
2015 total KS market transaction Marine finance loans in 2015 volume shipping US$462m US$104.7bn 23 www.
com Our extensive geographic coverage spans 20 countries through 46 offices, underpinning our ability to provide clients with invaluable global support at a local level.
Global Local Innes Cameron Director Port Services Aberdeen Strategic report Business review continued Support We have seen a growing confidence in offshore renewables, and an increased level of activity in preparation for new wind farm projects.
CPS is well positioned for securing contracts in this sector during 2016.
Our newest acquisition in Belfast had an excellent year, performing well above expectations and supporting several oil rig and offshore projects in conjunction with their traditional bulk business.
For 2016, we anticipate several opportunities for this success to continue.
Gibb Tools and Opex Industrial Supplies Opex Revenue Gibb Tools and Opex had a weaker year than originally anticipated due to the low oil price and a market reluctance 22.5m to invest, which affected our supply business.
2014: 28.6m However, our team has focused on preparations for the merger of these two supply-based businesses into a single headquarters in Aberdeen.
Segment result Stevedoring Our stevedoring operation in Ipswich had a slow start to 3.3m the year caused by markedly reduced grain export volumes.
2014: 4.0m This was exacerbated by the weak euro making shortsea destinations unattractive.
In contrast, the second half of the year saw much higher volumes giving us strong results for the year overall.
Port services We won further customer support over the course of 2015, 2015 was a good year for all our port services activities allowing us to expand our operations and take additional linked to conventional bulk shipping, although this has storage from the Ipswich Port Authority.
We now have been heavily tempered by the downturn in the oil and storage capacity for approximately 40,000 mt of bulk cargo.
gas market, which has negatively impacted the overall Freight forwarding performance for the year.
We continue to explore avenues Despite a good start to the year, our freight forwarding away from oil and gas, whilst ensuring we are in a strong operation in Great Yarmouth suffered from lower volumes position to react when this market shows signs of recovery.
in the second half, primarily caused by lower activity Agency levels from our major oil rig owners.
As with other areas The southern Clarkson Port Services CPS offices of our business, this is linked to reduced operations in performed well in 2015.
Although shipments of grain were the North Sea.
slow in the first half, they increased significantly in the second half, giving a strong result for the year.
We have Property services seen a return to our traditional mix of short and deep sea Included within the support segment are the revenues activity, and have benefited from taking over grain export and profits derived from property services.
agency business at the Tilbury grain terminal.
Imports of In 2014, the group signed a 15 year lease for a new animal feed have remained steady, supporting our Ipswich flagship head office at Commodity Quay, St. Katharine and west coast UK offices.
Docks, commencing from the last quarter of 2014.
The In contrast, the performance of our northern CPS offices group moved into this new head office on 20 July 2015. has continued to be impacted by the weak oil price During the year, our teams in Oslo and Singapore moved which has depressed industry activity in this region.
into new premises, having signed leases for 12 and 5 Coal import volumes have remained low, and the years respectively.
indication is that they will continue at this level in 2016 The group also owns a number of freehold properties which due to the closure or reduced operations of several coal are either owner-occupied or let on a full commercial rent.
Biomass has now largely replaced our coal volumes, with a notable new contract being awarded in Liverpool.
East Anglian grain shipping exporters using Clarksons stevedoring facilities in 2015 90% 26 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Research The majority of Clarksons Research sales are derived from annuity revenue, with high customer retention levels.
The client base is broad and diversified with excellent market penetration across the financial, asset owning, insurance, equipment supplier, governmental, private equity, energy, commodity, shipyard, fabrication and oil service sectors.
There is also broad geographical spread and a strong position in expanding markets, with sales to the Asia Pacific region growing by over 24% in 2015.
We continue to broaden our geographic footprint, with the expansion of operations in both Shanghai and Singapore during 2015.
Revenue Research derived its income from the following principal areas: 11.1m Digital 2014: 10.4m Sales from digital products increased by an encouraging 9% during the year.
Our flagship maritime commercial database, Shipping Intelligence Network, has benefited from Segment result the roll out of a major upgrade during 2015 which has been well received by our client base.
There was robust growth from 3.4m our market-leading online vessel register, World Fleet Register, with further innovations to the system planned for 2016.
2014: 3.5m Our digital offering across offshore, including World Offshore Register, continues to gain traction and our position as the leading provider of offshore data to the insurance market has been consolidated.
Clarksons Research continues to develop Research revenues grew strongly in 2015, reaching new proprietary data areas within their offering including the 11.1m 2014: 10.4m and continuing a consistent utilisation of AIS data, additional company information, trade long-term growth profile.
and commodity flows, the tracking of capital market activity, Despite challenging markets, underlying sales grew by 7% machinery and environmental packages on board ships and during the year, supported by demand for our market-leading subsea and pipeline infrastructure.
shipping products, growth of offshore digital sales and a strong performance by our service contract and valuation business.
Publications Across 2015 there has also been a trend towards annuity Clarksons Research produces weekly, monthly, quarterly based digital and service contract business, which has and annual publications, registers and maps, available both in increased the amount of overall revenue being deferred.
print and within our digital offering.
In 2015 our well-established shipping range was supplemented by new publications Clarksons Research is respected worldwide as a marketcovering global trade and the capital markets.
Our leading provider of authoritative intelligence across shipping, comprehensive offshore offering, including Offshore Drilling trade, offshore and energy.
Activities focus primarily on the Rig Monthly and Offshore Support Vessel Monthly, continues collection, validation, management and analysis of integrated to gain traction.
Publications remain an important aspect data about the shipping and offshore markets.
Including wide of our overall offering, besides generating important ranging technical and commercial information in a fully provenance and profile.
integrated and relational format, the coverage and depth of the shipping research and trade database continues to expand Services and now includes coverage on over 100,000 vessels, over Clarkson Research continues to expand its provision of 40,000 companies, over 25,000 machinery models, over 600 customer service contracts to a range of large corporate active shipyards and fabricators, over 600,000 fixtures and and institutional clients in both the shipping and offshore over 100,000 time series.
A specialist team concentrates on managing The offshore and energy database provides comprehensive retainers and providing bespoke research, consultancy, coverage of all offshore fields, projects, platforms, subsea valuations and data for banks, shipyards, fabricators, infrastructure, rigs, support vessels and construction vessels, engineering companies, insurers, governments, asset wholly integrated within a Geographical Information System.
Clarkson Research continues Clarksons Research continues to invest heavily to expand its to be a leading provider of data to clients, producing capital wide ranging proprietary database, to develop and enhance market prospectuses across a range of issuance types and its product offering and to support and promote the Clarksons exchanges.
Clarksons Valuations has been expanded and group across the global shipping and offshore industries.
remains the leading provider of asset valuation services to The provision of data to the expanded Clarksons group was the industry, including to many of the worlds leading ship also enhanced during 2015. finance banks and public listed shipping companies, and performed particularly strongly across 2015.
com Clarkson Research Services is the largest commercially-led research unit in the maritime world, providing historical intelligence through registers, databases, periodicals and on a more bespoke level through validation and consulting.
Not only do we have a research team dedicated to publishing and consulting, but also dedicated analysts within every commercial team across the enlarged group.
This quality and depth of research is unique and central to the groups strategy.
Ideas Insights Henriette van Niekerk Director Dry cargo analysis London
