26 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 BUSINESS REVIEWS: NORTH AMERICA Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points NORTH % % % AMERICA US Spirits Canada Sp irits Wine Other Value Super premium and Wines Other Beer RTDs Standard Ul tra premium D GUSA Premium Key financials North America accounts for about Acquisitions 2014 and Organic 2015 Reported a third of our net sales and around Reported Exchange disposals movement Reported movement million million million million million % 45% of operating profit and is the Net sales 3,444 97 37 49 3,455 largest market for premium drinks Marketing spend 540 16 7 21 542 in the world.
Continuing economic Operating profit before uncertainty has adversely impacted exceptional items 1,460 27 2 37 1,448 1 Exceptional items 35 28 consumer spending in the region, but Operating profit 1,425 1,420 due to our leadership in innovation, strong route to consumer and solid marketing investment in key brands, with more than 3,000 dedicated distributor Supply operations We have 11 bottling, distilling, blending and we continue to be well positioned.
sales people focused only on Diageo and Mot Hennessy spirits and wine brands.
maturation sites including operations in We are promoting responsible Diageo consolidates its US Spirits and Wines Plainfield, Illinois: Amherstburg, Ontario: drinking, and this year the US business into a single state-wide distributor Valleyfield, Quebec: Relay, Maryland: Gimli, government approved our request Manitoba: Tullahoma, Tennessee: Louisville, in 41 states and the District of Columbia, to include serving fact information representing more than 80% of the Kentucky: and seven wineries and wine companys US Spirits and Wines volume.
Focusing on beverage alcohol products.
US Spirits and Wines business operates on continuously improving efficiency across Our markets our supply chain we made significant through five divisions in Open States where Our North America business comprises we sell to distributors who then sell to investments during the year and announced US Spirits and Wines, Diageo Guinness USA retailers, and through two divisions in plans to cease bottling operations in Relay, DGUSA and Diageo Canada, headquartered Control States where mostly we sell to the Maryland.
state, which in turn sells to state or agency Sustainability and responsibility stores and on premise retailers.
US Spirits Route to market As our largest market, with many millions and Wines sells the vast majority of the Route to market in the United States is of consumers, our focus on responsible Californian and imported wines we own and through the three-tier system and we drinking in North America is particularly represent, with the remaining small portion distribute our products through more than important, and we have built a reputation as of sales coming from winery visitor centres 100 spirits and wines distributors and a leading voice in the industry.
After 12 years and online sales.
brokers, and more than 400 beer distributors.
of advocating with a coalition of consumer DGUSA sells and markets brands We have a unique route to market for our and public health advocates, the US including Guinness, Smirnoff Ice and Red spirits and wine business in the United States, government recently allowed alcohol Stripe.
Beer distribution generally follows the companies to include alcohol content and three-tier open state regulations across the nutritional information per typical serve on United States.
In March we followed this by Diageo Canada distributes our collection announcing our commitment to provide of spirits, beer and wine brands across all consumers around the world with this Canadian provinces, which generally operate information a first for any alcohol company.
Diageo Another key issue for us is operational Canada operates through a single broker sustainability our Californian vineyards and with a dedicated sales force handling our wineries are in a water-stressed area, and we brands in the country.
have responded by creating Blue Teams to National brand strategy, strategic scale up our focus on reducing water use in accounts marketing and corporate functions our operations and identifying opportunities are managed at the North America level.
In in our wine growers supply chain.
North America, we market a total beverage alcohol portfolio.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 27 BUSINESS REVIEWS: NORTH AMERICA In North America, US Spirits has KEY HIGHLIGHTS activities for Red, Black, and Blue Label.
Croc net sales growth of 4% was driven delivered improved depletion Net sales in US Spirits and Wines performance through the year with the declined 2% while the value of distributor by the notable success of Croc Pineapple, value of distributor depletions, up 3% depletions was up 4%.
Diageos North the latest addition to the flavour range.
in the first half and up 4% for the full American whisk e y performance was Despite an improved performance trajectory, net sales of Smirnoff declined year.
Shipments were broadly in line with very strong with the portfolio outpacing depletions and therefore net sales were category growth and net sales up 13%.
4% as the flavour portfolio, confections down 2% year on year as last year Crown Royal was the primary driver as in particular, continued to be a drag on shipments were higher than depletions Crown Royal Regal Apple, the top selling performance.
The launch of Captain innovation according to Nielsen, gained Morgan White Flavours partially offset mainly driven by innovation launches.
Beer net sales were in line with last year, share as it recruited new consumers to the effect of lapping the prior years ready to drink and wine were down the brand, driving double digit top line launch of Captain Morgan White which, slightly and in Canada net sales grew 2%.
Bulleit, the together with weakness on Original fastest growing unflavoured North Spiced, drove double digit net sales Volume growth of the reserve portfolio was the main driver of the 1.5pps of American whisk e y, drove one third of decline for the brand.
Net sales of tequila increased price mix as price premiums that categorys growth with net sales up were up double digit, driven by 10% against the competition, for brands such 35%.
Both Bulleit Bourbon and Bulleit Rye growth of Don Julio, which was led their respective segments through supported by marketing campaigns as Smirnoff and Captain Morgan, were narrowed.
This led to lower achieved increased distribution, consumer focused on the heritage and price year on year but did drive improved experience marketing, and the craftsmanship of the brand, and the share positions.
Our innovation agenda engagement of key trade influencers.
launch of new DeLen variants, which In scotch, Buchanans was the fastest broadened the price range and continued to lead the industry in North America and this year was a key driver of growing brand in the United States, contributed to increased distribution our net sales.
Advertising spend was with net sales up over 20%.
down as we drove procurement savings resonates particularly well with the Guinness net sales were up 3% on the growing Hispanic population, and this on media and agency fees in marketing strong performance of Blonde American while maintaining our share of voice.
year added sponsorship of the Latin Lager.
Guinness Draught was weak given Adjusting for these savings, marketing Grammy Awards to its full suite of competition in the craft beer segment, as a percentage of net sales was roughly marketing activities.
Johnnie Walker did particularly in the on trade.
Net sales of not perform well, partly as a result of flat.
Overheads were flat but operating ready to drink declined slightly, bringing margin declined 47 basis points driven lapping the strong launch of Platinum net sales of DGUSA down 1%.
Stronger by soft volume and lower net sales of and Gold Label Reserve last year but execution and competitive pricing on spirits in the United States.
also due to a reduction in promotional Smirnoff Ice stabilised the core and flavoured variants but the brands growth still lags the category.
Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales i movement movement movement In Canada the new distribution system Markets: % % % helped drive net sales growth of 2%.
North America 3 1 Spirits growth of 3% was driven by Johnnie Walker and vodka.
Ready to US Spirits and Wines 3 2 1 drink net sales growth was principally DGUSA 3 1 3 due to Smirnoff variants, with beer down Canada 3 2 4 and wine down double digit.
Tactical ii Spirits 3 1 1 price reductions resulted in share Beer 1 1 improvement, with a marginally Wine 2 2 2 negative impact on price mix.
Ready to drink 3 1 14 Marketing investment in North America reduced 4% driven by US Spirits and ii Global giants and local stars : Wines, which delivered significant savings Smirnoff 2 3 1 on media and agency fees and Captain Morgan 10 12 10 procurement efficiencies.
Advertising Johnnie Walker 8 15 12 remained focused on Croc, Crown Royal, Guinness 2 2 4 Smirnoff, Captain Morgan, and Johnnie Baileys 5 5 3 Walker, and increased on Don Julio and Tanqueray 2 2 1 Bulleit to support new programmes.
Crown Royal 13 12 15 Marketing investment in DGUSA supported Croc 4 4 8 the launch of Guinness Blonde American Ketel One vodka 2 2 1 Lager and in Canada, a 1% increase went Bulleit 32 36 41 behind innovation launches.
Don Julio 5 9 13 Buchanans 17 18 23 i Organic equals reported movement for volume except for North America 4 %, US Spirits and Wines 5 %, spirits 3 % and ready to drink 25 % reflecting the termination of the transitional arrangements following the disposal of Jose Cuervo and Bushmills and the acquisition of the outstanding stake in Don Julio.
ii Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
28 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 BUSINESS REVIEWS: EUROPE Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points EUROPE % % % Western Europe Turkey Sp irits Wine Other Value Super premium Russia and Other Beer RTDs Standard Ul tra premium Eastern Europe Premium Key financials Diageo is the largest premium 2014 Acquisitions Reported and Organic 2015 Reported i drinks business in Western Europe.
restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement million million million million million % Consumer marketing programmes Net sales 2,814 186 13 2 2,617 7 are developed at a market level to Marketing spend 413 30 1 6 388 6 drive consistency, efficiency and scale Operating profit before across all countries.
In Russia and exceptional items 853 67 2 20 804 6 Exceptional items 20 20 Eastern Europe we are driving our Operating profit 833 784 6 premium core, standard and value i Restated following the change in the internal reporting structure to reflect changes made to management brands and reserve portfolio, whilst responsibilities.
See page 50 for further details.
in Turkey, we use our local businesses was merged with Western Europe creating Supply operations strong route to consumer to drive Diageo Europe.
The International Supply Centre ISC accelerated growth in international comprises the supply operations in the Route to market premium spirits.
In Europe, where United Kingdom, Ireland and Italy.
The group In Great Britain we sell and market our owns 29 whisky distilleries in Scotland, a competition for talent is particularly products through Diageo GB spirits, beer Dublin based beer brewery and maturing strong, our reputation as a trusted and ready to drink, Percy Fox & Co wines and packaging facilities in Scotland, England, and respected company and for and Justerini & Brooks Retail wines private Ireland and Italy.
The ISC ships whisk e y, clients.
Products are distributed through ground-breaking innovation, is key vodka, gin, rum, beer, wine, cream liqueurs, independent wholesalers and directly to to our ability to attract and retain and other spirit-based drinks to over 180 retailers.
In the on trade, products are sold countries.
Through our 1 billion investment the people we need to deliver our through major brewers, multiple retail in Scotch whisky production and inventory, Performance Ambition.
groups and smaller regional independent announced in 2012, distilling capacity has brewers and wholesalers.
Our markets In the Republic of Ireland and Northern Europe comprises Western Europe, Russia and Raki, vodka and wine are produced in Ireland, Diageo sells and distributes directly Turkey at a number of sites and Smirnov Eastern Europe and Turkey.
Western Europe to the on trade and the off trade via a is managed as a single market with country vodka is produced in Russia.
teams focusing on sales and customer Across the remainder of Western Europe, Sustainability and responsibility marketing execution.
It includes Great Britain, we distribute our spirits brands primarily People today increasingly want to work for Ireland, Iberia, France, Germany and Diageo through our own distribution companies, companies that they believe make a positive Guinness Continental Europe beer business.
except for France where products are sold social and environmental, as well as Eastern Europe includes Poland, Bulgaria, through a joint venture arrangement with economic, contribution.
Our leadership in Romania and Israel.
responsible drinking, through programmes On 1 July 2015, Russia became Diageo Guinness Continental Europe and partnerships, and our contribution to a standalone market while Eastern Europe distributes our beer brands in mainland the communities in which we operate, Europe, focusing in Germany, Russia and support our reputation and ability to attract France, our largest mainland European and retain employees.
drinking programme, NOFAS, aims to tackle In Russia and Poland we operate through foetal alcohol syndrome by training wholly owned subsidiaries, while in other midwives and health professionals to date Eastern Europe countries we use third we have reached around 300,000 pregnant party distributors.
In the last few years, In Turkey, we sell our products via the we have launched our Learning for Life distribution network of Mey ki, our wholly community programme in a number of owned subsidiary.
Mey ki distributes both European countries, including a major local brands raki, other spirits and wine investment in Scotland, as part of a five-year and Diageos global spirits brands.
effort targeted towards young people.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 29 BUSINESS REVIEWS: EUROPE Europes performance reflected an KEY HIGHLIGHTS Italy, where Zacapa was up 10% and Croc more than trebled net sales.
In Greece, improved momentum in Western In Western Europe net sales were Europe, growth in Turkey and a up 1%: performance was impacted by the challenging environment in Russia.
In deterioration of economic environment In Great Britain net sales were up 3%, Western Europe net sales were up 1%, as in the last quarter, which resulted in a 4% with spirits, beer, and ready to drink all in net sales decline.
performance improved in more than half growth.
Reserve net sales were up 43% of our markets.
Reserve brands delivered Net sales in Germany and Austria driven by Croc and the successful launch another strong performance with net declined 2%.
In Germany net sales were of Haig Club.
Captain Morgan net sales sales up 20% and growing double digit up 5%.
Underlying performance was were up 15%, with investment focused strong with net sales of Baileys, Captain even in the more challenging economies on increased activation in outlets and in Southern Europe.
Innovation Morgan and Johnnie Walker Red Label all Smirnoff was back in growth with net remained a key performance driver with up double digit.
In Austria, net sales were sales up 1%, supported by the new Were net sales up 30% driven by successes down 53% against the buy in ahead of Open campaign.
Beer net sales were up the excise duty increase in January 2014. such as The Brewers Project which 2% driven by innovation on Guinness.
helped put Guinness back in growth in Performance in Benelux continued to Ready to drink net sales were up 7% both Great Britain and Ireland.
We be impacted by the decision to realign supported by strong growth in pre-mix.
continued to invest in our route to prices in the first half on premium core The only weakness was in Baileys where brands which resulted in a net sales consumer, increasing the number of net sales were down 2%, however Baileys salespeople by 30% and the number of decline of 10%.
In Russia, which In a challenging trading environment in In Ireland net sales were down 1%, or flat continued to be impacted by economic France net sales increased 2% largely after accounting for the transfer of wine driven by growth in scotch, with Scotch volatility, consumers traded down and sales to Diageo Wines Europe.
Guinness customers reduced inventory levels malts up 6%, and the strong performance sustained its positive momentum with while Diageo gained share in scotch and of Captain Morgan which, in its third year, net sales up 2%, supported by successful rum.
Turkey net sales were up 3% driving more than doubled net sales.
innovations launched through The Net sales in Diageo Wines Europe were premiumisation in the raki category Brewers Project at St Jamess Gate.
Net andgained share in scotch and vodka.
up 3% largely driven by the transfer of sales in spirits were down 2% as the Total operating margin for the region wine net sales from Diageo Ireland and category continued to be affected by improved 75bps largely driven by gross the strong performance of [yellow tail].
margin improvement in Turkey, and In Southern Europe net sales were Performance in Russia and Eastern overhead cost reduction in Western down 1%.
Net sales in Iberia were flat, Europe continued to be impacted by the Europe, which was partially reinvested in after accounting for a transfer of sales events in the region.
In Russia, net sales marketing spend and route to consumer.
of one customer to Africa Regional declined 14%, driven by both destocking Markets, but showing positive amongst distributors and consumers momentum with growth from Tanqueray trading down.
This impacted Johnnie and Gordons in a vibrant gin category Walker, however Diageo extended its and declines in JB and Cacique.
Double leadership in whisky and rum, and gained digit growth of reserve was the main share with brands such as White Horse, driver behind the 1% net sales growth in Black & White and Captain Morgan.
In Poland, net sales of Johnnie Walker Red Label declined 15% and the brand lost share, as some competitors did not follow Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales i movement movement movement Diageo price increases to cover last years Markets: % % % excise duty increase.
Europe 7 In Turkey net sales grew 3% despite an Western Europe 1 1 5 excise duty increase in January and the Russia and Eastern Europe 8 9 26 earlier start to Ramadan.
Net sales in Turkey 3 5 raki were up 5% with Yen Raki and the super premium variant Tekirda Raki ii Spirits 1 1 8 premiumising the category.
Good Beer 1 1 4 underlying performance of international Wine 1 4 spirits resulted in share gains for Johnnie Ready to drink 6 2 5 Walker, Smirnoff and Baileys.
ii Global giants and local stars : Marketing investment in Europe Guinness 1 2 2 increased 2% largely driven by Western Smirnoff 2 4 7 Europe where spend was up 3%.
The Johnnie Walker 5 7 15 increased investment was focused on the biggest growth opportunities such Baileys 3 4 10 as reserve and innovation to support Captain Morgan 9 10 1 the launches of Haig Club and the Yen Raki 4 4 6 Guinness Brewers project.
JB 1 3 10 i Organic equals reported movement for volume.
30 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 BUSINESS REVIEWS: AFRICA Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points AFRICA % % % Nigeria South Africa Sp irits Wine Other Value Super premium Beer RTDs Standard Ul tra premium East Africa Other Premium Africa Regional Markets Key financials In Africa our strategy is to grow 2014 Acquisitions Reported and Organic 2015 Reported i Diageos leadership across beer and restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement million million million million million % spirits by providing brand choice Net sales 1,430 100 85 1,415 1 across a broad range of consumer Marketing spend 152 10 5 147 3 motivations, profiles, and occasions.
Operating profit before exceptional items 340 52 1 29 318 6 We are focused on growing beer Exceptional items 23 7 faster than the market and Operating profit 317 311 2 accelerating the growth of spirits i Restated following the change in the internal reporting structure to reflect changes made to management through continued investment in responsibilities.
EABL produces and distributes beer Sustainability and responsibility sourcing is a key element of our and spirits brands to a range of consumers In Africa we create wealth both directly strategy in Africa: it directly supports in Kenya and Uganda, and has a 51% equity through our operations and indirectly interest in Serengeti Breweries Limited, through our broader network, particularly our commercial operations, while Tanzania.
Within Africa Regional Markets, of agricultural suppliers.
We source 70% of indirectly supporting our position we have wholly owned subsidiaries in agricultural and packaging materials locally by bringing wider benefits to society Cameroon, Ethiopia, Mozambique and and we work with more than 50,000 local as a whole.
Runion and majority owned subsidiaries in farmers for our agricultural inputs.
Thirteen Ghana and the Seychelles.
Angola is supplied of our production sites in Africa are in Our markets via a third party distributor.
In South Africa water-stressed areas, so much of our focus The region comprises Nigeria, East Africa we sell spirits and sorghum beer through is on managing water use in our operations Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda wholly owned subsidiaries and currently sell effectively and enhancing access to clean and South Sudan, Africa Regional Markets our beer, cider and ready to drink products water to surrounding communities through including Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia, through our 42.25% stake in DHN Drinks Ltd, our pan-African Water of Life programme.
Angola, Mozambique and a sorghum beer a joint venture with Heineken and Namibia Since we began the programme in 2006, business in South Africa and South Africa Breweries Ltd. On 28 July 2015, Diageo we have brought safe drinking water to all other products.
announced the agreement to dispose of its more than ten million people.
The launch equity interest in DHN Drinks Ltd. Diageo of our Water Blueprint strategy this year will Route to market has brewing arrangements with the Castel help us focus further on water use in the In Africa our largest businesses are in Nigeria, supply chain, with one of our key targets Group who license, brew and distribute where we own 54.3% of a listed company Guinness in the Democratic Republic of being to equip our suppliers with the tools to whose principal brands are Guinness, Harp Congo, Gambia, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Togo, protect water sources in water-stressed areas.
and Malta, and in East Africa, where we own Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali and Guinea.
We also support many responsible drinking 50.03% of East African Breweries Limited programmes throughout the continent.
Diageo sells spirits through distributors in the majority of other sub-Saharan countries.
We tackle issues like drink driving through programmes such as Dry Drive in South Supply operations Africa, and underage consumption through We have 14 breweries in Africa, including the the Red Card initiative in Uganda, and brewery owned by Sedibeng in South Africa through advocating stronger legal purchase in which we own a 25% equity stake.
Our training programmes In addition, our beer and spirits brands have also created close to 40,000 responsible are produced by third parties under licence drinking ambassadors across Africa this year.
We also own five manufacturing facilities including blending, malting and cider plants.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 31 BUSINESS REVIEWS: AFRICA Good performances in both beer and KEY HIGHLIGHTS In Africa Regional Markets, net sales grew strongly, up 15%.
In Ghana, net spirits led to net sales up 6% in Africa.
Nigeria delivered double digit volume Investments in route to consumer growth driven primarily by the national sales grew 32%.
Investment in route to together with innovation drove an 8% rollout of Orijin, while net sales grew 6%.
consumer, together with price increases, increase in beer and led to double digit The weak consumer environment led to led to 28% net sales growth of beer, and a move to value lager which resulted in spirits grew strongly driven by the growth growth in spirits.
The mainstream beer market in Nigeria remained challenged a strong performance of Satzenbrau and of Johnnie Walker and the introduction of as consumers moved towards more value a weak performance of Harp.
In Cameroon, net sales grew products, impacting the performance sales of Guinness declined although the 10% driven by growth of Guinness, which brands performance improved in the benefited from increased awareness ofGuinness and Harp.
However the national rollout of Orijin and renovation second half and volume share stabilised.
through the Made of Black campaign, of Satzenbrau drove an increase in beer Spirits net sales were up 19% as inventory together with outperformance of Harp net sales of 9%.
Investment in Guinness reductions on Johnnie Walker and Baileys and growth of Johnnie Walker and were offset by the strong performance of Baileys.
In Angola, spirits net sales marketing has stabilised volume share in the brand.
Good progress in route to local mainstream spirits.
doubled following route to consumer consumer led to strong net sales growth investments and the appointment of In East Africa, where net sales grew 9%, in Ghana, and in Cameroon, strong a new distributor.
This led to strong Guinness volume and net sales grew performances from Johnnie Walker, marketing campaigns delivered net sales strong double digits supported by the and share gains in Guinness.
In South White Horse, and Gordons gin.
While the Made of More campaign.
Innovation in Africa, spirits growth was underpinned performance of Meta beer in Ethiopia value beer, in particular, Balozi lager in by the continued strong performances of was impacted by increased competitive Kenya, a no added sugar offering, and in pricing, this was mostly offset by strong Smirnoff 1818, which is now a two million Tanzania Kibo Gold, positioned to capture case brand, and Johnnie Walker, while net sales of Malta and the introduction consumers trading down, offset a decline overall growth was impacted by a decline of Zemen, a lower-price beer innovation, in Senator due to excise duty changes in in ready to drink.
Reserve brands grew along with a good performance of spirits.
Kenya in the first half last year.
In spirits, 26% with double digit increases in South growth was led by mainstream spirits Net sales in South Africa were down 7% Africa, East Africa and Nigeria.
Increased brands and good performances from driven by a decline in Smirnoff Ice Double sales of mainstream brands, which have Johnnie Walker and Smirnoff.
Success Black and Guarana, which lapped strong lower costs per case, together with in mainstream spirits was driven by replenishment sales and high inventories procurement and supply efficiencies Kane Extra and Liberty in Kenya, which in the last financial year.
Spirits net sales were partially offset by an increase in benefited from improvements in route to increased 8% driven by Smirnoff 1818, marketing spend and route to consumer consumer, including the introduction of with net sales up 27% based on investments leading to organic operating motorcycles to increase sales coverage competitive pricing and following a margin improvement of 75 basis points.
Net sales of Johnnie net sales grew 60% driven by recruitment Walker increased 10% with marketing activities, while the launch of Smirnoff focused on the brands quality Ice Double Black and Guarana also credentials.
Its contribution to total scotch contributed to East Africas growth.
performance was partially offset by a weaker performance of JB and Bells.
Reserve brands continued to benefit from investments in route to consumer.
Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales Marketing investment in Africa i movement movement movement increased 4%.
In Nigeria spend on beer Markets: % % % was refocused from Harp to support the Africa 7 6 1 growth of Orijin and value beers, while in Nigeria 13 6 3 East Africa, the decline in Senator volume East Africa 7 9 6 also led to a reduction in spend.
Spend Africa Regional Markets 14 15 1 increased behind vodka, notably Smirnoff South Africa 2 7 12 1818 in South Africa in support of pack ii innovations and promotional activity and Spirits 17 13 7 investment behind Johnnie Walker grew Beer 4 8 1 in South Africa and East Africa.
Ready to Ready to drink 34 28 33 drink investment increased as Smirnoff ii Global giants and local stars : Ice Double Black & Guarana launched Guinness 5 7 15 in East Africa and Nigeria.
Johnnie Walker 3 7 2 Smirnoff 22 22 16 Tusker 6 3 1 Malta 8 5 17 Senator 11 16 20 Harp 40 46 50 i Organic equals reported movement for volume.
32 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 BUSINESS REVIEWS: LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points LATIN % % % AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN Paraguay, Mexico Sp irits Wine Other Value Super premium Uruguay and Brazil Beer RTDs Standard Ul tra premium West LAC V enezuela Premium Other Colombia Key financials In Latin America and Caribbean the Acquisitions 2014 and Organic 2015 Reported strategic priority is continued Reported Exchange disposals movement Reportedmovement million million million million million % leadership in scotch, while Net sales 1,144 123 23 11 1,033 10 broadening the category range to Marketing spend 203 22 3 10 194 4 include vodka, rum, liqueurs and local Operating profit before exceptional items 328 60 2 7 263 20 spirits.
We are continuing to invest Exceptional items 14 5 in routes to market and in the range Operating profit 314 258 18 and depth of our portfolio of leading brands.
We are also enhancing our supply structure to enable the Route to market manufacturers.
This year we acquired the remaining 50% equity interest in Don Julio, business to provide the emerging We sell our products through a combination of our own subsidiary companies and third giving full ownership of the brand and middle class and an increasing party distributors.
In Brazil, sales are primarily production facilities.
In 2012 we acquired number of wealthy consumers with made directly to international retailers and 100% of Ypica in Brazil which produces the premium brands they aspire to.
cachaa and in 2011 we acquired a distributors.
In addition to Diageo Brazil, In this regions changing regulatory Diageo owns 100% of Ypica, controlling interest in a company in a leading cachaa producer and distributor.
Guatemala Aejos fide Altura producing landscape, our presence is supported In Uruguay, Diageo manages distribution Zacapa.
In addition, we have controlling by our reputation as a trusted and interest in a brewery in Jamaica Red Stripe, both directly and through distributors.
respected business, based on our All products in Venezuela are sold and the Navarro Correas winery in Mendoza, stance on responsible drinking, through dedicated third party distributors.
We also partner with more than and community development In Colombia we sell directly to major grocers, 12 brewers and over 20 co-pack partners to manufacture brands and package products serving all other accounts and channels programmes like Learning for Life.
under strict quality assurance protocols.
Our markets In Mexico our brands are sold directly Sustainability and responsibility Our Latin America and Caribbean LAC by Diageo, either through direct sales to In this region, we have built a name for business comprises Paraguay, Uruguay and international accounts or through ourselves as a company that is committed to Brazil PUB, Venezuela, Colombia, Mexico wholesalers and distributors.
the long term development of an industry and West LAC Central America and In selected markets in West LAC, we sell that can bring economic and social value Caribbean, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Ecuador directly to consumers, while in key markets, to society.
Our responsible drinking and Bolivia.
such as Costa Rica and the Dominican programmes, such as Actuando Mejor in Republic, we use exclusive distributors.
In Mexico, and Drink Right in Jamaica, are Jamaica, we own a 58% controlling interest making a tangible difference in reducing in Desnoes & Geddes Limited, the Jamaican alcohol-related harm, and this year brewer of Red Stripe lager.
contributed to creating more than 240,000 In Argentina, we sell directly to major responsible drinking ambassadors.
Our grocers, and other businesses are managed flagship community re-investment through a combination of wholesalers and programme, Learning for Life, is providing distributors outside of major grocers, to skills and training to over 100,000 people whom we sell directly.
Some of our sites in Brazil Supply operations are located in water-stressed areas, and we The majority of brands sold in the region are are developing environmental programmes, manufactured in our International Supply for example through our Ypica business, Centre in Europe.
However in recent years which are helping ease the pressure on this we have acquired a number of local shared resource.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 33 BUSINESS REVIEWS: LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN Good performances in the domestic impacted consumer spending.
In Brazil, despite glass supply constraints, and volume declined mainly as a result of Gordons vodka net sales increased 185%.
markets in LAC were offset by a significant net sales decline in export channels due to changes in the route to consumer and In Colombia, investments in the route currency volatility.
The levels of stock held the harmonisation of interstate pricing, to consumer increased share across key by these customers has reduced, which which led to a reduction in inventories categories and drove 10% net sales held by distributors.
In PUB, price together with lower depletions, impacted growth.
The launch of Old Parr Tribute growth in the region by five percentage increases and a reduction in commercial and the introduction of Buchanans points.
Net sales in domestic markets discounts led to 6pps of positive price Special Reserve, together with double increased 5% as we expanded our leading mix.
Scotch net sales declined 2% driven digit growth of Johnnie Walker, led to an by Johnnie Walker, which was down 9% positions in scotch and broadened our 11% increase in the net sales of scotch.
In Brazil, as intense competitor promotional Innovations contributed to a 22% increase performance has been affected by a activity amplified the price premium of in Baileys net sales.
weaker economy and a tougher Johnnie Walker Red Label.
In premium In Mexico, the breadth of Diageos scotch scotch, Old Parr and Johnnie Walker competitive environment, but we have portfolio was the main driver of a 13% invested in route to consumer and Double Black had strong net sales growth increase in net sales.
Selective price recruited new consumers into our and share gains, and in standard scotch, increases along with strong trade portfolio through innovation.
In White Horse grew net sales supported executions delivered growth across all by a new media campaign.
Smirnoff Venezuela, there was good growth in price segments of scotch other than local spirits and scotch.
Performance in strengthened its leadership position in value.
Johnnie Walker net sales increased Colombia benefited from investments vodka, growing net sales 6% driven by 15% with growth across all variants and in route to consumer and innovation, price increases and the launch of Smirnoff a particularly strong contribution from Peach.
Net sales of Ypica were affected while our strength in scotch drove good Johnnie Walker Red Label.
Diageo gained net sales growth in Mexico.
In Peru and by the transfer from net sales to share in the fast-growing but competitive Jamaica, we delivered good growth from overheads of tax credits from local standard scotch segment with the our investments in route to consumer and, production incentives.
On a like for like introduction of Black & White, which basis, net sales of Ypica increased high while net sales were down in Argentina, increased net sales over 80%.
There was we moved quickly to offset import levies single digit driven by price increases and a good contribution to net sales growth with local production driving share gains.
continued strong performance in the from Smirnoff, since Diageo took direct While significant cost efficiencies were North East.
control over marketing and distribution achieved, especially in Brazil, negative In Venezuela, while volume declined, of the brand in December 2014. market mix and increased marketing net sales increased 41% to 32 million.
In West LAC, net sales were down 9%, investment led to a decrease of 41 basis Access to currency allowed for the driven by inventory reductions in the points in organic operating margin.
importation of some scotch leading to export channels where net sales declined strong comparative performances of KEY HIGHLIGHTS 51%.
This impacted the performance of Johnnie Walker, Buchanans, and Ye Net sales in Paraguay, Uruguay and Johnnie Walker, Old Parr, and Buchanans.
Increased focus on developing Brazil PUB declined 2% as currency In domestic markets, strong performances local spirits led to strong performances weakness and a slower Brazilian economy in Peru and Jamaica led to a 3% increase of Cacique, which doubled net sales, in net sales.
In Peru, net sales increased 26% with scotch driving growth together Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales with Baileys, while growth in Red Stripe, i movement movement movement Markets: % % % pack renovations on Guinness and the Latin America and Caribbean 7 1 10 strong consumer appeal of Dragon Stout helped deliver 15% growth in net sales in PUB 8 2 12 Jamaica.
Price realignments in Chile and Venezuela 38 41 60 Caribbean & Central America led to some Colombia 10 10 2 negative price mix but delivered share Mexico 14 13 19 gains in key categories.
In Argentina, West LAC 5 9 12 restrictions on imports affected overall ii performance but a shift to locally bottled Spirits 8 3 12 spirits including VAT 69, White Horse, and Beer 5 17 11 Smirnoff drove share gains.
Wine 1 17 1 Ready to drink 7 9 6 An increase in marketing investment of 6% supported broader participation ii Global giants and local stars : within spirits.
Spend on scotch was Johnnie Walker 6 5 11 focused on increasing brand equity Smirnoff 12 5 7 across price points in Mexico and on Baileys 4 8 supporting the launch of Old Parr Tribute Buchanans 17 12 24 in Colombia.
In Jamaica, investment also Old Parr 9 10 22 increased to support the growth of beer Ypica 5 3 14 and there was growth in spend on Black & White 17 27 6 Smirnoff to maintain its leadership position in Brazil and in Mexico as Diageo i Organic equals reported movement for volume.
regained distribution of the brand.
34 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 BUSINESS REVIEWS: ASIA PACIFIC Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points ASIA % % % PACIFIC S outh East Asia G lobal Travel, Asia Sp irits Wine Other Value Super premium and Middle East Beer RTDs Standard Ul tra premium Greater China Australia Premium India North Asia Key financials Our strategy in Asia Pacific, which Acquisitions 2014 and Organic 2015 Reported encompasses both developed Reported Exchange disposals movement Reportedmovement million million million million million % and emerging markets, is to Net sales 1,347 22 920 32 2,213 64 operate across categories in Marketing spend 305 1 65 25 344 13 international spirits, local spirits Operating profit before exceptional items 283 13 66 20 356 26 and beer.
We focus on the highest Exceptional items 276 193 growth categories and consumer Operating profit 7 163 2,229 opportunities, driving continued development of super and ultra premium scotch, and leveraging the joint venture arrangements, and third-party joint venture agreements with Mot Hennessy and Kirin.
emerging middle class opportunity distributors.
In Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore, we have joint venture Airport shops and airline customers are through a combination of organic arrangements with Mot Hennessy, sharing serviced through a dedicated Diageo sales growth and selective acquisitions.
In the Middle In the financial year we acquired East, we sell our products through third has wholly owned subsidiaries in the a controlling stake in United Spirits Philippines and Vietnam.
In Vietnam we also party distributors.
have a 45.56% equity stake in Hanoi Liquor Limited USL, positioning us as leaders Supply operations Joint Stock Company.
In Malaysia, Diageos in spirits in an attractive market, and We have distilleries at Chengdu in China own and third party beers are brewed and giving us a significantly expanded that produce Chinese white spirit and in distributed by a listed company, Guinness operational footprint in India.
Bundaberg, Australia that produce rum.
Anchor Berhad, in which we have an USL owns 33 manufacturing facilities effective 25.5% equity interest.
In Indonesia, Our markets in India and Nepal, leases 10 further Guinness is brewed by, and distributed Asia Pacific comprises South East Asia manufacturing facilities in India and 46 through, third party arrangements.
Vietnam, Thailand, Philippines, Indonesia, facilities are licensed to produce USL In Greater China, part of our spirits Malaysia, Singapore, Cambodia, Laos, products.
In addition, we have bottling business is conducted through a joint Myanmar, Nepal and Sri Lanka, Greater China plants in Korea and Australia with ready venture arrangement with Mot Hennessy.
China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, India, to drink manufacturing capabilities.
The remainder of our spirits are sold through Global Travel, Asia and Middle East, Australia a wholly owned subsidiary.
In addition, we and North Asia Korea and Japan.
Sustainability and responsibility are the sole distributor of Shui Jing Fang, a Promoting responsible drinking has always super premium Chinese white spirit, through Route to market been a particular focus for us, as it is in many our controlling 39.71% equity stake in a In South East Asia, spirits and beer are sold parts of the world.
We run programmes to listed company.
through a combination of Diageo companies, address drink driving, to train bartenders and In India, we further extended our route promotional staff on how to serve alcohol to market through the integration of USL, responsibly, and to raise awareness of alcohol the leading spirits company in India.
We also focus on empowering consolidated USL from 2 July 2014 following women through our Plan W programme.
the acquisition of an additional 26% With the acquisition of USL, our supply investment in USL, becoming the largest footprint has increased significantly, almost shareholder with a 54.78% controlling stake.
doubling the number of sites we operate in In Australia, we produce and distribute water-stressed areas.
We believe that our the groups products and in New Zealand approach, set out in the Water Blueprint we operate through third party distributors.
strategy, will bring benefits to local water In North Asia, we have our own sources, while our compliance and ethics and distribution company in South Korea, whilst Zero Harm safety programmes are helping in Japan, the majority of sales are through colleagues at USL improve in these areas.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 35 BUSINESS REVIEWS: ASIA PACIFIC Asia Pacific performance reflects to Global Travel Asia.
New regulations in drove continued premiumisation.
The inventory reductions in South East Asia, Indonesia caused major disruptions, and Smirnoff Black launch helped increase and disruptions in Indonesia due to new Guinness net sales declined 30%.
In Smirnoff share by 5pps over the past restrictions on the sale of beer and ready Thailand, price repositioning on Johnnie three months to 56% of vodka.
The to drink in some channels.
All other Walker Red Label and Smirnoff led to integration of Diageo and USL completed, markets delivered growth, including negative price mix, however, Johnnie and from June, USL started selling China led by Chinese white spirits.
Walker Red Label volume was up double Diageo brands.
Reserve sales were up 30%, led by digit in the second half, while Smirnoff Global Travel, Asia and Middle East Scotch malts, with particularly strong gained share.
net sales were up 4% including 6pps of performance from The Singleton.
In Greater China, net sales were up 15%.
benefit from transferring sales from some Innovation responding to changing Taiwan net sales increased 6%, driven by Indian travel retail customers from South trends played an important role, with the continued success of The Singleton, East Asia.
Middle East performance launch of Haig Club, W ICE by Windsor in which was up significantly and has slowed in the second half due to Korea, Guinness Zero in Indonesia, and become the largest malt brand in Taiwan.
geopolitical tensions and increased new ready to drink offerings.
We reduced Mainland China was up 26% including an pricing pressure on scotch, with second marketing investment, largely in China 11pps benefit from an additional quarter half sales down 16%.
Across GTME, and South East Asia, where the consumer of Shuijingfang to align financial year end Diageo brands gained share particularly environment was challenged.
Shuijingfang grew significantly in whisky, led by Johnnie Walker in Performance, primarily the reduction in through innovation, strengthened route Global Travel Asia, where premium and stock levels, in South East Asia resulted to consumer, and a soft prior year above variants drove the brands net in a significant operating loss for that comparable.
Shuijingfang also generated sales growth.
Our Chinese white spirits profit and drove margin improvement for Net sales in Australia improved 2%, business regained profitability after a Greater China, due to a significant reversing a first half decline.
This return to profitability, reduction in the underlying business loss were up 2%, driven by super premium along with cost savings, resulted in an and benefiting from provision releases.
scotch, spiced rum, and North American overall margin improvement for Asia While scotch in mainland China was whisk e y. Captain Morgan net sales grew Pacific of two percentage points.
The full down 17%, due to increased competition nearly 50% and it is now the second consolidation of USL added 921m of net for on trade contracts and a reduction largest rum brand behind Bundaberg.
sales and 53m of operating profit to in wholesaler inventory levels, The While pricing pressure impacted reported performance for the region.
Singleton and Haig Club drove growth Bundaberg and Smirnoff, depletions and share gains.
improved in the last quarter.
Ready to KEY HIGHLIGHTS Despite shipment disruptions due to drink growth continued in the second In South East Asia, net sales declined new food safety labelling requirements, half driven by Captain Morgan variants 28% given an inventory level reduction in Diageo India volume was up 5% and and pack format innovations from specific wholesale channels, with Johnnie net sales up 3%, and all key priority several brands.
Walker Red and Black Label most brands grew depletions.
Performance in these channels North Asia net sales were up 1% with Johnnie Walker and VAT 69 campaigns, was also impacted by transferring sales Japan up 10% and Korea down 2%, as and a Black & White packaging relaunch from some Indian travel retail customers second half performance slowed following an increase in import duties after a Customs settlement in January.
Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales In Korea, whisky contraction decelerated, i movement movement movement and the launch of lower ABV offering Markets: % % % W ICE by Windsor stabilised Windsor Asia Pacific 3 2 64 share in the fourth quarter.
While South East Asia 24 28 28 Windsor was down, whisky sales in Korea Greater China 3 15 17 benefited from strong growth of Johnnie India 5 3 1,732 Walker Blue and Black Label.
Guinness Global Travel, Asia and Middle East 5 4 3 was up 41%, driven by a campaign and Australia 1 2 5 price promotion.
In Japan, performance North Asia 1 1 1 improved due to scotch growth, with ii depletions up high single digit, and Spirits 3 3 83 increased distribution and new flavours Beer 13 12 16 of Smirnoff Ice.
Ready to drink 2 1 5 Marketing investment decreased 8%, ii Global giants and local stars : due to Johnnie Walker reductions, Johnnie Walker 10 14 14 particularly in Black Label, in China and Smirnoff 3 7 9 South East Asia.
In China, investment Guinness 13 12 16 declined in the competitive on trade and Captain Morgan 11 8 was reinvested in testing new at home Baileys 4 13 16 and with meal off trade campaigns.
In Windsor 10 10 8 Thailand and the Philippines, Johnnie Bundaberg 5 7 13 Walker investment focused on recruiting Shui Jing Fang 275 239 245 consumers and maintaining Gold and i Organic equals reported movement for volume except for Asia Pacific 622%, India 6347%, and spirits 710%, Blue Label sponsorships.
Many markets reflecting the full consolidation of USL.
also supported Haig Clubs launch.
