Business r eview First Student Market overview First Student is the largest provider of student transportation in North America over twice the size of the next largest competitor.
We must continue to deliver a service we can be proud of while ensuring we can do so for the long term, by earning sustainable returns.
Dennis Maple President, First Student Alaska First Student Market review and trends School buses provide home to school transportation for millions of students in the US and Canada.
There are more than 15,000 school districts in North America, which deploy more than 500,000 school buses.
The total North American market is estimated to be worth around $24bn per annum, of which school districts directly operate approximately 63%, with 37% outsourced to private operators.
Charterservices are also operated, typically of limited duration and scope, either for school customers separate from scheduled school runs orforother customers such as church and community groups orbusinesses.
Long term demand for school transportation services is principally driven by the size of the school-age population: however other factors including the propensity of school boards to outsource and changes inthe local criteria for service provision such as the distance to school bands within which the service is offered can play a part in the addressable market for private operators.
In the last three years, the market has stabilised with some positive but limited organic growth, following a period when the economic downturn put pressure on customer budgets, which led to organic retraction, price pressure, and atypical levels of contract churn.
While school board budget pressures have eased, high quality, high efficiency outsourced providers offer an increasingly attractive value proposition to potential customers.
20 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 5 3 Over 500 operating Around 1,300 locations across US contracts, typically and Canada 3-5 year duration Customers Strategy and performance School districts provide transportation for students depending on varying criteria determined at state level.
Contracts typically specify 2015 2014 either xed or annually indexed pricing, meaning that private operators bear cost risk.
These contracts are typically three to five years in duration, Revenue $2,368.6m $2,339.3m after which they are competitively retendered.
School districts receive their funding from state and local sources, including property tax Operating profit $177.3m $152.8m receipts, and their budgets for all expenditure, including transportation, tend to be linked to economic factors.
In addition to school districts Operating margin 7.5% 6.5% outsourcing student transportation for the first time known as conversion, Number of employees 57,000 57,500 growth is driven by additional routes for agiven school due to population growth or other factors organic growth, as well as ination-related price indexation built into somecontracts.
Financial performance Revenue in our First Student division was $2,368.6m or 1,478.8m Competitors 2014: $2,339.3m or 1,467.4m, 1.3% higher on a US Dollar basis, The private outsourced market is highly fragmented with 14 operators benefiting from our successful pricing strategy during the 2014 running more than 1,000 buses.
The largest four companies, including bidseason and modest organic growth.
Operating profit was our business, account for just below half of the outsourced market.
The $177.3m or 114.9m 2014: $152.8m or 93.5m, resulting in a next 45 largest contractors operate approximately 25,000 buses, and USDollar margin of 7.5% 2014: 6.5%.
The one percentage point the remaining outsourced contracts are operated by several thousand improvement in margin reects the benets of our pricing strategy companies, often termed mom and pop operators.
Share shift, or inrespect of the approximately one third of the portfolio retendered winning contracts previously managed by other outsourced providers, inthe2014 bid season, recovery of operating days lost to the severe together with acquisitions, provide additional avenues of growth.
weather in theprior year, a benefit of $19m in the year from our ongoing $50m per annum cost efficiency programme, partially Market attractions offsetby continued pockets of driver shortage in parts of the Q Contracted revenue with public sector customers, typically low businessand costination running slightly ahead of price indexation credit risk on the bulk ofour contracts not yet rebid under our pricing strategy.
Q Typically high levels of contract retention Q Security and safety track record at least as important as price Our strengths Q Established relationships with local communities a barrier to entry Clear market leader bigger than next four competitors Q combined scale economies in vehicle and parts procurement, Fragmented competitive environment long term insurance, fleet management, technology development, etc.
Differentiated offering technology, safety programme, strong customer relationships and satisfaction scores Turnaround plan is progressing disciplined contract portfolio management, capital discipline and cost efficiency plans are Approximate share of outsourced driving margins and returns market around 37% of total market Repositioning business to sustainably deliver profitable growth and returns from market leadership in the long term.
First Student 26% National Express 11% Student Transportation of America 6% Illinois Central 2% Other 55% FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Business r eview First Student continued Focused and disciplined bidding A key element of our turnaround plan in First Student is addressing contract portfolio pricing on new bids and renewals to ensure that we achieve appropriate returns on capital on our contract portfolio.
As is typical, approximately one third of our bus portfolio was up for renewal in the 2014 bid season, and we were pleased to achieve average price increases on these contracts of approximately 4.5%.
Our contract retention rate of 90% on those contracts up for bid was at the upper end of our range of expectations.
As a result, the proportion of First Students contract portfolio earning margins below 5% has reduced from 36% in 2014 to below 30% in the current year.
The level of acceptance of our price increases, together with a third year of modestorganic growth under existing contracts, suggests that marketconditions are continuing to improve.
We continue to compete effectively in the conversion market from in-house to privately operated services, which we believe offers signicantly better value, though at present the number of new outsourcing opportunities continues to be limited.
Together with some share shift wins from competitors and a small tuck-in acquisition in New York, our overall bus eet reduced by around 60 buses, remaining just over 49,000.
Focus on Continuous improvement in operating First Student  In addition to the pricing strategy, we made good progress on the nextphase of our cost efficiency programme.
We are rolling out a New recruitment system programme to address the recruitment challenges we have faced in some localised parts of our business, which includes an applicant offers benets tracking system developed in our UK divisions, and further savings continue to be driven by implementing and monitoring compliance withidentied best practice operating procedures throughout our more than500 locations.
This programme has now delivered around $120m First Student is at the initial stages of introducing a inannual cost efficiencies including $19m in 2014 15 as targeted, consolidated recruiting model allowing online application, andwe expect to deliver a further $30m per annum in savings by which will replace the previous paper-based, decentralised theend ofthe 2016 17 financial year.
Almost three quarters of our driver recruiting process.
The new system, which is based engineering locations have achieved silver or gold lean certication.
on a similar successful model developed by our UK Key areas ofopportunity going forward include further savings from divisions, allows a more consistent approach to recruitment lean engineering and maintenance procedures, employee productivity, across different locations and online application, saving time procurement and moreefcient use of fuel.
A pilot was launched at 53 locations in late 2014, and learnings from this pilot will help Prudent investment in our key assets inform the phased roll out of this new system which will We continue to increase our use of technology to raise customer take place across the division over the next three months.
service levels, promote environmental benets and differentiate our services.
Our FOCUS GPS system which links onboard data to back Prudent investment in our key assets ofce systems is now tted throughout the bus eet, and functions as 4 aplatform for additional improvements.
For example, our DriveSMART initiative, which combines driver training with fuel use data from FOCUS, incrementally saved nearly $6m in fuel costs in the year.
Weare also carrying out eld trials this year on a system using FOCUSto give parents the ability to track bus location in real time, which will be ready for roll out in time for the 2016 bid season.
OurMyFirstPass system continues to be deployed in selected locations, giving parents and schools timely information on student ridership through swipe card technology.
We invested approximately $280m in new buses, refurbishments and onboard technology in theyear: our average eet age remained constant at 7.5 years.
22 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Fleet of approximately 49,000 Six million students yellow school buses transported per day We also continue to develop our more structured approach to charter Outlook business, which delivers very strong incremental returns on capital During the 2015 bid season First Student is continuing to seek higher employed as it utilises the existing bus eet in between the contracted pricing with the resultant risk of some contract losses.
With just over services at the beginning and end of the school day.
In the year we half of the negotiations completed so far, we are encouraged by our opened three regional charter centres, handling almost a third of all progress, with average price increases achieved to date of over 5%.
ournon-school charter work, which grew by 7% in the year.
Weexpect this improvement, together with additional cost efficiencies, to result in further margin improvement in 2015 16, despite an impact Responsible partnerships with our customers ofapproximately $17m to operating profit as a result of fewer andcommunities operatingdays due to the timing of Easter and Labor Day, which Our services form an integral part of the school experience for the willreverse in our 2016 17 financial year.
millions of children in our care each day, and we take our responsibilities to them and to their parents, schools and communities very seriously.
We are pleased to have achieved a sixth consecutive year of improved customer service scores, and we had a strong performance in our safety KPIs.
Continuous improvement in our customer service and safety track record is deeply embedded in our values as an organisation, and is also a competitive advantage.
In addition to cost savings, the 2% improvement in fuel efficiency from our DriveSMART initiative reduces our environmental impact, andour alternative fuel eet continues to grow, increasing by 250 buses in theyear.
Future priorities First Student is a leader in our marketplace, both in terms of our size and the quality and safety of the services we provide.
Through the continuation of our turnaround plan, we will deliver our medium term target of double digit margins by ensuring that we continue to bid or renew contracts only at prices that reect the quality of service we provide and the capital that we employ.
In addition we continue to implement and monitor best practice policies and procedures in all keyareas throughout our business to reduce cost.
In the longer term, First Students unique market position, value proposition and  efficiency will ensure we are increasingly wellplaced to grow through further share shift, tuck-in acquisitions andorganic opportunities.
First Student eet footprint Focus on First Student New campaign brings our value proposition to life First Student have developed a new value proposition New York New Jersey Pennsylvania 21% based on market insights and team expertise, androoted New England 13% in the Groups vision and values.
The customer promise, Ontario 11% including posters featuring employees, began to be rolled Illinois 9% out at Employee Appreciation Days in May 2015.
California 7% Other 39% Maintain responsible partnerships with our customers and communities 5 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23 Business r eview First T ransit Market overview First Transit is one of the largest private sector providers of public transit management and contracting in North America.
We continue to grow our diverse book of business by leveraging our long-standing reputation and wide ranging expertise and knowledge to bring superior services to our Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands customers and communities.
First Transit Brad Thomas Market review and trends President, First Transit and First Vehicle Services The transit market is worth around $30bn per annum in North America, of which around 30% is outsourced.
The market includes the provision of xed route bus services approximately $20bn segment, of which more than 10% is outsourced, paratransit bus services approximately $5bn segment, of which three quarters is outsourced, private shuttle services approximately $2bn segment, ofwhich around 90% is outsourced and vehicle maintenance services approximately $3bn segment, of which around one third is outsourced.
Private transportation companies manage, operate, maintain and organise transportation services undercontracts which typically last for three tove years or longer.
As populations continue to age and urban congestion increases, thescope and sophistication of municipal and other transportation services required is rising, which enhances the attraction of bringing inprivate sector expertise.
Although North American state and local government nances are improving with the economy, they continue toseek opportunities to increase the cost effectiveness of their transportation spending, which supports growth in outsourcing of certain services where private contractors can maintain or improve efficiency while reducing overall cost.
The shuttle segment continues togrow, with private companies, universities and airports seeking to offer additional services totheir own customers and employees.
24 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report $5m Around 320 operating Nearly 350 contracts, locations across US with average value of and Canada less than $5m Customers Strategy and performance A wide range of customers contract out transportation services, including transit authorities, federal, state and local agencies, as 2015 2014 wellasprivate institutions including universities, hospitals and airports.
The vehicle eet maintenance services market includes contracting Revenue $1,362.1m $1,290.5m forprivate and public sector clients, including municipalities, and re and police departments.
Operating profit $96.1m $95.7m Competitors Operating margin 7.1% 7.4% First Transit has over 15% of the outsourced market in the United States, which accounts for approximately 30% of the total market.
Number of employees 19,000 19,000 Theoutsourced transit market is fragmented although First Transit hastwo large competitors, MV Transportation, Inc. and Transdev Financial performance NorthAmerica.
The outsourced eet maintenance market is highly Revenue in our First Transit division was $1,362.1m or 844.8m competitive and our First Vehicle Services segment is estimated to 2014: $1,290.5m or 811.9m.
US Dollar revenue increased by beone of the largest providers in the market, with Penske and Ryder 5.5%, with revenue growth during the year in all of our divisional being the principal competitors.
A number of small and medium sized sub-segments, driven by the timing of contract awards and higher companies represent a significant proportion of the outsourced market.
than anticipatedorganic growth on existing contracts.
Operating The market continues to attract new entrants, though reputation and protwas$96.1m or 59.7m 2014: $95.7m or 60.3m, resulting in track record remain important differentiators in the bidding process.
amargin of 7.1% 2014: 7.4%, which is in line with our expectations andmedium term objectives.
Market attractions Q Contracted revenue mainly with public sector customers, lowcredit risk Our strengths Q Typically high levels of contract retention Established credentials and track record First Transit is Q amarket leader and has a pedigree extending over 60 years Low levels of capital investment required apart from the shuttlesegment Diverse segments and large volume of relatively small contracts our exceptional bidding and management expertise Q Ageing population and congestion continue to provide support are well embedded forcontinued growth through further outsourcing.
Industry-leading programmes including safety and maintenance training Technology investment is delivering efficiency gains and service enhancements for our customers Approximate share of c. $24bn Our scale and breadth of management expertise will US transit market support future growth.
In-house 70% First Transit 5% Other outsourced providers 25% FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 Business r eview First T ransit continued Key contract retentions during the year included our paratransit contract with Metropolitan Council in Minneapolis, our transit management contract with Connecticut Transit, and our shuttle bus operations at New Jersey University and Kennesaw State University.
We also extended contracts for one of our xed route operations in Denver and our shuttle bus operation at Houston International Airport.
Continuous improvement in operating  First Transits opportunities continue to arise from successful competitive bidding, but also through attracting business that isbeingoutsourced to the private sector for the first time.
Our continuedserviceand efficiency innovations help give us a  to both public and private Focus on counterparts in particular, our national service platform, First Transit  andmanagement expertise are .
We continueto invest in our  including a suiteofinnovative real-time informationsolutions which will deliver costefciencies and better Paratransit mobile info datafor our clients, and improved performance for us.
Prudent investment in our key assets We introduced a versatile and scalable secure mobile app In First Transit we continue to focus investment spending on three during 2014, designed to keep passengers in touch with principal areas: people, technology solutions and on vehicles for the their paratransit service.
The app utilises scheduling and shuttle segment, where typically we own the eets and are continuing real-time information from the transit authoritys scheduling to invest to grow our leading university and airport shuttle portfolio.
systems and the information displayed can be customised We maintained our significant investment in recruitment, retention using the transit authoritys own branding.
This enhances andcontinuous training of our people to ensure we have the depth of customer service, particularly for those who are hearing expertise required for our bid submissions and for subsequent service impaired, and joins a suite of similar tools that we offer.
delivery that meets customer expectations.
We are introducing an Prudent investment in our key assets applicant tracking system for prospective new employees in the year, 4 based on a successful system developed inourUKdivisions.
Last year we initiated the roll out of our upgraded management dashboard, providing automated operational, maintenance and Focused and disciplined bidding financial information, which is delivering cost savings.
Our local During the year, we continued to maintain our track record of profitable management and regional support teams are now better growth in a range of segments, whilst developing opportunities in new equipped, with rapid and detailed information on their businesses markets.
Through collaborative partnerships with public transit authorities readily available, increasing their ability to address any issues quickly and private customers, we also generated organic growth on existing and more completely.
The dashboard provides a centralised repository contracts at the higher end of our planning range.
Contractretention of operational data and the ability to display KPIs in a user-friendly remained at a high level, as our customers continuedto respond graphical interface, and allows management tomake better and more positively to our capabilities and competitive pricing.
As previously informed decisions on the day-to-day operations of their systems, as indicated two of our larger contracts came toan end during the well as plan for long term operational improvements.
Other initiatives secondhalf of the year, including one which was delivering margins wehave progressed through the year include predictive maintenance below the divisional average, and few recently awarded contracts analytics and paperless workshop systems using tablet computers started up in the second half, though we continued to win additional toimprove performance.
new business that will commence in 2015 16.
In the year we were awarded new paratransit contracts in Minnesota, Florida and the San Francisco Bay area: xed route contracts in OrangeCounty, California and shuttle bus operations at colleges inNew York state and Rhode Island, as well as a shuttle bus contract atOklahoma City airport.
In addition, we used expertise fromour UK-based divisions and First Transits existing client relationships to win business in the rapidly growing North American Bus Rapid Transit BRT market.
We continue to see further opportunities to growour shuttle business in the years ahead, which is the only part ofthe division that requires significant capital investment.
26 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Almost 350 million Operate and manage more passengers a year than 12,500 vehicles, and maintain a further 36,000 Responsible partnerships with our customers Outlook andcommunities The overall pipeline of potential new business remains attractive as Our commitment to safety, technical and operational knowledge localauthorities continue to consider ways to deliver transport services andprofessionalism is particularly recognised by our customers and more cost effectively.
Whilst we do anticipate some reductionsin our safety KPIs and customer service trends improved in the year.
ourprovision of shuttle services to the Canadian oil sandssector Wearealso at the forefront of the industry in developing mobile duringthe year as a result of the lower oil price, we haveanumber appsforour clients, allowing registered riders to monitor service ofnew business opportunities to help offset that impact.
disruptions, timetables and the location of services in real time.
We have enhanced our leading safety programme through the continued roll out of DriveCam technology, an event capture and driverbehaviour monitoring system, which has the added benefit First Transit revenues by segment ofimproving fuel efficiency.
Future priorities There is continued growth potential in each of our markets, particularly in the shuttle segment and in paratransit work for larger cities.
The outlook for further outsourcing opportunities is positive and potential opportunities are also growing in light rail, commuter rail and BRT, where we will seek to harness the strong expertise in our UK divisions as we examine potential bids in these areas.
The expertise of our people and the quality of our technology gives First Transit a competitive advantage.
Fixed route 37% We have a track record of innovation and indelivering cost efficiencies, Paratransit 27% which in turn ensures that, despite an increasingly competitive market, Shuttle 26% we will remain the low cost supplier of choice for our customers.
We Vehicle Services 10% continue to anticipate achieving a margin of approximately 7% in the medium term, which we believe is attractive in the context of the limited capital employed in the division.
Focus on First Transit First Transit at the Super Bowl Super Bowl XLIX was held at the University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona in February 2015.
First Transit, who provide xed route services for Valley Metro in the area, played a key role in transport plans tocarry thousands of fans to the biggest event in the US sporting calendar, working with partners including the Phoenix Public Transit Department.
First Transit helped Valley Metro plan extra bus services around the Pro Bowl, Super Bowl and related events plus extended hours on some routes as well as a commemorative bus pass.
Maintain responsible partnerships with our customers and communities 5 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Business r eview Greyhound Market overview Greyhound is the only national operator of scheduled intercity coach services in the US and Canada, serving 48 US States and ten Canadian Provinces and Territories.
By marrying the latest customer technology to our unique nationwide network, we are ensuring Greyhound remains an American icon for its second century.
Greyhound network in the US Greyhound Express Dave Leach Greyhound network in Canada Afliated carriers in Mexico President and CEO, Greyhound Market review and trends The US intercity coach transportation industry has grown overall everyyear since 2006 reversing the trend of the previous 25 years, when the industry declined by an average of 2.9% a year.
Growth has been driven principally by improvements in the onboard experience, new or enhanced service offerings, including point-to-point express services on high density routes.
The size of the potential market remains a significant opportunity for ongoing growth, with 42mpeopleconsidering coach travel every year, of whom around aquarter currently use Greyhound.
Even regular coach users choosecompeting modes 75% of the time, but a combination of moredestinations, tailored services and price has the potential to growthis market andfrequency of use.
Since the substantial and rapid fall in at-pump fuel prices for consumersin the final months of 2014, passenger demand has fallen as the marginal cost of driving has become more attractive compared with taking the coach.
The longer term impact on the intercity coach market growth trend since 2006 will depend in part on future fuel pricemovements.
As well as passenger revenues, income is generated from package express services, charter and tour organisation and also catering outlets in terminals.
Partnerships between Greyhound and independentbus lines, known as interlining, extends the reach ofthenational network.
Greyhound also partners with Amtrak toofferpassengers athrough ticket to their final destination if notservedby rail.
28 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report miles 3,800 destinations offering Around 18m 48,000 city pairs across passengers travel North America 5.4bn miles a year Customers Strategy and performance North American intercity coach rms serve a wide customer base, many of whom prioritise value and whose primary purpose is to visit 2015 2014 friends and family.
Direct point-to-point services, such as Greyhound Express which now serves 135 markets across North America, are Revenue $986.0m $990.6m encouraging a new, younger passenger demographic.
Increased urbanisation and city congestion are also beginning to have an impact Operating profit $68.5m $73.2m on car ownership statistics, particularly for younger drivers.
Historically, customers typically bought walk-up tickets on their day of travel, but Operating margin 6.9% 7.4% new online and mobile services are driving an increasing trend for Number of employees 7,500 7,500 advance booking.
Competitors Financial performance Intercity coach transportation competes with many other modes of During the year US Dollar revenue decreased by 0.5% to$986.0m or midto long distance travel across North America, including budget 609.6m 2014: $990.6m or 624.6m, reecting the adverse effect airlines and the private car.
There is a highly competitive intercity on customer demand from sharply lower fuel prices, which improves coachmarket in dense travel corridors such as the north east and the affordability of other forms of transport for some trips compared north west of the US, where coach transportation also competes with Greyhound.
As a result of the more exible operating model withair and rail services.
introduced in recent years, we were able to react rapidly to the situation, actively managing mileage, timetables and pricing in Market attractions response to these changed market conditions.
Nevertheless Q Private car ownership may have peaked, driven by continued Greyhounds operating profit was $68.5m or 41.7m 2014: $73.2m urbanisation, congestion and costs of motoring or46.4m, resulting in a US Dollar margin below theprior year level Q Ample opportunities to expand penetration and footprint with at6.9% 2014: 7.4%.
Although our point-to-point brands were also multiple brands and services somewhat affected by the sharply lower fuel prices, Greyhound Q Express continued to grow profitably, with like-for-like revenue Under-utilised services may be part-funded by transport growthof 3.0% during the year, compared with a like-for-like revenue authorities decrease of 0.1% for the division as a whole.
Q Target demographic segments respond to new innovation throughtechnology and value for money offering Driving growth through attractive commercial Q propositions Passenger, package, charter and food service revenues Greyhound is one of the most iconic brands in transport, with a offerdiversification.
unique national network giving us a competitive advantage and an established base for future growth.
Passengers from our traditional network, which operates from some 3,800 locations across North America, help us feed our point-to-point brands including Greyhound Distribution of Approximate Greyhound Express and BoltBus.
Our point-to-point brands have always operated Greyhound passengers passenger revenue split modern, environmentally friendly buses equipped with features such by mileage band between the US and Canada as free Wi-Fi, power outlets, leather seats, extra legroom and guaranteed seating, and some of these amenities are being extended throughout the traditional network.
Last summer we added additional destinations in Texas, Arizona, Nevada and New Mexico, to take our Greyhound Express footprint to 135 markets.
Our strengths Iconic brand synonymous with long distance coach travel Only national network of scheduled intercity coach 1-200 miles 48% US 78% services passenger feed from 48,000 city pairs provides 201-450 miles 35% Canada 22% operating leverage to point-to-point services 451-1,000 miles 12% A business that is reconnecting with customers operating 1,000 miles 5% arefreshed fleet with improved onboard amenities andadditional sales and distribution channels Range of brands and price points to target new markets.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Business r eview Greyhound continued During the year we updated our Wi-Fi platform allowing passengers to gives access to scheduling information as well as the ability to purchase stay connected throughout their journey, and launched an onboard tickets and view completed bookings, was based on the BoltBus catalogue of destination packages that allows them to purchase tickets product.
Similarly the recently launched app for BoltBus drivers, which to theatrical events, attractions and onward transportation offers, streamlines boarding by allowing our drivers to scan tickets and allows including shuttles and taxis, all from their seat using their own Wi-Fi us to manage inventory better, is acting as a test bed for a product enabled devices.
We are using learnings from our point-to-point brands which we will launch across the much larger and more complex to improve the customer offering in our traditional business and attract traditional Greyhound network in the coming year.
a new demographic to bus travel.
As an example of this, Greyhounds Continuous improvement in operating passenger app for smartphone users, which launched this year and  We have invested in the quality of our services and have improved ourability to ex costs in response to changes in demand, although ourtraditional network today remains relatively dependent on macroeconomic factors such as fuel prices or employment levels.
Inresponse to changes in demand, we were able to react rapidly to thechanged market conditions and manage our variable costs in orderto mitigate the impact on margin performance year on year.
Wecontinue to make progress towards returning Greyhound Canada to profitability through our ongoing efforts to optimise our network in thecountry.
Our Greyhound Package Express business, which carriesparcels on our buses, is evolving to adopt more modernised technology and now offers the ability to track and trace parcels.
Prudent investment in our key assets Our most important area of investment is a programme to replicate thesuccessful business model developed in our newer point-to-point services across the whole Greyhound network.
As we have previously indicated, we are equipping our traditional business with real-time Focus on dynamic pricing and yield management capabilities, together with Greyhound improved customer relationship management tools.
Amongst other opportunities, these tools will increase our ability to stimulate demand throughout the macro-economic cycle, and allow us to shift demand tooff-peak times more easily, resulting in better utilisation of existing Greyhound celebrates seat inventory.
extraordinary history The most time intensive aspect of the project has been to transform Greyhounds proprietary pricing and routing system into a position where it was able to be augmented with additional software To commemorate its 100th anniversary, Greyhound components.
Our bespoke but ageing system, which had beenbuilt promoted a Centennial Tour around the United States over many years to manage the unique challenges of a network with toshowcase the companys growth and transformation, more than 3,800 destinations and 48,000 routing combinations, has allowing guests of all ages to get a glimpse of Greyhounds now been upgraded and transferred to a more robust infrastructure rich heritage.
The tour comprised two mobile museum inline with our plans.
The current focus of the project isthe complex convoys simultaneously moving across the United States, integration into the system of software packages similar to those used beginning in Boston in May and ending in Los Angeles in in aviation, retailing and other industries.
We are also augmenting our December, visiting nearly 40 cities.
The tour featured commercial team with individuals experienced in these industries.
The displays of memorabilia such as signage, vintage driver programme is on track to beoperational across the network during our uniforms andan entire wall of history where guests could 2015 16 financial year.
We have already begun taking pricing and yield see Greyhounds transformation over the years.
The tour management actions incertain regions and gathering the resulting alsoshowed off restored classic coaches and several of data, in order to help rene the parameters of the nationwide systems Greyhounds new, modern coaches with amenities and processes thatare being introduced.
including free Wi-Fi, leather seats, power outlets and As part of the project we are also making good progress with our extralegroom.
Further events throughout the year included plansto upgrade our retail distribution strategy.
Web ticket sales are a reception hosted by the US Department of Transport at now a very important sales channel where we see more than half of our the White House.
Within that, mobile sales are the fastest growing segment Maintain responsible partnerships with our accounting for a third of web sales, and our apps account for 20% of customers and communities 5 the mobile total.
A completely refreshed Greyhound website with augmented functionality is due to go live in summer 2015.
Increased 30 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Fleet of approximately Point-to-point service 1,700 coaches Greyhound Express covers 1,000 city pair combinations in 135 markets use of web and mobile sales channels improves our ability to communicate our prices to customers, making our yield and price management actions more effective.
In addition our customers can more easily act on the price benets of advance ticket purchases when they have the exibility to do so, which in turn enables us to operate more efficiently as we have increased visibility of demand.
Further customer relationship management enhancements are also planned for the next year, including upgrading our customer loyalty programme.
During the year we introduced 100 new vehicles to our eet, completing the balance of the large coach order placed in the prior year.
We also refurbished around 70 coaches to the same standard, which means that a substantial majority of our operational eet is now either new or recently refurbished.
Responsible partnerships with our customers Focus on andcommunities Greyhound The increased customer engagement that our new systems will bring will allow us to use technology to better understand the needs of our individual passengers.
This will enable us to improve our customer Greyhound embraces satisfaction scores and better align our services with the needs of ourpassengers.
social media In the year, we were selected by Forbes magazine in its list of top 500 companies to work for in the United States, ranked ahead of hundreds of well known companies across 25 industries, and Greyhound was Despite being a century-old brand, Greyhound theonly intercity bus company to be recognised.
More than 20,000 hasbecomeadept at attracting passengers and American workers at companies with at least 2,500 employees were  and debate with our customer involved in the survey, which asked employees how likely they would community through many different social media channels.
beto recommend their employer to someone else.
We also have an award winning blog, The Hound, at www.
com where customers can share During 2014 we celebrated our centenary with a series of events journey experiences and tips.
throughout the year including exhibitions, in-terminal commemorations, employee awards and a centennial tour which travelled across the Driving growth through attractive USfeaturing our restored classic eet and showcasing the best of commercial propositions 2 todays business.
We also increased traditional marketing efforts in conjunction with the centenary in order to drive additional interest in ourimproved offering.
Future priorities Our efforts to introduce real-time pricing, yield management and Greyhound 2014 15 revenue by type customerrelationship management capabilities into the business will give us far greater visibility and granularity on passenger demand over time, allowingus to optimise our schedules, assets and pricing to maximise demand for our services.
We will also continue to grow our point-to-point business, although the rate of growth in new services is likely to slow now that many of the closer cities in North America are already connected.
We remain confident of achieving our 12% margin target, recognising however that long term oil price trends may impact the timing.
Outlook We will continue to actively manage our pricing, frequencies and other Passenger revenue 80% variable costs in response to trends in passenger demand growth, Package Express 8% which we anticipate will remain relatively muted if recent oil price levels Food service 2% are sustained throughout the year.
Meanwhile, we will continue to take Charter 1% actions to return our Canadian network to profitability.
We expect our Other 9% yield management systems to be operational from the middle of our 2015 16 financial year, with the financial benets building over time as we develop our expertise in analysing and using the new tools at our disposal, and passengers begin to respond to our actions.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Business r eview UK Bus Market overview UK Bus is one of the largest bus operators in the UK, with around a fifth of the Aberdeen deregulated market.
Stirling Glasgow Falkirk Edinburgh Galashiels Belfast York Passengers are responding Bradford Leeds Dublin Manchester Shefeld to the improvements we have Stoke-on-Trent made to our services over Birmingham Leicester Norwich Worcester Cork recent years we will continue Ipswich Colchester Chelmsford Bristol Basildon to work tirelessly to sustain Weston-super-Mare Slough Bath Taunton Southampton the momentum.
Portsmouth Weymouth Plymouth Truro Giles Fearnley Penzance Managing Director, UK Bus Market review and trends Local bus services in the UK outside London have been deregulatedsince the 1980s, with most services being provided by private operators, although a small number of local authority owned operators still exist.
Bus markets are local and services operate on a exible model with operators setting fares, frequencies and routes on acommercial basis and operating socially necessary services under contract to local authorities.
Around 2.8bn passenger journeys are made on local bus services outside of London, generating revenues ofapproximately 4.4bn a year.
Partnership with local authorities remains a core principle for both thebus industry and central Government in order to deliver service improvements, innovation and investment cost effectively.
The DfT promotes this agenda through initiatives including Better Bus Area grants and the Green Bus Fund.
Private operators increasingly offer tailored local brands and services, including premium routes serving distinct markets, and implement new technology including multioperator ticketing on smart platforms and apps delivering improved passenger information.
Local authorities have legislative powers to regulate services in their area through quality contracts, where they can demonstrate the existing model is failing to deliver for passengers.
To date this has not been implemented anywhere, but a number of authorities do consider this option periodically, and the Tyne and Wear metropolitan area is currently pursuing a quality contract FirstGroup do not operate in this market.
Increasing political consensus in favour of devolution of certain transport powers to city regions, including Greater Manchester a FirstGroup market, may result in further changes to the current business model.
Economicweakness continues in parts of the UK where provision of bus services remain as crucialto support recovery as they do to support growth.
32 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 1.7m passengers per day We serve 40 of the largest towns and cities, including seven of the most densely populated cities in the UK Customers Strategy and performance Revenues in the bus market principally comprise passenger ticket sales and concessionary fare schemes reimbursements by local authorities 2015 2014 for passengers entitled to free or reduced fares.
significant proportions of passengers use bus services for commuting to work, school, 1 Revenue 896.1m 930.2m college or university for shopping and for leisure purposes.
Commercial passenger revenues are typically linked to economic Operating profit 51.8m 44.4m activity in a local market.
Income may also be generated through tendered services.
Operating margin 5.8% 4.8% Competitors Number of employees 18,000 18,500 The UK bus market outside London is deregulated and highly 1 competitive with more than 1,200 bus operators: we face competition Includes 56m of non-recurring revenues from UK Bus operations now sold closed.
in all markets in which we operate.
Operators continue to increase market share through acquisition and through the year operators have Financial performance both entered and left the market.
The main competitor to bus services Revenue in our UK Bus division was 896.1m 2014: 930.2m in the UK, however, remains the private car.
withlike-for-like passenger revenue increasing by 2.3% excluding thecontribution from discontinued and disposed businesses in the Market attractions prior year.
Responding to the changes we have made to our fares, Q 4.4bn deregulated market offers significant potential for growth networks and service quality, and despite mixed economic conditions strategies tailored to specific segments across the division, like-for-like passenger volumes increased by Q Bus travel diversified by journey type 1.1%in the year.
Within this, commercial passenger volume growth Q Youth market provides significant growth opportunity, with car increased by 2.6% on a like-for-like basis, whilst concession volumes ownership falling in this demographic were modestly lower.
In the second half of the year, many parts of ourbusiness reached the anniversary of our fare rebasing actions, Q Using new technology to attract and retain custom.
and have begun to benefit from positive yield from periodic price increasesin line with the market.
Operating profit increased to 51.8m 2014: 44.4m and operating margin increased by one percentage point to 5.8% 2014: 4.8%, reecting operating leverage Approximate share of UK bus Our UK Bus operations to growth and our ongoingcost efficiency programmes.
market outside London by geography Our strengths Strong position in the deregulated market outside London c. 20% market share Compelling positions in key markets operations in seven ofthe 12 most densely populated cities now delivering good volumegrowth Repositioned to focus greater management expertise at the local level, delivering tailored network and fares offers to FirstGroup 20% England 71% reflect local needs Others 80% Scotland 23% Customer response including passenger volume growth and Wales 4% satisfaction scores demonstrates positive reaction to Ireland 2% commercial proposition changes.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Business r eview UK Bus continued particularly of period ticket products.
With rebased pricing and good volume growth, we now have a platform to consider further periodic price increases in line with the market across our local networks.
Ourfocus remains on offering attractive fares products to deliver loyaltyandattract new customers.
During the year we acted on our two major fares consultations in Bristoland the West of England and, as a result of the thousands of comments received from our customers, the majority of our single fares were reduced and at fares were introduced in the area, with consistent Focus on childand young person discounts on all products of 50% and 30% UK Bus respectively.
We have seen strong results with passenger volumes in Bristol up by 19% year-on-year.
UK Bus develops We were pleased with the results of the independent Bus Passenger Survey, undertaken during the year by Transport Focus, in which we cleaner vehicles equalled our record score of 86% for overall customer satisfaction across the country, following a 5 percentage point rise in 2013.
Our networks in both York and East Scotland were amongst the Our UK Bus division worked with manufacturer Wrightbus highest scoring of any bus operator, whilst we were particularly to develop the most fuel efficient bus on the market the encouraged by our overall value formoney score, which has StreetLite Micro Hybrid, which began to be introduced into improved by 17 percentage points over two years and is now our eet in2014.
Each is equipped with leather seats, free above the national average.
Wi-Fi for customers and extra room for wheelchairs and Continuous improvement in operating passengers with buggies.
They are also tted with the latest  technology which captures energy during braking which Operating discipline, cost optimisation and focused investment in can then be used later to power other parts of the bus.
The oureets and our people are improving our service delivery while micro hybrid buses are also lighter than conventional single increasing customer satisfaction.
We delivered cost reductions deck buses and, together with advanced engine relatingto productivity, fuel efficiency, procurement, engineering and technology, are around 30% more fuel efficient overall, maintenance ofapproximately 15m during the year.
Our drive to which also means they produce 30% less CO. 2 improve our engineering performance, through investment in eet anddepot transformation, hasled to decreases in both defects and Prudent investment in our key assets breakdowns with a corresponding increase in service performance.
4 However in some areas we have experienced disruption due to road repair programmes which has affected punctuality.
Wework hard with local authorities to overcome these issues, and in many instances we Driving growth through attractive have redeployed eet and drivers to help ease the situation.
 With our initial programme of significant network changes largely Prudent investment in our key assets completed in the year, the focus is now on the commercial We successfully bid for a number of shuttle bus contracts, including opportunitiesthat our empowered local management teams can new Park & Ride sites in Leeds, Taunton, Portsmouth and in York, deliver through deploying their resources and adjusting networks, where our eet now consists of 12 electric buses.
In Aberdeen we timetables and pricing to serve the needs of their markets.
During operate ourfullcomplement of hydrogen vehicles, partnering with theyear examples included the introduction of a single brand, the numerous organisations including the city council.
During the year we Cymru Clipper, covering all our inter-urban services across South took delivery of more than 270 Wrightbus StreetLite Micro Hybrid buses, Wales.
In both Bristol and Glasgow we are pleased to be launching which improve fuel efficiency by up to 30%, and which we played a routes serving major new hospitals, whilst in Manchester the acquisition large part in developing with the manufacturer.
After the year end of the Finglands business in the prior year meant that we were able weplaced a 77.6m order for 385 vehicles for delivery in 2015 16, with tolaunch a second cross-city service connecting the two major more than 90% tted with Euro 6 engines, the biggest investment in universities in the year.
We worked closely with a number of local such lower emission engines in the UK to date.
The buses will be tted authorities to integrate tendered services into commercial networks with free Wi-Fi and we will trial USB charging points on some vehicles.
inorder to meet passenger needs in the face of reduced Government During the year we introduced mobile ticketing onto all of our networks, subsidy.
In the year we worked closely with Cornwall County Council and take up of this new sales channel has been encouraging.
We are tominimise the impact on customers of the closure of rival operator seeing particularly good growth in student markets, where we invested Western Greyhound.
in promotion at the beginning of the academic year.
The development We have also rebased our fares structures throughout the division, and marketing of our apps, with period products enabled, gives us withthe majority of our networks seeing some reductions in prices, astrong base to offer more ticket products on this platform.
34 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 17% Fleet of approximately 17 percentage point improvement 6,300 buses in value for money over last two years according to independent national survey We are also playing a leading role to deliver the industry commitment continue to create a business focused on passenger needs with tolaunch multi-operator smart ticketing across the city regions in engaged local management, delivering increasingly attractive services England by December 2015.
During the year smartcard schemes atcompetitive prices.
werelaunched in West Yorkshire, Hampshire and Bristol, and these Outlook willcontinue to develop further going forward.
We expect our transformation plan to deliver further volume growth Responsible partnerships with our customers in2015 16, and now that many parts of our business have passed andcommunities theanniversary ofour fare rebasing actions, revenue growth is also We continue to explore opportunities to work in closer partnership expected to benefit from positive yield from periodic price increases in withlocal authorities in all of our markets, as our objective to get more line with the market.
Operating leverage from this growth, coupled with people onto buses typically aligns very well with their ambition to our cost efficiency programmes, are expected to ensure that we will reduce congestion and stimulate economic activity.
Our approach make further progress during 2015 16 towards our medium term target complements the Governments Northern Powerhouse agenda, of double digit margins.
afocus for many of the local markets in which we operate.
Across allour networks we are actively promoting enhanced partnership arrangements, building on the success we have had in South Yorkshire where passenger volumes in both Shefeld and Rotherham have risen strongly since partnerships were introduced.
We were key transport partners for a number of high prole events during the year and were particularly delighted to be Ofcial Supporter Passenger Transport Services to the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games.
We also provided shuttle buses for the RyderCup golf tournament at Gleneagles in September.
We are a sponsor of Bristol European Green Capital 2015, and are partnering with the city on events and logistics throughout the year while trialling anumber of sustainable technologies and processes.
Future priorities While there is still some way to go, we are delivering our turnaround planas forecasted to restore double digit margins to UK Bus by the Focus on endof 2017, which will be achieved from a continuation of our efforts to drive increased volume, coupled with market-based yield enhancement UK Bus and continuing cost efficiencies.
We believe that our strategy, which is based on delivering a competitive customer proposition coupled with improved operating discipline and strong partnerships with local Supporting Scotlands authorities, is the most responsive, efficient and cost-effective way to deliver the outcomes that bus passengers and taxpayers want and summer of sport wewill continue to promote thisstrategy going forwards.
By tailoring ouractions to local market conditions in the light of the progress each part of our business has made through our turnaround plan, we will Our UK Bus division was the Ofcial Supporter Bus Services at the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games.
First Glasgows network of high frequency, regular services across the citywere supplemented by designated spectator shuttle services linking principal Games venues within the UK Bus 2014 15 revenue by type city centre and bus services for all client groups during the Games including athletes, technical ofcials and the media.
UK Bus also provided around 260 coaches during The2014 Ryder Cup at Gleneagles, transporting Ryder Cupofcials, the media, sponsors and VIPs.
We also rancoaches for most of the events hospitality packages.
Allinall, we transported around 10,000 passengers over four days by the time golfs most popular event came toaclose.
Passenger revenue 64% Maintain responsible partnerships with our Concessions 25% customers and communities 5 Tenders 5% Other 6% FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Business r eview UK Rail Market overview First Great Western First Hull Trains One of the UKs most experienced rail First TransPennine Express First Capital Connect operators, carrying around 280m passengers until 14 September 2014 First ScotRail and operating over a fifth of the UKs until 1 April 2015 passenger rail network in the year.
Since rail franchising began we have built up expertise and experience running every type of network, which gives us confidence that we will grow our franchise portfolio through disciplined bidding over time.
Dave Gausby Market review and trends Interim Managing Director, UK Rail Passenger rail services are primarily provided by private train operating companies through franchises awarded by the relevant authority, butmay also be provided on an open access basis.
Operators are responsible for the day-to-day management and operation of train services.
Many elements of the service provided to passengers are mandated as part of the franchise contract and others are left to commercial judgement.
Total franchised passenger revenues in the UKare more than 9bn per annum.
Rail tracks and infrastructure signalling and some major stations are owned and managed by Network Rail.
Operators typically lease rolling stock from leasingcompanies.
Passenger growth across the industry continues to increase year on year, and recently reached a post-war high of 1.6bn.
The Government continues to invest in infrastructure and new rolling stock across the country to maintain performance and meet passengers requirements on the increasingly congested network.
Innovations such as smart ticketing, social media and mobile phone technology continue to be incorporated across the sector.
Closer working relationships between Network Rail, regulators and train operating companies continue to bepositively encouraged by Government in order to facilitate these infrastructure upgrades and innovations.
During the year the Department for Transport DfT has continued to progress its competition timetable, with a number of third generation franchises being awarded.
36 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report miles Around 8bn passenger 2,800 diesel and electric miles travelled last year rolling stock vehicles Customers Strategy and performance Rail markets differ but are generally categorised into three sectors: London and south east commuter services: regional: and long distance.
2015 2014 In addition, certain networks also offer sleeper services.
Parts ofthe First Great Western franchise fall into all four categories, though Revenue 2,207.1m 2,870.1m itandFirst Hull Trains have a large proportion of long distance and leisure travellers.
First TransPennine Express and First ScotRail carry Operating profit 74.1m 55.2m alarge number of commuters into the major towns and cities on their networks, and also serve a significant leisure market, while First Capital Operating margin 3.4% 1.9% Connect passengers were principally commuters to and from London.
1 Number of employees 7,500 14,000 Competitors 1 The main competitor to rail services in the UK is the private car.
We Excludes employees associated with the First Capital Connect and First ScotRail franchises, which we no longer operate going forward.
alsoface competition on some of our passenger ows from other rail services and, to a lesser extent, from long distance coach services and Financial performance airlines.
Our UK Rail division bids for franchises against other operators Our UK Rail division continues to benefit from robust growth in of current UK rail franchises and public transport operators from passenger volumes, with like-for-like passenger revenue increasing othercountries.
by6.7% during the year, at the top end of our expectations.
On a reported basis revenues declined to 2,207.1m 2014: 2,870.1m, Market attractions reecting a reduction in First ScotRail subsidy with a matching Q More than 9bn of long term contract-backed passenger revenue reduction in track access charges, so does not affect operating profit, available through 19 major franchise opportunities, of which more the end of revenue support arrangements in First Great Western and than two thirds by revenue will be let before 2020 First Capital Connect, and the completion of the First Capital Connect Q New franchises typically have significant revenue opportunity risk franchise at the end of the first half.
Adjusted operating profit was with some revenue protection, clear contingent capital 74.1m 2014: 55.2m, representing a margin of 3.4% 2014: 1.9%, requirements but low overall capital intensity inpart reecting First Great Western moving to normal commercial Q terms part way through last year.
Like-for-like passenger volumes Regulated environment, including Government capped regulated increased by 4.2% in the year.
fare increases Q Historically high levels of passenger numbers across the country.
Our strengths Significant participant in the UK rail market since privatisation Experienced in running every type of passenger rail Passenger revenue base of FirstGroup operation intercity, regional, commuter, sleeper and open access UK Rail franchises Strong commercial, rolling stock and major infrastructure upgrade project capabilities Highly experienced management team with a strong record of operational delivery and disciplined bidding.
Leisure 51% Business 32% Commuter 17% FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 Business r eview UK Rail continued competitive franchise, expected on 1 April 2016 the contract includes Focused and disciplined bidding an extension clause of up to 11 months at theDfTsdiscretion.
As one During the year the DfT has made progress in line with its UK rail of three shortlisted bidders for that competition, we submitted our bid refranchising timetable originally announced in March 2013 and proposal at the end of May.
Thenewfranchise isdue to be awarded in updated periodically since then.
As part of this timetable, we were October 2015. pleased to sign two agreements in March 2015 with the DfT, securingFirst Great Western for up to four and a half more years Naturally we were disappointed not to secure any of the franchise andFirstTransPennine Express for an additional year.
As a result we competition awards announced in the year.
As a result two of our will continue to run our largest franchise First Great Western to at least franchises ended during the year, with First Capital Connect and 1 April 2019, with a further extension of up to one year at the DfTs FirstScotRail being handed over to their new operators on 14 discretion.
This underscores the DfTs confidence in our ability to September 2014 and 1 April 2015 respectively.
Our approach to deliver stability, good value and better services for our passengers bidding for UK railfranchises has been and will continue to be during the period in which the Great Western Mainline modernisation disciplined, aiming to deliver ambitious improvements for passengers programme is being implemented.
The programme involves significant and appropriate returnsfor shareholders, at an acceptable level of risk.
upgrades to infrastructure including signalling and electrication, which will allow for new or refurbished trains on every part of the network, Continuous improvement in operating resulting in more frequent and faster journeys and an increase in the  number of seats over the period to the end of the decade.
We will also Our operating companies have continued to outperform the industry be running First TransPennine Express to the start of the next indelivering punctuality and customer satisfaction improvements since 2006, despite some significant infrastructure challenges over that time.
We pioneered closer partnership working with Network Rail and other industry participants to deliver infrastructure upgrade projects whilst minimising disruption for passengers, expertise which is increasingly vital as the Governments reinvestment in the national rail infrastructure continues to increase overthe coming years.
One of the largest such programmes is the 7.5bn Great Western Mainline upgrade, where FirstGreat Western willcontinue to support the substantial infrastructure upgrade work taking place throughout the network, as well as preparations for the introduction of the InterCity Express Programme, Crossrail and a neweet of local electric trains.
In the year, the 895m Reading area remodelling project saw the entry into operation of a Focus on newviaduct, substantially increasing capacity at a major network UK Rail bottleneck, and thereopening of the upgraded Reading station itself.
The overall projectremains a year ahead of schedule thanks in part to excellent partnership working across the industry.
First Capital Connect supported the preparations for the Class 700 train eet introduction First Great during the year as part of the 6bn Thameslink Programme.
First TransPennine Express began operating new trains and an upgraded Western expands timetable in May 2014, delivering 90,000 extra seats per week, benefiting from the Governments North of England electrication Pullman dining projects, part of a national investment of more than 1bn in the Norths railways, and helping central and local government achieve its vision for a Northern Powerhouse.
Fine dining on trains has returned as First Great Western offers a Pullman menu for selected trains that run between Prudent investment in our key assets London and Swansea and the South West.
In 2013 we We continue to innovate and invest in our service offerings for promised to ll our menu with as many products sourced passengers.
First Great Western has recongured its carriages to from as close to the railway line as possible.
Now almost deliver 3,000 more peak time standard class seats into Paddington 90 locally made products have replaced their mass-market station per day.
As part of the project, the first class experience on counterparts up from 50 since we launched the initiative.
FirstGreat Western has been upgraded and additional Pullman The menu includes award-winning produce from a third diningservices introduced.
First Great Western has also invested generation family butcher, fourth generation family baker inadditional customer-facing employees on long distance routes.
and fifth generation family cheese maker.
On the new During the year we continued to progress the roll out of free Wi-Fi trainsto be introduced from summer 2017, hot food will services both on-train and in-station throughout the First Great Western beavailable at seat to passengers in all classes of travel.
and First ScotRail networks, while First Hull Trains won innovation Prudent investment in our key assets awards for its free 4G single-sign-up Wi-Fi service.
First ScotRail has 4 also rolled out smart ticketing-enabled equipment at more than 300 stations during the year, the largest such projectin the UK, and the 38 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Two thirds of DfT franchise representing around 6bn revenues yet to be awarded of annual passenger in the current cycle revenue experience gained is being used to determine the most effective bedisciplined.
We will examine each franchise on its merits and decide approach to similar introductions acrossour other franchises.
During whether it presents an opportunity to deliver ambitious improvements the year we became the first rail operator to give passengers for passengers and appropriate returns for shareholders, at an theopportunity to earn Nectar loyalty points when booking their acceptable level of risk.
Outlook In the year First Great Western and First TransPennine Express became In the year ahead we expect our ongoing rail operations First Great accredited with Investors in People Gold status, joining First ScotRail in Western, First TransPennine Express and First Hull Trains to deliver achieving the UKs most recognised employee investment award.
solid revenue growth underpinned by continued increases in passenger volumes.
However, UK Rails contribution to Group earnings will be Responsible partnerships with our customers substantially lower in 2015 16 following the end of the First Capital andcommunities Connect and First ScotRail franchises.
Having submitted our proposal In the latest Transport Focus survey completed during the autumn for the TransPennine Expressfranchise in May 2015, we look forward First ScotRail, First Great Western and First Hull Trains achieved yeartothe announcement of the competition winner in October.
We were on-year improvements in overall customer satisfaction, while First recently shortlisted for the East Anglia competition, and we willexamine TransPennine Express saw a decrease related to service issues after the other upcoming franchise competition opportunities inthe DfTs introduction of the new timetable, which have since been rectied.
timetable before determining whether to proceed with a bid.
During the year First TransPennine Express was the first train operating company to win the British Quality Foundation UK Excellence Award, which recognises high performing businesses as assessed against the European Foundation for Quality Management model.
First Great Western succeeded First ScotRail as Rail Business of the Year at the national Rail Business Awards, while both First Hull Trains and First TransPennine Express were runners-up for Best Train Operator.
First Great Western also received a special award jointly with Network Rail, recognising their response tothe collapse of the sea wall at Dawlish.
Future priorities We have been actively involved in the UK rail industry since privatisation and have a breadth of experience and expertise in running every type of network.
Our management team has been involved in some of the highest prole infrastructure and rolling stock upgrade programmes ofrecent years, experiences that are increasingly important as reinvestment in the national rail network continues to gather pace overthe coming years.
Having secured First Great Western until at leastMarch 2019, we have a strong position in rail to build on over Focus on themedium term.
Approximately two thirds of the UK rail network UK Rail bypassenger revenue is expected to be refranchised over the next veyears, and our approach to these competitions will continue to Preparing for InterCity Express trains UK Rail 2014 15 revenue by type Following our agreement with the DfT to operate First Great Western in the coming years, we willcontinue to support the introduction of the new Super Express trains from Summer 2017.
These trains will offer more capacity and faster, more frequent services for communities in London, the Thames Valley, the South West, Cotswolds and Wales.
The trains will be painted in a livery that draws on the heritage of the route, tting foran extensive 7.5bn Passenger revenue 78% investment programme, the largestsince Brunel.
1 Government funding 15% Other revenue 7% Responsible partnerships with our customers and communities 1 5 Includes subsidies but does not take into account total premium payments made to Government during the year of 170.3m.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39
