Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Review Continuing Businesses Revenue, Gross Margin and Overheads Working Capital and Cash Total revenue increased by 25% in the year to 1,522.3 million Our core retail fascias continue to provide a source of strong 2014: 1,216.4 million.
Like for like sales for the 52 week cash generation which provides the Group with the financial period across all continuing Group fascias, including those in framework for ongoing acquisition activity and continuing Europe, increased by 12% which was an exceptional performance.
substantial investments in both retail property and operational infrastructure.
Ultimately, net cash balances improved by Total gross margin in the year of 48.6% was broadly consistent 38.9m in the year to 84.2m 2014: 45.3 million although with the prior year with a small increase in the margin in this was assisted by 16.5m of lease incentives received in the Sports Fashion to 49.5% 2014: 49.1% offset by a reduction last two months connected with the acquisition of five former in the margin in Outdoor to 41.3% 2014: 44.8%, reflecting Kiddicare stores.
the inclusion of a full year of the lower margin Tiso and ActivInstinct businesses and the impact from heavier discounting Gross capital expenditure excluding disposal costs increased in the final quarter of the year.
Our commitment both to delivering the best possible Operating Profits and Results experience to our customers and to overseas expansion means Operating profit before exceptional items increased substantially that investment in our retail fascias, both in terms of taking by 19.2 million to 102.2 million 2014: 83.0 million with new stores where appropriate and refurbishing existing space, an exceptional performance in Sports Fashion and a reduction remains substantial.
A requirement to clear excess Autumn A total of 37.2 million was invested in our retail fascias during and Winter inventories means that whilst we anticipate that the year 2014: 27.9 million.
Elsewhere, investment in Project Outdoor will move towards profitability in the new financial Emperor, the replacement of our core systems with Oracle and year, it may be 2016 17 before this objective is achieved.
new JD proprietary software, was 5.9 million in the year 2014: There were net exceptional items in the year of 9.5 million 5.1 million.
We have also invested 11.5 million 2014: 2.2 2014: 5.2 million which include a charge of 5.1m for the million on the first phase of a project to increase the operational impairment of intangible assets previously recognised on the capacity and flexibility of our Kingsway warehouse.
acquisitions of Blacks Outdoor Retail Limited, Kukri Sports Limited Our increased confidence in international success means that and Ark Fashion Limited.
The exceptional items comprised: investment in JDs international fascias will be a key focus for the Group in the new year.
International development opportunities 2015 2014 m m combined with ongoing investment in Project Emperor and further works at Kingsway means that there is likely to be a further Loss on disposal of fixed assets 0.9 0.9 substantial increase in the overall capital expenditure in the Impairment of fixed assets in loss making stores 1.0 0.5 new financial year.
Onerous lease provisions 2.5 0.5 Disposal of Bank Fashion Limited Total property related exceptional costs 4.4 1.9 Prior to its disposal to Hilco on 25 November 2014, Bank was having another difficult year with operating losses at similar Completion of new Kingsway warehouse move - 0.6 levels to the prior year leading the Board to conclude, shortly Business restructurings 1 - 2.7 before that date, that there was no realistic prospect of a material Total reorganisation and restructuring costs - 3.3 improvement in performance in the short term.
Consequently we reluctantly determined that the sale of Bank was in the best Impairment of intangible assets 2 5.1 - interests of the Group and its shareholders with future investment Total other exceptional charges 5.1 - being prioritised for our successful core fascias.
However, we remain absolutely committed to supporting the broadest possible Total exceptional charge 9.5 5.2 range of fashion brands within the Group and all our other fascias will continue to be supported with necessary investment 1 Charge of 2.7 million in the prior year from the restructuring and working capital this year.
of the head office and warehouse operations of the Blacks, Following the disposal of Bank, repayments of 18.15m against Champion and Kooga businesses.
JDs intercompany loan have been made which represents a 2 Charge arising from the impairment of the goodwill arising substantial recovery of the intergroup indebtedness at disposal.
in prior years on the acquisition of Blacks Outdoor Retail The pre-tax exceptional loss arising on the disposal of Bank Limited, the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Kukri Sports was 6.3 million.
The results of Bank for the period of the Limited, the Kukri brand name and the Ark fascia name.
Groups ownership together with the exceptional loss arising Group profit before tax in the year ultimately increased by 13.7 on the disposal of the business have been presented as a million to 90.5 million 2014: 76.8 million.
52 Strategic Report Financial Review Continuing Businesses Continued Taxation Foreign Exchange Exposures The effective rate of tax on profit from continuing operations The Groups principal foreign exchange exposure continues to has decreased from 24.6% to 22.9% primarily due to the be on the sourcing of own brand merchandise from either the decrease in the main rate of UK corporation tax.
Excluding both Far East or Indian Sub-Continent which usually has to be paid exceptional items and prior year adjustments from the tax for in US Dollars.
A buying rate is set at the start of the buying charge, the effective core rate from continuing activities has season typically six to nine months before product is delivered decreased from 26.2% to 22.4%.
This core effective tax rate to stores.
At this point, the Group aims to protect the anticipated continues to be above the standard rate due to the depreciation US Dollar requirement at rates at, or above, the buying rate of non-current assets which do not qualify for tax relief and through appropriate foreign exchange instruments.
overseas subsidiaries being subject to higher rates of corporation Following the disposal of Bank Fashion Limited, the Groups tax than the UK.
forecast requirement for US Dollars in the period to January 2016 is now $120 million.
Cover is in place for 2015 for $107 Earnings per Share million meaning that the Group is currently exposed on The basic earnings per share from continuing operations has exchange rate movements for $13 million of the current years increased by 20.9% from 29.08p to 35.17p.
Directors consider the adjusted earnings per share to be a more The Group is also exposed to the movement in the rate of the appropriate measure of the Groups underlying earnings Euro from the sale of its UK sourced stocks to its subsidiaries performance since it excludes the post-tax effect of exceptional in Europe.
However, the Group has a natural hedge on this items other than the loss on disposal of non-current assets.
exposure as the Euros received for that stock are then reinvested The strong trading performance in the year is reflected in the back in those European subsidiaries to fund the development fact that the adjusted earnings per share from continuing of both new stores and refurbishments.
operations has increased by 26.2% from 30.82p to 38.89p.
Dividends A final cash dividend of 5.90p per share is proposed, which if approved, would represent an increase of 4.2% on the final dividend from the prior year.
Added to the interim dividend of 1.15p per share, this takes the full year dividend to 7.05p, which is an increase of 4.1% on the prior year.
The dividend has risen Brian Small by 57% since 2010.
Chief Financial Officer 15 April 2015 Treasury Facilities Interest rate hedging has not been put in place on the current facility.
The Directors continue to be mindful of the potential for rises in UK base rates as the general economic situation improves but, at present, given the highly seasonal nature of the Groups core cashflows, they do not believe that a long term interest hedge is appropriate.
This position continues to be reviewed regularly.
Working capital remains well controlled with suppliers continuing to be paid to agreed terms and settlement discounts taken whenever due.
