Strategic Report Business Review Sports Fashion Outdoor Sports Fashion consists of the businesses previously reported The operating loss before exceptional items in Outdoor has both within the former Sports segment and within the former reduced by 3.1m to 4.9m 2014: 8.0m.
Fashion segment which ceased to be a substantial separate In the first half of the year, the performance of our Blacks and segment following the disposal of Bank Fashion Limited Bank Millets businesses saw some encouraging improvement as we prior to the key Christmas trading period.
In reality the Groups implemented a number of critical operational changes and core retail operations have always largely presented and sold introduced more seasonally relevant product.
However, the the major international sports brands alongside fashion brands second half of the year saw weaker than hoped for sell through as fashion and lifestyle attire thereby creating a natural and of autumn and winter ranges during a particularly mild and dry strengthening blend between sports and fashion brand season.
Heavy discounting has inevitably followed across the participation in the overall success of the Group.
whole sector to deal with the resulting imbalance between supply Indeed, the natural strengthening flow across the Group and demand, a process which has continued into the new has been well illustrated this year by the successful introduction financial year.
of The North Face into JD last Autumn from our Outdoor Tiso incorporating George Fisher, in its first full year in the brand roster.
Group, has enabled us to enhance our relationship with several In addition, given the ActivInstinct online business is not a key brands and has given us significantly better geographical fashion led business and its key trading categories are Outdoor coverage in Scotland.
The business, which continues to trade and Sports Performance, we now include this within Outdoor with independent management and systems, has suffered the rather than Sports Fashion.
same trading issues in the second half as Blacks and Millets although we remain confident about its longer term prospects.
Sports Fashion has had an excellent year with operating profits before exceptional items in the continuing businesses increased to 107.0 million 2014: 91.0 million with positive momentum in all of the territories in which we operate driven by a buoyant market for branded athletic footwear across Western Europe and an excellent buying and merchandising performance.
JDs approach to retail theatre and our commitment to working Peter Cowgill with our supplier partners on the presentation of their premium Executive Chairman branded footwear and apparel is unique.
We remain committed 15 April 2015 to the advancement of this proposition and during the year we refurbished our flagship Trafford Centre store in a new concept which moves forward our already excellent standards in visual merchandising and embraces the latest instore technology.
This concept will continue to evolve and we are confident that our new store in Oxford Street, which we will open later in the year, will generate an equally positive reaction.
