Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 10 Annual Report 2015 Business review Brush Brush Turbogenerators With over 140 years of history and global Turbogenerators is the operations, Brush is the foremost worlds largest independent independent manufacturer of electricity solutions provider to global energy generating equipment for the sectors power generation, industrial, Oil & Gas and offshore sectors.
From its five plants in the UK, Czech Republic, Netherlands, US and China which commenced operations in 2015, Brush designs, manufactures and services turbogenerators, principally in the 10 MVA to 300 MVA range, for both gas and steam turbine applications, and supplies a globally-diverse customer base.
In addition, Brush designs and manufactures systems and power transformers under the brand name Brush Transformers Transformers Revenue by product and also produces a wide range of indoor year ended 31 December 2015 and outdoor medium voltage AC DC 5 1.
N ew-build 31% switchgear under the Hawker Siddeley 4 generators Switchgear brand name Switchgear.
Aftermarket 33% Finally, Brushs subsidiary, Harrington www.
Switchgear 17% Generators International, is a specialist 3 4.
Transformers 15% UK-based small generator manufacturer Key strengths 5.
Other 4% supplying the construction, military, 2 Expertise in the design and manufacture telecoms and rail sectors.
of an extensive range of high-quality, 2 and 4-pole, high-voltage generators 2015 was a challenging year for Revenue by geographical and electric motors Brush sales, particularly for new-build destination generators.
An already soft market was Innovative design and developments year ended 31 December 2015 made significantly worse by the dramatic Strategically located around the world, fall in oil prices affecting the upstream 4 1.
Europe 57% with a newly-opened factory in China Oil & Gas sector.
North America 22% 3 the aftermarket business Aftermarket 3.
Asia 12% Comprehensive and integrated Aftermarket was also not immune from these effects.
RoW 9% support tailored to meet customers needs 1 However, ground was made up in throughout a generators operating life 2 Aftermarket during the second half, Switchgear and Transformer products in with revenue finishing moderately behind service with all UK and certain overseas the previous year.
energy supply authorities Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 11 Market overview 08 Action was instigated during the first half The Aftermarket business also had a 1 Total revenue of 2015 to reduce the manufacturing cost challenging first half of 2015, particularly year ended 31 December 2015 base in line with the decline in sales.
It did, however, finish actions were substantially concluded during the year strongly.
Significant investment 3 the second half of the year.
has been made in increasing and 261.1m -17% improving the sales resource to underpin 2014: 324.3m During the course of the year, factory both the new-build and Aftermarket sales headcount was reduced by around 10% revenue.
This is particularly important for 2 and opportunities were taken to improve Brush to aid development in new sectors Headline operating profit capabilities across many areas of the of the market in a challenging environment.
During the second half of the The investment in a rotor balance facility year, attention was also given to reducing in Pittsburgh, US, nears completion 3 38.5m -38% overheads, although there was no material and it is anticipated that the facility will 2014: 65.0m financial impact in 2015.
As a result of be available for use in early 2016.
This will these actions, Brush finished the year as further enhance Brushs North American a stronger business and is better equipped Aftermarket business.
2 B efore exceptional costs, exceptional income to deal with the challenging market and intangible asset amortisation.
Switchgear revenue was lower this year 3 Calculated at constant currency.
than in 2014, mainly due to a greater Despite difficult trading conditions, proportion of large direct current Brush has still increased investment in projects, which are more susceptible to product development across its business order placement delays than the standard streams.
Brush is well positioned for the Switchgear products.
medium-term and to exploit new routes to market, particularly those associated The Transformer business had a much with Aftermarket.
improved year, recovering from the previous Ofgem cycle and with sales finishing well The 30 million capital investment in a ahead of 2014.
Following its launch in greenfield generator manufacturing plant 2015, the 132 kV range is gaining traction, near Shanghai, China, was completed with good potential for the future.
during 2015, with operations commencing 2 in March 2015.
The new 14,400m Outlook purpose-built facility will produce 2-pole The difficult end-market conditions variants of Brushs 24 MVA to 150MVA experienced in 2015 are expected to turbogenerators.
Notwithstanding this, the medium and long-term prospects Despite the Chinese Governments for the power market and in particular commitment to switch from coal to the aeroderivative gas turbine sector, gas-fired power generation, the move where Brush has a strong position, remain in favour of gas has been slower than positive.
Brush will continue to focus on anticipated.
As a result, the development further operational improvements and of this business is between 18 months new product development to position and two years behind original projections.
the business for medium and long-term success.
