Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report 16 Business review and strategy Business model The Groups hospitality real estate ownership model enables investors to participate in long-term asset value growth as well as hotel earnings.
The model is fide-centralised with relatively low central overheads, the core aim being to ensure that a high proportion of hotel revenues flow directly through to the Groups bottom line.
In some markets where real estate ownership is sub-optimal for fiscal or other reasons, the Group may operate hotels under management contract.
Strategy The core strategic objective of the Group is to provide long-term, improving returns on shareholders capital, whilst growing the business through asset acquisition and prudent investment in the existing asset portfolio.
We are focused on capital allocation, promoting growth, controlling costs and fostering efficient operating procedures.
Strategy in action The Group is investing in its people, its brands and its technology in order to provide high quality cost-efficient service to its customers and good financial returns to its shareholders.
The Group aims to increase the flow of revenue to its hotels by delivering a superior guest experience throughout from ease of booking to quality of stay and by widening customer reach through a flexible, innovative and targeted revenue generating programme.
Building a better guest experience is a commercial strategy driven by commercial goals: increasing direct sales, reducing distribution costs, developing a single brand voice and thereby owning our guests creating a global community of fans and friends of the Millennium Hotels & Resorts brand.
Investing in technology To build a closer relationship with our guests we need first to understand them better.
To achieve that, we are investing in our digital platform.
Our CRM systems helps us frequent stays and offering investment in technology to deliver targeted, costa wider range of rewards, will enable the Group to effective promotions and including but not just limited present a new, innovative offers, including the next to hotel rooms.
The scheme and accessible face to the generation of the M&C will herald a number of world, putting our hotels Loyalty programme My industry firsts, including right where many of our Millennium.
Launching in a  guests spend most of their March 2016, My Millennium payment model.
time on line through their is a root to tip rethink of laptops or mobile phones.
Loyalty: richer, more Upgraded customer flexible, designed to quickly relationship management recognise guests for their Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic Report 17 Hotel operations Acquisitions Developments RevPAR increased by 0.6% to 71.98 in On 18 August 2015, the Group completed In December 2014, Urban Environmental 2015, but decreased by 1.3% in constant the acquisition of a long leasehold interest Improvement approval was granted for currency.
This was due to the continuing in Hard Days Night Hotel in Liverpool the Groups land in Seoul, South Korea, deterioration of trading conditions in the for 13.8m.
The Beatles-inspired hotel, to be used for lodging facilities.
A more Groups Asian hotels, where RevPAR which contains 110 rooms and suites, detailed submission to the Construction declined by 9.0%.
Trading was weaker is located within the popular Cavern Deliberation Commission CDC was than last year in London and New York Quarter of the city.
lodged in September 2015 for the especially in the second half of the year.
construction of a 306-room hotel and Like-for-like RevPAR for the year fell CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT a 209-unit serviced apartment complex.
which is consolidated within the Groups The response from CDC is still pending.
accounts under IFRS 10 and in which In December 2015, construction companies Hotel revenue rose by 2.0% to 765m the Group owns a 36% stake, acquired were invited to tender for the main building 2014: 750m reflecting contributions the Hilton Cambridge City Centre contract.
The tender closed in January from recent hotel acquisitions and previously known as Cambridge City 2016 and the project team is currently favourable foreign currency movements.
Hotel for 61.5m on 1 October 2015. reviewing submissions in preparation The property is a 198-room newlyfor the award once necessary permits Hotel gross operating margin was lower refurbished upper upscale hotel located from the authority are obtained.
in the heart of Cambridge city centre.
development cost is estimated to be This acquisition marks CDLHTs first KRW157b 90m for the construction The Group is addressing shortfalls in investment in Europe.
of the two buildings and external works.
hotel trading through a number of revenue It will take about two years to complete initiatives, including an enhanced digital from the expected commencement date marketing platform, increased focus in the middle of 2016. on the Chinese outbound market and identifying further upselling opportunities across the estate.
Growing our China Growing through business Upselling Upselling has long been Nowhere is knowing your a strength of many M&C customer more commercially hotels, but this year we are important than in China, launching a global best which is fast becoming practice programme aimed the largest market for at creating value for our guests international outbound of-choice of the youngest and incremental revenue for us.
With travel visa and most mobile of all The key components are: room digital platform will be fully restrictions being loosened Chinese travellers and when upgrades, club packages and launched during the first half in the US and UK, China is they arrive at our hotels they staff incentives.
Once established, it a critical growth market for will be delighted by Mandarin promotions will provide a solid foundation our hotels.
Our enhanced speaking staff and literature, via My Millennium and an for the speedy evolution of digital platform delivers M&C authentic Chinese restaurant enhanced Group website brands, products and guest in Mandarin, directly onto the options and Chinese TV the upselling programme is services.
designed to help us maximise the value of room inventory whilst surprising and delighting our guests.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report 18 Business review and strategy continued 2 The proposed development of the 35,717m scheduled to return to inventory by July Other Group operations mixed-use freehold landsite at Sunnyvale 2016.
Work on guest rooms at Millennium Joint ventures and associates contributed in California is progressing and will include Hotel Durham is scheduled to commence 17m to profit in 2015 2014: 10m.
in March 2016 with work completing in a 263-room hotel and a 250-unit residential apartment block in the initial phase.
Refurbishment of public First Sponsor Group Limited First subsequent phase is expected to include spaces at both hotels will be completed Sponsor was listed on the Singapore a retail component.
The Millennium Biltmore Hotel Los Exchange on 22 July 2014.
The Group development project located in the heart Angeles refurbishment is in progress and has an effective interest of 36% in First is scheduled to complete by the middle Sponsor, which now reports its results of the Silicon Valley.
The preliminary budget is estimated at US$300m 200m.
At 31 December 2015, the Group Group expects to break ground on the managed one property owned by First site in the middle of 2016, with completion Work on the overhaul of the lobby and Sponsorthe 196-room M Hotel Chengdu.
F&B outlets of the Grand Copthorne Waterfront in Singapore commenced Management continues to explore options in December 2015 and is targeted for in relation to the freehold site occupied by completion in Q3 2016. the Millennium Hotel St Louis, which was closed in January 2014.
In July 2015, Copthorne Hotel Auckland Harbour City in New Zealand was closed Hotel refurbishments for extensive refurbishment, including During 2015, the Group completed replacement of building services, guestrefurbishment of all guest rooms at The rooms and public areas.
The work, to cost over NZ$40m 18m, is expected to be Baileys Hotel London, Millennium Hotel completed in early 2017.
Internal demolition Buffalo and the remaining rooms at Millennium Seoul Hilton.
All guest rooms at and other works are currently underway these hotels had returned to inventory at and are on schedule.
The total cost of these refurbishments was 16m.
In New Zealand, Asset disposals renovation of 40 guestrooms at Copthorne As previously announced, the Group Hotel & Resort Queenstown Lakefront was entered into an agreement with the completed in November 2015.
Work on the developer of Birminghams Paradise Circus main lobby of the Grand Hyatt Taipei was redevelopment scheme in March 2014. substantially completed in January 2016, That agreement grants the Group a number with a retail corner and two small food and of options, including an option to sell the beverage F&B outlets planned for existing site and an option to acquire an completion later this year.
alternate site in the redevelopment area for the construction of a new hotel.
Discussions The Group will commence refurbishment with the developer are ongoing.
of two of its key London hotels in 2016.
The cost of refurbishment of Millennium In September 2015, the Group received Hotel London Mayfair and Millennium notice of an application made by Network Hotel London Knightsbridge is estimated Rail Infrastructure Limited Network Rail at 80m and 50m respectively.
It is for an order under the Transport and Works anticipated that both projects will require Scotland Act 2007 to temporarily close removal of rooms from inventory in stages and possess the Millennium Hotel Glasgow, but the hotels will not need to be fully and permanently take a portion of the hotel, closed during the refurbishment period.
in connection with the redevelopment of the The hotels are expected to fully re-open Queen Street Station in Glasgow.
M&C has in late 2017 or 2018. objected to the application, together with other affected parties, and continues to In the US, refurbishment of the East Tower pursue an alternative solution with Network of ONE UN New York, with an approved Rail.
The inquiry currently is scheduled to budget of US$38m 24m commenced be held in May 2016. at the end of 2015 with all guest rooms
