24 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Business review Business review Mitchells & Butlers is a leading UK operator of managed restaurants and pubs, with a We continue to operate high quality freehold estate and a portfolio of strong brands.
Our strategy is to focus on the long-term growth of food and drink within and measure our business the 80bn eating and drinking-out market, with around three-quarters of our turnover coming from guests eating in our pubs performance across and restaurants.
In FY 2015 we have achieved strong earnings three priority areas.
Against this backdrop, and reflecting confidence in future prospects for the business, we are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 5p per share.
Going forward we expect the final dividend to represent two thirds of the full year payout.
Like-for-like sales started the year well but softened over the last quarter.
The weather in the summer was generally poor, such that beer gardens did not see the benefit of any sustained period of sunshine.
The market is becoming increasingly competitive, and we have seen this sales weakness persist into the early weeks of the current financial year.
These are challenges which we are addressing.
Against this modest sales growth we have continued to generate value for our shareholders through our focus on costs and trading margins.
Phil Urban Chief Executive Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 25 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We have delivered 9.5% growth in adjusted EPS, whilst continuing to fide-lever the business, with net debt to adjusted EBITDA falling to 4.3 times.
FY 2015 also saw the completion of the EPOS systems projects, with new payment systems, tills, handheld devices and kitchen management equipment now rolled out across the estate.
We have also continued the integration of the Orchid business, completing the closure of the head office and executing the conversion programme with encouraging results.
Unconverted sites have now been integrated into our business within Heartland and are operating very much as business as usual.
Our priorities We are addressing our challenges by We have also worked hard on getting Given the competitive environment, we continuing to work towards our strategic back to basics with management targets and will increase the level of trial activity that goals.
In order to generate consistent performance data, ensuring that our balanced we undertake, and accelerate the rollout and sustained shareholder value we have scorecard approach is focused on managing of those which are successful.
This will identified three priorities, focused on: our P&L, and continuing to convert sales help us to improve the return from our building a more balanced business, instilling to profit.
existing assets and to exploit further a more commercial culture, and increasing market opportunities through new product the pace of execution and innovation.
We have installed a sales function to development.
In the last year we have apply a structured approach to maximising invested in our Heartland estate with two Build a more balanced business opportunities from some of the under-utilised new concepts: Sizzling Pizza & Carvery Our well established brand portfolio is an space we have at our disposal.
provides an innovative solution to move area of great strength for the business, with our Crown Carveries business forward: national presence and enduring guest appeal.
We recognise the need to increase the pace and Sizzling Pub & Grill is an extension This is evident from high levels of sales and at which we operate and the speed with which of the existing Sizzling Pubs offer.
A small the strong returns on investment we have we react in a dynamic marketplace.
Simplicity number of these formats have been trialled, generated from converting Orchid sites to throughout our business is vital.
We see the with results exceeding expectations so our brands.
We need to continue to ensure house manager role as critical in our organisation: far, and we are planning to accelerate the that all of our brands have a clear and targeted they need to be leaders, taking ownership roll-out.
proposition, and that they remain relevant for every aspect of their business and every to our guests in a dynamic market.
aspect of the customer journey.
Our area Our guests are increasingly digitally managers are the front line support to the connected in all aspects of their life.
This We must also ensure that we have the house managers, and as a wider business we provides a significant opportunity for us, appropriate balance of brands, and number need to be set up to focus fully on supporting to communicate with and reach our guests of sites within each brand, according to these key roles.
We are therefore simplifying in a variety of new ways, to engage with demographics and changing consumer the business and focusing on clear metrics, to them with new offers, and to get a deeper needs.
For example, we have Miller & Carter: allow our area managers the time to be in their understanding of consumer preferences to a successful premium brand with only 36 sites businesses, focusing on the standards of the further drive insight.
Our focus on innovation but the potential for many more.
We also operation and on truly delighting our guests.
is critical for us to maintain our competitive have Harvester: a mid-market brand with position in a rapidly evolving market.
The Harvester brand We also recognise the need to capitalise on remains powerful, as evidenced by the our team of outstanding people, by ensuring Outlook strong sales seen in our Orchid conversions.
we are a company that the best people want Sales in the first eight weeks of the year However, it is susceptible to new competitors to work for.
We need to identify those with the have been soft, with total sales down by due to its size and positioning.
Therefore most talent and highest potential, and ensure 1.3% and like-for-like sales down by 1.6%, we need to invest in protecting our more they are offered the right career plans and reflecting an increasingly competitive market.
mature established brands and accelerating development paths to remain with the the expansion of our most successful business and take it forward in the long term.
As we face these challenges we have a smaller brands, with a view to having a clear set of priorities going forward.
We better balanced business in the longer term We see applying these basic principles as are continuing with our strategy whilst to deliver more predictable and sustainable the key to unlocking the potential of the retaining a flexible approach across our shareholder returns.
high-quality team we have at our disposal, extensive portfolio of pubs and restaurants, and to creating a results-orientated culture seeking sustained and balanced profit Instil a more commercial culture throughout the business.
growth rather than purely the pursuit We will instil a truly commercial edge to our of sales.
Through this we are confident business, with a focus on driving profitable Increase the pace of execution we can deliver strong shareholder returns.
We are not looking to and innovation generate higher like-for-like sales at the expense We need to approach innovation with Phil Urban of profitability, and therefore our approach urgency and from all angles: new product Chief Executive to driving sales must vary according to our development, the use of technology to different brands and their various life-cycle improve efficiency, and digital innovation to stages, finding the right balance in each case.
drive the best engagement with our guests.
