d n e d i v i d e v i s s e r g o r P e u l a v r e d l o h e r a h S s w o l f h s a c The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Business review Overview of the year 2015 has been another year of good progress with growth in turnover, profits and cash flow.
Turnover was up 8% and profit before tax was up 11%, a strong result against the backdrop of a challenging market.
Free cash flow increased by 11.7m to 97.2m.
We have started to change the balance of the portfolio with the mix of the restaurants we opened during the year.
These are performing well and are set to deliver returns on investment in line with our usual parameters.
Trading patterns during the year were at times volatile, with weekends generally being strong, but midweek trading continuing to be softer.
We had some strong trading periods, particularly in the first half of the year.
There were also some more challenging periods, particularly towards the end of the year, when we saw weaker consumer demand exacerbated by floods in the North of the country and lower retail footfall.
Against this backdrop the full year like-for-like sales performance of 1.5%, which was in line with the wider market, represents a creditable performance.
Danny Breithaupt Chief Executive Officer Strong results in a challenging market.
Rising profits Increased returns on Higher levels investor of cash flow capital Investment in restaurants 18 e l b a n i a t s u S s l e v e l t b e d w o L h t w o r g l a t i p a C Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Brands Frankie & Bennys 261 units Frankie & Bennys delivered growth in turnover, margins and profits.
The new menu launched during the year included some rationalisation to reduce the total number of items, while at the same time introducing a greater element of freshness.
Breakfast continues to be a growing and successful part of the business and further improvements to this are being introduced during 2016.
A new App for the brand was launched towards the end of the year which is proving popular with our guests and enables us to collect much more granular information about our customers, their spending patterns and preferences.
Of all our brands, Frankie & Bennys is the most exposed to some of the underlying challenges around retail footfall and the increased number of competitor openings and we have certainly seen the impact of this, particularly in the more retail focused locations.
During the year we opened 14 new restaurants in this brand and we expect to open a similar number in 2016.
The breadth of appeal of Frankie & Bennys, Pub restaurants 54 units particularly to families, combined with high levels of customer Our Pub restaurant business performed extremely well in recognition both contribute to its enduring success.
There is a growing market for this traditional, quality, evidenced by strong performances from our new openings food-led pub offering.
Our pubs have broad appeal and in and continuing high levels of individual site profitability.
particular attract the affluent grey market.
During the year we opened three new Pub restaurants.
We are broadening the Chiquito 86 units geography of this business, which has historically been Chiquito had another good year with strong growth in focused on the North West and South East.
In particular we turnover, margins and profits.
The major changes introduced are now opening sites in the Midlands.
The pipeline for 2016 into this brand some years ago continue to generate is well developed and we expect to open between five and significant improvements in trading performance.
During the seven new pubs during the year.
year we opened nine Chiquito restaurants, which are trading extremely well.
We expect to open a similar number during Concessions 61 units 2016 and we see this as a key growth engine for the Group Concessions had a year of strong growth in turnover and over the next few years.
The core target market for this brand profit.
During the year we opened seven new units, notable is young adults, a distinct market segment to both Frankie & among which were three prominent units at the redeveloped Bennys and Coast to Coast.
Stansted Airport, including the first Coast to Coast in an airport environment.
During 2016 we expect to open two Coast to Coast 21 units to four new concession outlets.
We have a market-leading Coast to Coast also had a good year with growth in turnover position in this sector, which continues to have strong and profits.
Having opened our first Coast to Coast in Brighton underlying fundamentals in terms of passenger growth and at the end of 2011, this brand has carved out a distinctive dwell times.
market position for itself as a brand very much focused on the adult market looking for a more premium offering in a more sophisticated environment.
During the year we opened eight Coast to Coast restaurants and we are very pleased with how these are performing.
Stand out new openings for this brand during the year were at the Trafford Centre and the Aberdeen Union Square development.
We expect to open between five and seven sites in 2016.
As with Chiquito, this brand will become an increasingly important driver of growth for the Group going forward.
19 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Business review continued Business model, strategy and market developments Our Pub business appeals to another type of occasion and Operating in the growing UK eating out market, our core has broad appeal across a range of age groups, also objective is to grow shareholder value by building a business attracting the affluent grey market.
Finally, in our Concessions which delivers long-term, sustainable and growing cash flows.
business we have a market-leading position providing food Within this market our strategy is to focus on areas where and beverage offerings in UK airports, where we continue to there are meaningful barriers to entry, good growth prospects benefit from growing passenger numbers and dwell times.
Our growth model is primarily based on organic roll out of new sites across our portfolio of brands.
Roll out capability All of the brands described above have substantial roll out Our various different brands and offerings, most of which have scalability in the UK.
We are confident that we can expand the been internally developed, address differing occasions and Group to 850 restaurants, all financed out of internally segments of the market.
This means that, depending on generated cash flow.
As we have clearly demonstrated in the market size, we can often open multiple brands alongside past the Company has the financial and operational capability each other in the same location and each will deliver strong to deliver this scale of roll out successfully while maintaining financial returns.
Whilst most of our new sites are leasehold, consistently high levels of return.
we also acquire freehold premises where these give a satisfactory level of return.
Although not a core part of our 3.
Infrastructure and people development plans, we will consider acquisitions of existing The Company has strong infrastructure in terms of people, businesses where there is a clear strategic rationale and processes and systems to successfully manage a growing where this would enhance shareholder returns.
business of this size and scale.
We have strengthened our teams and other elements of infrastructure in recent years to Our market continues to develop to meet changing tastes and support the continued growth of the Group.
The growth of online shopping, resulting in lower footfall at some of the retail schemes where 4.
Financial strength we operate has clearly had an impact.
In addition, a greater The Groups financial strength and disciplined focus on return range and number of branded restaurant offerings and on investment and cash flow means that we have the financial food-led pubs run by a number of operators are providing capacity to deliver on our long-term growth objectives.
This a higher level of competition.
We are very much alive to these financial strength also means that we can continue to invest changes, which we monitor closely.
We will continue to adapt in maintaining our existing sites and infrastructure to a high and evolve our business as necessary in order to navigate standard and at the same time pay a growing level of dividend.
our way through this changing environment and to ensure that we continue to deliver strong returns for shareholders.
Business priorities During 2016 our priorities will be: Business strengths Continued focus on improving levels of customer service TRG is well placed to continue performing strongly in the and food quality to ensure that our guests always have current market environment and will continue to benefit a great experience when they visit one of our restaurants from the core strengths and competencies of the Group.
We are implementing new guest experience measurement processes during 2016 to ensure we are 1.
Range of brands and offerings able to properly monitor and respond to the feedback TRG has a well segmented range of brands and offerings appropriately.
appealing to different audiences and occasions.
We believe this is a unique attribute of our business.
In our Leisure Ongoing evolution and development of our brands and portfolio, Frankie & Bennys main focus is the family market offerings to ensure they remain relevant to the changing where it continues to enjoy huge loyalty and success.
During 2016, building on the Our Chiquito business is focused on the young adult market, work undertaken in Frankie & Bennys during 2015, we will people looking for a higher tempo occasion.
Coast to Coast continue to evolve our menus to ensure that they stay is designed to appeal to a more affluent adult market with relevant.
These developments include a new breakfast menu a more sophisticated menu and environment.
The fact in Frankie & Bennys, introduction of a street food section that these three brands all have their own specific market on the Chiquito menu and a new menu in Coast to Coast segments means that they can be co-located and including some fresher and lighter options.
operate successfully in the same geographical location.
Continuing to exploit new technology to improve our business, whether this be improved back of house systems or leveraging the new Frankie & Bennys App referred to earlier, to improve guest communication and experience.
20 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Managing our cost base to ensure we continue to run the business efficiently.
In 2016 this will include initiatives to mitigate the impact of the National Living Wage, such as better rostering and improved labour productivity.
We will also be maintaining our relentless focus on driving efficiencies in our supply chain, whilst at the same time closely managing all other areas of our cost base.
Open new restaurants which continue to provide good returns on investment.
At the same time we will continue to develop our pipeline of future openings to secure the continued successful roll out of our brands in future years.
Current trading and outlook After 10 weeks trading in 2016 total sales are up by 6% and like-for-like sales are down by 1.5%.
The more challenging trading conditions we saw at the end of last year have continued into the early part of 2016, reflecting a softening in consumer demand and weaker overall consumer confidence.
Whilst still early in the year, our assessment is that this more challenging environment and recent trading patterns are likely to persist.
Although total sales will continue to increase as our new restaurants open and deliver good returns, in the current environment consistent like-for-like sales increases are likely to be difficult to generate.
However, notwithstanding this backdrop, we are confident that the underlying strengths of our business and brands, combined with the mitigating actions we are taking, will ensure that TRG continues to making profitable progress in 2016 and the years ahead.
