ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 30 BUSINESS REVIEW WE RESPONDED TO THE DIFFICULT MARKET CONDITIONS BY INCREASING OUR FOCUS ON MANAGING OUR COST BASE WHILST IMPROVING THE RESILIENCE OF OUR SUPPLY CHAIN.
ROTORK CONTROLS Order intake was 277.0m, a 13.6% reduction compared with the prior year.
On an organic constant currency OCC basis the movement was very similar to the reported change at -13.5%, as the small benefit from acquisitions was offset by a modest currency headwind.
Revenue was 286.7m, 11.7% lower than the prior year, on both a reported and OCC basis, resulting in a 10.7m reduction in the Grant Wood order book to 81.0m.
Managing Director Rotork Controls The lower revenue had a knock-on impact on profitability for the division.
Adjusted operating profit fell 18.4% to 85.5m, an adjusted operating margin of 29.8%, 250 basis points lower than 2014.
The reduced margin is largely attributable to the lower sales volumes with the cost of components similar to the prior year.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 31 Sales to the oil and gas markets were This will enable us to grow our market OPPORTUNITIES: the most heavily impacted during the share in the region.
The purchase of Centork water, power year, with reduced revenue across Servo Moteurs Service in France in and industrial upstream, midstream and downstream September further extended our HVAC market applications.
The proportion of service coverage in southern France.
Process actuator solutions revenue from oil and gas reduced from Asset management 51% to 48% during the year with a We continue to focus on product developments majority of the divisions revenue now innovation to support growth in our coming from other markets.
During the year, we launched America continued to grow in total further variants of our IQ3 range to REVENUE M and across all end markets oil and gas, target profitable niche applications.
water, power and industrial, with the The main variants of Centork used in 2015 286.7 Middle East seeing good growth in oil the water and power markets were and gas and power.
The gains in these also launched in the year with the 2014 324.5 markets were insufficient to offset the remaining variants due to be released 2013 321.9 reduction in revenue in the Far East, in 2016.
Two of our existing factories Controls largest market, where all end have been set up to produce this 2012 293.2 markets apart from water showed a range, with a third factory due to decline.
Within this region, the reduced commence production in 2016 as 2011 278.0 activity in China, in both the oil and volumes grow.
The ExMax M has been gas and power markets, had the adapted for outside applications as biggest impact.
Latin America was part of the continued expansion of our ADJUSTED also impacted, with sales in the oil and product range in the growing HVAC OPERATING PROFIT M gas markets substantially down, market.
A new variant of our compact particularly in Mexico.
modulating actuator CMA was also 2015 85.5 launched, adding further features to The integration of our Turkish sales the current CMA range.
2014 104.7 and services agents actuator business 2013 105.5 acquired earlier in 2015 is progressing well and resulted in us opening a 2012 94.8 new office and expanding our team 2011 92.1 in Turkey.
Case study Rotork CVA fail-safe electric process valve actuators were selected for a critical flow control application in the Australian coal mining industry.
Salcan Process Technology manufactures wellhead skids designed for coal mine degassing duties.
The remotely sited skids are used in conjunction with Salcans control and telemetry systems to enable methane and other flammable gases to be extracted from underground coal seams prior to the commencement of mining operations.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 32 BUSINESS REVIEW WE CONTINUED TO FOCUS ON DIVERSIFYING OUR END MARKETS AND GEOGRAPHICS AND DRIVING EFFICIENCIES IN THE FACE OF CHALLENGING OIL AND GAS MARKETS.
ROTORK FLUID SYSTEMS As the Rotork division with the largest exposure to oil and gas, 2015 was a difficult year for Rotork Fluid Systems RFS.
Within the other end markets results were mixed with industrial process sales the largest growth area but this was insufficient to offset the decline in oil and gas.
However, oil and gas continues to provide opportunities for RFS in some areas.
Both our comprehensive product portfolio and other end market exposure, will continue to drive growth.
The second half of the year proved more David Littlejohns challenging than the first.
Order intake in the Managing Director second half was 27.1% lower than the second Rotork Fluid Systems half of 2014, resulting in full year order intake that was 23.4% lower than the prior year.
The currency headwind was greater than the contribution from acquisitions, so on an organic constant currency OCC basis full year order intake was 22.2% lower than 2014.
Revenue of 149.2m was 17.2% lower, with the negative impact of currency again greater than the contribution from acquisitions, resulting in a reduction in revenue on an OCC basis of 16.3%.
Volume, mix and pricing all impacted the top line but the containment of overhead costs at all levels was insufficient to offset this so adjusted operating profit was down 51.2% to 15.2m, a margin of 10.2% compared with 17.3% last year.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 33 The divisions exposure to the oil and by the end of 2016 we expect to OPPORTUNITIES: gas market reduced once again in 2015, complete the consolidation of three Market expansion down from 72% to 68% of the divisions existing Tulsa USA facilities into one SI3 actuators revenue, with upstream, midstream combined site.
The integration of Collaboration with and downstream all reporting a Masso, our marine focused business Instruments division reduction.
Industrial process became acquired at the end of 2014, is New Lucca factory the second largest end market with progressing well and Masso is starting 17%, whilst power remained at 9% of to benefit from being part of the a reduced divisional revenue figure.
Rotork Group and from our global REVENUE M Geographically, North America is RFSs sales network.
largest market, and the value of its 2015 149.2 sales remained constant year-on-year.
We continue to develop our supply Canada continued to grow, despite the chain in India, China and Malaysia for 2014 180.3 difficult market conditions.
In the USA our higher volume products to control 2013 187.0 we had a good year in securing key and accelerate material cost reductions.
Gulf Coast LNG project work, as well We also continue to realise synergistic 2012 160.9 as good project activity around gas initiatives with the expanding range of pipeline and compressor stations.
devices within the Instruments division.
2011 132.6 Western Europe also saw some growth with most of the increase in industrial Product development continues to be a sales coming from that region.
All other focus for RFS as we look to build on ADJUSTED regions saw a decline in revenue, with opportunities to extend or improve our OPERATING PROFIT M the weakest performer being the product range to address new or Far East, where project deliveries in existing market requirements.
During 2015 15.2 Australia and India fell from historically the year we launched SI3, our third high levels in 2014. generation Skilmatic SI electric fail-safe 2014 31.2 actuator with IQ3 technology, and the 2013 31.0 The improvement and consolidation of CQ range of actuators.
CQ can be used our existing facilities remains a focus as in harsh environments where safety is 2012 24.6 part of our drive to manage costs required and where space is limited.
2011 17.1 in the current market conditions.
During the year we also expanded our Our new factory in Lucca Italy is due range of K-Tork actuators used in to be fully operational in the second power and industrial markets by quarter of 2016.
In addition, in early introducing a wider range of sizes and 2016 we will complete the integration of made further progress with our nuclear our three existing Milan facilities into qualification programme.
one combined site in Cusago Italy and Case study Rotork GO gas-over-oil actuators were supplied for vital fail-safe valve control duties on a new cryogenic LNG pipeline in Venezuela.
In addition to providing the best technical solution for the application, the actuators were selected because of the high level of local support available from Rotorks well established company in Venezuela.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 34 BUSINESS REVIEW OUR INDUSTRY LEADING EXPERTISE ENABLES US TO DELIVER INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS TO MEET OUR CUSTOMERS INDIVIDUAL VALVE GEARBOX AND ACCESSORY REQUIREMENTS, DRAWING ON A WIDE RANGE OF PRODUCTS.
ROTORK GEARS The Gears division made progress during the year, developing its addressable market, identifying new customers, markets and products, and completing the acquisition of Roto Hammer Industries Inc. Roto Hammer in the USA.
Our industry leading expertise enables us to deliver innovative solutions to meet our customers individual valve gearbox and accessory requirements, drawing on a wide range of products.
We maintained our focus on profitability, return on sales and world class service.
We also continued our efforts to streamline production processes Pamela Bingham and reduce costs.
Managing Director Rotork Gears Order intake and revenue grew modestly during 2015 on both a reported and organic constant currency OCC basis.
Order intake was 0.4% higher than 2014, and revenue 1.3% higher, both on an OCC basis.
Whilst currency was neutral for divisional revenue in the first half of the year, it was a headwind in the second half but the second half also benefited from the acquisition of Roto Hammer in September.
Revenue was 58.6m, 1.4% ahead of last year, fractionally ahead of order intake, so the order book reduced 6.0% to 10.1m at the end of the year.
Gears saw the largest adverse impact of currency on reported margins as a result of its combination of factory locations and supply channels.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 35 Adjusted operating profit of 12.0m contribution from Roto Hammer OPPORTUNITIES: 2014: 13.0m gives a margin of from September, as did the Far East.
Roto Hammer integration 20.5%, 200 basis points lower than Western Europe was the best Product range expansion 2014, but on an OCC basis this gap performing region and is our largest Increased R&D investment narrows to 100 basis points.
This end destination market, representing Geographic expansion margin reduction can be attributed to 31% of sales, up from 28% in the the reduction in oil and gas sales which prior year.
were largely replaced by sales into the REVENUE M power and industrial markets, which Our Leeds facility is the worldwide are typically at a lower margin.
Gearboxes 58.6 2015 are manufactured here and also at our The 8.2m acquisition of Roto facilities in China, India, the USA and 2014 57.8 Hammer, a US-based manufacturer of Continental Europe.
Our Leeds based 2013 56.0 custom designed chain wheel manual team is responsible for research, valve operators, adds a new product product development and 2012 52.9 line to the Gears product range and product testing.
increases our presence in the 2011 46.6 important US market.
Gears further We continue to work closely with our developed its global sales and service customers, providing them with the network, providing local support to benefits of innovative, technically ADJUSTED our customers around the world.
We advanced, high quality products and OPERATING PROFIT M secured new OEM accounts in the associated services.
Our dedicated growth markets of Korea, Japan, R&D team are responsible for new 2015 12.0 China, India and Eastern Europe.
In product design and development, addition, we saw growth in our sub sea from concept to customer.
During 2014 13.0 business, and in the USA we developed 2015, we further strengthened our 2013 13.0 Factory Stores short lead-time sales.
diverse product range with the launch of the AB550M and HOS MPR gearbox 2012 12.1 Oil and gas remained our largest end ranges.
The AB550M is motorised for 2011 10.3 market but reduced from 57% to 50% quarter-turn applications, whilst the of sales, whilst sales in power, water HOS MPR is a hand operated spur and industrial all grew as we continued gearbox offering comprehensive to diversify our end market exposure.
In terms of the regional split of sales, North America reduced, despite the Case study Rotork IQ3 actuators and MTW gearboxes were chosen to replace unreliable actuators for the operation of radial gates on an important river management weir on the River Thames.
Hambleden Weir plays a critical role in maintaining the level and flow in an area that is used extensively for recreational activities, including the stretch of river that hosts the world famous Henley Regatta.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 36 BUSINESS REVIEW 2015 WAS ANOTHER STRONG YEAR OF GROWTH, WITH THE COMPLETION OF THREE ACQUISITIONS, DOUBLING OUR ADDRESSABLE MARKET, PROVIDING INSTRUMENTS WITH EXCELLENT FOUNDATIONS FOR THE FUTURE.
ROTORK INSTRUMENTS 2015 was another year of strong growth for the Instruments division, with the completion of three acquisitions doubling our addressable market and providing Instruments with excellent foundations for the future.
During the year, we focused on: the integration of Soldo and YTC: continuing to widen our product range through synergistic acquisitions and innovating our existing products: leveraging our sales synergies through our global sales network: and delivering cost reduction and productivity improvements.
Order intake grew 43.0% in the year due to the significant contribution from acquisitions and supported by a currency tailwind.
On an organic constant currency OCC basis order intake was 9.1% Alan Paine lower than the prior year, with Soldo and Rotork Managing Director Midland affected by the lower oil and gas activity and Rotork Instruments Rotork Midland also impacted by the lumpy nature of its rail projects.
The pattern with revenue was similar, being 46.5% higher as reported at 67.3m but this was 5.8% lower on an OCC basis.
Gross margins were 50 basis points lower than the prior year on an OCC basis, with the mix impact of lower margin acquisitions reducing gross margin by a further 200 basis points, down to 46.3%.
Adjusted operating profit was 18.3m, 26.8% higher than 2014, a 27.2% adjusted operating margin.
OCC adjusted operating profit was 12.3m, 14.5% lower than 2014, a margin of 28.5%.
In August, we completed the acquisition of Bifold Group Ltd Bifold which has operations in Manchester and Taunton in the UK, for up to 125m.
Bifold is a manufacturer of pneumatic and hydraulic instrument valves focused on the oil and gas industry and wider industrial markets, with expertise in a number of niche sectors such as subsea and wellhead control systems and was a long held target of Rotorks.
It has marketleading technology in areas that include the Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 37 development of solenoid valves with Instruments had less exposure than the OPPORTUNITIES: ultra-low power requirements.
The other divisions to the oil and gas market Sales channel development combination of Bifolds extensive in 2015, although it was still the largest Rotork synergies product portfolio and leading end market at 44% of divisional revenue Geographic expansion technology with Rotorks international and that proportion will increase in the Product range expansion sales network and geographic reach will current year with a full year contribution support the continued growth of the from Bifold.
There was a decline in oil Instruments division in the future.
Bifold and gas sales in some areas but these REVENUE M performed in line with expectations were offset by gains in other areas.
We have continued to be successful in 2015 67.3 gaining traction in new geographic In August, we also acquired M&M markets through selling our growing 2014 46.0 International Srl M&M, based in product portfolio through our 2013 24.9 Bergamo, Italy.
M&M is a manufacturer integrated global sales channels.
In of solenoid valves, piston actuated particular, Rotork Midland and YTC 2012 16.4 valves and automatic drain valves for use saw good growth in India, Korea, in commercial and industrial flow control China and the USA.
2011 1.4 industries, and will complement Rotork Midlands range of solenoid valves.
In 2015, each of the businesses Our third acquisition for the year was developed extensions to their existing ADJUSTED Eltav Technologies.
Eltav produces an product ranges and new variants of OPERATING PROFIT M innovative industrial wireless monitoring products, supporting global expansion solution for actuated valves.
Soldo developed 2015 18.3 diagnostic software enables predictive ECL, a multi-turn manual switch box, in maintenance on actuated valves, collaboration with Rotork Gears: Rotork 2014 14.4 reducing capital and operational Midland developed a pioneering control 2013 7.8 expenses while increasing safety system on a biomass wagon for the and productivity in the plant.
These Drax power station that controls the 2012 5.1 acquisitions support our strategy of door opening and locking process: 2011 0.4 broadening our product portfolio and YTCs new TMP-3000 industrial expanding our addressable markets.
positioner will open new markets for YTC in the control of piston valves: and Activities to integrate our routes to Bifold continues to expand its range of market, train the sales teams on the products for the wellhead market with broader product portfolio and align our electro-hydraulic power packs and product development strategies are all pressure transmitters and switches.
well under way and progressing according to plan.
Case study Bifold solenoid manifolds were supplied on a topside hydraulic power unit.
This was for eight generic FPSOs for offshore Brazil.
These particular solenoid manifolds were selected for their modular design, compact size and reduced weight for this application which is vital in the smooth and efficient running of this system.
Along with these features, they were chosen due to their ease of installation.
