Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Within our corporate engine business wehad proportion of linked Trent 700 engine sales, Full-year performance also benefited good revenue growth from our BR725 engine weaker corporate jet engine volumes and a fromthe reversal of previously recognised which powers the Gulfstream G650 and declining regional aftermarket, partially offset impairments on contractual aftermarket G650ER.
This was offset by lower volumes by 16m higher gross margin contribution rights CARs andrelease of a related forour other products due to weaker demand from sales of spare engines tojoint ventures provision with a profit of 65m being from Chinese, Russian and Brazilian customers.
67m in 2015 compared to51m in 2014. recognised 2014: impairment charge of As a result, corporate original equipment 19m.
This reflected a significantly more In addition, these factors were partially revenues declined 1%.
Despite areduction in positive outlook for future maintenance offset by a number of contract accounting new corporate engine deliveries, our installed costs for a Trent 1000 launch customer adjustments and reversals of impairments base of corporate jetengines continued to which enabled the reversal ofa previous and provisions.
grow, contributing to a 13% increase in impairment.
This also resulted inthe services revenues from these products.
The in-year benefit of retrospective long-term capitalisation of 22m of 2015 CARs that contract accounting adjustments as expected would otherwise have been impaired.
Services revenues from our regional jet was a net positive of 222m 2014: total benefit Costs below gross margin were 5m lower engines declined 14%, reflecting of 150m.
Of this, 189m was a one-off benefit than the previous year.
Within this, R&D retirements and reduced utilisation of resulting from refining the basis for taking charges were 64m higher, reflecting relevant fleets by North American operators.
account of risk in our forecasts of future increased spend on key programmes, On the V2500 programme, original revenue.
In 2012, it was agreed with the Group particularly in respect of the Trent 1000 TEN, equipment revenues declined 9% due to Audit Committee that a comprehensive review the Trent 7000 and the Trent XWB-97.
reduced demand from International Aero would be completed during 2015.
Thenew Theseengines, now in their final stages Engines IAE for V2500 modules to power the enhanced methodology should better reflect ofpreparation before flight testing, are Airbus A320ceo, reflecting a mix change in risk, current experience and expected duetoenter service in 2017 and 2018.
They engine types powering the aircraft ahead long-term performance.
Other long-term represent a significant advance on previous ofthe introduction of the A320neo.
Despite contract accounting adjustments totalled anet Trent designs, providing substantial fuel continued growth in the installed base of benefit of 33m 2014: total benefit of 150m.
The Trent 7000 and engines, services revenues on the V2500 were This comprised a retrospective charge of 107m TrentXWB-97 programmes have yet to reach down 1% overall reflecting a combination 2014: benefit of 90m, reflecting reduced apoint at which their costs can be capitalised.
offewer overhauls, lower spare parts sales customer fleet utilisation, mainly inrespect of Inaddition, following its successful entry andreduced engine flying hours.
the Trent500 and Trent 800, othercommercial intoservice, continuing investment in the changes and technical risks, offset by the TrentXWB-84 engine can no longer be Overall gross margins for Civil Aerospace were benefit of 140m 2014: benefit of 60m capitalised.
The year-on-year reduction fromlife-cycle cost improvements.
develop future corporate jet engine technology.
in margin of 139m reflected the lower CIVIL AEROSPACE KEY FINANCIAL DATA Underlying Acquisitions Foreign 2014 change & disposals exchange 2015 Order book 63,229 3,800 67,029 Engine deliveries 739 27 712 Underlying revenue 6,837 201 105 6,933 Change 3% -2% 1% Underlying OE revenue 3,463 117 88 3,258 Change -3% -3% -6% Underlying services revenue 3,374 318 17 3,675 Change 9% 1% 9% Underlying gross margin 1,675 139 10 1,526 Gross margin % 24.5% -270 bps 22.0% Commercial and administrative costs 283 14 1 296 Restructuring costs 82 75 7 Research and development costs 461 65 11 515 Joint ventures and associates 93 8 3 104 Underlying profit before financing 942 135 5 812 Change -14% -14% Underlying operating margin 13.8% -230 bps 11.7% The methodology basis for the allocation of Civil Aerospace revenues on linked TotalCare contracts between original equipment and aftermarket has been reviewed and amendments made to reflect better the commercial substance of the combined contracts.
Historically, the allocation has resulted in original equipment revenue and aftermarket revenue reflecting the contractual terms rather than the commercial substance of the contracts.
The 2014 figures have been restated on the same basis: theimpact was an increase in original equipment revenue of 198m and an equal decrease in aftermarket revenue Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 23 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review The R&D charge was reduced by 94m equipment additions and a lower spend on Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft and 2014:71m bythe recognition of entry fees certification costs and participation fees.
long-term TotalCare support for Air China receivable from risk and revenue sharing The 286m year-on-year difference in and Ethiopian Airlines, and a $2.4bn order arrangements RRSA.
working capital movements was largely due for engines and services with HNA Group.
to differences in the timing of payments Underlying corporate, administration and tosuppliers and increased draw down Engineering excellence remains other costs were 14m higher.
Restructuring ofdeposits in 2015. thecornerstone of our value to costs were 75m lower reflecting the CivilAerospace customers significant charges taken in 2014.
Investment and business As a result, profit before financing and tax Several important engineering milestones development was 14% down, reflecting a combination of were achieved during 2015.
For widebody lower overall gross margins, increased R&D Order intake of 12.8bn in 2015 for Civil engines, the focus has been on completing and reduced restructuring costs.
Taking Aerospace was 1.1bn up on the previous thedevelopment and testing of the new account of foreign exchange effects, year.
As a result, the order book closed at Trent1000 TEN and the Trent XWB-97.
underlying profit before financing and tax 67.0bn, up 3.8bn or 6% on the previous year.
Theresults ofinitial tests on both engines was 812m 2014: 942m.
are broadly inline with expectations.
Significant orders during the year included InDecember 2015, the Trent XWB-97 flew Trading cash flow before working capital our largest ever order by value to provide for the first time and has since undergone movements improved year-on-year by 48m, Trent 900 engines and TotalCare service rigorous testing in a number ofconditions.
despite the headline drop in underlying support for 50 Airbus A380s for Emirates The Trent 1000 TEN hasalso completed profit before financing of 130m and the worth $9.2bn of which $6.1bn is recognised several major milestones.
Inaddition, higher level of CARs additions.
This is largely within the order book.
Other major orders ahybrid Trent 7000, produced tode-risk the due to a reduced level of property, plant and included Trent 1000 engines to power 21 development programme, ranfor the first CIVIL AEROSPACE NEW DISCLOSURE ON REVENUE SEGMENTATION 2014 2015 Underlying Foreign % m change exchange % m Underlying revenue 100% 6,837 201 105 100% 6,933 Underlying OE revenue 51% 3,463 117 88 48% 3,258 Widebody engines: linked and other 26% 1,766 191 5 23% 1,570 Widebody engines: unlinked installed 6% 392 114 2 7% 504 Corporate and other small engines 14% 974 9 62 14% 903 V2500 5% 331 31 19 4% 281 Underlying services revenue 49% 3,374 318 17 52% 3,675 Widebody engines 30% 2,029 336 6 34% 2,371 Corporate 6% 383 50 8 6% 425 Regional 6% 427 61 6 5% 360 V2500 7% 535 7 9 7% 519 CIVIL AEROSPACE NEW DISCLOSURE ON TRADING CASH FLOW m 2015 2014 Change Underlying profit before financing 812 942 130 Depreciation and amortisation 410 381 29 Sub-total 1,222 1,323 101 CARs additions 161 86 75 Property, plant, equipment and other intangibles 502 748 246 Other timing differences 75 53 22 Trading cash flow pre-working capital movements 484 436 48 Net long-term contract debtor movements 406 463 57 Other working capital movements 78 208 286 Trading cash flow 0 181 181 Includes timing differences between underlying profit before financing and cash associated with: joint venture profits less dividends received: provision charges higher lower than cash payments: non-underlying cash and profit timing differences including restructuring : and financial assets and liabilities movements Trading cash flow is cash flow before: deficit contributions to the pension fund: taxes: payments to shareholders: foreign exchange on cash balances: and acquisitions and disposals 24 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Engines delivered in 2015 time and isnow being put through its paces bringing us closer to our customers, with a series of rigorous tests.
For corporate jets, developments in the year We launched a new service, SelectCare, were more modest.
Strong orders for the which fits between our comprehensive 700 BR725 have sustained steady original TotalCare and general maintenance, repair equipment volumes as the new Gulfstream and overhaul services, where customers Thistypically results in lower upfront G650ER entered service, despite a contract for individual shop visit support.
profitrecognition on engine delivery, weakening market.
Failure in past years Atthe same time, weannounced American withsignificantly higher proportion of tosecure new positions on some important Airlines as the launch customer.
We also profit inthe aftermarket period.
This is in new corporate jet platforms contributed announced our first customers for TotalCare comparison to linked accounting, where a toa weak order intake in the year which Flex, a new service targeting owners and blended margin is applied across the engine will impact future volumes and revenues operators ofmore mature engines.
Cathay sale and aftermarket contracts.
As part ofour technology Pacific, AerCap, South African Airways and Near-term conditions in some segments strategy, investments are being made BMI Regional chose the service for Trent 800, remain challenging.
We continue to expect tosecure future opportunities and regain Trent 500 and AE3007 engines.
our Civil Aerospace business to underperform its position as the leading provider to the 2015 underlying profit before finance and important market oflarge-cabin, Civil Aerospace outlook tax by around 550m.
The significant long-range corporate jets.
headwinds related toTrent 700 volume As we set out in November 2015, we believe reductions and the non-recurrence ofa the long-term outlook for Civil Aerospace Investing in new aerospace supply number of one-off benefits seen in 2015 remains very good, led by a strong widebody chain capabilities to help drive remain broadly unchanged.
In addition, order book for fuel efficient engines.
Key to operational excellence westill expect tosee weaker demand for the long-term success of the business is new corporate jets and declines in demand As part of the supply chain transformation converting this exceptional order book into within our regional jet aftermarket.
The underway in the business, several alarge installed base of engines that meet aftermarket benefit ofhigher levels of important new facilities were completed customer demands for safe, reliable, efficient engine deliveries and increased installed during the year.
These included the opening operation while driving profitable engine thrust is expected tobe largely offset by of our Advanced Blade Casting Facility in flying hour revenues.
Thenext few years will theunderutilisation ofolder large engines.
Rotherham, UK, which will halve the time be very important aswe ramp up production However, the business will benefit from ittakes to manufacture turbine blades, and of new engines in new, efficient facilities reduced costs from the restructuring an expansion of our Trent XWB production and invest inthe development of future initiatives started in 2014. centre in Derby.
We also announced plans engine platforms that will benefit the order toinvest in our facility in Inchinnan to book from 2020 onwards.
As a result, until we We now expect the TotalCare net asset togrow create a new Centre of Competence for gain additional aftermarket scale, or complete from 2.2bn and peak at around 2.5bn, manufacturing aerofoils and established our industrial transformation and improve allowing for a more positive demand outlook ajoint venture with Liebherr to develop unit costs and cash margins, the business will for our linked accounted engines and the manufacturing capability and capacity continue tobe a net investor ofcash.
benefit of further life-cycle cost improvements forthe power gearbox for our UltraFan now being seen in engine performance.
Over the next few years the transition demonstrator programme.
fromlinked to unlinked contracts creates aheadwind to reported profit but no Strengthening our aerospace change tocash flows.
aftermarket service offering In the future, an increasing proportion During 2015, we broadened our service ofour new engines will be sold to the offering and strengthened our support airframer on asole-source basis, network to provide customers with greater inparticular the new TrentXWB and choice, flexibility and capability at all Trent7000 for use on the AirbusA350 stages of the engine lifecycle, supporting andA330neo respectively.
As a result, agrowing installed base.
asignificantly larger proportion of our sales in the future will be accounted for onan This included making improvements to our unlinked basis.
While this does not change Trent service network which will result in cash flows, it does change the timing of increased competition among our Approved when profit is recognised across the OE and Maintenance Centres AMCs and the aftermarket contracts.
Under unlinked announcement of our first independent accounting, the engine sale and aftermarket AMC, Delta TechOps.
We have also set up a contracts are accounted for separately.
global network of Customer Service Centres, Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 25 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Market dynamics MARKET REVIEW Over 90% of Rolls-Royce large engine fleet is Rolls-Royce is one of the worlds leading O verall there has been a slowdown in all major covered by our TotalCare service agreements.
geographical markets for new aircraft orders civilaero-engine manufacturers with reflecting a period of higher than normal order particular strengths in engines for civil We are the market leader in large business jet placement for new airframe products in recent widebody aircraft and large business jets, aircraft engines, with 55% market share of the years principally Airbus A350 and A330neo, large very large business jet market in 2015. underpinned by our strength and and Boeing 787 and 777X.
Over 65% of Rolls-Royce business jet engines Long-term growth in the number of widebody arecovered by our CorporateCare service We are market leaders in the large business aircraft in the global fleet has historically been agreements.
jet fleet market powering aircraft from most strongly correlated to global GDP growth.
Demand for large business jets is related ofthe main airframers.
We have a strong A sia and the Middle East are strong drivers of toglobal economic growth and increases market position on widebody aircraft growth, correlating to their regional GDP growth.
inthenumber of high net-worth individuals: produced bythe worlds two major thesector has historically been fairly resilient Historically, growth has recovered quickly airframers: Boeing and Airbus, who are tofinancialshocks.
broadly consistent inforecasting traffic The current business jet market is slowly Our current share in the widebody engine growth Revenue Passenger Kilometres recovering in the US our largest market, but is market is at 31% of the installed widebody ofapproximately 5% CAGR over the next currently going through a slowdown elsewhere passenger fleetand is expected toreach 20years.
In the engine market for due to political tensions and customer 50%early in the next decade.
anticipation of new models about to enter into narrowbody aircraft, we continue to supply O lder widebody aircraft are experiencing service.
Overall, this sector isexpected to grow some parts and services for the IAE V2500 reduced utilisation by certain airlines, in faster than global GDP inthe long term.
In the regional sector, aftermarket demand The re-engining of the A330, announced in forengines on 50-70 seat aircraft is reducing summer 2014, reduced Trent 700 sales ahead asaircraft approach the end of their lives.
ofthe new Trent 7000 entering service in2017 as the sole source engine for A330neo.
Business risks Competition I f we experience a major product failure in G E is the main competitor supplying engines service, then this could result in loss of life and inthe widebody sector.
In 2015, deliveries of critical damage to our reputation.
engines for widebody passenger aircraft were split Rolls-Royce 38%, GE 54%, Pratt & Whitney If an external event or severe economic 2%, and Engine Alliance 6%.
downturn significantly reduces air travel, then our financial performance may be impacted.
Rolls-Royce is well positioned on all Airbus widebody airliner programmes and competes If our airframer customers significantly delay with GE onthe Boeing 787 family.
their production rates, then our financial Potential for OE and services performance may be impacted.
Rolls-Royce is the sole engine provider on the overthenext 20years Airbus A350 XWB family where 775 aircraft If we fail to achieve cost reductions at the have been ordered so far.
necessary pace, then our ability to invest in future programmes and technology may be reduced.
GE is the sole engine provider on the Civil Aerospace all sectors Boeing777X aircraft, scheduled to enter into If we experience significant pricing pressure service in2020 where 306 have been ordered from increased competitor challenge in our sofar.
keymarkets, then our financial performance $1,720bn may be impacted.
In large business jets the main competition isGE, Pratt & Whitney and Safran: in 2015 the If we suffer a major disruption in our supply GE-Honda joint venture entered the market Original equipment chain, then our delivery schedules may be invery low thrust engines.
delayed, damaging our financial performance and reputation.
Rolls-Royce has 3,100 powered business jets flying, representing 55% market share ofthe $1,110bn If there are significant changes to the large very large business jet fleet.
regulatory environment for the airline industry, then our market position may be impacted.
Aftermarket $610bn 26 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Opportunities O ur position and long-term prospects in the widebody sector are strong across our Trent family.
The Trent XWB has successfully completed its first year in service and the new TrentXWB-97 engine made its first test flight in November 2015 and ison schedule to enter into service in2017.
The new Trent 7000 is scheduled to enter intoservice in 2017 on the A330neo.
We have sole source on this platform which will replace the A330, on which we are one of three engineproviders.
We will be introducing the new Trent1000TEN in 2017 for the Boeing 787.
On the 787, Rolls-Royce engines have been selected for 42% of the current order book.
A potential significant new entrant into the civilsector is Chinas COMAC which is developing a narrowbody aircraft for entry into service towards the end of the decade.
COMAC is also planning a joint programme with Russias UAC to develop a widebody aircraft, targeting entry into service around 2025.
We remain in close dialogue with COMAC and UAC to understand their plans and whether their widebody programme presents an opportunity for Rolls-Royce.
Our business jet market share is likely to fall inthe medium term with the success of new entrants into the large very large sector, butthemarket remains attractive and we willcontinue to invest to improve our position and retain leadership.
Key Rolls-Royce differentiators The engine lived up to its credentials in Exemplary year for Trent XWB terms of being the most efficient engine B arriers to entry are extremely high in the civil On 15 January 2016, the worlds ever and the Trent XWB alsomanaged to sector.
We invest heavily to maintain market most efficient aero engine claim the crown ofbeing the most reliable leading technologies and system level completed its first year in service.
engine with a dispatch rate of 99.83%.
integration capabilities to deliver the best engine performance for our customers.
The Trent XWB on the A350 XWB Designed as the next generation of Weoffer a wide range of aftermarket services airliner achieved the milestone mediumlong-haul airliners, theA350 is which provide flexible and cost-effective instyle having delivered an all-new family of aircraft from Airbus.
options to our customers and build long-term outstanding performance over its customer relationships.
The Trent XWB engine represents the first 12months of operation, with largest single element of our 76.4bn launch customer Qatar Airways.
order book by some margin.
Over 1,500 ofthe engines have been ordered by more than 40 airlines, from important existing customers and from new Rolls-Royce customers all over theworld.
COM Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 27 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Summary DEFENCE We are a leading engine maker for the military transport market and the second largest provider of defence aero-engine AEROSPACE products and services globally.
Defence has 16,000 engines inservice with 160 customers in over 100 countries.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW Underlying revenue at 2,035m was 5%lower on a constant currency basis down 2% at actual exchange rates.
Lower original equipment volumes for helicopters and Underlying trainers were partially offset by growth revenue mix Underlying revenue mix inLiftSystem volumes.
Aftermarket Key highlights revenues reflected lower volumes on Underlying revenue 5% lower: revenues helicopter spares partially offset by higher impacted by weaker helicopter and revenues related tolong-term service trainer volumes, partially offset by agreements for UK combat aircraft.
higher combat original equipment sales.
Despite the reduced revenues, gross margin Underlying profit before financing improved to 28.5%.
Lower helicopter volumes up4%: steady gross margin and lower and lower margins on some transport restructuring costs offset higher contract extensions were offset byhigher R&Dcharges.
OE revenue 39% LiftSystem volumes and increased Services revenue 61% Strong positions in transport and patrol, retrospective margin improvements of and combat underpin outlook for a 101m 2014: 53m on existing long-term Underlying steady performance in 2016. contracts.
These relate to various combat revenue by sector Underlying revenue by sector platforms, where overall profitability has Major five-year $600m investment in been improved by changed flying patterns Indianapolis, US, to improve cost base and lower service costs, including and benefit long-term growth.
approximately 40m 2014: nil due to one-off contract and scope variations.
Overall R&D costs were 20m higher in 2015 reflecting increased investment in new programmes.
Restructuring costs were lower due to reduced level of severance costs Combat 36% F-35B Lightning II and lower costs related to changing our The F-35B aircraft, which employs the Transport and patrol 43% operational footprint.
Rolls-Royce LiftSystem, was declared Other 21% operational in 2015.
Underlying profit before financing of 393m was 4% up on the prior year on a constant currency basis, reflecting the lower volumes, the one-off margin improvements, increased R&D charges and lower restructuring charges.
As a result, operating margin improved by 170 basis points to 19.3%.
28 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Long term, it remains essential that we have Free cash flow from Defence Aerospace is Investments and business a cost-efficient supply chain to support the expected to remain strong in the longer development profitable growth of our business in a term, reflecting the high proportion of competitive market.
To support future aftermarket revenues.
However, in the Overall, the Defence order book declined 5%, business competitiveness we initiated coming year free cash flow is expected to be inlarge part reflecting the 2014 benefit of the amajor $600m investment in the upgrading lower reflecting the increased cost of significant multi-year order for engines to of our Indianapolis facility, which will bring investment and the run out of costs on key power C-130J aircraft.
With a major focus a combination of cost reductions, UK programmes where deposits have been withindefence budgets on cost control, 2015 operational efficiencies and greater received in advance of delivery.
saw significant interest in availability-based development capabilities for defence service contracts and also on offering efficiency technologies.
New contracts included an extension Investment in US facilities theimportance of the US market and our of the UKs Hercules Integrated Operational strong position there.
Support contract and commitment to the UKs Future Combat Air System FCAS programme.
After successful first flights on US Hurricane $600m Defence Aerospace outlook Hunter P-3aircraft in May, we received strong international interest including an initial USAAF The long-term outlook for Defence Aerospace order for the T56 3.5 technology insertion kit remains positive with good opportunities to upgrade delivering both fuel saving and capitalise on its strong positions in transport performance benefits for an engine and patrol and combat.
Investment in programme which has been in existence for developing new advanced technologies over 50 years.
willbe a feature ofR&D for the next few years asthe business ensures it can compete Outside the UK and US markets, our for new opportunities.
particular focus has been on positioning The outlook for revenues in 2016 remains ourselves to be competitive for forthcoming steady.
Operating profit will be adversely combat programmes.
We had success in impacted by the lower level of expected South Korea in conjunction with Airbus, long-term contract benefits in 2016, with the contract being awarded to power together with higher R&D and operational the A330 tanker fleet with Trent 700 restructuring costs.
engines, as well as agreeing an order for our largest ever number of engines a ten-year order with Robinson to supply at least 1,000 RR300 engines.
DEFENCE AEROSPACE KEY FINANCIAL DATA Underlying Acquisitions Foreign m 2014 change & disposals exchange 2015 Order book 4,564 248 4,316 Engine deliveries 744 95 649 Underlying revenue 2,069 101 67 2,035 Change -5% 3% -2% Underlying OE revenue 816 45 30 801 Change -6% 4% -2% Underlying services revenue 1,253 56 37 1,234 Change -5% 3% -2% Underlying gross margin 567 9 21 579 Gross margin % 27.4% 90bps 28.5% Commercial and administrative costs 112 7 5 124 Restructuring costs 55 48 1 8 Research and development costs 50 20 3 73 Joint ventures and associates 16 3 19 Underlying profit before financing 366 15 12 393 Change 4% 7% Underlying operating margin 17.7% 170bps 19.3% Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 29 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Market dynamics Competition MARKET REVIEW Rolls-Royce is a market leader in defence D efence budgets are expected to show modest G E, Pratt & Whitney, Honeywell and Safran growth, flat in real terms in the US and UK, arethe main competition in our sectors.
aero engines for military transport aircraft partially offset by growth in other emerging and has strong positions in other sectors, In Europe, large defence programmes tend markets.
including combat, trainer aircraft and tobeaddressed by consortia of two or more Western customers are seeking to reduce and companies due to the political environment.
We are pursuing new minimise costs by delaying or deferring Examples include our collaboration with ITP, opportunities emerging in Asia and the purchases, improving asset availability and MTU and Safran on the TP400 engine for the Middle East tomitigate flat defence extending lifecycles of aircraft engines.
AirbusA400M and with GE Avio, ITP and budgets in the established North American MTUon the EJ200 engine for the I ncreasing levels of economic affluence and and Europeanmarkets.
political tension in the Asia Pacific and MiddleEast regions are leading to increases We support lead sales campaigns globally on inboth original equipment and services spend.
behalf of Eurojet for export sales opportunities of Eurofighter Typhoon.
Revenue has historically been broadly balanced between original equipment sales and Barriers to entry are high and we do not aftermarket services, biased towards the latter.
envisage the competitive landscape changing significantly in the near future.
Business risks Opportunities I f we experience a major product failure T he UKs FCAS potentially a joint programme inservice, then this could result in loss of life with France, presents a longer-term combat and critical damage to our reputation.
I f global defence spending experiences Our LiftFan system for the F-35B is only just afurther downturn, then our financial entering service and we expect to deliver over performance may be impacted.
400 systems in the next 20 years.
If we do not continue to invest to improve Emerging markets, such as India, Turkey theperformance and cost of our products, andSouth Korea are inviting bids on new thenwemay lose market share.
We estimate a potential ofover 300 aircraft for these programmes.
If we suffer a major disruption in our supply chain, then our delivery schedules may be In transport, we believe the Airbus A400M delayed, damaging our financial performance transport aircraft and V-22 Osprey have and reputation.
If we do not secure new applications, then our We see strong growth potential for increased capabilities may be eroded in the long term.
service provision to the military and we arewellpositioned with programmes such Potential for OE and services asMissionCare.
overthenext 20years Defence Aerospace all sectors Key Rolls-Royce differentiators $400bn W e are investing heavily in technology, integration capabilities and facility modernisation to deliver capable, affordable Original equipment engines for our customers.
Additionally, weleverage our large installed base and strong services capabilities to provide superior and $125bn affordable service solutions.
Aftermarket $275bn 30 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review World leader in transport engines The Lockheed Martin C-130J is one of the most onthe ground.
The USMarine Corps turned reliable and versatile transport aircraftin the tothe KC-130J.
The aircraft can loiter inthe air A KC-130J tanker-transport aircraft world the KC-130J being the tankerversion.
for over ten hours thanks to the performance is seen here above left preparing of its AE 2100 engines and sothey armed it Powered by the Rolls-Royce AE 2100 engine, to refuel a V-22 tiltrotor Osprey with a quick strike weapon that would not the C-130J family of aircraft follows on from transporter.
Both aircraft are in affect the core mission ofaerial refuelling.
the original, venerable, C-130, which is still service with the US Marine Corps giving sterling service all over the world In its tanker role, the aircraft has the ability and both are powered by with its Rolls-Royce T56 powerplants.
torefuel both low-speed helicopters and Rolls-Royce.
high-speed jet aircraft by changing the In fact, Rolls-Royce has breathed further life basket on the drogue system.
The aerial into the T56 by developing a new version refuelling pods can deliver more than ofthe engine which is delivering significant 12,000US gallons of fuel and can refuel fuel savings and which the Group believes twoaircraft simultaneously.
will see the T56 continue in service for many years to come.
In December 2015, we In addition to the V-22 and C-130J families, announced that Rolls-Royce was one of three Rolls-Royce also powers the Airbus companies to benefit from a 369m contract A330Voyager tanker transport with to support the RAFs C-130 fleet.
Trent700 engines and we are a major partner inthe Europrop International consortium The C-130J has also seen developments responsible for the design and build of the beyondits transport and refuelling role.
TP400engine for the new A400M military Oneof the lessons learned in Afghanistan transport aircraft.
The first A400M began wasthe constant demand for airborne video active service with the RAF during 2015. surveillance and the requirement for a quickstrike weapon tohelp protect troops Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 31 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Summary POWER Power Systems is a leading provider of highand medium-speed reciprocating engines, complete propulsion and drive systems, distributed SYSTEMS energy solutions and fuel injection systems.
The business serves the marine, naval, land defence, rail, mining, oil& gas, construction & agriculture and power generation markets through its core brands MTU, OPERATIONAL MTUOnsite Energy, Bergen and LOrange.
REVIEW Underlying revenue of 2,385m was 3%lower on a constant currency basis 12%lower at actual rates.
Original equipment revenue was 5% lower, reflecting weaker oil & gas Underlying revenue mix Key highlights markets and weaker governmental demand Underlying revenue 3% lower: weaker which peaked in 2014.
This was partially original equipment partially offset offset by an improved luxury yacht demand bygood growth in services.
and some recovery in our sections of the construction and agriculture market where Underlying profit before financing new emissions regulations increased 15%lower: led by lower gross margin.
Underlying service revenues were Positive outlook for 2016: healthy closing up 3% despite some weakness in spare parts order book with good positions in key sales in North America and Europe.
OE revenue 68% Gross margins were slightly lower at 26.6% Services revenue 32% Long-term R&D investments to increase 2014: 27.3% reflecting a change in product cost competitiveness in higher volume mix and lower overall volumes as expected.
Underlying revenue by sector Underlying profit declined 15% as a result ofthe lower gross margins.
On a constant currency basis costs below gross margin were unchanged.
Marine 37% Industrial 21% MTU diesel engine Energy 30% Our MTU brand is a world leader inhigh-speed diesel engine power.
Defence and other 12% 32 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Closing order book The energy segment generated an increased Investment and business order intake in 2015 reflecting good growth development in gas gensets, particularly in Asia.
In addition, the easing of the trading embargo Our Power Systems business serves a variety 1.
9 bn with Iran is enabling the business to secure of markets ranging from marine, industrial, a good foothold in the country.
As a result, construction & agriculture to defence and we enjoy a strong market position within power generation.
This diversity enabled back-up power, particularly for larger thebusiness to mitigate some of the weak mission-critical applications, which is environment, particularly that linked to oil agrowing market.
Recent notable orders and commodities.
came from Kuwait, Turkey and Bangladesh 2015 order intake was 2.5bn 2014: 2.6bn for the provision of back-up power with the closing order book broadly unchanged forhospital modernisations and continuous at 1.9bn.
Within this, the defence sector power for a steel mill.
demonstrated greater resilience with a combination of a higher proportion of Power Systems outlook long-term service contracts together with the winning of the first order worth approximately The outlook for Power Systems remains 80m from the British Army for 589 MTU diesel steady.
The business finished the year engines for the new Scout Specialist Vehicle.
withahealthy order book for many of its Within the broad range of industrial keymarkets.
As a result, while some markets applications, while a number of markets remain difficult, we continue to expect deteriorated through the year, there was thebusiness to deliver modest growth positive news.
This included contract wins inrevenue and profit in 2016. from a Chinese company for 232 MTU Series 4000 engines for freight locomotives bound for South Africa, and further orders for luxury yacht engines.
An extension to our longstanding co-operation with Daimler was also agreed for the development ofanew range of industrial engines, whichcomply with new EU off-highway regulations for reduced soot emissions.
POWER SYSTEMS KEY FINANCIAL DATA Underlying Acquisitions Foreign m 2014 change & disposals exchange 2015 Order book 1,971 43 1,928 Underlying revenue 2,720 72 263 2,385 Change -3% -10% -12% Underlying OE revenue 1,893 97 178 1,618 Change -5% -9% -15% Underlying services revenue 827 25 85 767 Change 3% -10% -7% Underlying gross margin 742 37 70 635 Gross margin % 27.3% -70bps 26.6% Commercial and administrative costs 296 9 30 275 Restructuring costs 7 3 4 Research and development costs 183 3 18 162 Joint ventures and associates 3 3 Underlying profit before financing 253 37 22 194 Change -15% -23% Underlying operating margin 9.3% -110bps 8.1% Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 33 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Market dynamics Competition MARKET REVIEW The markets served by Power Systems Po pulation growth and increasing urbanisation F ragmented competitor landscape in are driving rising demands for energy, off-highway engine markets which varies aredriven by global megatrends such resources and food and continuous depending on specific market segments asincreasing population growth, rising infrastructure developments.
energy, resource and food demand, Global GDP development with particular Continuing industry consolidation results increasing and stricter emissions legislation growth in Asia.
instrong, large scale and integrated players.
Despite the current market downturn in some of Increasing global and regional trade Expansion of western competitors in our andtransport of goods.
our markets, most noticeably in oil & gas and offshore, we expect long-term recovery G eopolitics and an increasing multipolar Competition from Asia increasingly focusing in these and continuous growth in all worldare driving modest defence budget on higher powerranges where MTU operates.
growth 1-2% in NATO countries with more ofourmarkets.
We estimate that While traditional competition has been limited growth in emerging markets.
PowerSystems off-highway reciprocating to engine suppliers, solution providers are engine markets offer an opportunity Increasing focus on renewable energy sources becoming morerelevant.
requires decentralised and clean energy of650bn.
continuous gas and back-up power generation solutions.
Increasing environmental legislation and efficiency requirements drive emission and efficiency technologies.
Current weak environment in certain markets eg.
oil & gas and mining, due to current low oil and commodity price levels.
Business risks Opportunities E conomic: some markets are currently R egional growth, eg.
Asia, through leveraging affectedby low oil and commodity prices partner companies.
oil&gas, mining while some regional Continuous development into clean propulsion marketsshow challenges due to the current and energy solutions which are compliant with economicsituation.
Po litical: increasing political tensions and Development of efficiency solutions, eg.
e-drive sanctions might limit levels of global trade and hybrid drives andfuel diversification towards customer access.
Co mpetitive: upcoming competitors from Asia Enhancement of system competence and and new entrants into our existing markets solutions to create customer value through canpotentially put pressure on volumes optimised total system functionality and andmargins.
Technological: complementary technologies Expansion of service portfolio, customised might replace existing solutions eg.
energy offerings and intelligent applications storage for back-up power.
Key Rolls-Royce differentiators T echnology leadership and reputation with market-leading performance and system approach especially inmission-critical Potential for OE and services applications: new product innovation overthenext 20years eg.
hybrid e-drive : and high level ofcustomisation.
Power Systems all sectors 650bn 34 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review High-efficiency power for trains During 2015, Rolls-Royce completed further The recovery of the kinetic energy in braking trials on its hybrid drive power system, the mode is extremely energyand cost-efficient, Hybrid rail technology is the result of five years of pioneering work.
particularly in stop-and-go situations on energy-saving combination of a local public transport lines where there are A conventional MTU railway PowerPack conventional diesel engine and alarge number of stops and on inclined rail combines all the individual elements needed anelectric drive system.
for power and efficiency into a single functional unit mounted on a supporting In 2015, for the first time, MTU performed frame.
MTU has delivered more than 6,000 its own tests on a hybrid train.
During the of these PowerPacks to the rail industry.
tests, fuel consumption was shown to be reduced by more than 23% compared The MTU hybrid PowerPack combines the tostraightforward diesel mode.
Under benefits of a conventional diesel system optimum conditions, MTU believes fuel with an electric propulsion module, energy savings of 25% or more are possible.
storage and propulsion control system.
The basic idea of hybrid rail technology is that the kinetic energy initially generated by the diesel engine is recovered via an electric motor operating as an electric brake.
This energy is stored chemically in a powerful battery for later use.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 35 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Summary MARINE Marine is a leading provider of complex and integrated propulsion and handling systems to the maritime offshore, merchant and naval markets.
The product offering ranges from individual items of equipment OPERATIONAL tointegrated systems and flexible mission-critical solutions, including REVIEW complete vessel designs.
The business has more than 4,000customers.
Seventy naval forces and over 30,000 commercial vessels useour equipment.
Underlying revenue of 1,324m was 16%lower on a constant currency basis down23% at actual rates.
Within this, original equipment revenues were 19% down at 773m.
Service revenues were more robust, although still declined 10%.
This reflected weaknesses inoffshore and merchant, asshipowners Underlying revenue mix Key highlights deferred overhaul and maintenance on the Underlying revenue down 16%: weak back of reduced utilisation of their vessels.
offshore markets impacting both OE As a result of the revenue weaknesses, price andaftermarket revenues.
pressure and cost under-recovery, gross Underlying profit before financing down margins declined 500 basis points to 19.6% 94%: significant reduction in gross andoverall gross margin was 260m, 139m margin, led by lower volumes, and higher lower than in 2014.
As a result, with only restructuring costs only partially offset modest reductions to date being achieved by reduced commercial and incorporate, administration and other costs, OE revenue 58% administration costs.
underlying profit was 15m, 94% down Services revenue 42% onaconstant currency basis.
Challenging outlook for 2016: led by reduced demand in offshore Around 15m of restructuring charges oil & gasmarkets.
Underlying revenue by sector wereincurred in 2015 and excluding these, Launched two restructuring programmes underlying profit declined 83%.
In the first in 2015 focused on manufacturing half we took a non-underlying charge footprint and back-office functions: of69m for the impairment of goodwill expected benefits to start to accrue ontwo of our businesses owing to a less from2016 onwards.
favourable business outlook, partly driven by the impact of market deteriorations onour offshore businesses.
Merchant 24% Latest bridge designs Offshore 56% Our Unified Bridge is ergonomically Naval 20% designed to be intuitive for crews.
36 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Closing order book ship equipment for a dive support vessel.
Investment and business Wealso saw demand from non-oil related development sectors such as wind farm support and fishing trawlers.
The focus in 2015 has been on repositioning 26% the Marine business to reflect the very Activity within our target merchant sectors challenging market environment and outlook.
was subdued, but we made progress in our During the year, we also announced a number Marine outlook strategy of developing markets for offshore of restructuring programmes that will in total derived technologies within specialist areas lead to the loss of around 1,000 employees Overall the outlook for Marine remains such as azimuth propulsion systems for inoperations and back-office functions as cautious.
We expect that the market will double-ended ferries.
We also delivered Asias weshrink our Northern European footprint, continue to be hit by low oil prices which first LNG-powered tug and the first of two reduce indirect headcount, and consolidate willimpact on demand for our products all-gas powered cargo vessels for a Norwegian manufacturing activity.
As a result we will sustain our transport company.
projected cost savings of 65m per annum costreduction programmes, focusing on The naval business was focused on further from 2017 onwards and create a business manufacturing facilities, supply chain development work and deliveries against better able to compete in an increasingly andoverhead costs, in order to drive a more contracts in both the UK and US.
These cost-conscious market place which is competitive business while also adapting included the first DDG 1000 multi-mission geographically shifting towards Asia.
destroyer class for the US Navy and the worlds As set out in November 2015, we expect the Overall, the Marine order book declined 26% largest, gas turbine engines, the MT30 for the net impact of weak trading conditions and during the year, mainly reflecting a very weak UKs two new aircraft carriers.
We also signed cost saving initiatives to result in 2016 profits offshore market, particularly in Northern a contract to supply MT30s for operation being between 75m and 100m lower Europe.
Orders for new vessels, projects onthe first three of the Royal Navys new thanthose achieved in 2015.
As a result, andservices were all sharply lower than 2014 Type26Global Combat Ship.
thebusiness is expected to be significantly and as a result order intake was only 997m, Product development work within the loss making in 2016.
45%down on the previous year.
business included expanding the range The offshore market was extremely weak ofpermanent magnet-based propulsion reflecting a low oil price and reduced capital systems, as well as spearheading research expenditure within the upstream oil into our pioneering ship intelligence exploration and related services sectors.
technology focused on data-driven valueTargeted investment in R&D and improving added services.
our Asian position saw progress later in the year with two major orders from China.
These comprised an equipment contract for nine tug supply vessels and a package of advanced MARINE KEY FINANCIAL DATA Underlying Acquisitions Foreign m 2014 change & disposals exchange 2015 Order book 1,567 403 1,164 Underlying revenue 1,709 269 116 1,324 Change -16% -7% -23% Underlying OE revenue 1,070 204 93 773 Change -19% -9% -28% Underlying services revenue 639 65 23 551 Change -10% -4% -14% Underlying gross margin 425 139 26 260 Gross margin % 24.9% -500bps 19.6% Commercial and administrative costs 254 27 26 201 Restructuring costs 4 16 4 16 Research and development costs 29 2 3 28 Underlying profit before financing 138 130 7 15 Change -94% -89% Underlying operating margin 8.1% -750bps 1.1% Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 37 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Market dynamics Competition MARKET REVIEW InMarine, where we offer integrated ship I ncreasing environmental legislation M ajor competitors fall into two groups andsystem efficiency requirements.
focusonstrengthening systems capability solutions including design, propulsion, orfocus onproduct andtechnology.
deck machinery, automation and control, Po pulation growth is leading to an increasing and power electrics, we forecast the energy and resources demand forcargo and Industry consolidation within recent years passenger transportation in the long term.
hasresulted in the establishment of large market opportunity across the offshore, marketplayers.
merchant and naval market segments Increasing global and regional trade and tobe250bn.
transport of goods with effects on shortIncreasing competition from Asia, seashipping.
Strong shift from traditional markets towards Increasing competition from industrial and Asia, both in shipbuilding andoperation.
electric companies driven by more focus on efficiency and electrification.
G eopolitics and an increasing multipolar world results in increasing defence expenditures especially in emerging markets which stimulates demand for naval vessels.
Increased technology requirements for harsher environments, eg.
Currently significant challenges in offshore markets due to low oil prices andweak investment signals.
Business risks Opportunities M arkets: significant reduction in oil price C apture value on more advanced vessels creates pressure in the offshore market with inoffshore.
allcustomer groups seeking to reduce costs Grow in tugs, ferries and workboats and and capital commitments.
short-sea shipping in merchant segments.
Order delays and cancellations impact our Continue to leverage the joint value proposition revenue, cash and profit but also put our supply in naval markets together with MTU.
Continue to develop clean propulsion solutions Co mpetition: competitors react to a depressed which are emission compliant to new regulations, market by cutting costs, pricing aggressively including alternative fuels eg.
Grow in integrated propulsion and Business continuity: the main risk is our key electricsystems.
We monitor and Establish a leading position in ship intelligence.
manage this to ensure no supplier has critical Leverage local partnerships to generate mass and maintain business continuity plans for regional growth in Asia, especially China.
these risks and other operational risks such asIT.
Technology: failure to invest in the right technologies to meet customer demand inthefuture.
Risk of product failure in the field resulting inthe need for intervention to rectify the issue with financial consequences.
Key Rolls-Royce differentiators Potential for OE and services U nique domain knowledge: unique system overthenext 20years portfolio including vessel design: joint value proposition within naval together with MTU: continuous innovation and technology Marine all sectors leadership: and leadership in ship intelligence.
250bn 38 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Waterjets for fast cats These Watercat M18 multi-purpose vessels use Rolls-Royce Steel Series Kamewa waterjets to propel them at speeds of over 40 knots.
Theselightweight, agile boats fromMarine Alutech of Finland areideal for fast patrol and troop transportation roles.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 39 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review Summary NUCLEAR Nuclear is a leader in propulsion system design and development for the RoyalNavys nuclear submarine fleet and isthe sole provider andtechnical authority, managing all aspects of plant design, safety, manufacture, OPERATIONAL REVIEW performance and through-lifesupport.
Underlying revenue increased 9% on a In civil nuclear we provide nuclear reactor vendors and utility operators constant currency basis, led by growth with integrated, long-term support services and solutions spanning the inboth original equipment and services.
whole reactor lifecycle, from concept design through to obsolescence Inparticular, growth in submarine activities management and plant-life extension.
Safety-critical systems have been was strong.
Revenue growth for our instrumentation and controls businesses supplied to around 50% of the global nuclear power plants in service.
was also good, particularly in Europe.
Wehave been a key player in the nuclear industry for more than 50 years.
Despite the growth in revenue, gross margin declined by 240 basis points to 16.2% or Underlying revenue mix Key highlights 111m.
This was largely due to increased costs on a number of projects with lower Underlying revenue 9% higher: strong margin.
Gross margin was also impacted by a service revenues led by increased reclassification of site costs from commercial, submarine work.
administration and other of around 7m.
Underlying profit before financing Thisfavourably benefited costs below gross unchanged, excluding the benefit from a margin which also benefited from lower 19m R&D credit: volume benefit offset R&Dcharges as a result of an R&D credit by lower margins.
of19m which covered the current and the OE revenue 37% 2016 outlook steady: focus on improving two previous years.
Excluding this, underlying delivery performance and developing Services revenue 63% profit before tax was 50m, in line with the civil nuclear opportunities.
After the release, underlying profit of 70m is 40% up on the prior year.
Investing in the business to extend Underlying revenue by sector systems offering and increase servicescope.
Investment and business developments The order book fell around 13%, reflecting delivery of our long-term contracts across Potential for OE and services both submarines and civil nuclear businesses.
in civil nuclear over the next 20years New orders were biased to the second half ofthe year, benefiting from the expansion ofour business reach and capabilities.
Submarines 80% 360bn Civil 20% Our civil nuclear business focuses on multi-year projects and specialist services forwhat is a growing global industry.
Submarine nuclear power The Royal Navy Astute class is the latest Wewere selected as preferred bidder by to enter service with a Rolls-Royce EDFtowork on heat exchangers and waste designed nuclear propulsion plant.
treatment for the Hinkley Point C project in the UK and we were selected by Hitachi to be part of the Wylfa power station delivery team, the second nuclear power station scheduled in the UKs new-build programme.
We also won a contract to supply safety measurement systems for the entire French fleet of 900MW reactors.
These mandates help to further consolidate our significant position in the European marketplace and position us well toseek further opportunities for partnerships in growing nuclear markets.
40 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review In the US our acquisition of R. O. V. Technologies Business risks MARKET REVIEW Inc. in March 2015 expanded our nuclear services portfolio, bringing complementary All respected global energy forecasts predict D elivery: failure to meet customer expectations or regulatory requirements.
Boiling Water Reactor expertise and that nuclear power will continue to play broadening our existing Pressurised Water asignificant role in providing low-carbon, M arkets: if nuclear markets do not grow as anticipated due to external or other political Reactor remote inspection capability.
The demand events then business will be diminished.
for mission-critical equipment, systems and Our submarine activities have concentrated C ustomer strategy: if programmes are cancelled engineering services and the associated on delivering against long-term contracts for as a result of strategic decisions, suchas reactor support services for the civil nuclear the Royal Navys nuclear submarine fleet, abandonment of the UK nuclear deterrent, market is forecast to be 360bn over the next including delivery of the nuclear propulsion orvertical integration by reactor vendors, 20years.
system to power HMS Artful, the third thenfuture revenues will be diminished.
Astute-class submarine, which was launched I f we experience a major product failure in August 2015.
Our work on the Vanguard inservice, then this could result in loss of life Market dynamics and critical damage to our reputation.
class included work on a refuelling Po pulation growth and improved living programme and also the first successful I f we suffer a major disruption in our supply standards in emerging markets are driving chain, then our delivery schedules may be upgrade to the reactor control and arise in demand forelectricity.
delayed, damaging our financial performance instrumentation update for HMS Vengeance.
Within the future energy mix, low-carbon At the Naval Reactor TestEstablishment, energy is expected to increase, with nuclear HMS Vulcan, the PWR2 test facility reactor energy accounting for a significant share.
Opportunities was safely shut down having completed its Growth in nuclear power generation is prototyping role.
Development work on the In creasing the pace of growth of the civil predominantly driven by non-OECD countries: new PWR3 power plant for the Successor nuclear business.
strong growth is expected especially in China.
submarine fleet continues with contract F ocusing on growth regions beyond current Solid growth in mature markets based extensions agreed in preparation ahead of coremarkets.
oncurrent operations and plant life extensions.
the government final investment decision.
S trengthening our position with the rapidly growing importance of China in the civil nuclear market.
Nuclear outlook Competition C apturing a higher share of the nuclear service The outlook for Nuclear remains steady.
Both In c ivil nuclear the competitor landscape is market through extension of our geographic reach.
submarines and civil nuclear enjoy long-term fragmented andcomprises reactor vendors, original equipment manufacturers, multi-skilled secure aftermarket revenues.
While business Key Rolls-Royce differentiators companies and nuclear operators inservice.
development opportunities remain modest U nique key technology capability indefence inthe near-term, new power plants for the P lant operators increasingly outsource andcivil nuclear with substantial credibility serviceactivities.
Successor together with long-term morethan 50 years experience : broad mix opportunities to develop relevant products ofofferings over the whole lifecycle: reactor for civil nuclear applications should provide independent portfolio, capable of global reach.
NUCLEAR KEY FINANCIAL DATA Underlying Acquisitions Foreign m 2014 change & disposals exchange 2015 Order book 2,499 331 2,168 Underlying revenue 638 56 7 687 Change 9% -1% 8% Underlying OE revenue 230 27 6 251 Change 12% -3% 9% Underlying services revenue 408 29 1 436 Change 7% 7% Underlying gross margin 119 6 2 111 Gross margin % 18.7% -240bps 16.2% Commercial and administrative costs 61 6 2 53 Restructuring costs 1 1 2 Research and development costs 7 21 14 Underlying profit before financing 50 20 70 Change 40% 40% Underlying operating margin 7.8% 230bps 10.2% Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 41 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Financial review DELIVER We have significantly enhanced Consistent with the plans we laid out in November 2015, we have enhanced this years Annual Report with thefinancial disclosures for all our reporting segments to include gross margin, R&Dand other costs below gross margin, as well as restructuring charges.
additional disclosures to Inaddition, within Civil Aerospace we have provided additional revenue increase transparency and segmentation and atrading cash flow breakdown.
toboth 2014 and 2015 and should help further analysis of trading performance.
David Smith Chief Financial Officer Order book and order intake Underlying trading During the year our order book increased by Underlying Group revenue declined 1% 2.7bn to 76.4bn.
Key orders included our in2015 compared to 2014 on a constant record single order from Emirates for 200 currency basis.
This reflects a 5% decline Trent 900 engines which contributed $6.1bn inrevenue from original equipment, partially to the order book.
Throughout the year new offset by a4% increase in services revenue, order intake in our Marine business was ledby Civil Aerospace.
By business on a very weak, driven by significant market constant currency basis, Civil Aerospace deterioration in offshore.
Overall, orders revenue increased 3%, Defence Aerospace were lower in Defence and Nuclear, revenue decreased 5%, Power Systems revenue although we view the prospects for these decreased 3%, Marine revenue decreased 16% businesses as unchanged, reflecting and Nuclear revenue increased 9%.
long-term orders won in previous years.
Underlying profit before financing of 1,492m 2014: 1,681m was 11% lower on aconstant currency basis, led by a significant reduction in Marine profit, driven by weak offshore markets in particular.
Civil Aerospace was down year-on-year, although performance was helped by around 222m ofretrospective benefits 2014: 150m led byrefining the basis for taking account of risk in our forecasts of GROUP TRADING SUMMARY Underlying Acquisitions Foreign m 2014 change &disposals exchange 2015 Order book 73,674 2,725 76,399 Underlying revenue 13,864 96 414 13,354 Change -1% -3% -4% Underlying OE revenue 7,418 363 331 6,724 Change -5% -5% -9% Underlying services revenue 6,446 267 83 6,630 Change 4% -1% 3% Underlying gross margin 3,523 251 90 3,182 Gross margin % 25.4% -160bps 23.8% Corporate and administrative costs 1,069 11 54 1,004 Restructuring costs 149 107 3 39 Research and development costs 730 64 29 765 Joint ventures and associates 106 10 2 118 Underlying profit before financing 1,681 187 2 1,492 Change -11% -11% Underlying operating margin 12.1% -130bps 11.2% 42 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
