Business review Whilst a difficult year for flows, we have enhanced our investment processes across all asset classes, achieved further diversification in our product offerings and maintained our focus on providing high levels of client service, in accordance with our strategic priorities.
Overview As detailed in the Chairmans statement, 2015 has been a especially the closed book which is in run-off.
We consider these challenging year, marked by outflows from core products.
At the outflows to be structured and we expect this level of attrition from same time, it has also been a year of transition, with significant the insurance book.
progress made in building a diversified investment business able to More generally, the SWIP integration phase is now largely service changing client needs.
complete and we have exceeded targets set regarding synergies.
The Aberdeen solutions teams manage 119.0 billion and we are We have announced four small, but strategic, acquisitions to well placed to provide bespoke portfolio allocation, selection and strengthen our ability to seek opportunities for future growth and construction services to a broad range of client and mandate types.
we have made strong progress in harnessing the opportunities from the additional capabilities acquired from SWIP.
We continue The corporate transactions relate to the acquisition of FLAG, offset to be disciplined in controlling costs and retain a strong balance by the transfer of an SVG Capital plc management contract to an sheet position, as set out in the financial review.
entity wholly owned by SVG Capital plc.
This was agreed at the time that we acquired the remaining 49.9% in Aberdeen Private AuM Equity Managers Limited SVGM and the consideration paid for Closing AuM is 283.7 billion, 12.5% lower than 324.4 billion in this monetary stake was adjusted for this contract.
The combined Aberdeen and ex-SWIP alternatives business Gross new business inflows for the period were 42.5 billion together with the buy-out of the remaining SVG stake, FLAG, 2014: 34.7 billion.
Gross outflows were 76.4 billion Arden and Advance acquisitions, will result in an alternatives 2014: 55.1 billion, resulting in net outflows of 33.9 billion business managing around 20 billion of AuM.
We hope to grow 2014: net outflows of 20.4 billion.
this figure as part of our goal to create a global, leading alternative investment provider.
The annualised revenue impact of these net outflows is 160 million.
Our fixed income team has also reached significant scale, managing 65.6 billion.
In 2015 we implemented a simplified Of the net outflows, 16.4 billion relates to equities.
This was structure, building on our regional teams and creating a global principally due to macroeconomic factors and investor sentiment platform pooling the resource of highly experienced investment towards Asia and emerging markets, rather than a fundamental professionals across developed and emerging markets.
deterioration across the emerging markets investment For property, the focus has been on building a truly global performance.
Our global equity strategies also suffered due to investment capability which now manages 19.0 billion.
the funds underweight positions to the US, Japan and Eurozone Our new direct property team in Singapore has a remit to grow a markets.
The reduced demand for these products also impacted local business organically alongside our equities, fixed income and our flows in each of the regions.
Finally, equities outflows were alternatives teams in the region.
impacted by large withdrawals by a large institutional investor: bn this has affected other fund managers.
Beyond the equities outflows, there were also net outflows of Fixed income.
8.3 billion from the SWIP business.
Much of these flows Aberdeen solutions.
7.5 billion were from the assets managed for insurance clients, AuM movement Equities Fixed income Aberdeen solutions Property Total bn bn bn bn bn 30 September 2014 107.6 71.4 125.0 20.4 324.4 Net flows 16.4 6.4 9.8 1.3 33.9 Market, performance 12.1 0.2 0.5 0.7 10.7 Corporate transactions 3.3 3.3 Exchange 1.0 0.4 0.8 0.6 30 September 2015 80.1 65.6 119.0 19.0 283.7 30 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Equities Given the macroeconomic environment, this year we have spent considerable time analysing our equity investment process to determine whether we need to make any fundamental changes.
After much input from both senior management and the Board, we concluded that our expertise lies in the quality of our fundamental research: our disciplined approach: and the active role we play - notably that we behave as owners of our investee companies, not just investors.
While we will not change our process, we continually invest in new systems, improve co-ordination across desks, and trial new funds.
We are also working to enhance our stewardship approach.
We have started to extend our long-established model for corporate governance, which is incorporated into the investment process and owned directly by our fund managers, to the long term risk management of other aspects of ESG environmental and social matters.
Coupled with a centralised resource which operates as a centre of specialist knowledge, this will involve additional resource being added to our investment teams so that analysis of these material long term risks is more fully embedded into each regions assessment of specific investment opportunities and our approach as stewards of our investee companies.
Our equity teams are experienced, stable and well resourced: our investment process is clear and has yielded results over the long term: and we believe that while next year will continue to be difficult, current market drivers will eventually revert to being in our favour.
Fixed income The focus in 2015 was to complete the rebuilding of fixed income while successfully integrating SWIP and improving our profile with consultants and clients.
In recent years we made great strides in globally aligning the investment process and we have produced a more consistent message which should aid distribution efforts.
This year, we have simplified the team structure, with focus on our global teams, supported by regional expertise.
Our key initiatives to deliver growth over the next three years are to: enhance our external profile with both consultants and clients: develop a global fixed income product suite: extend our emerging market debt and high yield capabilities: and support the development of Aberdeen's insurance offering by delivering better solutions.
Aberdeen solutions This year, we have actively invested in our capabilities with a number of key hires including new leadership of our flagship diversified growth strategy a multi asset product, which has been met with significantly increased interest.
We have also strengthened our product set with the launch of a new global multi asset income strategy and a long term savings multi asset fund range in the UK.
In addition, the infrastructure fund and co-investment vehicles raised capital of over 600 million during the year and Aberdeens first liquid alternatives UCITS Fund, raised capital of over 350 million in its opening month.
The latter product offers hedge fund strategies in a regulated and transparent format.
It adheres to the same regulatory requirements as traditional equity funds on liquidity, diversification and leverage, although short selling and the use of derivatives are allowed.
Demand for alternative investments and strategies has also continued to grow with external research pointing to considerable increases in allocations from global investors over the next few years.
The acquisitions of FLAG, Arden and Advance will boost credibility and footprint in key areas across the alternatives business, and allows for the acceleration of the organic initiatives already identified.
Arden and Advance are due to complete in late 2015.
FLAG completed in late August and we are delighted that the first fund raising from that acquisition has closed successfully.
Further, we are developing our approach to equities held by our passive and quantitative operations, ensuring that our stewardship approach across voting and engagement is as robust as appropriate for active holdings.
Property We strengthened our residential investments in Europe, especially in Germany, Sweden and the UK.
We have boosted our transaction resources across Europe, including our first team member in Spain and have established a direct property team in Singapore with a remit to grow a local business organically alongside our other asset classes.
We have a strong pipeline of committed capital.
We will invest in a disciplined way.
The level of capital values, most particularly in key gateway cities continues to cause challenges in the pricing of property for long term investors.
This in turn is leading to a broadening of demand, and capital values, for property investments in wider regions and riskier styles of investing.
We retain conservative approaches to our strategies, favouring property with appropriate levels of durable income over capital speculation.
Increasingly clients are demanding visibility on our approach to the management of material environmental risks with the ability to perform well being a key differentiator.
We were therefore pleased that seven of our pooled funds out-performed their peers on the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB and achieved the highest ranking of green stars for the environmental, social governance ESG performance.
com 31 Business review continued Distribution Assets by client type Our distribution team is comprised of 480 people covering sales, client support, relationship management and marketing.
As our capabilities broaden to meet the changing needs of our clients, so too does the requirement for our sales teams to have expertise in a wider array of disciplines.
As such, this year we have formed specialist teams focused on: products: consultant relations: strategic partnerships: wealth management: insurance and institutional solutions: and digital.
We now manage over 120 billion for insurance companies, including one stop shop relationships where we manage a full spectrum of asset classes, together with a number Insurance % of specialist mandates for insurance companies.
Open-ended funds % We also have a long heritage of working with some of the worlds leading financial Pension funds % Other institutional % institutions in wealth management.
They now represent a significant, and one of the Closed-end funds % fastest growing, areas of our business, accounting for over 80 billion of AuM globally.
Central banks We have several key strategic relationships, which include Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and government agencies % Banking Corporation MUTB and Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds.
Providing high levels of client service is essential to the success of our business and we therefore continue to invest in our client facing and specialist distribution teams.
Americas Asia Pacific 15% United Kingdom Europe ex.
UK Middle East & Africa 7% 60% 16% 2% Assets by client domicile Product We have developed a new structure for our product division, which comprises of product opportunities, product development and product governance.
This enables us to be responsive to business priorities and market opportunities, as well as helping us meet the changing needs of our clients.
The product division will build on the capabilities of other divisions to ensure that the suite of products available, deliver the best results for clients.
Stakeholder engagement As Aberdeens business has grown, so too has our focus on how we communicate with governments, regulators, trade bodies and other key stakeholders.
As one of Europes largest independent fund managers, we recognise our responsibility to help shape a policy environment which operates in the long term interests of our clients, our employees, our shareholders and the wider fund management sector.
Our public affairs team works closely with employees from across the business and is an active participant in relevant consultations and reviews.
For example, in the last year we submitted responses to the UK Governments consultation on pension reforms and, with a new European Commission in place, we have increased our engagement with officials and members of the European Parliament, most recently responding with our views on plans to introduce a capital markets union.
We are also a signatory of the UK Governments Prompt Payment Code and the Cyber Essentials scheme and a Living Wage employer.
32 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Acquisitions Aberdeen announced four new acquisitions in the second half of The Parmenion transaction will be an important step forward the year.
Three of these enhance the capabilities of our alternatives in our digital strategy.
Parmenion, which has AuM of around business.
The fourth strengthens our multi asset business and, 1.9 billion, provides risk graded portfolios to UK financial more importantly, adds a digital dimension to how we distribute advisers through a simple, digital platform.
The platform has been our multi asset product.
developed in-house from their base in Bristol UK and is highly rated by the adviser client base.
The FLAG acquisition completed on 31 August 2015 and added 4.4 billion of AuM.
FLAG is a manager of private equity and real With Aberdeens support and investment, we believe Parmenion asset solutions and they have offices in Stamford, Boston and can build on its success to meet the changing needs of financial Hong Kong.
This acquisition strengthens our private equity team, advisers as an increasing number of people turn to them for pre adding expertise in the US and Asia.
This acquisition ensures Aberdeen is at the forefront of the digital revolution within asset management The other acquisitions are subject to regulatory approval.
and augments our strategic aim to grow our solutions business.
Arden is a provider of hedge fund solutions in New York and London.
It has AuM of approximately 6.5 billion.
This deal will Finally, we acquired the remaining 49.9% of SVGM.
Aberdeen had give immediate entry into North American liquid alternative acquired a 50.1% stake in 2013 with the option to acquire the products and is complementary to the alternatives strategy fund remaining stake.
that we successfully launched for European clients.
We announced the acquisition of Advance Emerging Capital, which manages 0.4 billion in two London Stock Exchange listed multi manager vehicles.
The funds invest in development and frontier funds.
FLAG Capital Management Arden Asset Management Announced: 27 May 2015 Announced: 4 August 2015: expected to close in December 2015 Completed: 31 August 2015 Provider of hedge fund solutions with offices in New York Manager of private equity and real asset solutions with offices and London.
in Stamford, Boston and Hong Kong.
Complementary to Aberdeen's existing hedge fund Positions Aberdeen as a leading global private equity solutions capability.
investor with over 50 investment professionals in UK, US and Hong Kong and roughly 9 billion of AuM.
Over 30 investment professionals and around 8 billion of AuM for the combined hedge fund solutions team.
Parmenion Capital Partners Advance Emerging Capital Announced: 4 September 2015 Announced: 14 September 2015 Subject to regulatory approval from the UK FCA.
Subject to regulatory approval from the UK FCA.
Provides risk graded portfolios to UK financial advisers Specialist investment manager in emerging and frontier through a unique, yet simple, digital platform.
markets, which manages two listed funds.
This adds to our existing range of alternative investment capabilities.
Ensures Aberdeen is at the forefront of the digital revolution within asset management and augments our strategic aim to Following the acquisition we will manage 33 closed-end funds grow our multi asset business.
with aggregate assets of approximately 8.5 billion.
