16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 20 05 2015 13:27 Page 07 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 BUSINESS REVIEW The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is an investment company and its investment objective is set out below.
The strategy the Board follows to achieve that objective is to set investment policy and risk guidelines, together with investment limits, and to monitor how they are applied.
These are also set out below and have been approved by shareholders.
The business model the Company has adopted to achieve its investment objective has been to contract the services of Invesco Fund Managers Limited the Manager to manage the portfolio in accordance with the Boards strategy and under its oversight.
The portfolio manager with individual responsibility for the dayto day management of the portfolio is Mark Barnett.
Investment Objective and Policy Investment Objective The Company invests primarily in UK securities with the long term objective of achieving: 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK inflation.
Investment Policy The Company will generally invest in companies quoted on a recognised stock exchange in the UK.
The Company may also invest up to 20% of the market value of the Companys investment portfolio, measured at the time of any acquisition, in securities listed on stock exchanges outside the UK.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual securities.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual securities is monitored carefully by the Board, the portfolio is not primarily structured on the basis of industry weightings.
The securities of no one company may, as determined at the time of acquisition, represent more than 10% of the market value of the Companys equity portfolio.
Similarly, the Company may not hold more than 5% of the issued share capital or voting shares in any one company.
Investment in convertibles is subject to normal security limits.
Should these or any other limit be exceeded by subsequent market movement, each resulting position is specifically reviewed by the Board.
The Company may borrow money to provide gearing to the equity portfolio up to 25% of net assets.
Use of derivative instruments is monitored carefully by the Board and permitted within the following constraints: the writing of covered calls against securities which in aggregate amount to no more than 10% of the value of the portfolio and the investment in FTSE 100 futures which when exercised would equate to no more than 15% of the value of the portfolio.
Other derivative instruments may be employed, subject to prior Board approval, provided that the cost and potential liability of exercise of all outstanding derivative positions at any time should not exceed 25% of the value of the portfolio at that time.
The Company may hedge exposure to changes in foreign currency rates in respect of its overseas investments.
Results and Dividends At the year end the share price was 662p per ordinary share 2014: 594p.
The net asset value debt at par and net asset value debt at market value per ordinary share were 704.23p and 686.07p respectively.
The comparative figures on 31 March 2014 were 628.18p and 613.25p.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the final proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2015 of 8.60p 2014: 8.50p per ordinary share will be payable on 31 July 2015 to shareholders on the register on 12 June 2015.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 11 June 2015.
This will give total dividends for the year of 23.85p per share, an increase of 1.5% on the previous years dividendsof 23.50p.
The revenue return per share for the year was 24.8p, a 6.9% increase on the 2014 return of 23.2p.
Performance The Board reviews the Companys performance by reference to a number of key performance indicators KPIs which are set out below.
Notwithstanding that some KPIs are beyond its control, they are measures of the Companys absolute and relative performance.
The KPIs assist in managing performance and compliance and are reviewed by the Board at each meeting.
16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 20 05 2015 13:27 Page 08 08 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2015 2014 Total Return: 1 Net asset value per share debt at par 16.5% 12.3% 1 Net asset value per share debt at market value 16.2% 14.3% 1 Share price 15.7% 8.0% 1 FTSE All-Share Index 6.6% 8.8% Discount to NAV debt at par 6.0% 5.4% Discount to NAV debt at market value 3.5% 3.1% Revenue return per share 24.8p 23.2p Dividend per share 23.85p 23.5p Gross gearing 10.9% 16.3% 2 Ongoing charges ratio excluding performance fee 0.6 0.7 3 Performance fee n a 0.4 1 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream.
2 Calculated in accordance with AIC Guidelines i. e. total ongoing expenses average NAV debt at market value.
3 As of 1 April 2014, a performance fee is no longer payable.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 6 gives a commentary on the performance of the Company during the year, the gearing and the dividend.
Expenses are reviewed at each Board meeting enabling the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and consider any expenditure outside that of its normal operations.
For the year being reported, all KPIs are considered satisfactory.
The Board also regularly reviews the performance of the Company in relation to the 21 investment rd trusts in the UK Equity Income sector.
As at 31 March 2015, the Company was ranked3 by NAV th rd performance in this sector over one year, 5 over three years and3 over five years source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
Analysis of Performance analyses the relative Analysis of Performance performance of the Company to its FOR YEAR benchmark index.
TOTAL RETURN BASIS ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 Relative performance represents the % arithmetic difference between the NAV and the benchmark.
Net asset value total return 16.5 Benchmark total return 6.6 Net gearing effect measures the impact of the debenture stock, bank loan and cash on Relative performance 9.9 the Companys relative performance.
This will Analysis of Relative Performance be positive if the portfolio has positive performance.
Portfolio total return 16.1 Interest arising from the debenture stock Less Benchmark total return 6.6 and bank loan reduces the assets available to Portfolio outperformance 9.5 invest and has a negative impact Borrowings: on performance.
Net gearing effect 2.0 Management fee the base fee reduces the Interest 0.9 Companys net assets and decreases Management fee 0.5 performance.
Other expenses 0.1 Tax 0.1 Other expenses and tax reduce the level of assets and therefore result in a negative effect Total 9.9 for relative performance.
16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 20 05 2015 13:27 Page 09 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 Financial Position and Borrowings At 31 March 2015 the Companys net assets were valued at 1,376 million 2014: 1,228 million comprising principally a portfolio of equity investments, cash and borrowings.
Borrowings at the year 3 end comprised the 100 million 7 4% debenture which matures in 2022 and amounts drawn down on the Companys 100 million bank revolving credit facility of 50 million.
During the year the 1 Companys 100 million 11 2% debenture matured and was replaced by this more flexible facility.
The Company also has a bank overdraft facility of up to 10% of assets held by the custodian, which is available to facilitate settlement of short-term cash timing differences.
As at 31 March 2015, 0.2 million 2014: nil was drawn down.
Outlook, including the Future of the Company The main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Portfolio Managers Report.
Details of the principal risks affecting the Company follow.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys key long-term investment objectives are an increase in the net asset value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index the benchmark and an increase in dividends by more than the growth in RPI.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are an integral consideration when assessing the operations in place to monitor these objectives, including the performance of the portfolio, share price and dividends.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk control systems but the day-to-day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
As described in the following sections, the Board is actively engaged in assessing and monitoring the principal risks facing the Company.
Market Risk A great majority of the Companys investments are traded on recognised stock exchanges.
The principal risk for investors in the Company is a significant fall, and or a prolonged period of decline in those markets.
The Companys investments, and the income derived from them, are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and demand reflecting investor sentiment.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of investments held by the Company.
The asset value and price of the Companys shares and its earnings and dividends may consequently also experience volatility and may decline.
Investment Performance Risk The Board sets performance objectives and delegates the investment management process to the Manager.
The achievement of the Companys performance objectives relative to the market requires active management of the portfolio of assets and securities.
The Managers approach is to construct a portfolio which should benefit from expected future trends in the UK and global economies.
The Manager is a long term investor, prepared to take substantial positions in securities and sectors which may well be out of fashion, but which the Manager believes will have potential for material increases in earnings and, in due course, dividends and share prices.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection decisions by the Manager can lead to underperformance of the benchmark and or income targets.
The Managers style may result in a concentrated portfolio with significant overweight or underweight positions in individual stocks or sectors compared to the index and consequently the Companys performance may deviate significantly, possibly for extended periods, from that of the benchmark.
In a similar way, the Manager manages other portfolios holding many of the same stocks as the Company which reflects the Managers high conviction style of investment management.
This could significantly increase the liquidity and price risk of certain stocks under certain scenarios and market conditions.
However, the Board and Manager believe that the investment process and policy outlined above should, over the long term, meet the Companys objectives of capital growth in excess of the benchmark and real dividend growth.
Investment selection is delegated to the Manager.
The Board does not specify asset allocations.
Information on the Companys performance against the benchmark and peer group is provided to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Board uses this to review the performance of the Company, taking 16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 26 05 2015 13:18 Page 10 10 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued into account how performance relates to the Companys objectives.
The Manager is responsible for monitoring the portfolio selected and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
As shown in the investment policy, derivatives may be used provided that the market exposure arising is less than 25% of the value of the portfolio.
During the year, no forward currency contracts or derivatives were used for hedging or market exposure respectively.
Gearing and Borrowing Risk The Company has the ability to invest up to 200 million from its 100 million debenture stock and 100 million revolving credit facility in the equity market.
The principal gearing risk is that the level of gearing may have an adverse impact on performance.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of borrowing is too high and whether the term of borrowing is appropriate.
The Manager has full discretion over the amount of the borrowing it uses to gear its portfolio, whilst the issuance, repurchase or restructuring of borrowing are for the Board to decide.
Information related to borrowing and gearing is provided to the Directors as part of the Board papers.
Additionally, the Board keeps under review the cost of buying back debt.
Income Dividend Risk The Company is subject to the risk that income generation from its investments fails to reach the level of income required to meet its objectives.
The Board monitors this risk through the review of detailed income forecasts and comparison against budget.
These are contained within the Board papers.
The Board considers the level of income at each meeting.
Share Price Risk There is a risk that the Companys prospects and NAV may not be fully reflected in the share price from time-to-time.
The share price is monitored on a daily basis.
The Board is empowered to repurchase shares within agreed parameters.
The discount at which the shares trade to NAV can be influenced by share repurchases.
The Company has not repurchased shares in the last year.
Control Systems Risk The Board delegates a number of specific risk control activities to the Manager including: good practice industry standards in fund management operations: financial controls: meeting regulatory requirements: the management of the relationship with the depositary: via the depositary, the management of the custody and security of the Companys assets: and the management of the relationship with the registrar.
Consequently in respect of these activities the Company is dependent on the Managers control systems and those of its depositary and registrars, both of which are monitored by the Manager in the context of safeguarding the Companys assets and interests.
There is a risk that the Manager fails to ensure that these controls are operated in a satisfactory manner.
In addition, the Company relies on the soundness and efficiency of the custodian for good title and timeliness of receipt and delivery of securities.
A risk-based programme of internal audits is carried out by the Manager regularly to test the controls environment.
An internal controls report providing an assessment of these risks and operation of the controls is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Committee, and is formally reported to and considered by the Board.
Reliance on the Manager and other Third Party Providers The Company has no employees and the Directors are all appointed on a non-executive basis.
The Company is reliant upon the performance of third party providers for its executive function and other service provisions.
The Companys most significant contract is with the Manager, to whom responsibility both for the Companys portfolio and for the provision of company secretarial and administrative services is delegated.
The Company has other contractual arrangements with third 16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 26 05 2015 14:02 Page 11 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 parties to act as auditor, registrar, depositary and broker.
Failure by any service provider to carry out its obligations to the Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company to pursue successfully its investment policy and expose the Company to risk of loss or to reputational risk.
In particular, the Manager performs services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
The Manager may be exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures, negative publicity and press speculation, whether or not it is valid, will harm its reputation.
Any damage to the reputation of the Manager could result in counterparties and third parties being unwilling to deal with the Manager and by extension the Company.
This could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Company to pursue its investment policy.
The Board seeks to manage these risks in a number of ways: The Manager monitors the performance of all third party providers in relation to agreed service standards on a regular basis, and any issues and concerns are dealt with promptly and reported to the Board.
The Manager formally reviews the performance of all third party providers and reports to the Board on an annual basis.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at every Board meeting and otherwise as appropriate.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the management contract formally once a year.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of the named portfolio manager.
Mark Barnett is Head of UK Equities at Invesco Perpetual.
He has worked in equity markets since 1992 and has been part of the UK equities team at Invesco Perpetual for 18 years.
The risk that the portfolio manager might be incapacitated or otherwise unavailable is mitigated by the fact that he works within, and is supported by, the wider Invesco Perpetual UK Equity team.
The Board has set guidelines within which the portfolio manager is permitted wide discretion.
Any proposed variation outside these guidelines is referred to the Board and compliance with the guidelines and the guidelines themselves are reviewed at every Board meeting.
Other Risks The Company may be exposed to other business and strategic risks in the future, including fiscal, legal or regulatory changes, and the perceived impact of the designated Investment Manager ceasing to be involved with the Company.
The instruments in which the Companys cash positions are invested are reviewed by the Board to ensure credit, liquidity and concentration risks are adequately managed.
Where an Invesco Group vehicle is utilised, it is assessed for suitability against other similar investment options.
The Company is subject to laws and regulations by virtue of its status as an investment trust and is required to comply with certain regulatory requirements that are applicable to listed closed-ended investment companies.
The Company is subject to the continuing obligations imposed by the UK Listing Authority on all companies whose shares are listed on the Official List.
A breach of the conditions for approval as an investment trust could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of the investments in the Companys portfolio.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the Stock Exchange.
The most significant regulatory change in the year has been the implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
This has required the appointment of a depositary and a change in the contractual arrangements with the Manager, who bears the main compliance obligations.
The Manager is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and failure to comply with the relevant regulations could harm the Managers reputation with a potential detrimental effect on the Company.
The Manager reviews compliance with investment trust tax conditions and other financial and regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 26 05 2015 14:02 Page 12 12 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership offers sufficient knowledge and experience to assess, anticipate and mitigate these risks, as far as possible.
Board Diversity The Companys policy on diversity is set out on page 25.
The Board considers diversity, including the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity including gender and experience, amongst other factors when reviewing its composition and appointing new directors, but does not consider it appropriate to establish targets or quotas in this regard.
As a norm the Board comprises either five or six non-executive directors of which, at present, one is female.
Summary biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 17.
The Company has no employees.
Social and Environmental Matters As an investment company with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility, including with regard to human rights, is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and suitability for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily decide to, or not to, make an investment on environmental and social grounds alone.
The Company does not have a human rights policy, although the Manager does apply the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
