237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 16 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 16 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Business Review The Directors present their Strategic Report for the Company listed businesses that appear undervalued.
It is the Boards for the year ended 30 September 2015.
The Strategic Report, long-term objective, as far as possible, to maintain a set out on pages 2 to 23, contains a review of the Companys progressive dividend policy.
strategy and business model, an analysis of its performance The Company does not and will not invest more than 15%, during the financial year and its future developments and in aggregate, of the value of its gross assets in other closed details of the principal risks and challenges it faces.
Its purpose ended investment companies including investment trusts is to inform the shareholders of the Company and help them listed on the London Stock Exchange.
to assess how the Directors have performed their duty to Further, the Company does not and will not invest more than promote the success of the Company.
10%, in aggregate, of the value of its gross assets in other closed ended investment companies including investment Investment Objective trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange, except where the The Companys investment objective is to achieve capital and investment companies themselves have stated investment income growth and to provide shareholders with a total return policies to invest no more than 15% of their gross assets in in excess of that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
other closed ended investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Investment Strategy No investment will be made in any company or fund managed The Companys investment policy is to invest principally in the by the Portfolio Manager without the prior approval of the securities of UK listed companies, whilst up to a maximum of Board.
20% of the Companys portfolio, at the time of acquisition, can The Companys gearing policy is that gearing will not exceed be invested in quoted companies worldwide.
Where possible, 25% of the Companys net assets.
In normal market conditions a minimum position size of 1% of the Companys gross assets is it is expected that the level of gearing will be between 5% and held unless the holding concerned is being built or disposed of.
25% of the Companys net assets.
The portfolio will normally comprise up to 30 investments.
This The Company has the ability to invest up to 25% of its gross level of concentration may lead to an investment return which assets in preference shares, bonds and other debt instruments, is materially different from the Companys benchmark index although no more than 10% of any one issue may be held.
In and may be considered to carry above average risk.
Unless addition, a maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets driven by market movements, securities in FTSE 100 can be held in cash, where the Portfolio Manager believes companies and comparable companies listed on an overseas market or economic conditions make equity investment stock exchange will normally represent between 50% and unattractive or while seeking appropriate investment 100% of the portfolio: securities in FTSE 350 companies and opportunities or to maintain liquidity.
comparable companies listed on overseas stock exchanges will normally represent at least 70% of the portfolio.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the Company can only make a material The Board believes that the Companys performance over the change to its investment policies with the approval of its last 10 years net asset total return of 189.8% compared to a shareholders.
total return from the Companys benchmark index of 72.3% In accordance with the AIFM Directive the Company has set a demonstrates that it is possible to achieve good performance maximum leverage limit of 125% for both the gross method through investing principally in UK equities without buying and and the commitment method.
Leverage is defined in the selling portfolio securities on a short term basis.
The Company AIFM Directive as any method by which the AIFM increases the continues to perform competitively because the Portfolio exposure of an Alternative Investment Fund AIF it manages Manager concentrates on the strengths and weaknesses of whether through borrowing of cash, or leverage embedded in individual companies.
The two methods are largely the same in Whilst performance is measured against the FTSE All-Share the context of the Company on the grounds that derivative Index, the Companys portfolio is constructed and managed strategies are not employed by the Portfolio Manager.
The without reference to a stock market index, investments being overall leverage of an AIF is expressed as a ratio between the selected only after extensive research by the Portfolio exposure of the AIF and its net asset value.
The Portfolio Manager uses a bottom-up stock picking approach and looks to invest in a universe of excellent 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 17 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 17 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Business Review Business Model Principal Service Providers The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM non-executive.
The Company delegates its day-to-day Frostrow was appointed as the designated Alternative activities to third parties.
The principal service providers to the Investment Fund Manager AIFM for the Company on the Company are Frostrow Capital LLP Frostrow which has terms and subject to the conditions of the alternative been appointed as AIFM, company secretary and investment fund management agreement between the administrator: Lindsell Train Limited Lindsell Train which has Company and Frostrow the AIFM Agreement.
been appointed as Portfolio Manager: and BNY Mellon Trust & Under the terms of its AIFM agreement with the Company, Depositary UK Limited which has been appointed as the Frostrow provides, inter alia, the following services: Depositary.
risk management services: Lindsell Train was originally appointed as Investment Manager to the Company in December 2000.
Lindsell Train has given marketing and shareholder services: Mr Nick Train responsibility for managing the Companys monitoring the compliance by the Portfolio Manager portfolio.
Mr Train was previously head of Global Equities at with the Companys investment objective and investment M&G PLC and head of Pan-European Equities at GT policy and reporting any non-compliance in a timely Management PLC.
Mr Train has managed money in the UK fashion to the Portfolio Manager and the Board: equity market since 1983, including the top decile performer GT Income Fund 1985-1998.
Lindsell Train is authorised and determining the net asset value per share in accordance regulated by the FCA.
with the AIFM Rules, any prospectus of the Company and its Articles of Association: Frostrow has been appointed as the AIFM.
It is also responsible for providing company secretarial, administrative, administrative and secretarial services: accounting and marketing services to the Company.
Frostrow providing advice in respect of the modus operandi of the was established in 2007 to provide specialist management, investment company sector including corporate company secretarial, administration and marketing services to governance requirements: investment companies.
Frostrow is authorised and regulated by the FCA.
maintaining the Companys accounting records: maintaining professional indemnity insurance at the level The Board is responsible for all aspects of the Companys required under AIFM Rules in order to cover potential affairs, including the setting of parameters for and the liability risks arising from professional negligence: monitoring of the investment strategy and the review of investment performance and policy.
It also has responsibility preparing and dispatching the annual and half yearly for all strategic issues, the dividend policy, the share issuance reports and monthly factsheets: and and buy back policy, gearing, share price and upholding compliance with applicable tax, legal and discount premium monitoring and corporate governance regulatory requirements.
Under the terms of the AIFM Agreement Frostrow receives a periodic fee at a rate of 0.15% per annum of the Companys market capitalisation plus a fixed fee of 70,000 per annum calculated monthly and payable monthly in arrears.
The AIFM Agreement may be terminated by either party on giving 12 months written notice.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 18 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 18 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Business Review The Depositary provides the following services: Portfolio Manager Under the AIFM Agreement Lindsell Train, as delegate of the responsibility for the safe keeping of custodial assets of AIFM, is responsible for the management of the Companys the Company: portfolio of investments under an agreement between it, the verification and maintenance of a record of all other Company and Frostrow the Portfolio Management assets of the Company and for the collection of income Agreement.
The Portfolio Management Agreement replaced that arises from those assets: the previously existing Investment Management Agreement between the Company and Lindsell Train the Previous IMA.
taking reasonable care to ensure that the Company is The Portfolio Management Agreement is based on the managed in accordance with the AIFMD, the FUND Previous IMA and only differs to the extent necessary to ensure Sourcebook and the Companys instrument of that the relationship between the Company, Lindsell Train and incorporation, in relation to the calculation of the net Frostrow is compliant with the requirements of AIFMD, except asset value per share and the application of income of that the Company and Lindsell Train voluntarily agreed to the Company: and delete all provisions relating to the performance fee payable a duty to monitor the Companys compliance with by the Company to Lindsell Train under the Previous IMA.
investment restrictions and leverage limits set in its Under the terms of its Portfolio Management Agreement with offering documents.
the AIFM and the Company, Lindsell Train provides, inter alia, the following services: Custodian seeking out and evaluating investment opportunities: In accordance with the AIFM Rules the Depositary delegates custody of the Companys custodial investments to The Bank recommending the manner by which monies should be of New York Mellon SA NV, London Branch the Global invested, disinvested, retained or realised: Custodian and any other Bank of New York affiliate as it sees advising on how rights conferred by the investments fit meaning any direct or indirect subsidiary of The Bank of should be exercised: New York Mellon.
As at the date of this annual report, the applicable sub-custodians appointed by the Global Custodian analysing the performance of investments made: and who might be relevant for the purposes of holding the advising the Company in relation to trends, market Companys investments are: movements and other matters which may affect the Name of investment objective and policy of the Company.
Country sub-custodian Regulator Under the terms of the Portfolio Management Agreement The Netherlands The Bank of New York Financial Services Lindsell Train receives a periodic fee at a rate of 0.45% per Mellon SA NV and Markets Authority, Belgium annum of the Companys market capitalisation calculated monthly and payable monthly in arrears.
The Portfolio Canada CIBC Mellon Trust Canadian Company Securities Management Agreement may be terminated by either party Administrators giving notice of not less than 12 months.
United States The Bank of New US Securities of America York, New York and Exchange Depositary Commission The Company has appointed BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary France BNP Paribas The Banque UK Limited the Depositary as its depositary in accordance Securities Services, fide France with AIFMD on the terms and subject to the conditions of the Paris depositary agreement between the Company, Frostrow and The Global Custodians safekeeping fees are charged the Depositary the Depositary Agreement.
Under the terms according to the jurisdiction in which the holdings are based.
of the Depositary Agreement the Company has agreed to pay The majority of the Companys assets attract a fee of 0.80 basis the Depositary a fee calculated as a percentage of the points of their market value.
Variable transaction fees are also Companys gross assets 0.02% of the first 150 million of gross chargeable.
assets and 0.015% of gross assets in excess of 150 million.
subject to a minimum fee of 20,000 per annum, plus any applicable VAT.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 19 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 19 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Business Review Making Company information more accessible: Frostrow Company Promotion works to raise the profile of the Company by targeting key The aim of the Companys promotional activities is to groups within the investment community, holding annual encourage demand for the Companys shares.
The Company investment seminars, overseeing PR output and managing the has appointed Frostrow to provide marketing services in the Companys website and wider digital offering, including belief that a well-marketed investment company is more likely portfolio manager webcasts and social media: to grow over time, have a more diverse, stable list of shareholders and its shares will trade at close to NAV per share Disseminating key Company information: Frostrow performs over the long run.
Frostrow actively promotes the Company in the Investor Relations function on behalf of the Company and the following ways: manages the investor database.
Frostrow produces all key corporate documents, distributes monthly factsheets, annual Engaging regularly with institutional investors, reports and updates from Lindsell Train on the portfolio and discretionary wealth managers and a range of market developments: and execution-only platforms: Frostrow regularly talks and meets, often together with the Portfolio Manager, with institutional Monitoring market activity, acting as a link between the investors, discretionary wealth managers and execution-only Company, shareholders and other stakeholders: Frostrow platform providers to discuss the Companys strategy and to maintains regular contact with sector broker analysts and other understand any issues and concerns, covering both investment research and data providers, and conducts periodic investor and corporate governance matters: perception surveys, liaising with the Board to provide up-to-date and accurate information on the latest shareholder and market developments.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 20 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 20 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Business Review Key Performance Indicators The Board continually reviews overall performance.
The Companys net asset value per share is announced daily via a regulatory news service and is available online.
At each Board meeting, the Board considers a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its investment objective.
The key performance indicators KPIs are as follows: Share price Net asset value Share price total Revenue return discount premium Benchmark and peer total return per share group performance return to net asset value per share Frostrow is responsible for ensuring the Company complies with the AIFMD, and for providing company secretarial, administration and marketing services to the Company.
The management of the portfolio has been delegated to Lindsell Train.
Each provider is responsible to the Board which is ultimately responsible to the shareholders for performing against the above KPIs.
Net asset value total return The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return to be a key indicator of value delivered to shareholders over the long term.
Total return reflects the net asset value growth of, and the dividends paid by, the Company.
During the year under review the Companys net asset value per share total return was 12.0% 2014: 8.9% outperforming the benchmark by 14.3% in absolute terms.
A full description of performance during the year under review and the investment portfolio is contained in the Portfolio Managers Review commencing on page 12.
Share price total return The Directors regard the Companys share price total return to be a key indicator of performance.
This is monitored closely by the Board.
During the year under review the Companys share price total return was 11.8% 2014: 8.6%.
Please see pages 2 and 3 for further information.
Revenue return per share The Directors regard the Companys revenue return per share to be a key indicator of performance.
The revenue return per share is calculated by taking the net revenue on ordinary activities after taxation of 14,683,000 2014: 11,467,000 and dividing by 108,624,916 2014: 91,128,356 shares being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Share price discount premium to net asset value per share The Board undertakes a regular review of the level of discount premium and consideration is given to ways in which share price performance may be enhanced, including the effectiveness of marketing and share issuance and buy-backs, where appropriate.
Details of how the Companys discount control mechanism works can be found on page 6.
Demand for the Companys shares led to the issue of a total of 23,485,000 new shares during the year at a minimum premium of 0.7% to the higher of the prevailing cum or ex income net asset value per share at the time of issue.
No shares were repurchased by the Company during the year.
Benchmark and peer group performance The Companys benchmark is the FTSE All-Share Index total return which delivered a return of 2.3% 2014: 6.1% over the year.
This compares to the Companys share price total return of 11.8%.
The Board also monitors the Companys net asset value return against its peer group.
As at 30 September 2015 the Company ranked second out of eleven over one year, first over five years and first over ten years.
source: Morningstar 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 21 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 21 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Business Review Risk Management The principal risks identified by the Board and the actions taken to mitigate them are set out below under five headings.
Shareholder Relations Investment Activity Accounting, Legal and Corporate Operational Financial and Strategy and Regulatory Governance A detailed risk matrix is reviewed and updated by the Companys Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, twice yearly.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company relate to the nature of its objectives and strategy as an investment company and the markets in which it invests.
There were no changes to the Companys risk management systems during the year and no significant failings or weaknesses were identified from the Boards most recent review of risk management and internal control.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Investment Activity and Strategy The Board regularly reviews the Companys investment mandate and its long-term investment strategy in relation to market and economic conditions, An unsuccessful investment strategy, and the operation of the Companys peers, thereby monitoring whether the including asset allocation or level of gearing, Company should continue in its present form.
The Portfolio Manager provides may lead to underperformance against the an explanation of stock selection decisions and an overall rationale for the Companys benchmark index and peer make-up of the portfolio.
The Portfolio Manager discusses current and companies, and may result in the Companys potential investment holdings with the Board on a regular basis in addition to shares trading on a discount wider than the new initiatives, which may enhance shareholder returns.
The Board sets maximum level set by the Board.
The Board appropriate investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and may be unable to maintain a progressive reported on by the Companys AIFM.
Each month the Board receives a dividend policy.
compliance report which monitors the Companys investment performance both on an absolute basis and against the benchmark and peer group and its compliance with the investment guidelines.
Additional reports and presentations are regularly provided to investors by the Companys AIFM, Portfolio Manager and also by Winterflood Securities, the Companys Corporate Stockbroker.
The Board regularly reviews the Companys income forecasts as prepared by the AIFM together with input from the Portfolio Manager.
The Board also undertakes a regular review of the level of the share price discount premium and consideration is given to ways in which share price performance may be enhanced, including the effectiveness of marketing, share issuance and share buy-backs, where appropriate.
The Board has implemented a discount control mechanism intended to establish a target level of no more than a 5% discount of share price to the ex income net asset value per share.
New shares are issued on at least a 0.5% premium to the higher of the prevailing cum or ex income net asset value per share at the time of issuance.
A proportion of the Companys assets are invested in securities denominated in foreign currencies.
As the Companys shares are denominated and traded in sterling, the return to shareholders will be affected by changes in the value of sterling relative to those foreign currencies.
The Company does not at present hedge against currency exposure.
The Board keeps this position under constant review.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 22 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 22 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation The Board receives regular reports on shareholder activity and is kept informed of Shareholder Relations and shareholder sentiment.
Regular contact is maintained with major shareholders.
Details Corporate Governance of the Companys compliance with corporate governance best practice, including Shareholder unrest could arise if there is information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance poor adherence to best practice in Statement beginning on page 26. corporate governance, which could result in reputational damage to the Company.
Operational The Board reviews both the internal control reports and the disaster recovery procedures put in place by its principal service providers on a regular basis and Disruption to, or failure of, accounting, receives annually AAF01 reports from its AIFM, its Portfolio Manager and its Registrar.
dealing or payments systems or the The Board also reviews a summary of the SOC 1 Report relating to BNY Mellon Asset Depositarys records could prevent Servicing Custody and Securities Lending Services.
These reviews include accurate reporting and monitoring of the consideration of the associated cyber security risks facing the Company.
Further details of the Boards internal controls are set out in the Audit Committee Report beginning on page 36.
Financial The Companys Portfolio Manager is responsible for undertaking reviews of the creditworthiness of the counterparties that it uses.
The Board regularly reviews the The financial risks associated with the Portfolio Managers approved list of counterparties.
Company include market risk including counter-party risk, interest rate risk, The Companys assets mainly comprise readily realisable liquid securities, which can liquidity risk and credit risk.
be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
Further information on financial instruments and risk, as required by FRS 29, can be found in note 16 to the Financial Statements beginning on page 55.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory The Board relies on the services of its AIFM and also external advisers to ensure compliance with applicable law and regulations including the Companies Act, the Failure to comply with applicable law AIFM Rules, the Corporation Tax Act and the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Board is aware and regulations could expose the of changes to the regulatory environment in the year ahead such as the introduction Company to serious financial loss and of the new SORP statement of recommended practice dated November 2014 and reputational damage.
FRS 102 and 104, and plans accordingly.
The Companys Depositary is responsible for the safekeeping of all custodial assets of the Company, for verifying and maintaining a record of all other assets of the Company and for the collection of income that arises from those assets.
The Depositary reports annually to the Audit Committee, confirming that the Company, acting through the AIFM, has been managed in accordance with the AIFMD, the FUND sourcebook, the Companys Articles of Association in relation to the calculation of the net asset value per share, the application of income of the Company and with investment restrictions and leverage limits set in its offering documents.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 23 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 23 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Business Review Directors Social, Human Rights and Environmental The Directors of the Company who were in office during the Matters year and up to the date of signing the financial statements The Directors, through the Companys Portfolio Manager, were: encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice with regard to corporate governance.
Anthony Townsend Chairman In light of the nature of the Companys business there are no John Allard relevant human rights issues and the Company does not have Neil Collins a human rights policy.
Simon Hayes appointed on 29 June 2015 David Hunt Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior The Company recognises that social and environmental issues Independent Director can have an effect on some of its investee companies.
Vanessa Renwick The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct Further information on the Directors can be found on page 24. environmental impact is minimal.
The Board of Directors Details of the Directors remuneration arrangements can be consists of six Directors, all of whom are resident in the United found on pages 39 to 42.
The Board holds its regular meetings in the United Kingdom and has a policy that travel, as far as possible, is minimal.
Board Diversity The Company is supportive of the recommendations of Lord Davies Report that the performance of corporate boards can Looking to the Future be improved by encouraging the appointment of the best The Board concentrates its attention on the Companys people from a range of differing perspectives and investment performance and the Portfolio Managers backgrounds.
The Company recognises the benefits of investment approach and on factors that may have an effect on diversity on the Board, including gender, and takes this into this approach.
Marketing reports are presented to the Board at account in its Board appointments.
The Company is each Board meeting by the AIFM, which include how the committed to ensuring that any director search process Company will be promoted and details of planned actively seeks persons with the right qualifications so that communications with existing and potential shareholders.
The appointments can be made, on the basis of merit, against Board is regularly updated by the AIFM on wider investment objective criteria from a diverse selection of candidates.
To this trust industry issues and discussions are held concerning the end the Board will dedicate time to considering diversity Companys future development and strategy.
during any director search process and keep in mind that the A review of the Companys year, its performance since the yearDavies Review of Women on Boards recommended that UK end and the outlook for the Company can be found in the Listed Companies in the FTSE 100 should be aiming for a Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5 and in the Portfolio minimum of 25% of females on the Board.
Managers Review on pages 12 to 14.
Male Female The Companys Portfolio Manager believes that the outlook Directors of the Company 5 1 remains positive and that the calibre and nature of the companies held within the portfolio will continue to deliver The Company does not have any employees.
Therefore there superior investment returns.
is no employee information to disclose.
Approval The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 10 December 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Anthony Townsend Chairman FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
