Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 33 Business review We operate across the insurance value chain through our retail business, Hastings Insurance Services Limited, and our underwriting business, Advantage Insurance Company Limited.
The Groups focus on digital channels has Overview Hastings Insurance allowed it to benefit from the ongoing The Groups product offerings include Services limited Retail growth in consumer adoption of PCW.
private car insurance as well as bike, Retail has built up a range of capabilities van and home insurance in the UK.
net revenue 2015 to support success on PCW.
These In 2014, the Group increased its include sophisticated market pricing, strategic focus on home insurance in the ability to implement price changes order to increase the Groups offerings rapidly, large scale data processing to customers and expand its footprint.
and a Defaqto 5 Star rated, quality 243.6m The Group also offers optional addproduct range.
The business has grown on products to customers alongside its market share of PCW consistently its primary insurance products, which 19% since 2010, with an increasing number are underwritten separately from the 2014: 205.5m ofconsumers choosing to switch to primary policy.
Key add-on products the Groups brands.
include legal expenses cover, breakdown cover, substitute vehicle cover and Of the policies sold by Retail in the year home emergency and replacement 90% were placed within the Groups key coverage.
insurer, Advantage Insurance Company Limited.
Retail also operates a full broker Retail offers a range of brands and capability utilising a panel of insurer products to the UK market that appeal partners which enable the Group to to different customer groups.
Brand increase its distribution potential on awareness of the flagship Hastings a risk free basis.
Home insurance is a Direct brand has grown through growing part of the Groups offering continued targeted investment in and a product where Retail mainly TV advertising and digital media in uses external insurers, but retains 2015.
TV advertising is optimised full customer ownership and broking carefully using disciplined testing and income streams.
Retail benefits from analysis of performance.
The Groups diverse income streams including core product offering: private car ancillary product revenues, premium insurance, constituted 86% of the finance, fees and commissions and Groups live customer policies LCP other income.
as at 31December2015 with home, bike and van policies constituting the remainder.
Within this market, the business has chosen to focus primarily on digital distribution through price comparison websites PCW and direct distribution through the Hastings Direct website.
Retail supports PCW and direct distribution through brand advertising and online direct marketing.
34 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Business review continued Retails home product has also gained Performance and progress good momentum during the period Net revenue in the period increased increasing policy count.
years there has been an increased This performance was as a result of year penetration of PCW for home insurance on year LCP and PCW market volume in a market that has traditionally growth driven by market wide price rises been static, dominated by traditional and subsequent increased customer players with customers predominantly shopping activity.
LCP at the end of the not changing provider: the Group is year were just over 2 million: 19% ahead well positioned to benefit from these of last year.
New business volumes were changes to customer behaviours.
also ahead of the prior year driven by strong growth in all products including Retails award winning counter-fraud car telematics and home volumes.
team, Insight, provides quote validation Another year of growth based on customer inputs as part of their The Group had 2.04 million LCP as for Retail.
More customers PCW journey to ensure that customers at 31December 2015 compared to than ever have chosen to are not manipulating data inputs to 1.71 million LCP as at 31 December achieve a better quote.
The Groups continued growth in switch to and stay with over 27.5 million quotes last year its number of LCP is a result of a number us.
Weve opened our third 2014: 20.3million, an increase of 35%.
of factors, including the Groups ability UK operational site and to attract new customers through its With the ever increasing use of mobile PCW focused strategy complemented our product expansion devices across all age groups, the Group by the Groups competitive risk-based into telematics and home has recognised the need to diversify pricing, its ability to retain existing is building significant the way it interacts with its customers.
customers on renewal, and its ability Transitioning away from over-reliance to reduce cancellation rates among the momentum.
Were digital, on traditional modes of communication Groups existing customers.
were data driven and we such as computers and landline phones continue to grow by delivering and embracing greater accessibility During the year as part of the Groups via mobiles and tablets allows Retails growth strategy, Retail opened a fourth refreshingly straightforward customers to buy insurance the way operational site in Leicester.
Retail is currently in the located with excellent transport links development stage of a new system across the Midlands, Leicester was a tobias van der Meer MD Retail to provide richer and more expansive natural fit for a third location in the digital self service capabilities.
Thenew UK due to the quality and diversity of Retail platform is expected to be launched talent available.
Working closely with later this year.
Leicester and fide Montfort universities and Leicester College, the Group plans As part of the Groups continued to help identify a broad range of career improvement, Retail enhanced opportunities.
The new Leicester its customer experience with the customer service centre will play a following initiatives during the period significant role in the Groups plans for under review: growth and expansion and already accommodates over 300 colleagues.
Live webchat rolled out to provide customers with more ways to The Groups telematics offering as part communicate: of its car product grew by 58% in the Social media response team period.
This performance is primarily operating 24 7: being driven by new business due to the products popularity with new drivers Mobile friendly website: and helping inexperienced drivers to Online document retrieval: and effectively manage their insurance costs.
Telematics provides the Group with upNew complaints system implemented to-date driver information to enable it to enabling complaints to be handled intervene where a driver is not driving and responded to quicker and as expected.
By communicating with the enabling management to improve driver concerned, the Group is able to root cause analysis.
educate its policyholders on the merits of better and safer driving and enables the Group as a whole to enhance its loss ratio performance.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 35 number of strategic price rises which Performance and progress advantage Insurance enabled the Group to protect its loss Net revenue for Underwriting increased company limited ratio while enhancing its already strong by 23% to 307.6m 2014: 251.1m as competitive position.
a result of the Underwriting business Underwriting being well positioned at the beginning During the year the Group strengthened of the year to take full benefit of net revenue 2015 its counter-fraud capabilities tackling a hardening market.
Following a serious and complex insurance strong track record in a soft market, fraud crimes even further with Underwriting implemented strategic the establishment of a Specialist price rises where necessary due to 307.6m Investigation team that incorporates market claims inflation during 2015. intelligence and analyst teams.
This Combined with controlled LCP growth, 23% team is led by the former head of the further price increases during the City of London Polices Insurance Fraud 2014: 251.1m year provided Underwriting with an Enforcement Department.
Fraud is an improved base position for 2016. increasing risk for insurers and brokers alike whether at point of quote or Overview As an agile and straightforward claim: the Group is at the forefront of general insurance provider, the Group The Underwriting business is a Gibraltaridentifying and repudiating fraudulent recognises that customers wish to based insurer which underwrites car, claims, bringing fraudsters to justice communicate with the Group through bike, van and home insurance.
It currently and lowering prices for customers.
a number of channels, both inside underwrites most of Retails private car, and outside usual business hours.
bike, van policies and from the beginning Sophisticated risk pricing is achieved by Having made significant investment of 2015 also co-insured home insurance the Underwriting business employing in its systems for claims handling, a with AXA, one of Retails panel insurers.
significant analytic capabilities bolstered new Claims platform was successfully by data enrichment.
The Groups launched in November this year.
This Underwriting is managed from underwriting capabilities are enhanced investment has created an integrated Gibraltar and oversees a dedicated by enriching data for a selective claims handling platform to enable the outsourced, insurer services team footprint to significantly reduce risk that Group to interact with customers when at the Groups office in Bexhill which the general market is under-pricing.
This and how they wish to communicate includesclaims operations.
The entails harnessing data collected from by making the claims journey simpler Underwritingbusiness utilises a data customers who use PCW, overlaying and smoother.
This will help reduce call intensive processspecifically designed to other external data points and creating lengths and waiting times by enabling provide superior underwriting results in new variables and pieces of information claims handlers be more responsive to the highly competitive PCW market.
The that translate into rating variables.
The customer requests and enquiries and underwriting process consists of fraud combination of enrichment and fraud improve the overall claims experience.
detection, market analysis, risk pricing, prevention enables Underwriting to Internally the new claims platform will portfolio investment, reinsurance, claims price appropriately to achieve very enhance the Groups decision making handling and reserving.
Claims handling competitive rates while achieving target and response times deriving cost has two core objectives: the first is loss ratio.
delivering excellent, straightforward quality service to the Groups customers Coming into effect at the start of January As part of the benefits of the new claims in their time of need following an 2016, Underwriting was well-prepared system, the Group is well positioned to incident, and secondly to control for the introduction of Solvency II that increase its underwriting sophistication payments to third parties through replaced Solvency I. Interactions with through a more timely and granular efficient pro-active case management.
the Gibraltar regulator, the Financial use of data and experience.
Better Services Commission, have been use of data, continuous monitoring of positive and transparent throughout results, advanced analytic capabilities Underwriting has delivered the programme of planning, design and rapid execution provide the Group and implementation.
The Underwriting another good year of prudent, with the ability to respond within the business is well capitalised above the marketplace to identify risks and exploit disciplined underwriting levels required under Solvency II.
and we continue to be very 31 December 2015, under Solvency I, Underwriting had a coverage ratio of well positioned in the UK The period under review saw an 373% 2014: 268%.
increase in claims inflation across motor insurance market.
the market driven in part by the As part of our growth plans re-emergence of claims farming and weve started underwriting continued increases in the incidence of soft tissue bodily injuries such as home insurance and are well whiplash.
As a result and recognising prepared for the transition a hardening car insurance market early to Solvency II legislation, in the year, Underwriting introduced a effective January 2016.
