American pp01-20 23 03 2016 23:00 Page 17 BUSINESS REVIEW The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with the The Company will normally limit its five largest investments to ability to assess how the Directors have performed their duty to 40% of its gross assets.
promote the success of the Company during the year under review.
The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in liquidity funds in normal market conditions.
Structure and Objective of the Company The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets in JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc is an investment trust companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of gross and has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Its assets in UK listed investment companies.
objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth from North American investments.
In seeking to achieve this objective, The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in the Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the other UK listed investment companies.
Manager which, in turn, delegates portfolio management to The Company will use gearing when appropriate to increase JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM which further delegates potential returns to shareholders.
The Companys gearing policy to JPMorgan Asset Management, Inc. to manage the Companys is to operate within a range of 5% net cash to 20% geared in assets actively.
The Board has determined an investment policy normal market conditions.
The Manager is accountable for and related guidelines and limits, as described below.
It aims to tactically managing the gearing, within a 2.0% range around a outperform the S&P 500 Index, with net dividends reinvested, normal gearing level.
The normal gearing level, which is set by expressed in sterling terms.
the Board and kept under review, is currently 10%.
The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and The Company only hedges its currency risk in respect of the full regulations including UK company law, UK Financial Reporting value of the sterling debenture.
Standards, the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, taxation law and the Companys own Articles of Association.
Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and guidelines is monitored by JPMF and is reported to the Board on a monthly The Company is an investment company within the meaning of basis.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for the purposes of Performance Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
As a result the Company is not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The In the year ended 31st December 2015, the Company produced a Directors have no reason to believe that approval will not continue total return to shareholders of 2.4% and a total return on net to be retained.
The Company is not a close company for taxation assets of 4.7%.
This compares with the return on the Companys purposes.
benchmark in sterling terms, of 6.9%.
At 31st December 2015, the value of the Companys investment portfolio was 904 million.
The Investment Managers Report on pages8to 12 includes a review of Investment Policies and Risk Management developments during the year as well as information on investment In order to achieve its investment objectives and to seek to manage activity within the Companys portfolio and the factors likely to risk, the Company mainly invests in a diversified portfolio of quoted affect the future performance of the Company.
companies including, when appropriate, exposure to smaller capitalisation stocks.
The Company currently has separate portfolios Total Return, Revenue and Dividends dedicated to larger capitalisation and smaller capitalisation companies.
The number of investments in the larger capitalisation As detailed on page 38, gross total return for the year amounted to portfolio will normally range between 60-100 stocks representing 47.4 million 2014: 149.6 million and net total return after between 80-100% of the Companys equity portfolio.
The number of deducting finance costs, administrative expenses and taxation, investments in the smaller capitalisation portfolio will normally amounted to 36.5 million 2014: 138.4 million.
Distributable range between 100-120 stocks representing between 0-20% of the income for the year totalled 12.9 million 2014: 10.4 million.
The Company may invest in pooled The Company paid an interim dividend of 1.5p per share on funds to achieve these aims.
Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.5p per share, payable on 13th May 2016 to shareholders on the Investment Limits and Restrictions register at the close of business on 15th April 2016.
The total all at time of investment dividend distribution for 2015 represents an increase of 23.1% on last years 3.25p distribution.
These distributions total 11.1 million The Company will not normally invest more than 8% of its gross 2014: 9.1 million.
After payment of the final dividend the assets in any one individual stock.
revenue reserve will amount to 13.7 million 2014: 11.8 million.
17 American pp01-20 23 03 2016 23:00 Page 18 Strategic Report continued BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Key Performance Indicators KPIs Share Capital The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess The Company has authority to both purchase shares for cancellation the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: or holding in Treasury, and issue new shares in the market for cash at a premium to net asset value.
Performance against the benchmark index This is an important KPI by which performance is judged.
During the financial year, the Company repurchased 5,350,884 shares, into Treasury, for a total consideration of 15,176,000.
Since Please refer to the graphs on page 14 for details of the Companys the year end, the Company has repurchased 5,117,768 shares, into performance relative to its benchmark index over 10 years.
Treasury, for a total consideration of 13.7 million.
Performance against the Companys peers In January 2015, the Company issued 600,000 new shares of 5p to The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative to the the market at an average price of 284.94p per share, for a total net benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors performance consideration of 1,708,000.
No further shares were issued over relative to a broad range of appropriate competitor funds both in the year.
Special Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue and Performance attribution repurchase shares will be put to shareholders for approval at the The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess how Annual General Meeting.
the Company achieved its performance relative to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys relative Board Diversity performance of the various components such as asset allocation, When recruiting a new Director, the Boards policy is to appoint gearing and stock selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for individuals on merit.
Diversity is important in bringing an the year ended 31st December 2015 are given in the Investment appropriate range of skills and experience to the Board.
When Managers Report on page 10. completing a review of the skills and experience of Directors, the Share price relative to net asset value NAV per share with Board feels that they are equipped with the necessary attributes debt at fair value required for the sound stewardship of the Company and that their The Board has adopted a share issuance and repurchase policy knowledge sets allow for lively and engaging debates.
Full details of that seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for the the skills and experience of the Directors can be found on pages 21 Companys shares in the market and thereby seeks to manage the and 22.
At 31st December 2015, there were three male Directors and volatility and absolute level of the premium and discount to NAV two female Directors on the Board.
Please refer to pages 26 and 27 per share at which the Companys shares trade.
In the year to for more information on the workings of the Nomination and 31st December 2015, the shares traded between a premium of Remuneration Committee.
1.4% and a discount of 5.3% month end figures calculated with debt at fair value and including income.
Please refer to the Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Chairmans Statement on pages3 and7 for further information.
Issues Ongoing charges The Company has a management contract with JPMF.
It has no The ongoing charges represent the Companys management fee employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, the day to day and all other operating expenses, excluding finance costs and any activities being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no performance fee payable, expressed as a percentage of the disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board notes average daily net assets during the year.
The ongoing charges JPMAMs policy statements in respect of Social, Community, excluding any performance fee for the year ended 31st December Environmental and Human Rights issues, as outlined below, in 2015 is 0.62% 2014: 0.62%.
The ongoing charges including any italics.
performance fee payable is the ratio, expressed in percentage terms, of the management fee plus all other operating expenses Social, Community, Environmental and Human Rights plus any performance fee payable, but excluding finance costs, to the average of the daily net assets during the year.
Since no JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible performance fee was payable in 2015 the ongoing charges manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic including performance fee payable for the year ended interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial 31st December 2015 is also 0.62% 2014: 0.64%.
issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to 18 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 American pp01-20 23 03 2016 23:00 Page 19 impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
and guidelines which are monitored and reported on regularly by Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance the Managers.
JPMF provides the Directors with timely and ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and accurate management information, including performance data report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and industry.
JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six principles, and results of the investment process with the investment with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when manager, who attends the majority of Board meetings, and making stock selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our reviews data which shows statistical measures of the Companys detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on risk profile.
The investment manager employs the Companys request.
gearing within a strategic range set by the Board.
Operational and Cybercrime: Disruption to, or failure of, the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Managers accounting, dealing or payments systems or the The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or custodians or depositarys records could prevent accurate diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
On 1st July 2014, the Company appointed BNY Mellon Trust & JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing Depositary UK Limited to act as its depositary, responsible for social and environmental risk in project finance.
overseeing the operations of the custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. and the Companys cash flows.
Details of how the Principal Risks Board monitors the services provided by the Manager and its associates and the key elements designed to provide effective The Directors confirm that they have carried out a thorough internal control are included in the Internal Control section of the assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including Corporate Governance report on pages 28 and 29.
The threat of those that would threaten its business model, future performance, cyber attack, in all its guises, is regarded as at least as important solvency or liquidity.
The risks identified and the ways in which they as more traditional physical threats to business continuity and are managed or mitigated are summarised below.
The Board has received the cyber security policies for its With the assistance of JPMF, the Risk Committee has drawn up a risk key third party service providers and JPMF has assured Directors matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These are that the Company benefits directly or indirectly from all elements reviewed and noted by the Board.
These key risks fall broadly under of JPMorgans Cyber Security programme.
The information the following categories: technology controls around the physical security of JPMorgans data centres, security of its networks and security of its trading Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the future applications are tested by Deloitte and reported every six months prices of the Companys investments.
This market risk comprises against the AAF Standard.
three elements equity market risk, currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Board considers asset allocation, stock selection Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: The sudden and levels of gearing on a regular basis and has set investment departure of the investment manager or several members of the restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and reported wider investment management team could result in a short term on by JPMF.
The Board monitors the implementation and results deterioration in investment performance.
The Manager takes of the investment process with the Manager.
However, the steps to reduce the likelihood of such an event by ensuring fortunes of the portfolio are significantly determined by market appropriate succession planning and the adoption of a team movements in US equities, the rate of exchange between the based approach.
The Board continues to stress to JPMF the US dollar and sterling and interest rate changes.
This is a risk importance of retaining the current investment manager.
that investors take having invested into a single country fund.
Share Price Relative to Net Asset Value NAV per Share: If the Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment strategy, share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per for example asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
Throughout underperformance against the Companys benchmark index and the majority of 2015, the Companys shares traded at a discount.
peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on a The Board monitors the Companys premium discount level and, wider discount.
The Board manages this risk by insisting on although the rating largely depends upon the relative diversification of investments through its investment restrictions attractiveness of the trust, the Board will seek, where deemed 19 American pp01-20 23 03 2016 23:00 Page 20 Strategic Report continued BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED prudent, to address imbalances in the supply and demand of the Long Term Viability Companys shares through a programme of share issuance and The Company was established in 1881 and has now been in buybacks.
This year it will be hosting its 100th AGM.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an The Company is an investment trust and has the objective of investment trust, the Company must comply with Section 1158 of achieving long term capital growth investing in US equities.
The the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
Details of the Company has been investing over many economic cycles and some Companys approval are given under Business of the Company difficult market conditions.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158, it might lose Although past performance and a long historic track record is no investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the guide to the future, the Directors believe that the Company has an Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The attractive future for investors as a long term investment Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored by proposition.
Unfortunately, it is impossible to look forward too far JPMF and the results reported to the Board each month.
The into the future, so the Directors have adopted a somewhat shorter Company must also comply with the provisions of the Companies time horizon to assess the Companys viability, which is five years.
Act 2006 and, as its shares are listed on the London Stock This is regarded by many as the minimum time for investing in Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and Disclosure & Transparency equities.
This exceeds the term of the Companys fixed indebtedness Rules DTRs.
A breach of the Companies Act 2006 could result which expires in 2018. in the Company and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs The Directors have considered the Company over the next five years could result in the Companys shares being suspended from and examined its prospects, principal risks and the outlook for the listing, which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Directors US economy, its equity market and the market for investment trusts.
seek to comply with all relevant regulation and legislation in the They have examined the robustness of these base case estimates UK, Europe and the US and rely on the services of its Company using further more cautious scenarios, including in one case Secretary, JPMF, and its professional advisers to monitor repeating some of the returns data for the 19291934 Wall Street compliance with all relevant requirements.
Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax legislation, The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet including in the US and the European Union, may adversely effect its liabilities as they fall due over the next five years until the Company either directly or because of restrictions or enforced 31st December 2020. changes on the operations of the Manager.
JPMF makes recommendations to the Board on accounting, dividend and tax policies and the Board seeks external advice where appropriate.
Future Developments In addition, the Company is subject to political risks, such as the The future development of the Company is much dependent upon imposition of restrictions on the free movement of capital.
The the success of the Companys investment strategy in the light of Company is therefore at risk from changes to the regulatory, economic and equity market developments.
The Chairman and the legislative and taxation framework within which it operates, Investment Manager discuss the market outlook in their reports on whether such changes were designed to affect it or not.
By order of the Board Alison Vincent for and on behalf of JPMorgan Funds Limited Company Secretary 23rd March 2016 20 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
