16519 pp01 20 28 09 2015 16:58 Page 17 Business Review The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with The Boards policy is to employ gearing when the Manager the ability to assess how the Company has performed.
To assist believes it is appropriate to do so.
The Board regularly reviews shareholders with this assessment, the Strategic Report sets this policy.
Should the Manager decide to employ gearing, the out the structure and objective of the Company, its investment Company will remain invested in the range of 90-120% under policies and risk management, investment limits and normal market conditions.
restrictions, performance and key performance indicators, The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the share capital, principal risks and how the Company seeks to number of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively manage those risks, the Companys environmental, social and concentrated portfolio consisting typically of between 60 and ethical policy and finally its future developments.
The assets are managed by an investment Structure and Objective of the Company manager based in London who is supported by a 50 strong JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc is an emerging markets equity team.
investment trust company that has a premium listing on the It should be noted that historically, emerging market London Stock Exchange.
Its objective is to achieve capital companies and investments in their shares have shown growth from emerging markets worldwide.
In seeking to greater volatility and may be subject to certain political and achieve this objective the Company employs JPMF to actively corporate governance risks which are not typically associated manage the Companys assets.
The Board has determined an with more developed markets and economies.
investment policy and related guidelines and limits, as described below.
It aims to outperform the MSCI Emerging Investment Restrictions and Guidelines Markets Index.
The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing various investment limits and restrictions: The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and regulations including UK company law, Financial Reporting The Company will not invest more than 10% of its total Standards, the UKLA Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and assets in any one individual stock excluding investment Transparency Rules, taxation law and the Companys own trusts at the time of acquisition.
The Company is an investment No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies invested in any one region.
Act 2006 and has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys as an investment trust for the purposes of Sections 1158 and assets before deducting borrowings may be invested 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended in: i securities not listed on any recognised investment 30th June 2013 and future years.
The Directors have no reason exchange: and ii holdings in which the Companys interest to believe that approval will not continue to be obtained.
The amounts to 20% or more of the aggregate of the equity Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
capital including any capital having an element of equity Investment Policies and Risk Management of any one listed company other than an investment trust In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs or manage risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread which would qualify for such approval but for the fact that of countries, industries and companies.
The Company invests it is not listed.
primarily in quoted securities in emerging stock markets but, In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing where necessary or appropriate in the absence of suitable Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of quoted securities, it may invest in unquoted securities.
It may its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies invest in other collective investment schemes, but usually only and will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in where legal restrictions prevent direct investment by companies that themselves may invest more than 15% foreigners or prudent diversification can best be achieved in of gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to achieve and maintain approved investment trust status in the UK.
The Company does not normally enter into derivative transactions, other than short term forward currency The Company is managed to produce capital growth and not to contracts to manage working capital requirements and to produce any particular level of dividend and therefore the do so requires prior Board approval.
level of dividend will vary.
These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any time at its discretion.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 16519 pp01 20 28 09 2015 16:58 Page 18 Strategic Report continued Business Review continued Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and the Companys relative performance of the various guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended 30th June 2015 are given in the Investment Managers Performance Report on page 6.
In the year to 30th June 2015, the Company produced a total return to shareholders of 6.6% and a total return on net assets Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share of 7.4%.
This compares with the return on the Companys The Board has a share repurchase policy which seeks to benchmark index of 3.2%.
At 30th June 2015, the value of the address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Companys investment portfolio including liquidity fund Companys shares within the market.
This helps to reduce holdings was 852.5 million.
The Investment Managers the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV per Report on pages 5 to 8 includes a review of developments share at which the Companys shares trade in relation to its during the year as well as information on investment activity peers in the sector.
In the year to 30th June 2015, the within the Companys portfolio.
Companys shares traded at a discount to the capital only net asset value per share between 8.6% and 11.9% based Total Return, Revenue and Dividends on month end data.
Gross total return for the year amounted to 70.1 million 2014: 17.2 million loss and net total return after deducting Discount Performance 0 management fee, performance fee, other administrative expenses, finance costs and taxation amounted to 2 58.8 million 2014: 27.2 million loss.
Distributable income for 4 the year amounted to 8.5 million 2014: 6.1 million.
6 The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.0p per share 8 payable on 24th November 2015 to holders on the register at 10 the close of business on 23rd October 2015.
This distribution 12 will amount to 7.7 million.
Source: Datastream month end data.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price discount to capital only net asset value per share.
The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs Ongoing charges are: The ongoing charges represent the Companys management Performance against the benchmark index fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance This is the most important KPI by which performance is costs and performance fee payable, expressed as a judged.
Information on the Companys performance is percentage of the average of the daily net assets during the given in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment year.
The ongoing charges for the year ended 30th June Managers Report.
The Board reviews each year page 1. an analysis which shows a comparison of the Companys ongoing charges and its main expenses with those of its Performance against the Companys peers peers.
The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the Share Capital performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
The Directors have, on behalf of the Company, the authority both to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation and to Performance attribution issue new shares for cash on behalf of the Company.
The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess how the Company achieved its performance relative A total of 799,027 shares were repurchased into Treasury to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on during the year under review, for a total consideration of 18 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
The Company did not allot any new shares for cash Share Price Discount: A disproportionate widening of the other than on the conversion of Subscription shares.
Since the share price discount relative to the Companys peers could year end no shares have been repurchased into Treasury.
result in loss of value for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount policy and has set parameters for the During the year the Company issued 10,155,432 Ordinary Manager and the Companys broker to follow.
shares for a total consideration of 55,144,000 on the conversion of Subscription shares.
Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board holds regular meetings with senior representatives of JPMF in Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue new shares and to order to obtain assurance that the Manager continues to repurchase shares for cancellation will be put to shareholders demonstrate a high degree of commitment to its for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
investment trusts business through the provision The full text of these Resolutions is set out in the Notice of of significant resources.
Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an investment Principal Risks trust, the Company must comply with Section 1158.
Details With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up of the Companys approval are given under Structure and a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
Objective of the Company on page 17.
Should the Company These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: breach Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys Investment Underperformance: An inappropriate investment portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section strategy, for example asset allocation, the level of gearing or 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored by the the degree of portfolio risk, could lead to underperformance Manager and the results reported to the Board each against the Companys benchmark index and peer month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on a of the Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares are listed wider discount.
The Board manages these risks by on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and diversification of investments and through a set of Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the investment restrictions and guidelines which are Companies Act could result in the Company and or the monitored and reported on by the Manager.
The Manager Directors being fined or the subject of criminal provides the Directors with timely and accurate proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs management information, including performance data and could result in the Companys shares being suspended attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports from listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board monitors the Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary and implementation and results of the investment process with its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the the Investment Manager, who attends all Board meetings, Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and DTRs.
and reviews data which show statistical measures of the Companys risk profile.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance Political, Economic and Governance: Administrative risks, such best practice, including information on relations with as the imposition of restrictions on the free movement of shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance capital.
These risks are discussed by the Board on a regular report on pages 27 to 32. basis.
Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: A sudden accounting, dealing or payments systems or the departure of the investment manager or several members custodians records could prevent accurate reporting and of the investment management team could result in a monitoring of the Companys financial position.
Details of short-term deterioration in investment performance.
The how the Board monitors the services provided by the Manager takes steps to reduce the likelihood of such an Manager and its associates and the key elements designed event by ensuring appropriate succession planning and to provide effective internal control are included within the the adoption of a team based approach, as well as special Risk Management and Internal Control section of the efforts to retain key personnel.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19 16519 pp01 20 28 09 2015 16:58 Page 20 Strategic Report continued Business Review continued JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of market price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Further incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock details are disclosed in note 21 on pages 60 to 65. selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach Board Diversity to how we implement the principles is available on request.
When recruiting a new Director, the Boards policy is to appoint Greenhouse Gas Emissions individuals on merit.
Diversity is important in bringing an The Company is managed by JPMF, has no employees and all appropriate range of skills and experience to the Board.
At of its Directors are non-executive, the day to day activities 30th June 2015, there were six male Directors and one female being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no Director on the Board.
disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Company Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and The Company has a management contract with JPMF.
It has no consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
The day JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase to day activities are carried out by third parties.
There are is a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing social and therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
environmental risk in project finance.
The Board notes the JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM Future Developments policy statements in respect of Social, Community and The future development of the Company is much dependent Environmental and Human Rights issues, as highlighted in upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the italics: light of economic and equity market developments in the Social, Environmental and Human Rights countries in which it invests.
The Investment Manager JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible discusses the outlook in his report on pages 7 and 8. manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the By order of the Board share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked JPMorgan Funds Limited, with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and Company Secretary environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
28th September 2015 20 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
