18 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued Business Review Objective and Strategy of the Company - Gearing may be used when appropriate in order to The Mercantile Investment Trust plc is an investment increase potential returns to shareholders.
Such trust company that has a premium listing on the gearing will be long-term in nature and will operate London Stock Exchange.
Its objective is to achieve within a range of 10% net cash to 20% geared.
long term capital growth from a portfolio of UK - The Company does not invest more than 15% of its medium and smaller companies.
The Company gross assets in other UK listed investment employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the companies including investment trusts.
Manager to actively manage its assets.
The Board - The Company will not invest more than 10% of has determined an investment policy and related assets in companies that themselves may invest guidelines and limits, as described below.
more than 15% of gross assets in UK listed Structure of the Company investment companies.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act Performance 2006 and has been approved by HM Revenue & In the year to 31st January 2015, the Company Customs as an investment trust for the purposes produced a total return to shareholders of0.7% of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax and a total return on net assets of 4.4%.
As a result the Company is not liable for compares with the return on the Companys taxation on capital gains.
The Directors have no benchmark of 4.6%.
At 31st January 2015, the reason to believe that approval will not continue to value of the Companys investment portfolio was be retained.
The Company is not a close company for 1,722 million.
The Investment Managers Report taxation purposes.
on pages 4 to 8 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on investment A review of the Companys activities and prospects is activity within the Companys portfolio.
given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, and in the Investment Managers Report on pages 4 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends to 8.
Gross total return for the year amounted to 92.0 million 2014: 389.3 million and net total Investment Policies and Risk Management return after deducting interest, management In order to achieve its objective, the Companys expenses and taxation amounted to 72.4 million business model is to invest in a diversified portfolio 2014: 370.5 million.
Distributable income for the and it employs a Manager with a strong focus on year amounted to 41.4 million 2014: 46.6 million.
research that enables it to identify what it believes to The Directors have declared quarterly interim be the most attractive stocks in the market.
dividends totalling 41.0p 2014: 40.0p per ordinary The Board has sought to manage the Companys risk share for the year which totalled 40.2 million 2014: by imposing various investment limits and 39.3 million.
The year end revenue reserve after restrictions.
These limits and restrictions may be allowing for these dividends will amount to varied at any time by the Board at its discretion.
Investment Restrictions and Guidelines Key Performance Indicators KPIs - The Company invests in medium and smaller The Companys objective is to achieve long term companies which are listed mainly on the London capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and Stock Exchange.
In order to monitor performance against this objective, the Board uses a number of - At time of purchase the maximum exposure to any financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance individual stock is 8% of gross assets.
The principal KPIs are: - Investment growth is emphasised, with long-term dividend growth at least in line with inflation.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19 Performance against the benchmark index Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share This is the most important KPI by which The Board operates a share repurchase performance is judged.
programme that seeks to address imbalances in supply and demand of the Companys shares within the market and thereby reduce the Performance relative to Benchmark Index volatility and absolute level of the discount to Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st January 2005 NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
20 The Mercantile share price total return.
Source: Morningstar, Russell Mellon CAPS.
Ongoing Charges Ten Year Performance Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st January 2005 The Ongoing Charges represent the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses, 350 excluding finance costs, expressed as a percentage 300 of the average of the daily net assets during the 250 year.
The Ongoing Charges for the year ended 31st January 2015 were 0.49% 2014: 0.48%.
The 200 Board reviews each year an analysis which shows 150 a comparison of the Companys Ongoing Charges 100 and its main expenses with those of its peers.
During the year the Company repurchased a total of The Mercantile share price total return.
536,084 ordinary shares for cancellation nominal Benchmark.
This amount represented 0.55% of Source: Morningstar, Russell Mellon CAPS.
the issued share capital at the beginning of the year.
As the shares were repurchased at a discount to the Performance against the Companys peers underlying net asset value NAV they enhanced the The principal objective is to achieve capital NAV of the remaining shares.
The Company has growth relative to the benchmark.
The Board also repurchased 865,375 further shares for cancellation monitors the performance relative to a broad since the year end as at 25th March 2015. range of competitor funds.
A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase Performance attribution shares will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming The purpose of performance attribution analysis Annual General Meeting.
is to assess how the Company achieved its The Company did not issue any shares during the year performance relative to its benchmark index, and has not issued any shares since the year end.
i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys relative performance of the various components Principal Risks such as asset allocation and stock selection.
With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has Details of the attribution analysis for the year drawn up a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks ended 31st January 2015 are given in the to the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under Investment Managers Report on page 5. the following categories: 20 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued Business Review continued Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: investment strategy, for example asset allocation or Details of the Companys compliance with the level of gearing, may lead to underperformance Corporate Governance best practice, including against the Companys benchmark index and peer information on relations with shareholders, are companies, resulting in the Companys shares set out in the Corporate Governance report on trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages pages 26 to 31. these risks by diversification of investments Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMFs through its investment restrictions and guidelines accounting, dealing or payments systems or the which are monitored and reported by the Manager.
custodians records could prevent accurate JPMF provides the Directors with timely and reporting and monitoring of the Companys accurate management information, including financial position.
Details of how the Board performance data and attribution analyses, revenue monitors the services provided by JPMF and estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder its associates and the key elements designed to analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation provide effective risk management and internal and results of the investment process with the control are included within the Risk Management Investment Managers, who attend all Board and Internal Control section of the Corporate meetings, and reviews data which show statistical Governance report on pages 30 and 31. measures of the Companys risk profile.
The Going concern: Pursuant to the Sharman Report, Investment Managers employ the Companys Boards are now advised to consider going gearing tactically, within a strategic range set by concern as a potential risk, whether or not there the Board.
is an apparent issue arising in relation thereto.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to Going concern is considered rigorously on an qualify as an investment trust, the Company must ongoing basis and the Boards statement on going comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax concern is detailed on page 24.
Details of the Companys Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company approval are given under Structure of the include market price risk, interest rate risk, Company above.
Were the Company to breach liquidity risk and credit risk.
Bank counterparties Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status are subject to regular credit analysis by the and, as a consequence, gains within the Manager and regular consideration at meetings of Companys portfolio could be subject to Capital the Board.
In addition the Board receives regular Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria reports on the Managers monitoring and are continually monitored by JPMF and the results mitigation of credit risks on share transactions reported to the Board each month.
The Company carried out by the Company.
Further details are must also comply with the provisions of the disclosed in note 24 on pages 57 to 61.
Companies Act and, since its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Gender Representation Rules and Disclosure & Transparency Rules At 31st January 2015, there were five male Directors DTRs.
A breach of the Companies Act could and one female Director on the Board.
The Company result in the Company and or the Directors being has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys shares being suspended Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues from listing which in turn would breach The Company has no employees.
Since many of its Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services functions are carried out by employees of the of its Company Secretary, JPMF, to ensure Manager and its affiliate, J. P. Morgan Asset compliance with The Companies Act and The Management UK Limited JPMAM, it notes the UKLA Listing Rules.
JPMAM policy statements in respect of social and environmental issues.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21 Social, Environmental and Human Rights Future Developments JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially Clearly, the future development of the Company is responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the dependent upon the success of the Companys best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, investment strategy in the light of economic and equity increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and market developments.
The Investment Managers environmental factors have the potential to impact the share discuss the outlook in their report on page 8. price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and By order of the Board report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of their industry.
JPMorgan Funds Limited, Company Secretary JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six 27th March 2015 principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on request.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company is managed by JPMF, has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, the day to day activities being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing social and environmental risk in project finance.
