Strategic Report Business Review be taken out if this takes the level of effective equity gearing to Business Model over 30% of shareholders funds.
Equity exposure may, on Business and Status occasions, be below 100% of shareholders funds.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on business Performance as an investment trust.
Investment trusts are UK public listed At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of companies and their shares are traded on the London Stock performance measures to assess the Companys success in Exchange.
They invest in a portfolio of assets in order to spread achieving its objectives.
The Company has a fixed share capital although subject to Key Performance Indicators shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase its own shares.
The price of shares is determined, like other listed shares, The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the by supply and demand.
progress and performance of the Company over time are established industry measures and are as follows: The Company has been approved as an investment trust by HM the movement in net asset value per ordinary share on a total Revenue & Customs subject to the Company continuing to meet the eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the return basis: Company has continued to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to the movement in the share price on a total return basis: comply with the ongoing requirements of Section 1158 of the the discount: and Corporation Tax Act 2010. ongoing charges.
The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF for the purposes of the EU Alternative Fund Managers Directive.
The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on pages 12 to 14.
In addition to the above, the Board also Objective and Policy considers peer group comparative performance.
The Companys objective is to invest globally to achieve capital growth.
This takes priority over income and dividends.
Principal Risks As explained on page 21 there is an ongoing process for Monks seeks to meet its objective by investing principally in a identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the portfolio of global quoted equities.
Equities are selected for their Company.
The principal risks associated with the Company are as inclusion within the portfolio solely on the basis of the strength of follows: the investment case.
Financial Risk The Companys assets consist mainly of listed There are no limits to geographical or sector exposures, but these securities and its principal risks are therefore market related and are reported to, and monitored by, the Board in order to ensure include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and that adequate diversification is achieved.
The number of holdings other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of in equities typically ranges from 70 to 200.
At the financial year those risks and how they are managed are contained in note 21 end, the portfolio contained 113 equity holdings.
A portfolio to the financial statements on pages 44 to 48. review by the Managers is given on pages 4 to 8 and the investments held at the year end are listed on pages 9 to 11.
Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements such as the tax rules for investment Investment may also be made in funds open and closed-ended companies, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act could including those managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The maximum lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains, permitted investment in UK listed investment companies in suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
Asset classes other than penalties or a qualified audit report.
Baillie Giffords Business Risk, quoted equities may be purchased from time to time including Internal Audit and Compliance Departments provide regular fixed interest holdings, unquoted securities and derivatives.
The reports to the Audit Committee on Baillie Giffords monitoring Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio programmes.
management including reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in its investments and protection against currency Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate risk and to achieve capital growth.
compliance burdens on the Company.
In such circumstances representation is made to ensure that the special circumstances While there is a comparative index for the purpose of measuring of investment trusts are recognised.
performance, no attention is paid to the composition of this index when constructing the portfolio: the portfolio may, therefore, differ Operational Risk failure of Baillie Giffords accounting systems substantially from that of the index.
A long term view is taken and or those of other third party service providers could lead to an there may be periods when the net asset value per share declines inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a both in absolute terms and relative to the comparative index.
Baillie Gifford have a comprehensive Payment of dividends is secondary to achieving capital growth.
business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of The shares are not considered to be a suitable investment for the business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
those seeking a regular or rising income.
The Board reviews Baillie Giffords Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other third party providers are reviewed by Baillie Borrowings are invested in equities and other asset classes when Gifford on behalf of the Board.
this is considered to be appropriate on investment grounds.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, are discussed by Discount Volatility the discount at which the Companys shares the Board and Managers at every Board meeting and adjusted trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and accordingly with regard to the outlook.
New borrowings will not the Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 15 Strategic Report Leverage Risk the Company may borrow money for investment purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
The Company can also make use of derivative contracts.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and leverage levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities that are readily realisable.
Further information on leverage can be found on page 55.
Employees, Human Rights and Community Issues The Board recognises the requirement to provide information about employees, human rights and community issues.
As the Company has no employees, all its Directors are non-executive and all its functions are outsourced, these requirements do not apply to the Company.
Gender Representation The Board comprises six Directors, five male and one female.
The Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out on page 20.
Environmental, Social and Governance Policy Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on page 22.
Future Developments of the Company The outlook for the Company is set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 2 and the Managers Report on pages 4 and 5.
The Strategic Report which includes pages 2 to 16 was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 16 June 2015.
JGD Ferguson Chairman 16 Annual Report 2015
