Strategic report 32 What we do Nedbank Group is a diversified financial services provider offering a wide range of wholesale and retail banking services, as well as insurance, asset management and wealth management solutions.
Nedbank operates under a federal operating model, delivering our products and services through NEDBANK four main business clusters: Nedbank Corporate and Investment Banking, Nedbank Retail and Business Banking, BUSINESS Nedbank Wealth and Rest of Africa.
Nedbank Group is listed on the Johannesburg and Namibian Stock REVIEW Exchanges: at the end of 2015 our market capitalisation was more than R90 billion and Old Mutual owned a 54% stake.
Where we operate Nedbank Groups primary market is South Africa.
We are continuing to expand into the Rest of Africa, with a presence in six countries in the Southern African Development Community SADC and East Africa region, where we own subsidiaries and banks in Namibia, Swaziland, Malawi, Mozambique, Lesotho, Zimbabwe, and also have representative offices in Angola and Kenya.
In West and Central Africa we have a partnership strategy and approximately 20% shareholding in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated ETI, enabling a unique one-bank experience to our clients across more than 2,350 branches in 39 countries.
Resilient performance in a difficult macro environment Mike Brown Chief Executive Officer Nedbank 2015 South African and African bank of the year Increased total customers to 7.4 million South Africas only carbon-neutral bank, maintained for a sixth consecutive year OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Outside Africa we a have presence in  business strategy: and 33 key global financial centres to provide is key to our ability to create and deliver international financial services for resilient value.
South Africa-based multinational and One of the delivery mechanisms for this is high-net worth clients in the Isle of Man, our Fair Share 2030 strategy to get money Guernsey, Jersey, London, Toronto working for the future we want.
Fair Share 2030 strategy has set eight long-term goals which we are striving Responsible business to achieve by redeploying capital into For Nedbank Group to be a sustainable projects that provide additional value in business we acknowledge that we need these areas.
In 2015, lending in this regard to operate within environmental limits of R1.8 billion included the provision of while meeting social needs.
This implies student accommodation, embedded energy that there are things we need to do less of, for the agriculture sector and affordable but also presents opportunities to develop housing.
Other highlights include the new solutions that benefit the broader provision of R5.9 billion in empowerment environment, our clients and our bank.
financing and face-to-face financial Understanding and embracing this education provided to more than 136,000 SOUTH AFRICAN interconnectivity is at the core of our adults and learners across South Africa.
AND AFRICAN BANK OF THE YEAR Nedbank business segments Full suite of wholesale banking solutions, Nedbank Corporate including investment banking and lending: The Financial Times and Investment Banking global markets and treasury: commercial and The Banker CIB property finance: deposit-taking: and magazine transactional banking.
Full range of services, including Nedbank Retail transactional banking: card solutions: and Business Banking lending solutions: deposit-taking: risk management: investment products: and RBB card-acquiring services for business.
Competitive environment Nedbank ranks as a top 5 bank by assets on the African continent and Ecobank Wide range of financial services, including within the top 10.
Nedbank Wealth high-net worth banking and wealth South Africa has a strong, four-pillar management solutions, as well as asset banking industry.
Standard Bank holds a management and insurance offerings.
25% share of total advances, First Rand 22%, Barclays Africa 21% and Nedbank 19%.
We are South Africas fourth-largest bank by market capitalisation, total assets and Full range of banking services, including headline earnings.
We are a top-two Rest of Africa transactional, lending, deposit-taking and corporate bank and a market leader in card products.
Through our pan-African banking alliance with ETI, we give our customers access to Africas largest banking network.
10% Headline earnings OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 34 These effects, coupled with high debts raise domestic interest rates, which reduced and servicing costs, continue to put appetite for emerging market currencies.
NEDB ANK pressure on consumers disposable The rand is deeply liquid, so generally CONTINUED incomes squeezing savings rates, ability reacts ahead of other emerging market to service debt and propensity to buy or currencies.
This has amplified inflation in retain insurance and other financial the South African economy, although the services products.
impact was offset in 2015 by falls in imported fuel costs.
By contrast, South African corporations generally remain well capitalised, with low International and local regulatory reforms gearing and loan demand.
Credit servicing in particular Basel lll, changes to the ratios are strong and credit losses are at National Credit Act and Twin Peaks have historically low levels.
However, the risks of increased capital levels, liquidity and a large corporate failure have increased, other costs.
Further increases could follow, given the prolonged period of low especially in banks liquidity costs, as commodity prices and high costs.
they transition towards Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio compliance and as more Stretched government finances and certainty emerges around requirements for personal income inequality reflect longNet Stable Funding Ratio NSFR and Total term structural issues.
These are being South African Loss Absorbency Capacity.
addressed through the National corporations Development Plan.
Major infrastructure projects are now in progress, aimed at generally remain boosting economic growth.
Government, well capitalised, business and labour are working together to use the challenging economic with low gearing environment as a catalyst for increased collaboration to accelerate the rate of and loan demand economic growth and job creation and to strengthen public finances.
Nedbank has been and will continue to be an active participant in these discussions.
The South African Reserve Bank raised the repo rate a further 0.5% to 6.75% in 2015 and again in early 2016, following a cumulative 0.75% rise in 2014.
Prime rate is now 10.25% from its low point of 8.5% in late 2013.
Inflation dipped below 4% for the Market dynamics first time in four years in early 2015 as the oil South Africa continues to face relatively price collapsed to lows last seen in 2009. slow growth, fiscal and current account It is currently back above 5% and we deficits, electricity constraints and socioforecast that it will move temporarily over 7.4m political challenges.
Economic growth the 6% upper target of the Reserve Bank in Customers slowed from 1.5% in 2014 to 1.3% in 2015, early 2016 before easing back later in 2016. and our current forecast is for it to weaken High wage settlements relative to further in 2016 to below 1%.
productivity gains and significant increases in administered prices will remain the key Unemployment averaged more than 25% drivers of inflation in the short-term.
Real incomes at the lowest levels of society have benefited The rand fell significantly against from increased social grants and aboveinternational benchmarks in 2015. inflation public sector wage growth, but This reflected the relatively weak there is still a significant gap between economic outlook and also moves in upper and lower income levels.
the US to reduce monetary stimulus and 7% Non-interest revenue OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Economic profit EP increased 19.6% to ratio of 11.3% 2014: 11.6% continues to be 35 AOP PRE-TAX BY CLUSTER R2,525 million 2014: R2,112 million relative well within our Basel III 2019 internal target Rm to a cost of equity of 13.0% 2014: 13.5%.
The liquidity Return on average ordinary shareholders coverage ratio LCR increased to 88.5% equity ROE declined slightly to 15.7% and is well above the 60% requirement 2014: 15.8% as a result of the lower return in 2015 and the 70% requirement in 2016.
Net asset value per share continued to 3 Nedbanks balance sheet remains strong.
increase, growing 9.0% to 15.685 cents Our Basel III common-equity Tier 1 CET1 2014: 14.395 cents.
Corporate & Investment delivered headline earnings Banking R6,916m 2.
Retail & Business Banking R6,271m growth of 13.2% and an 3.
Rest of Africa R619m Excludes central costs of R635m increased average capital allocation of R59.6bn Performance Nedbank Group produced resilient performance in an environment of difficult Highlights Rm macro-economic conditions, volatile markets 2015 2014 Change and an increasing regulatory agenda.
This Headline earnings 10,831 9,880 10% was largely achieved through growth in Net interest income 23,885 22,961 4% non-interest revenue NIR, increased Non-interest revenue 21,748 20,312 7% associate income from our investment in ETI and strong cost discipline, partly offset by Net interest margin 3.30% 3.52% an increase in impairments.
PreCredit loss ratio 0.77% 0.79% provisioning operating profit PPOP Efficiency ratio including associate income 56.1% 56.5% increased 7.
Earnings growth was stronger in the first half of the Return on equity 15.7% 15.8% year, boosted by trading revenues and a Return on equity excluding goodwill 17.0% 17.2% weaker base in 2014.
In the second half, Common equity Tier 1 ratio 11.3% 11.6% earnings growth slowed as NIR was IFRS profit after tax attributable to impacted by, inter alia, reduced levels of 1 equity holders of the parent 6,037 5,600 8% card-related interchange and increased impairments in CIB.
1 IFRS profit after tax and non-controlling interest attributable to Old Mutual plc.
1 1.3% Common equity Tier 1 ratio OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 36 Strategic intent NEDB ANK CONTINUED Nedbank Group is committed to long-term value creation for all our stakeholders, in line with our vision to be Africas most admired bank by staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and communities.
We are making good progress in our five key strategic focus areas: Priorities set Progress in 2015 Key management for 2015-18 actions for 2016-18 Client-centred innovation Innovated with products such as Market Our focus on innovation will continue, Edge, WebTickets in the Nedbank App supported by more efficient processes Suite, launched our tax-free savings to bring new value propositions to account and Plug and Transact market quicker Converted 255 outlets in the Branch Client-centred simplification and of the Future format digitisation continue to be at the heart of new products and services Digitally enabled clients increased 40% and the value of Nedbank App Suite We will continue to enable transactions by 66% to R16 billion channel of choice by deploying self-service alternatives in our physical points of presence We currently plan to have converted 77% of all outlets to the Branch of the Future by 2017 Grow transactional Our retail franchise continued to Growing our transactional banking banking franchise strengthen with main banked clients franchise will remain Nedbank increasing 8.5% to 2.7 million and the Groups primary focus going forward number of clients with two or more and, despite a tougher macro products up 5.5% environment, we believe we are in a good position to gain share of main Significant progress was made in our banked clients and deposits.
brand value and client relationships as reflected in the Nedbank Brand We also seek to provide innovative Tracker results, the Consulta annual transactional, liquidity and liability retail reputational net promoter score solutions to Nedbanks Wholesale NPS which improved to 21% from 15% and Business Banking clients through a simplified and agile approach CIB successfully acquired the municipal transactional accounts of the eThekwini and Ekurhuleni Metropolitan municipalities demonstrating our strong client relationships, deep skills base and innovative transactional banking solutions OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 37 Priorities set Progress in 2015 Key management for 2015-18 actions for 2016-18 Optimise and invest Our expense optimisation programme Optimise Nedbank Groups cost base unlocked R915 million of cost savings in by taking an end-to-end view of the 2015 through initiatives such as the business to rationalise spend and rationalisation of RBB back office maximise efficiencies operations, the CIB integration and We seek to review and optimise our decreasing our core systems culture and talent management Centralised our regulatory change office processes and programmes to ensure economies of scale in terms of We are focused on hollowing out efficient delivery and cost management the core and delivering a flexible, multi-layer architecture that renews technology, to create a digitally-fit and analytics-strong organisation Strategic portfolio tilt Revenue and cross-sell opportunities Optimise Nedbank Groups returns from new CIB model are materialising through strategic portfolio decisions Maximised opportunities in Judiciously manage the Group-wide infrastructure growth allocation of scarce resources including capital and liquidity for strategic and Our personal loans book is stabilising optimal future outcomes by improving payout processes Seek lending opportunities which have social and environmental benefits Pan-African banking network Continued to invest in our existing Grow our businesses in the current subsidiaries by implementing the SADC areas of presence Flexcube core banking system in We remain alert for appropriate Namibia, and investing in skills expansionary growth opportunities in and distribution Southern and East Africa which provide Completed the acquisition of 38% of us with the opportunity to participate in Banco nico in Mozambique, with a the faster growing markets in the Rest pathway to control in 2016 of Africa Deepened strategic alliance with ETI We intend to fully leverage our investment in Ecobank which covers More than 70 of our wholesale West and Central Africa clients now conduct their transactional banking with ETI Client-centred innovation Grow transactional banking franchise Optimise and invest Strategic portfolio tilt Build pan-African banking network OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 38 consumer needs and the impact of Managing our risk regulation, the structural changes we made Our 2015 financial performance was NEDB ANK in 2015 bring heightened execution risk.
underpinned by balance sheet strength CONTINUED We will give this increased focus in the across all core dimensions capital best-practice Enterprise-wide Risk adequacy, liquidity and funding, credit Management Framework ERMF setting out asset quality aided by the portfolio tilt our risk appetite, comprehensive stress and strategy and appropriately conservative scenario testing, and strategic risk planning.
provisioning, strong risk and balance sheet management, an enabling but prudent Regulatory risk risk appetite framework and seamless International and local regulatory reform implementation of Basel III.
We are well has materially increased capital levels, placed to make risk management a liquidity and other costs.
could follow, especially in liquidity costs.
Regulatory risk remains high, with an Market risk ongoing emphasis on conduct risk.
The interest rate cycle is expected to be relatively benign.
A future currency Credit and liquidity risk crisis might cause a temporary spike Credit and liquidity risk remain a key but unusually weak credit growth gives focus: our strategic portfolio tilt strategy little cause for a sustained rate increase.
over the past four years has enabled us The Reserve Bank is expected to follow to maintain a sound balance sheet and the US as normalisation starts: GEU reduce impairments.
forecasts a modest peak in prime of 10.5% in 2016 before some relief starts in late Rest of Africa risk 2017 or 2018.
Asset growth will remain Our African strategy and recent further weak, with some gradual improvement investments in ETI and Banco nico make in 2017 and 2018.
The forecast assumes risk management in our African investments We are very limited inflation-adjusted growth in and operations another focus area.
Our well placed credit categories.
pan-African risk strategy addresses our risk appetite holistically, with extensive to make risk Execution and integration risk initiatives to support risk frameworks and Together with volatile macro-economic management programmes and enhance governance conditions, level of credit risk, changing and risk management in these investments.
a competitive differentiator OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Nedbank and Wildlands staff 39 Outlook Economic conditions are unlikely to improve in 2016.
Nedbank Groups current forecast for 2016 GDP growth is below 1%.
Interest rates are expected to increase by a cumulative 1.25%, having already increased by 0.5% in January in response to a higher inflation outlook caused by administered price increases, higher food prices and the weaker rand.
Rising interest rates will increase borrowing costs and dampen consumer credit demand.
Credit defaults are also expected to increase as a result of rising rates as Mpumalanga, South Africa consumer debt levels remain high and the job market is unlikely to grow meaningfully Planting a greener future in the short-term.
Transactional banking activity is anticipated to grow modestly in line with consumer spending.
We have been partnering with South African conservation charity Growth in wholesale banking will continue Wildlands for 25 years, championing a greener environment to be limited by infrastructure constraints and a sustainable future for all.
In 2015, we celebrated 10 years of in South Africa, poor global demand and low international oil and commodity prices.
collaboration on Wildlands innovative Trees for Life project to support Pockets of growth continue to be found in vulnerable ecosystems.
We have been partners on the Old Mutual Wild infrastructure projects, including renewable Series: running and cycling events that raise funds for key South African energy, and sub-Saharan Africa will still conservation projects.
Nedbank has worked with Wildlands on a represent an area of growth for many South African corporates as indicated by the range of initiatives to build resilient and flourishing communities.
These International Monetary Funds IMF 2016 include a new partnership to drive the sustainable transformation of the GDP growth forecast of 4.0% for the region.
Acornhoek community in Mpumalanga through initiatives ranging Forecast risk has increased and as a result from tree planting and the establishment of community recycling our guidance for performance in the year businesses, to restoration of the Blyde River area.
ahead is harder than usual to formulate.
Against this context we currently forecast that growth in diluted headline earnings per share for 2016 will be lower than the growth we achieved in 2015 and below our medium-to-long-term target of consumer price index GDP growth 5%.
Given the Nedbank is in excellent shape increased forecast risk we will update this guidance with our June 2016 results.
Despite to deal with the challenging increased levels of uncertainty, Nedbank macro-economic environment Group is in excellent shape to deal with the challenging macro-economic environment that we expect in South Africa that we expect in both South Africa and in and the Rest of Africa the Rest of Africa.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 40 EMPOWERING LEARNERS TOGETHER Youth form more than half the population in South Africa: they are key to building a vibrant society and economy Desmond Osman Nedbanks Head of Youth and Entry Level Banking Marketing Learners at Maloneys Eye Primary School Entrepreneurs Day 72,000 Learners have had a chance to sharpen their business skills OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 41 Magaliesburg, South Africa Building our youth for the future More than 72,000 South African learners have had an early chance to sharpen their business skills, thanks to the Nedbank 4Me Entrepreneurs Day Programme.
This annual initiative teaches entrepreneurial skills to primary school pupils.
They then put their skills into practice on Entrepreneurs Day, when they open their businesses and compete to make a profit and support good causes.
The programme has also reached more than 100,000 parents and 1, 500 educators.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
