Strategic report 52 INSTITUTIONAL ASSET MANAGEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW The stability of OMAMs Old Mutuals Institutional Asset Management core earnings business consists of US-based multi-boutique demonstrated asset manager, OMAM, and Rogge the strength and diversity of its Affiliates and the benefits of growth in higher-margin product areas over the year Old Mutual agreed the sale of Rogge in February 2016.
Rogges assets and liabilities have been classified as held for sale.
Peter Bain Chief Executive Officer Old Mutual Asset Management OMAM Strong, diverse multi-boutique franchise Partnership approach aligns incentives for long-term growth OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report with multiple sources of growth.
Collectively, 53 Growth strategy our Affiliates offer more than 100 distinct, OMAMs multi-boutique model is well positioned active investment strategies in US, global, for growth, with four areas of focus international and emerging markets equities, US fixed income, and alternative investments, including real estate and timber.
In addition, there is significant diversification within each of our Affiliate firms through the breadth of their respective New investment capabilities.
Partnerships Four key Multi-boutique value Through our Affiliates, we serve a highly growth areas proposition drives diverse investor base in the institutional Global incremental growth and sub-advisory channels in the US and Distribution opportunities around the world.
In addition to a strong US client base, our Affiliates manage Collaborative Organic Growth Growth and product assets for clients in 28 countries outside development capital the US, including Australia, Canada, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, South Core Affiliate growth Africa, South Korea, Switzerland and the Investment performance and net client cash flows United Kingdom.
OMAMs aligned partnership model Operating autonomy Affiliate-level employee ownership Long-term perspective T alent management Profit-sharing model At-scale Affiliates Unique partnership Our approach approach provides stability and foundation for growth enables us to become our clients What we do Where we operate We are an institutionally driven, active We offer a broad range of investment trusted partners investment management business delivered strategies to clients around the globe through a diversified multi-boutique through seven highly regarded boutique by delivering framework that seeks to generate asset management firms located across superior consistent, sustainable alpha meaningful the United States: outperformance for clients around the investment Acadian Asset Management LLC globe.
We provide strategic capabilities Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, LLC performance, to our Affiliates, helping them to become Campbell Global, LLC their clients trusted partners by delivering innovative Copper Rock Capital Partners LLC superior investment performance, Heitman LLC innovative offerings and focused service.
offerings and Investment Counselors of Maryland, LLC Our strategy is to generate growth through focused service Thompson, Siegel & Walmsley LLC the internal growth of our Affiliates, working in partnership with them to enhance their Our business is broadly diversified, both among our Affiliates and within their product offerings and expand their global respective businesses.
The breadth of our distribution capabilities.
We also seek to grow our business through the execution product offerings by asset class, geography of investments in additional, high-quality and investment strategy enhances our relative earnings stability and provides us boutique firms.
9% AOP pre-tax OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 54 Competitive environment The asset management industry is highly INS TITUTIONAL competitive: OMAM Affiliates seek to ASSET MANAGEMENT differentiate themselves through their ability CONTINUED to generate alpha and provide superior service to their clients.
Through our collaborative organic growth initiatives, OMAM works closely with Affiliates to Responsible business enhance their product offerings to take OMAMs commitment to leadership in advantage of the evolving needs and responsible business stems from its Affiliates demands of institutional investors.
focus on performing their duties to their OMAMs global distribution platform clients, which is to ensure that they provide complements our Affiliates existing their clients with the consistent execution of distribution capabilities to expand their their stated investment strategies and the client base on a global basis.
highest level of client service.
Our approach OMAM offers strong-performing to responsible business is based on a five-pillar framework: products across a range of investment styles and strategies: Responsible to our clients US equities with strong long-term Responsible investment performance across value equity Responsible to our employees strategies, OMAM Affiliates are well Responsible to our communities positioned to compete for new mandates Responsible environmental management Non-US and global equities investors are increasingly interested in non-US and Our approach emphasises that our clients global mandates offered by OMAM are at the heart of our business, and will Affiliates, including emerging markets help us to continue building on the strong and small-cap equities foundation of ethical values, treating OUR FIVE-PILLAR Alternative investments OMAMs clients fairly and good governance that FRAMEWORK OF Affiliates are among the world leaders is critical to our custodianship of our RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS in specialised real asset classes such as clients money.
In 2015, we worked real estate and timber investing with our Affiliates to build Responsible Investment into their investment approach New product development OMAM in a way that adds value to their clients.
works closely with Affiliates to identify areas of growing investor appeal and to Helps us to continue building develop new investment products to meet on the strong foundation of client needs ethical values $212.4bn Funds under management OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 55 Market dynamics Performance Declines in public securities markets during In a year marked by substantial volatility H2 2015 eliminated most if not all of the in the equity markets, OMAM generated H1 2015 gains among the US and global solid 2015 core earnings.
The S&P 500 finished the IFRS adjusted operating profit AOP of year down 0.7% and the Dow Jones $229 million was up 9% over 2014.
Funds under management FUM at Non-US developed and emerging markets end-2015 were $212.4 billion 2014: As a result were also challenged for much of the year $220.8 billion.
Market declines in H2 2015 as the MSCI EAFE index declined 3.3% over of our favourable led to a reduction of $3.7 billion, while net the year and the MSCI Emerging Markets client cash flow NCCF reduced FUM by a index declined 17.
asset mix shift, further $5.1 billion.
However, as a result of Key factors in the decline in global equities our favourable asset mix shift, particularly OMAM generated were the US Federal Reserves first increase reflected in revenues from flows into global, positive net in Fed Funds rate in nine years, slowing non-US equities and alternative investment growth in China, weak oil prices, and a products, OMAM generated positive revenue flow strong US dollar.
expected revenue of $18.9 million from of $18.9m NCCF during the year.
Current institutional search activity favours during the year specialised strategies in asset classes such In a difficult market environment, OMAMs as global equity, US equity and alternatives Affiliates continued to build on their including real estate and timber.
Investors long-term track records during the quarter, remain focused on products with potential with assets under management AUM for meaningful outperformance alpha representing 60%, 83%, and 92% of generation, as well as strategies to diversify revenue outperforming benchmarks on a their investment portfolios.
1-, 3- and 5-year basis, respectively, as of 31 December 2015.
AUM BY STRATEGY $bn 1 6 5 4 Highlights $m 2015 2014 Change 2 AOP pre-tax 229 211 9% 3 Operating margin, before Affiliate key employee distributions 38% 40% Operating margin, after Affiliate key employee distributions 33% 33% 1.
Alternative, Real Estate & Timber $36.9bn IFRS profit after tax attributable to equity holders of 4.
Fixed Income $13.8bn 1 Institutional Asset Management, including Rogge.
38% Operating margin before Affiliate key employee distributions OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 56 Strategic intent INS TITUTIONAL ASSET MANAGEMENT We seek to grow our business through core Affiliate growth, as well CONTINUED as investing in collaborative organic growth initiatives, enhancing distribution capabilities and partnering with new Affiliates.
Priorities set Progress in 2015 Key management for 2015-18 actions for 2016-18 Continue to strengthen and Launched successful secondary offering Generate core Affiliate growth through grow our multi-boutique asset on New York Stock Exchange strong investment performance and management business positive net client cash flows Achieved solid margins relative to peers and revenue growth from new money Invest in collaborative organic growth flows into higher-fee products initiatives with existing Affiliates Successfully expanded international Increase global distribution distribution platform for Affiliates opportunities for Affiliates Actively prospected for new Affiliate Execute new Affiliate partnerships partnerships Efficiently manage our balance sheet Continued to attract, develop and retain key talent Execution risk Managing our risk As part of our growth strategy we Market risk is inherent to our business.
Global market volatility and economic selectively pursue partnerships with additional boutique asset management uncertainty may negatively impact firms.
Forging these partnerships creates asset-based management fee revenues: change risk and requires significant this risk is mitigated by the quality and Global market diversity of the investment products resource commitment.
We mitigate these risks through extensive due diligence before offered by our seven Affiliates.
volatility and any transaction, including ensuring that Market risk economic target firms have track records of operating Market volatility impacts all asset successfully as standalone enterprises, uncertainty is managers.
Our Affiliates have proven share our strategic vision and can their investment strategies and mitigated through demonstrate a strong cultural fit.
commitment to their investment discipline the quality and Regulatory risk over the long-term, through many market cycles.
In addition, we continue to work The new regulatory requirements following diversity of our our public listing are an important area of with them to diversify their product focus for us.
We are actively engaged in investment products offerings: this can enhance the stability of our earnings in volatile market mitigating this risk wherever necessary, and proactively monitor the jurisdictions environments as proven in 2015. in which we operate for any relevant regulatory changes.
Generate core Affiliate growth Invest in collaborative organic growth Increase global distribution opportunities Execute new Affiliate partnerships Efficiently manage our balance sheet OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 57 OMAM is well positioned to withstand market cycles, as its profit share model gives a high level of structural variability to expenses Rosies Place staff and guest Outlook The volatile market environment to date in 2016 has presented the asset management industry with challenges.
However, OMAM believes that it is well positioned to withstand such market cycles, as its profit share model gives a high level of structural variability to expenses.
OMAM remains committed to investing alongside its Affiliates in medium-term organic growth initiatives, including developing capabilities in multi-asset class, LDI and global non-US equities and further penetration of specialised and non-US markets through its Global Distribution Boston, USA initiative.
In addition, OMAM continues to make good progress in identifying and Enabling better futures: a home developing relationships with at-scale asset and fresh hope management boutiques with strong investment and executive talent and a vision Rosies Place was the first womens shelter in the United States with the to enhance and expand their business by mission to provide a safe and nurturing environment to help poor and partnering with us.
Since 2005, OMAM has partnered with Rosies OMAM has the financial resources Place, to offer a range of business and volunteer support by providing necessary to execute its growth strategy donations to classroom resources and sponsorship for its Safe and using existing cash and its revolving credit facility capacity.
It also has a shelf Sound Galas.
Historically, the Dollars and Cents programme with registration filed for debt and equity Rosies Place provided weekly budgeting clinics but this was revised as securities, which facilitates capital markets it became apparent that the vast majority of guests had little financial access.
Finally, OMAM has a $150 million means to manage.
Over the years, we have worked with Rosies share repurchase programme, which provides an accretive and value-enhancing Place and a leading law firm to now provide a weekly drop-in clinic form of capital management in conjunction where guests receive assistance in reducing debt and eradicating with the payment of ordinary dividends.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 58 SHARING BEST PRACTICE TOGETHER It was fantastic for Old Mutual to be supporting the PRI for the third year in a row.
The event continues to provide the best annual opportunity to listen to and engage with thought leaders on material and emerging ESG issues Jon Duncan Head of Responsible Investment Jon Duncan, Head of Responsible Investment Gold Sponsor at the 2015 PRI in Person conference OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 59 Locations across the Group Collaborating to invest responsibly We can build a better business faster if we work together.
When we bring together skills, insights and experiences from our different businesses, we create greater impact.
This is already delivering results in our drive to be a leader in responsible investment.
Our Responsible Investment team, based in Old Mutual Investment Group, partners with teams across the Group and organisations such as the Principles for Responsible Investment PRI initiative and the Investment Leaders Group to embed our responsible investment approach across our businesses.
Old Mutual was a gold sponsor of the 2015 PRI in Person conference, where responsible investment stakeholders convened to exchange ideas.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
