Strategic report 42 OLD MUTUAL WEALTH BUSINESS REVIEW Following significant transformation over the past three years, our vertically integrated strategy is performing very well, contributing to the strength of new flows Paul Feeney Chief Executive Officer Old Mutual Wealth Achieved all of our three-year market commitments: 270m AOP pre-tax, 40% operating margin and 12-15% return on equity Delivered excellent net flows, driven by a successful vertical integration strategy Invested in the future of our UK and cross-border business through IT transformation OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Old Mutual International: Our cross- 43 Old Mutual Wealth border business, focusing on high-net business model worth and affluent local customers and expatriates in key markets across the world.
Our advice-led product range serves customers needs from a number Distribution Channels of international jurisdictions Old Mutual Wealth Italy: Offers saving Independent and investment solutions for affluent and Financial Advisers high-net worth customers, distributed through banking partners Investment division: Old Mutual Global Investors OMGI : Wealth Solutions A leading UK-based asset manager with highly rated, experienced portfolio managers and a strong long-term track record.
OMGI distributes products through wholesale channels and other Group businesses, providing responsible investment options that meet our customers needs Investment and Asset Management Quilter Cheviot: One of the UKs leading discretionary investment managers, building and actively managing investment portfolios tailored to the individual needs of affluent and high-net worth customers What we do Where we operate Old Mutual Wealth is a leading UK and Old Mutual Wealth provides advice-driven cross-border wealth management business.
wealth solutions to customers in the UK We are a  business and a number of cross-border markets, Our verticallythat provides advice-driven investment including the Far East, Middle East, Europe, solutions through our adviser and customer Latin America and South Africa, through integrated model offerings, which span: Old Mutual International.
enables us Financial advice via the Intrinsic Financial Distribution division: to provide Services network or through independent Old Mutual Wealth UK: A leading financial advisers IFAs provider of platform-based wealth advice-driven management products and services Wealth management products and in the UK, serving a largely affluent wealth solutions services via Old Mutual Wealth and customer base through advised Old Mutual International through our multi-channel distribution Asset management solutions via distribution and Intrinsic: The UKs largest financial Old Mutual Global Investors adviser network, with more than 3,300 Discretionary investment management investment professional financial planners offering via Quilter Cheviot expert individual advice to help our divisions customers secure their financial future.
The Intrinsic network includes Old Mutual Wealth Private Client Advisers, a branded national advice business 35% AOP pre-tax OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 44 Each part of Old Mutual Wealth strives to be a leader in its market, successfully OLD MUTUAL integrating as one business to add value WEALTH for customers.
We continue to grow strongly CONTINUED and our performance has been recognised with numerous awards.
In 2015, Old Mutual Global Investors won Best Investment Fund Provider at the MoneyFacts Investment, Responsible business Life & Pension Awards: our International Old Mutual Wealth is committed to business won six awards at the International operating the business responsibly, ensuring Adviser Life Awards: our UK platform won that we enable financial wellbeing and Best Platform for Restricted Advisers at the promote responsible investment.
We also Professional Adviser Awards: Intrinsic won contribute to the financial wellbeing of Best Large Network at the Mortgage future generations through our financial Strategy Awards: Quilter Cheviot won education schools programmes, via Best Boutique Wealth Manager at the MyBnk, and employment skills workshops Wealth Adviser Awards: and both UK through Young Enterprise.
Our Young Platform and Quilter Cheviot won five star Enterprise partnership focuses on building OLD MUTUAL GLOBAL service awards at the FTAdviser.
com skills of young entrepreneurs, through INVESTORS WON Online Service Awards.
supporting the Start Up programme and BEST INVESTMENT Your Horizon which creates partnerships FUND PROVIDER between the entrepreneurs and Old Mutual Wealth employees.
When entrusted with our customers savings we invest responsibly to protect In the 2015 MoneyFacts and enhance long-term returns.
This means Investment, Life & using our position as a shareholder to Pension Awards promote strong corporate governance and We are securing our sustainable business models by voting at competitive position AGMs and engaging with the management of companies in which we invest.
by investing to Our commitment to responsible investment Competitive environment make our platforms is illustrated through our membership of In a dynamic and evolving industry, we the Principles for Responsible Investment market-leading, compete with traditional insurers, asset initiative and our involvement with the managers, investment managers and addressing industryUniversity of Cambridge Investment financial advice providers to bring Leaders Group, both of which promote wide technology integrated wealth management solutions to and support responsible investment.
Our key competitors include issues and ensuring Standard Life, Hargreaves Lansdown and St Jamess Place.
that we can We are the UK leader in vertically meet future integrated wealth management, providing customer needs the full value chain of advice, platforms, products and investment capability to reduce complexity for our customers.
We are securing our competitive position by investing to make our platforms market-leading, addressing industry-wide technology issues and ensuring that we can meet future customer needs.
104.4bn Funds under management OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 45 The large UK market presents a considerable opportunity for us as it continues to recover from the global financial crisis a considerable opportunity for us as it The new Solvency II regime became effective Market dynamics continues to recover from the global for our UK, Ireland and Italy regulated Global investment markets were volatile financial crisis.
We expect over 2015 with investors cautious about the our solvency position to remain strong.
future of the Eurozone and the uncertain Significant changes in UK pensions outlook for the global economy.
Market regulation are boosting demand for Regulatory change is one of the greatest levels influence fund values and revenue for advice, asset management and drawdown challenges for advisers and providers in Old Mutual Wealth and our competitors.
products for the decumulation stage of many of our offshore jurisdictions.
We True alpha-generating investment and retirement provision.
Old Mutual Wealth is believe that advisers who evolve to building risk-adjusted absolute return asset classes well positioned to benefit from this as long-term, advice-led relationships with have proven popular with investors as they people consolidate their retirement assets their clients will overtake those who remain look for alternative investment options to onto platforms offering access to flexible transactional or sales-led.
Old Mutual attain positive returns.
We have continued income and other options.
International is developing its support in this to experience strong flows into equity asset area to help advisers transition to advicePlatform regulation requires all UK classes as they remain more attractive than led models.
It is also working with Quilter platform customers to be migrated onto bond markets in an ongoing low interest Cheviot to leverage the benefits of our transparent charging structures no later rate environment.
vertically integrated model in other markets, than April 2016: all our relevant customers increasing the range of solutions available The UK, our major market, has an have been migrated ahead of the deadline.
to meet the strong demand from high-net investable asset pool of some 4.6 trillion, In 2015 Old Mutual Wealth and Intrinsic worth international investors for tailored of which about 1.8 trillion is relevant to the participated in the Financial Advice Market investment solutions.
retail life and wealth industry.
Following Review to champion the value of regulated considerable reforms of both wholesale advice and support the views and interests and retail financial services sectors, of the advised sector and its customers.
covering both conduct and capital adequacy, the large UK market presents 6.9bn Net client cash flows OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 46 management is contributing to the delivery AOP PRE-TAX BY CLUSTER of strong net flows.
Net client cash flow OLD MUTUAL m NCCF for 2015 improved by 86% to WEALTH 6.9 billion 2014: 3.7 billion.
Excluding CONTINUED Quilter Cheviot and European divestments, NCCF was 5.9 billion, 64% up on the prior 1 year.
Gross sales were 20.8 billion, 30% 7 2 ahead of the prior year 22% excluding Performance inorganic activity following strong sales into 3 Old Mutual Wealth adjusted operating Old Mutual Global Investors, UK Platform profit AOP increased by 35% to 307 and Old Mutual International.
On a like-for-like 6 Funds under management FUM were basis, excluding the impact of divested 104.4 billion, up 27% from the end of 2014 businesses and Quilter Cheviot, AOP has 4 with the acquisition of Quilter Cheviot increased 43% since 2014.
5 billion and the divestment of been predominantly driven by growth in our Switzerland, France and Luxembourg revenue, with Old Mutual Global Investors businesses reducing FUM by 2.7 billion.
profit more than doubling from 33 million Excluding this corporate activity, funds in 2014 to 71 million in 2015 and UK under management were 9% higher than Platform also showing good growth.
UK Platform 33m 2014 year end due to positive NCCF in the Intrinsic continues to deliver strong net flows 2.
Excluding the impact from positive into OMGIs Cirilium range and onto the 3. International 50m NCCF and corporate activity, our FUM has UK Platform and is a key contributor to 4.
OMGI 71m grown by 1% compared to a fall of 5% in revenue growth in these businesses.
UK Heritage 69m Our integrated strategy of owning 7.
Europe 33m distribution, an investment platform, discretionary fund management and asset Highlights m 2015 2014 Change Profit of 307m AOP pre-tax 307 227 35% AOP, excluding Quilter Cheviot pre-tax 273 227 20% for 2015 was Gross sales 20,801 15,992 30% 35% higher than NCCF bn 6.9 3.7 86% prior year.
Excluding FUM bn 104.4 82.5 27% 1 Quilter Cheviot, Pre-tax operating margin 40% 36% IFRS profit loss after tax attributable to equity profit was 273m, holders of the parent 42 37 ahead of our 1 Pre-tax revenue operating margin is calculated as pre-tax AOP divided by net revenue.
270m target Excluding divested business and Quilter Cheviot m 2015 2014 Change AOP pre-tax 264 185 43% NCCF bn 5.9 3.6 64% FUM bn 86.6 79.7 9% 40% Pre-tax operating margin OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 47 Strategic intent Our vertically integrated business combining controlled advice, a leading investment platform, attractive wealth management solutions, together with high performing asset and investment management offers customers an end-to-end planning and investment solution and gives advisers a single solution to their clients needs.
We are committed to operating the business responsibly, ensuring we enable financial wellbeing and promote responsible investment.
Priorities set Progress in 2015 Key management for 2015-18 actions for 2016-18 Complete the transformation of Completed the 585 million acquisition Continue to become one business with our business to become the best of Quilter Cheviot to capture flows into a unifying culture, trusted brand and and leading UK and cross-border discretionary investment management commitment to acting responsibly, to wealth manager and add core capability better serve our customers.
We will leverage the underlying strengths Launched our national advice business, Build a modern, vertically of each business to capitalise on the Old Mutual Wealth Private Client integrated wealth management benefits of integration, while preserving Advisers and acquired the Financial business with strong asset each business individual identity Adviser School.
Attracted more than management at its core 300 new restricted financial planners Continue our UK and International to our network IT and business transformation to develop market-leading, flexible and Strengthened asset management scalable investment platforms expertise by combining the multi-asset capabilities of Old Mutual Global Build an outstanding investment and Investors and Quilter Cheviot into asset management capability to meet one dedicated Investment Division.
our customers needs by bringing in Launched the Rates and Liability-Driven new talent and integrating new Investment team investment capabilities into our product plan Completed the sale of our Switzerland, France and Luxembourg businesses Expand our multi-channel advised bringing disposals of non-core distribution in our UK and crossEuropean businesses to eight in border markets.
We will grow Intrinsic, three years our in-house distribution, and cement its position as the UKs leading Continued with the investment in controlled advice business our platform technology, successfully launching Wealth Interactive in Expand our product proposition, Old Mutual International.
Progress building on the success of the current with the build and redevelopment of at-retirement products and further the UK Platform technology continues developing our cross-border to be made, with challenges on cost investment suite and timelines Become one business Transform our investment platforms to be market-leading Build an outstanding investment and asset management capability Expand our multi-channel distribution network Expand our product proposition OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 48 strategy across the business and the Regulatory risk implementation of outsourcing Risk that regulatory reform and growth in OLD MUTUAL arrangements.
A detailed independent conduct regulation impacts our ability to WEALTH review has shown cost and timing overruns deliver our strategic initiatives is mitigated CONTINUED in our business transformation and by our strategy, which is designed to meet outsourcing project.
We accept this risk changing consumer needs and respond to within reasonable limits to further our regulatory change.
We are well placed strategic aims, mitigating it through: and quick to adapt to customer needs Managing our risk and proactively prepare for anticipated Strong governance and oversight Our risk management approach is driven regulatory changes, engaging with structures to support a customer-focused by our business strategy.
Its principles are regulators to ensure we are aligned vertical integration model and embedded through our risk governance and responsive.
implementation of IT and business framework, with risk preferences providing process outsourcing.
We have engaged Advice and conduct risk broader context to our management Accenture to provide programme approach and risk appetite.
The key To ensure that customers receive the management support to review the risks facing our business and required appropriate quality of advice from scope, planning and implementation appointed representatives and mitigating actions are: approach for the programme.
KPMG Old Mutual Wealth advisers, we have Market risk have been engaged to provide implemented a robust conduct risk Market risk is inherent to our business.
programme assurance framework and have undertaken a The majority of our earnings are correlated full programme of suitability reviews, Managing relationships with outsourcing to our assets under management.
Global ongoing training and development, partners through robust service market volatility and economic uncertainty agreements and regular meetings and mystery shopping campaigns.
We seek Utilising detailed independent reviews to manage and mitigate this risk for our Outlook of key initiatives as part of ongoing customers through a comprehensive Old Mutual Wealth is committed to risk assurance activity, applying and range of internally managed investment exceptional service, as demonstrated by sharing key improvements identified solutions, designed to address a diversity our Gold rating from Defaqto for service on across the Group of economic conditions.
We have introduced Focusing on control and prompt top-of-the-range drawdown products Execution and integration risk escalation to mitigate operational risks during 2015 and will continue to introduce We face execution risk from the new functionality to our existing systems.
implementation of our vertical integration At the same time we are making a longterm investment in the UK platform market seeking to enhance both customer service and efficiency.
The market and regulatory environment has changed significantly in the past few years and we want to ensure we implement the programme with minimum Our risk management principles impact for advisers, customers and our business.
Given our focus on quality are embedded through of the delivery, we will need to conduct extensive testing and utilise a phased our governance framework, deployment for our roll-out.
As a result, with risk preferences providing the expected delivery date has moved from the end of 2016 to H2 2018 for the Platform broader context to our implementation and to 2019 for the heritage management approach life and pensions book.
We have spent 177 million to date, with 97 million in 2015 and now estimate further project spend to completion of approximately 250 million.
In total over the six-year period we estimate that the current plan will cost OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report approximately 425 million to 450 million.
management solutions together with our will continue to target an operating margin 49 We have engaged Accenture to provide pension drawdown functionality.
Online of 40% over the medium to long-term.
programme management support to review functionality for our protection offering We believe we have the right business model the scope, planning and implementation will be launched during H1 2016, with to drive substantial growth, earnings and approach for the programme.
We plan the enhanced functionality and flexibility value following significant transformation to report back on the Accenture work at expected to positively impact sales over 2016. activity over the past three years.
KPMG have been engaged Within Old Mutual Global Investors, we will vertically integrated strategy of combining to provide programme assurance.
continue to develop our global distribution controlled advice, a leading investment The programme is a fundamental business channels while appraising opportunities platform, attractive wealth management transformation and outsourcing project, for further development of our asset solutions and high-performing asset and bringing significant propositional and management capabilities as they arise.
investment management is performing very business retention benefits.
We expect positive impacts to our well, contributing to the strength of net flows We will continue to invest in building the investment performance through the into the business.
Our focus over 2016 is to market profile of Old Mutual Wealth, combined capabilities of Old Mutual further embed the strategy, leveraging the through initiatives such as our four-year Global Investors and Quilter Cheviot.
benefits of integration to drive collaboration title sponsorship of the RFU Autumn Rugby and synergies between our outstanding Our earnings profile will continue to shift International series, encompassing both the individual businesses whilst delivering to our new modern source of profits and mens and womens senior teams.
away from our heritage businesses and we sponsorship agreement, we will significantly enhance the Old Mutual Wealth brand in Jane Goodland, Responsible Business Director, Old Mutual Wealth our core UK retail market.
Growth in Old Mutual Wealth Private Client Advisers will drive increased levels of vertical integration across the business, through our platform capabilities and investment and asset management.
Our Financial Adviser School will welcome its first cohort of student financial advisers.
Over 2016, we anticipate sales growth of our platform products and the Cirilium fund range from our own advisers, as the number of restricted financial planners increases.
We will benefit from a full years production from the additional Sesame Bankhall advisers and expect to grow the London, UK advice network through our Practice Buy-Out initiative, which will facilitate Addressing the savings gap retention of client assets and ensure that customers continue to receive high-quality financial advice from advisers within the In the UK, there is a significant savings gap that leaves many people Intrinsic network.
Old Mutual Wealth commissioned research Much of our fee income is derived from to explore the issue.
The findings summarised in our paper Redefining charges on funds under management Wealth indicate that most people see wealth as enabling social and the fall in markets in early 2016 is fulfilment and security: their primary motivations for creating wealth are expected to constrain earning projections if markets remain at lower levels than 2015. to support family and pursue opportunities, experiences and interests.
Attitudes to saving need to be longer-term if people are to make In the run-up to the tax year end, we are well positioned to benefit from the adequate provision for later life.
We are committed to help address this changes in pension legislation due to the challenge, by promoting financial education and advice and engaging strength of our advice and investment with policymakers and other market participants.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 50 London, UK Teaming-up to manage a fortune and provide peace of mind When Jon Heywood came into a 13 million fortune, he recognised that he lacked the financial experience to manage such a large sum himself.
Intrinsic financial adviser, David Stone, put him at ease, providing a will and trust, pension and a range of investments to suit his goals.
Crucially, Jon and David were able to draw on a wealth of expertise and options from across Old Mutual International, Old Mutual Global Investors, Quilter Cheviot and our UK Wealth Platform.
Jon was also able to make use of banking services from Nedbank Private Wealth.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 51 MANAGING MONEY TOGETHER We were able to draw on a wealth of expertise and options from across Old Mutual International, Old Mutual Global Investors, Quilter Cheviot and our UK Wealth Platform David Stone Financial Adviser Left: Financial Adviser, David Stone Right: Customer, Jon Heywood 100% Peace of mind OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
