Strategic report 22 OMEM delivered a OLD MUTUAL strong set of results, despite challenging EMERGING macro-economic conditions across MARKETS many of our markets BUSINESS REVIEW What we do We provide financial solutions to retail and corporate customers across a number of market segments and geographies in South Africa, the Rest of Africa and other select emerging markets.
These solutions include life insurance, property and casualty insurance, investments, asset management and credit solutions.
Our offering is based on our brand promise of providing solutions to customers most certain to deliver on their promises, being the most accessible to our customers face-to-face and direct, being the most supportive of the communities we serve, and providing the best financial education and advice available.
The outcome of our businesses is the delivery of high top-line growth, strong cash generation and good returns for shareholders off a strong South African capital base.
Where we operate We operate in 19 countries across Africa, Latin America and Asia.
South Africa In South Africa, we have leading market share positions in life, property and casualty insurance, asset management and credit solutions.
Ralph Mupita Chief Executive Officer Old Mutual Emerging Markets Completed the acquisition of a 60.7% stake in UAP Completed the acquisition of a further 33.6% interest in Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation Innovative new product offerings including our Tax-Free Savings Account and Old Mutual Money Account Number 1 in Life sales in South Africa OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Financial Education We look to provide a full suite of leading 23 OMEM integrated financial financial solutions to retail and corporate services model customers.
We continue to build leading businesses with attractive economics through growing distribution scale, product Predictable Stable and Returns to Catalyst for innovation, developing strong partnerships, revenue and growing customers economic brand strength, ability to cross-sell and highly cash shareholder development and realising the retailisation opportunity in generative returns job creation the corporate customer base.
Rest of Africa We aim to expand our operations through both acquisitions and organic growth.
We have significantly increased our sales force, continued building strategic Foundation Mass Affluent HNW SMEs Corporates partnerships and alliances across our emerging markets businesses and have, over the course of the year, developed several new innovative product offerings.
Full range of accessible distribution channels, We have leading market share positions becoming a truly Omni channel provider in the Southern African Development Community SADC markets, where we offer leading financial solutions to Life & Asset Property & Banking & our retail and corporate customers.
Management Casualty Savings Lending In East and West Africa, we are expanding our operations through our strategic Underpinned by sound financial advice, partnering alliances and leveraging product with customers to ensure appropriate solutions capabilities into our key markets.
Through our acquisition of UAP, we now have a leading position in Kenya.
Leading positions in Well capitalised Product Latin America SA and SADC balance sheet expertise In Colombia, Mexico and Uruguay, we look to provide leading life insurance, investments and asset management solutions to retail and corporate customers.
We are focused on driving growth through high-quality distribution relationships by leveraging our product and distribution capabilities in South Africa.
AIVA continues We provide a full to deliver results through its third-party suite of leading agency channel in the affluent segment in Mexico.
financial solutions Asia to retail and In China and India, we look to provide leading life insurance and investment corporate customers solutions to retail customers through a partnership model, leveraging product and distribution capabilities in South Africa, and competing on a differentiated basis.
9% AOP pre-tax OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Responsible Investment Strategic report 24 enabling positive and sustainable futures for Africa are our large South African them, their families and their communities.
insurance peers and local firms, rather OLD MUTUAL than the large international insurers.
Old Mutual is also involved in various EMER GING educational funding initiatives through our In Mexico, we have a strong corporate MARKETS CONTINUED Old Mutual Education Flagship Project, an business with 4% of the corporate pension investment initiative set up to significantly market.
In Colombia, we hold second improve maths and science in position, with 29% of the voluntary unit underperforming South African public high trust market.
In India, Kotak Life Insurance schools.
It will run over seven years with is growing rapidly and now ranks 8th out a total budget of R350 million to support of 23 life companies.
In China, our joint the National Development Plans aim of venture with Guodian ranks 15th out of 21. improving the South African education All data as at 30 June 2015. system.
This initiative aims to reach 250 schools with the intention of positively influencing the lives of 250,000 learners.
From an investment perspective Old Mutual has committed to incorporating environmental, social and governance ESG issues into our investment and ownership decision-making in a manner that drives long-term sustainable growth.
We have 232,000 committed investment of R14.5 billion in We continue People approved renewable energy projects, to hold including investment in 15 of the 22 Government-proposed wind farms, dominant market half of the solar power projects and one positions in the Participated in OMEMs of the two hydro projects that have been financial education in rounds one to three of the renewable SADC region programmes in 2015 energy initiative.
and our UAP Competitive environment acquisition has In South Africa, we are the life insurance market leader among local peers, with given us a solid Responsible business more than 28% of total life annual premium We strive to make a positive impact platform from equivalent APE sales.
We are the on the people, communities and other dominant player in the mass segment with which to become stakeholders that we serve, ensuring that 58% market share and we hold a strong our decisions take full account of the bigger position in the affluent segment with 20% East Africas picture.
Across OMEM, we have made a market share.
Mutual & Federal M&F leading financial decision to lead in responsible business South Africa remains the industrys by focusing on financial wellbeing and second-largest non-life player, with 10.8% of services provider responsible investment.
In order to lead in financial wellbeing, we We continue to hold dominant market recognise that there is a need to scale our positions in the SADC region, with leading involvement in financial education and build market positions in Malawi, Namibia and on the current programmes in light of the Zimbabwe.
In our key growth markets of high levels of indebtedness, low levels East and West Africa, we are developing of savings and financial constraints that our rapidly from a relatively small base, and customers face.
We build their financial our UAP acquisition has given us a solid wellbeing and prosperity, while investing platform from which to become East their funds in ways that will boost Africas leading financial services provider.
socioeconomic development in-country, Our primary competitors in sub-Saharan R989.9bn Funds under management OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 25 Market dynamics There were challenging macro-economic conditions across many of the markets in which we operate.
GDP growth across emerging markets fell to 4.0% from initial estimates of 4.7% for 2015 as a result of the impact of lower commodity prices triggered We are investing significantly by a slowing Chinese economy.
The much in digital platforms and capabilities anticipated hike in US interest rates by the Federal Reserve Bank contributed to so that we can offer customers higher net outflows from emerging markets into developed markets.
integrated service propositions South Africa across multiple channels In South Africa, economic growth slowed during 2015 as a result of electricity supply constraints, the challenging socio-political environment, lower commodity prices, increased market volatility and weak business and consumer confidence.
Despite the fall in crude oil prices, the rand declined by 29% in 2015.
The Kenyan stock Across emerging markets continued to decline against major exchange was down 21% and the Nigerian As smartphones and mobile devices currencies and ended the year 34% weaker stock exchange was down 17% over the become increasingly affordable, financial against the US dollar.
The volatility in the same period.
services players are introducing mobile rand exchange rate was further applications and tools to better serve Asia exacerbated by the changes to the finance customers and reach previously untapped India continues to outperform most ministry in December.
The Indian economy expanded combined with a severe drought and a significantly in digital platforms and 7.
It is liberalising its negative inflation outlook, led to a 0.5% capabilities so that we can offer customers insurance market: the 2015 Insurance Laws increase in the benchmark interest rate integrated service propositions across Amendment Act paved the way for foreign during 2015 and a further 0.5% increase multiple channels: and partner with other investors to increase their stakes in Indian in January 2016. organisations to offer Old Mutual products insurance companies up to 49%, on the via alternative digital channels as we seek to South African equity markets were strong proviso that a majority of ownership and improve the customer experience across all during the first half of 2015 reaching all-time management control remains in Indian our regions.
In 2015, 14% of Tax-Free Savings highs.
These gains were reversed during the hands.
Investment markets in India have Account sales were via digital channels.
second half of 2015 with the JSE All Share been strong with sentiment of recovery Index ending the year 1.9% up on prior year.
We face significant talent challenges in Equity markets remain extremely volatile.
the Rest of Africa and across the broader Chinas economic growth continues to slow emerging markets landscape, where Rest of Africa from historically strong levels of growth to regulatory and socio-political restrictions Across the remaining African markets, a projected 6.9% per annum for 2015. affect our ability to attract and retain the sharp decline in oil and precious Latin America skilled people in-country.
It is therefore metal prices has negatively impacted critical for us to continue developing Latin American economies remained government revenues and economic local talent across both leadership and subdued in 2015, due largely to falling growth for net exporter countries, resulting technical areas of the business as we commodity prices, the strengthening in the depreciation of sub-Saharan African grow our emerging markets business.
US dollar and financial strain from currencies against the US dollar.
The East To this end, we have established high government debt.
However, both African economies proved to be relatively programmes where we have identified Mexican and Colombian economies are resilient, while West Africa recorded lower high-performing people and are expected to continue growing at 2% to economic growth.
The Zimbabwean mentoring and supporting them in our 4.5% annually, despite the drop in oil economy continues to slow down amid quest to grow our next leaders from within.
prices, depreciating local currencies considerable political uncertainty and and global macro-economic turbulence.
the Zimbabwean stock exchange R34.3bn Net client cash flows OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 26 Performance AOP PRE-TAX OMEM delivered good profit AOP OLD MUTUAL BY LINE OF BUSINESS growth of 9% on the prior year benefiting EMER GING Rm from higher asset-based fees, better life MARKETS CONTINUED underwriting profits, the consolidation of Old Mutual Finance, and the turnaround in Property & Casualtys underwriting 1 4 profits in South Africa.
Profit growth in the second half of 2015 was constrained by 3 a weaker economic environment, lower markets and finance costs on new debt issued.
Excluding debt costs, profits were 2 11% up on the prior year.
Value of new business VNB improved by 24% to R2.4 billion, while maintaining a strong present value of new business premium PVNBP margin of 3.3%, driven by positive assumption basis changes and higher sales volumes across all segments.
Net client cash flow NCCF of R34.3 billion 1.
Life & Savings R8,462m was R13.0 billion up on the prior year 2.
Asset Management R1,430m mainly due to large non-covered deals 3.
Banking & Lending R1,266m secured by South Africa Corporate and 4.
Property & Casualty R843m OMIG, and improved asset management flows in South Africa Retail Affluent and Rest of Africa.
VNB improved Gross sales increased by 17% to by 24% to R215.5 billion due to good non-covered sales growth of 15% up from R135 billion R2.4 billion, to R155 billion as well as exceptional while maintaining covered sales growth of 31%.
The growth in covered sales was underpinned by a strong PVNBP strong single premium sales in the South Africa Corporate business, good margin of 3.3% recurring premium sales in the South Africa retail businesses, and excellent sales performance across Rest of Africa mainly Namibia, Zimbabwe and Malawi and the Asia joint ventures.
Highlights Rm 2015 2014 Change AOP pre-tax 12,001 11,033 9% Gross sales Rbn 215.5 185.0 17% Covered Sales APE 12,732 9,706 31% NCCF Rbn 34.3 21.3 61% 1 FUM Rbn 989.9 904.9 9% IFRS profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 7,067 7,059 1 FUM is shown on an end manager basis.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 27 Strategic intent We are building an African financial services champion with strong, differentiated franchises in selected emerging markets, where we can leverage our capabilities in South Africa to deliver value in the medium-term.
Priorities set Progress in 2015 Key management for 2015-18 actions for 2016-18 In South Africa, we will continue Mutual & Federal M&F successfully Simplifying and improving the to provide a full suite of financial completed the purchase of a further customer experience solutions to retail and corporate 33.6% interest in Credit Guarantee Delivering a leading Property customers: strengthening our Insurance Corporation CGIC and & Casualty capability leading market share positions launched two new products: Motorsure Driving OMEM and Group and Prosure collaboration OMIG completed a 100% buy-out Developing and strengthening of African Infrastructure Investment our people to deliver on our Managers AIIM, in which it previously growth ambitions held a 50% stake Old Mutual Invest, a Tax-Free Savings Account TFSA was launched in March 2015.
We also launched the innovative Old Mutual Money Account to lowermiddle income market clients We continue to make good progress on Group collaboration and are on track to deliver R1 billion pre-tax value of synergies by the end of 2017 In the Rest of Africa, we will look Completed the acquisition of a Building an East Africa financial to build a business that provides majority stake 60.7% in UAP services leader leading financial solutions to retail Our West African businesses continue Accelerating our growth ambitions and corporate customers, primarily to leverage our bancassurance in West Africa through an integrated offering of relationship with Ecobank.
Officially Delivering a leading Property life, property and casualty, asset launched the Old Mutual Ghana & Casualty capability management and credit solutions and Ecobank partnership in May Driving OMEM and Group Launched our unique 2-IN-ONE savings collaboration plan in Namibia and Malawi, as well Developing and strengthening as our new endowment product in our people to deliver on our Kenya, which is based on the South growth ambitions Africa 2-IN-ONE savings plan In Latin America and Asia, In Latin America, AIVA, our independent Optimising and selectively investing we are looking to build distribution channel continues to deliver in our businesses in Latin America differentiated franchises, where good results and has just launched a and Asia we leverage product and sales new product: Old Mutual Crea Driving OMEM and Group management capabilities we In India, distribution via Kotak collaboration have in Africa, coupled with bank branches continues to grow, Developing and strengthening distribution partnerships we further supported by the merger our people to deliver on our have in these markets with ING Vysya growth ambitions In South Africa, strengthen leading market share positions In Rest of Africa, build a leading integrated financial services business In Latin America and Asia, build differentiated franchises OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report but our processes are designed to ensure 28 resilience in our IT systems to prevent that we understand the risks in the new unauthorised access to sensitive data OLD MUTUAL businesses and can manage post-acquisition and business-critical systems, and to EMER GING integration.
We are also refining our ability support early detection of breaches.
MARKETS CONTINUED to manage strategic partnerships.
Initiatives Credit and liquidity risk to modernise technology and improve the Growth in our retail lending businesses in customer experience are tightly managed to South Africa, Zimbabwe and Kenya as well deliver objectives and stay within budget.
as our wholesale investment credit business Managing our risk Regulatory risk has led to an increased focus on managing Our risk strategy is integrally linked with Regulatory changes taking place across credit risk in both first and second lines of our business strategy, with risk-mitigating all our jurisdictions create new compliance defence and strengthening of the actions designed to improve the prospects risk but also bring new opportunities.
We will continue to engage with regulators Investment credit risk arises in Old Mutual Market risk to promote financial inclusion and positive Specialised Finance and the South African Emerging markets continue to face a outcomes for customers.
life business, predominantly through the subdued economic environment due management of assets backing annuity Cyber risk to the slowdown in Chinas demand for products.
Liquidity risk is managed by our Increased levels of cyber crime have commodities and other local factors.
prompted us to invest more in creating Low growth prospects coupled with fiscal pressure have increased the risk of a Customer: Joseph Mgabhi sovereign downgrade in South Africa.
We will continue to monitor the impact of economic changes and manage our cost base accordingly.
Our customers will face increased pressure from higher inflation and likely tax increases and we will need to provide extra advice and financial education support.
Given our significant asset-based fee income, market declines will reduce earnings.
Liabilities with guarantees and interest rate exposure are actively managed by our Balance Sheet Management team.
Socio-political risk South Africa shows growing signs of social discontent, partly attributable to Dvokolwako, Swaziland a significant income divide and high unemployment rates.
This has created Working together to grow political uncertainty, and a risk of both our businesses populist economic policy that could harm longer-term investment and growth.
A new Working together with our customers takes many forms.
group of stakeholders are emerging in In Joseph Mgabhis case, we helped him to start and grow his Government and unions, with whom we are business and he helped us to grow our team in Swaziland.
Confidence needs to be regained in political leadership and Joseph part-funded his business with proceeds from his Old Mutual governance after the sudden changes in Max Investment Plan.
We helped him to sustain and grow it with a the Finance Ministry.
Indigenisation remains on the agenda in Namibia and Zimbabwe.
loan and part-withdrawals from other investment plans, and it now has 25 employees.
Impressed by our supportive approach, Joseph Execution and integration risk encouraged his daughter to join us she is now an Old Mutual We take on execution risk in making acquisitions and integrating businesses, financial adviser.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 29 Rest of Africa Asia and Latin America Outlook The economies of Nigeria and Ghana Annual growth for India is expected to Emerging markets continue to operate in a challenging economic and socio-political are expected to remain under pressure with reach 7.
5%, the highest in the Asia region.
higher inflation 9.6% and 17.7%, respectively China remains vulnerable to further equity environment.
Sub-Saharan African as a result of depreciation of their currencies market volatility and credit losses and is economic growth in 2016 is forecast to following significant falls in oil prices.
expected to slow down to 6% growth per be higher than in South Africa, although growth has slowed as global conditions annum over the medium-term.
In Kenya, the economy is expected to and low commodity prices impact accelerate slightly in 2016 sustained by an Lower commodity prices, an economic emerging markets outlook.
Drought accommodating fiscal policy, infrastructure deceleration in major trading partners and conditions in sub-Saharan Africa will projects and robust private consumption persistent domestic challenges continue continue to affect agriculture yields and despite the continuing devaluation of the to affect levels of economic growth in the increased inflation in this region is expected.
Colombia remains exposed to lower oil prices and the effects South Africa of the drought on the country threaten to Lower growth forecasts for 2016 of below 1% dampen a fragile recovery.
and a rising interest rate cycle will continue to increase financial pressure on the consumer.
Higher inflation is expected in 2016 as food prices increase in response to the drought and the impact of a weaker rand on all imported goods, including grains.
The average inflation forecast for 2016 is slightly above the South African Reserve Banks 3-6% target range at 6.2%.
Low oil prices will temper the inflation forecast to some extent, which may support disposable income of our mass foundation customers.
Further increases in interest rates, rising taxes, higher water and electricity costs, and possible job losses in struggling sectors will place pressure on consumers over the course of the year.
Emerging market economies The risk of a downgrade of South Africas remain under pressure but sovereign credit rating by rating agencies OMEM will continue to be has increased.
Should this materialise, the rand could weaken further, causing resilient in these conditions a more severe inflation and interest cycle than is currently foreseen.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 30 Eldoret, Kenya Doing great things with a family business Daniel Odhiambo is doing great things with his family business, Zaritex Knitwear.
Since 2009 it has grown from one knitting machine to 12, and it now provides jobs for 30 people.
We have been working with him since he came to Faulu, our Kenyan microfinance bank, to help him buy an embroidery machine.
Doing this work in-house has given him better control of quality and timing.
The business is thriving: Daniel now has two embroidery machines and he is talking to us about finance for a sock-knitting machine.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 31 BUILDING PROSPERITY TOGETHER Faulu listen, and thats how theyve helped me to expand my business Daniel Odhiambo Zaritex Knitwear Customer: Daniel Odhiambo 30 New jobs created at Zaritex Knitwear OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
