PIGIT pp01 16 PIGIT pp01 16 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 10 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is an investment company and its investment objective is set out below.
The strategy the Board follows to achieve that objective is to set investment policy and risk guidelines, together with investment limits, and to monitor how they are applied.
These are also set out below and have been approved by shareholders.
The business model the Company has adopted to achieve its investment objective has been to contract investment management and administration to appropriate external service providers, which are overseen by the Board.
The principal service provider is, from 22 July 2014, Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML or the Manager.
Prior to 22 July 2014, Invesco Asset Management Limited had been the Manager.
The Manager provides company secretarial, marketing and general administration services including accounting and manages the portfolio in accordance with the Boards strategy.
Mark Barnett is the portfolio manager responsible for the day-to-day management of the portfolio.
The Company also has contractual arrangements with third parties to act as registrar, corporate broker and, since 22 July 2014, depositary.
The depositary is BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited.
The depositary has delegated safekeeping of the Companys investments to the Companys previous custodian, The Bank of New York Mellon London Branch.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity and fixed interest markets.
Investment Policy The Company invests mainly in UK equities and equity-related securities of UK-listed companies.
The Manager seeks to identify and invest mainly in companies that offer a combination of good capital growth prospects with the ability to increase dividends over time.
Market exposure may also be gained through the limited use of derivatives, the purpose of which would be to achieve changes to the portfolios economic exposure.
However, the Company will not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes.
The Manager manages the portfolio to reflect its convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
The Company may hedge exposure to changes in foreign currency rates in respect of its overseas investments, at the Managers discretion.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed investment limits forming part of the Investment Policy, the most significant of which follow: not more than 12% of gross assets in any single investment: not more than 15% of gross assets in other listed investment companies: not more than 20% of gross assets in non-UK listed securities: not more than 10% of gross assets in fixed interest securities: 10 PIGIT pp01 16 PIGIT pp01 16 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 11 STRATEGY derivatives including warrants may be used for investment purposes to increase the Companys market exposure by up to 5% of gross assets.
Derivatives may also be used to hedge the portfolios market exposure: and borrowings may be used to raise equity exposure up to a maximum of 25% of net assets at the time of purchase where it is appropriate.
Each limit is measured at the time of investment or borrowing.
Borrowing and Debt Borrowing policy is under the control of the Board.
The maximum limit is 25% of total net assets measured at the time new borrowings are incurred for investment in companies where there are stock-specific opportunities.
The use of borrowing is not an expression of confidence in the performance of the overall UK stock market, but rather an endorsement of the potential for selected securities.
In this respect both the Board and the Manager are content that the flexibility which the overdraft facility provides offers the most appropriate means of gearing, supplementing the longer-term borrowings of the Company.
The 30 million 6.125% debenture matured and was repaid on 8 July 2014.
In anticipation of this, on 8 May 2014 the Company issued 60 million of fixed rate 15 year senior secured notes Notes at par with an interest rate of 4.37%.
Further detail on the Notes is contained in note 12 on page51.
Performance The Board reviews performance by reference to Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
The five main KPIs are as follows: Asset Performance The Companys three, five and ten year record for its NAV and share price compared to the benchmark index is shown on page 2.
In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Company, the Board monitors the diluted NAV performance in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
However, the Managers aim is to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active investment management approach.
It is not the investment management teams philosophy to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as a benchmark for portfolio construction for the Company.
This approach can therefore result in a portfolio that is from time to time substantially different from the FTSE All-Share Index but has historically achieved significant outperformance of that index.
Peer Group Performance There were 21 investment trusts in the UK Equity Income sector at 31 March 2015.
This sector, however, is quite diverse in its investment policies and structures.
The Board monitors the performance of the Company in relation to both this sector as a whole and to those companies within it which the Board consider to be its peer group.
As at 31 March 2015, within those companies ranked within the UK Equity Income sector, the th th th Company was ranked9 over one year and4 over three and4 over five years respectively by NAV performance source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
Dividend It remains the Directors intention to distribute, by way of dividend, substantially all of the Companys net income after expenses and taxation whilst also retaining a prudent level of reserves.
The dividends declared for the year are shown on the next page, under Results and Dividends.
The Manager aims to maximise total return from the portfolio.
The Manager believes in strong earnings growth and in the importance of dividends to total return.
However, whilst income is a prime objective, dividend yields do not constrain investment decisions.
The Directors intend to maintain their existing policy of providing ordinary shareholders with real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 PIGIT pp01 16 PIGIT pp01 16 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 12 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Premium Discount The Board monitors the premium discount at which the Companys ordinary shares trade and how this compares to other investment trusts in the peer group.
During the year the Companys ordinary shares traded at both a discount and a premium.
The highest premium was 2.5% and the widest discount was 4.2%.
At the year end the discount was 3.0% 2014: 1.5% discount.
As at 31 March 2015, the average discount of the 21 investment trusts in the UK Equity Income sector was 2.5% 2014: 0.5% source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
The Board and Manager closely monitor movements in the Companys share price and dealings in the Companys shares.
In order to address any significant overhang or shortage of ordinary shares in the market the Board asks shareholders to approve resolutions each year which allow for the repurchase of ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held as treasury shares and also their issuance.
This may assist in the management of the discount.
The Company has not previously held any shares in treasury.
However, should the Board consider it to be in shareholders interests to do so, then it is the Boards policy to sell shares held as treasury shares on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The expenses of managing the Company are carefully monitored by the Board and the ongoing charges ratio provides a guide to the effect on performance of the annual operating costs.
The Board reviews expenditure using an annual budgetary process.
The ongoing charges ratio for the year was 0.65% 2014: 0.94% based on management fees excluding the performance fee and other expenses of 5,985,000 2014: 7,727,000.
The significant decrease in the ratio arose from the reduction in the management fee rate from 0.75% to an average of 0.49% for the year.
This change in the investment management agreement is detailed on pages 26 and 27.
Results and Dividends On 31 March 2015, the share price and the net asset value NAV per ordinary share were 400.9p and 413.1p respectively.
The comparable figures at 31 March 2014 were 377.5p and 383.3p.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, three interim dividends of 2.8p each per share were paid on 30 September 2014, 29 December 2014 and 27 March 2015 respectively.
A fourth interim dividend of 3.9p per share has been declared for payment on 26 June 2015 to shareholders on the register on 5 June, giving total interim dividends for the year of 12.3p 2014: 11.8p.
This represents an increase of 4.2% on the previous year.
As discussed in the Chairmans Statement, a special dividend of 1.9p per share was declared and will be paid at the same time as the fourth interim dividend.
Thus resultant total dividend for the year of 14.2p is an increase of 3.6% on the previous year.
Financial Position and Borrowings The Companys balance sheet on page42 shows the assets and liabilities at the year end.
Details of the new 60 million senior secured notes are shown in note 12, and details of the Companys overdraft facility are shown in note 11.
Outlook, including the Future of the Company The main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Portfolio Managers Report of this Strategic Report.
Further details of the principal risks affecting the Company are set out under Principal Risks and Uncertainties below.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board carries out a regular review of the risk environment in which the Company operates.
The principal risks and uncertainties identified in this review follow: Economic Risk Economic risk arises from uncertainty about the future prices of the Companys investments.
A majority of the Companys investments are listed on regulated stock exchanges and will be subject to market fluctuations, both upward and downward, arising from external factors including general 12 PIGIT pp01 16 PIGIT pp01 16 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 13 STRATEGY economic conditions and government policies.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and the Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of the investments held.
Investment Risk Poor performance of individual portfolio investments is mitigated as the Board has established guidelines to ensure that the Investment Policy of the Company is pursued by the portfolio manager and that the portfolio of investments is appropriately diversified.
Any proposed variation outside these guidelines is referred to the Board and the guidelines themselves are reviewed at every Board meeting.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of the portfolio manager who, with his team, undertakes continual analysis of the fundamentals of all holdings.
The performance of the portfolio manager is carefully monitored by the Board culminating in the annual review of the management contract.
A fuller discussion of the economic and market conditions facing the Company and the current and future performance of the portfolio are included in the Portfolio Managers Report on pages7 to 9.
Past performance of the Company is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
Financial Risk The financial risks faced by the Company include market price risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, which includes counterparty and custodial risk.
Details of these risks and how they are managed are disclosed in note 19 to the financial statements on pages53to 57.
Gearing Risk Whilst the use of borrowings by the Company should enhance total shareholder return when the return on the Companys underlying securities is rising and exceeds the cost of borrowing, it will have the opposite effect when the underlying return is falling.
Whilst the portfolio manager has full discretion on when and how he should use borrowings to gear returns, the Board reviews regularly the level of gearing and the extent of available borrowings.
Investment Objective There can be no guarantee that the Company will meet its investment objective and therefore there is also a risk of underperformance against the Companys benchmark index.
The Manager provides the Board with management information, including performance data, and shareholder analysis.
Share Discount Risk The Companys shares may trade on a wide discount.
The Board and the Manager maintain an active dialogue with the aim of ensuring that the market rating of the Companys shares reflects the underlying NAV and there are in place both share repurchase and issuance facilities to help the management of this process.
Operational Risk The Board regularly reviews the system of financial and non-financial internal controls operated by the Company, the Manager and other external service providers.
These include controls designed to safeguard the Companys assets and to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by the Manager and other suppliers are explained further in the internal controls and risk management section in the audit committee report on pages 30 and 31.
Regulatory Risk The Company is subject to various laws and regulations by virtue of its status as a public limited company registered under Section 833 of the Act, its status as an investment trust, and its listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority.
Loss of investment trust status for tax purposes could lead to the Company being subject to tax on the realised capital profits on the sale of its investments.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules could lead to suspension from the Official List, a fine or qualified audit report.
Other control failures, either by the Manager or any other of the Companys service providers, could result in operational or reputational problems, erroneous disclosures or loss of assets through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 PIGIT pp01 16 PIGIT pp01 16 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 14 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued A significant regulatory change in the year was the implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
This required the appointment of a depositary and a change in the contractual arrangements with the Manager, which continues to bear the main compliance obligations.
The Manager reviews compliance with tax and other financial regulatory requirements on a daily basis and reports to the Board on a regular basis on all regulatory aspects.
Other Risks The risk that the portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, may become incapacitated or otherwise be unavailable is mitigated by the fact that he is one member of the wider Invesco Perpetual UK Equities team.
Board Diversity The Companys policy on diversity is set out on page 25.
The Board considers diversity, including the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity including gender and experience, amongst other factors when reviewing its composition and appointing new directors, but does not consider it appropriate to establish targets or quotas in this regard.
The Board comprises six non-executive directors.
There are no female directors on the Board and no target has been set in this respect.
However, this is at the forefront of considerations in the Boards deliberations but is dependent on suitably qualified candidates who are willing, and have the time, to be a director of the Company.
Summary biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 17.
The Company has no employees.
Social and Environmental Matters As an investment company with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility, including with regard to human rights, is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and suitability for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily decide to make or not to make an investment on environmental and social grounds alone.
The Company does not have a human rights policy, although the Manager applies the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 2 June 2015 Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary Perpetual Park Perpetual Park Drive Henley-on-Thames Oxfordshire RG9 1HH 14
