Strategic report Strategy & Business review Business review 2015 markets in review Peter Harrison Head of Investment credit.
Emerging market debt made positive 60billion until Q3 2016 its first use We are well returns in dollar terms over the 12 months, of QE as a tool to ease monetary policy.
with the EMBI Global Index rising 1.2 per cent.
By December, further deflationary fears positioned to followed an appreciation of the euro There were significant movements in prompting an extension of QE until deliver for clients, currencies throughout the year.
The Chinese the second quarter of 2017. yuan was devalued in the second half of the despite volatile year and currencies in a number of other Monetary easing acted as a catalyst for emerging markets fell sharply against the growth in European equity markets, which markets.
US dollar, including Turkey, Russia, Brazil performed well over the year, although and Malaysia.
The euro also fell as the some of the underlying fundamentals European Central Bank instigated their in the eurozone remain fragile.
There quantitative easing programme in March.
could be further easing in 2016 as Mario Draghi, President of the ECB, has hinted Overall, 2015 was a year of uncertainty for Desynchronised cycle of central that additional measures could be markets.
A number of issues caused volatility bank policy implemented if global forces negatively throughout the year: slowing growth in China, One of the most important themes impact economic growth.
continued weakness in commodity prices, throughout the year was that of divergent mixed economic data in developed markets central bank policies across the world.
Emerging market economies saw capital and anticipation of a US interest rate rise all outflows, resulting in significant declines impacted investor sentiment.
Clients risk In the US, we saw policy tightening as QE in reserves as central banks intervened appetites were understandably subdued, came to an end and the Federal Reserve to support their currencies.
We also saw with global equity markets dragged down by raised interest rates for the first time since weakness in China, prompting monetary lacklustre returns from the US and significant 2006.
The move was long anticipated and easing and additional fiscal stimulus.
well telegraphed and so came as little surprise to investors.
Markets have currently priced Growth in China The Japanese Topix and MSCI Europe ex-UK little in the way of further interest rate rises The rise and subsequent dramatic decline were the best performing major indices over in 2016, suggesting a much more benign in the Chinese equity markets were another the year with local currency total returns of timetable for rate rises than in previous market theme for 2015, as fears of a sharp correction 11 per cent.
Whilst it is possible we will see some returned in the second half of the year.
This These returns were achieved despite both short-term dislocation in appetite for fixed impacted investor demand across the whole seeing negative returns in the second half of income assets, we believe institutional region, with record outflows for emerging the year.
Emerging markets indices were the investors demand for longer duration markets across the industry.
worst performing with the MSCI Emerging bonds may increase as higher yields Markets index returning 5.4 per cent.
The China A-share market had witnessed an extraordinary run that began in the fourth Both US and UK government bonds made Elsewhere, the Bank of England and Bank quarter of 2014, driven by record margin positive returns for the year.
Credit indices of Japan maintained their QE programmes, lending and expectations of continued had a more challenging period with Global with some investors in Japan calling for government and central bank support.
Investment Grade down 3.8 per cent.
In continental Europe, We had been concerned for some time over Global High Yield falling 4.2 per cent.
in US as deflationary concerns escalated, the ECB valuations and our portfolios were defensively dollar terms, led by weakness in US dollar announced monthly asset purchases of positioned in the lead up to the significant sell Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 Business review 2015 markets in review continued Equities world indices performance Further slump in commodities Commodity prices have been through a FTSE-100 S&P Composite Nikkei challenging period for a number of years, MSCI World MSCI Europe ex.
UK MSCI Emerging Markets with oil prices beginning to decline towards the end of 2014.
This continued through 2015 as commodities became the worst 125 performing asset class for the third 120 consecutive year.
The Dow Jones UBS Commodities index returned -24.7 per cent.
115 through the year and oil was particularly badly 110 hit with the price of Brent crude falling 36.1 105 per cent.
since the start of 2015 and 68 percent.
100 95 The global supply of oil has continued to rise putting additional downward pressure on 90 prices.
The Organisation of the Petroleum 85 Exporting Countries, led by Saudi Arabia, increased production to win back market Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 share at the same time as non-OPEC production was rising, while a deal to lift sanctions on Iranian oil exports was reached.
Fixed income performance Although demand for oil continues to rise, this % is not enough to absorb the additional supply.
The effect of collapsing prices on commodity UK Benchmark 10-Year Government Index US Benchmark 10-Year Government Index producers and exporters has been dramatic, Merrill Lynch Global High Yield Index $ Merrill Lynch Global Investment Grade Index $ with both their equity markets and currencies seeing sharp declines.
In particular, Russia, the Middle East and Latin America have 106 seen a significant impact on their markets 104 and economies.
102 Looking ahead, many of these challenges remain in the near term.
Persistent over 100 supply and further weakness in China could 98 continue to depress prices.
However, we believe that much of this may already be 96 priced in and investors will begin to identify pockets of value, especially as falling 94 commodity prices are ultimately supportive Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec of global growth.
The volatility was exacerbated Chinese economic growth slowed to 6.9 per around markets as we enter 2016 and central by the decision of the Peoples Bank of cent.
in 2015 and is unlikely to continue at the bank policy will have a large role to play.
China to devalue the currency, prompting elevated levels of recent years.
The Chinese fears that China was on the brink of a much authorities have the tools to support the Desynchronised global growth, a stronger larger devaluation.
economy where necessary and have already US dollar and further intervention from the implemented both monetary and fiscal stimuli.
Chinese authorities could all impact markets As these risks continue to linger and as this year.
Political uncertainty is also a risk growth continues to slow, policymakers have We do not expect concerns over declining in 2016, not least from the US presidential sought to move the economy away from its growth rates in China to disappear in 2016 election and a referendum on a potential traditional base of manufacturing, towards and we expect to see further market volatility.
UK exit from the European Union.
consumer and technology oriented sectors, When investor confidence does return to the in a transition comparable to that experienced region, there will be opportunities to find Our broad range of innovative product in the past by countries such as Singapore value.
Investing in the region will, more than solutions is well positioned to help investors and South Korea.
ever, rely on bottom up stock selection and navigate these challenges.
In an environment finding quality companies that will not only of increased uncertainty and volatility, it is ever provide consistent shareholder returns but more important to be active in asset allocation do so at reasonable valuations.
and stock selection, whilst engaging closely with the companies in which we invest.
26 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Data Insights team By using the latest in data science technology Analysis of big This year we set up a Data Insights team, to interpret the data, it can be shared with our representing a significant new initiative investment teams, enabling them to find data could for the Group.
The team are focused answers to questions that investors would on developments in data analytics for be unable to solve using traditional financial become a key investment and research, to enhance analysis techniques and financial market and complement the existing skills of information sources.
our fund managers and analysts.
Working collaboratively across all investment The quantity of information available for classes and regions, the team enhances the investment research purposes is increasing existing skills and investment processes of at such a rate that traditional industry our fund managers and analysts.
By recruiting practices and skillsets are unable to absorb experts from outside the asset management and process it.
Global trends in digitalisation, sector, we have gained extensive experience social media, open data and technology are in data analytics and advanced statistics all creating vast streams of alternative data and machine learning, as well as a fresh that are often highly unstructured and perspective, and this represents an exciting extremely obscure.
However, they contain step for Schroders.
valuable and often unique insights.
The Data Insights team aims to find these new and potentially unorthodox big datasets, extract the rich, hidden information they contain and use their expertise to enhance traditional fundamental research.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Business review Schroders 2015 in review 2015 overview Alternatives 2015 was a Schroders performed well in 2015 with net We launched a number of products in new business of 13.0 billion and record alternatives space including two new funds good year for profit before tax and exceptional items of in our GAIA range of UCITS-compliant hedge 609.7million.
After a strong start to the year, funds.
These were the Schroder GAIA Schroders, markets fell back on concerns over the impact BlueTrend, a systematic trend-following of a hard landing in China, an interest rate strategy and Schroder GAIA BSP Credit, despite market rise in the US and slowing economic growth a long short global credit fund.
We also in developed markets.
Against this backdrop, launched a new vehicle giving clients access uncertainty.
our results are testament to the strength to catastrophe bonds.
We also further of our diversified business and our long diversified our product offering, establishing term approach.
an Infrastructure debt capability based in Paris.
Client focused Other product development Our business model is built around our We are committed to investing responsibly clients.
It is only by continuing to generate and we recognise the importance of this value for clients through meeting and to both our clients and shareholders.
Net inflows exceeding their investment objectives that As a result, we have continued to invest we are able to continue to grow our business.
We play an important role in society helping 13.0bn a broad range of investors meet their financial We have also broadened our ESG-focused 2014: 24.8 billion goals as they provide for retirement, seek investment proposition with the launch of a to offset future liabilities or build pools quantitative global ESG fund, Schroder ISF of capital.
We also contribute to the growth QEP Global ESG.
This gives clients access of the wider economy as we play a role in to the successful QEP range in a fund that channelling capital to support the future is active in all three areas of ESG: exclusions, growth plans of the companies in which integration and shareholder engagement.
page 19 for details on our approach to ESG.
Product development Building scale Responding to the changing needs of our Product developments in 2015 reflect our clients is important to our business.
In 2015 strategy of building scale and growing we continued to see increased demand for organically.
Our assets under management outcome oriented solutions and this trend increased 5 per cent.
to 313.5 billion as at was reflected in several of our product 31 December 2015. launches where we developed solutions to meet clients investment objectives.
Considerable resource has been invested in recent years in diversifying our business by New launches included a Multi-asset product increasing scale in our Multi-asset and Fixed focused on generating income Schroder ISF Income capabilities.
Both areas now have Emerging Multi-Asset Income, an addition an extensive product range and world class to our product range aimed at achieving investment talent.
Multi-asset accounts absolute returns in fixed income markets for a quarter of the Groups assets under Schroder ISF Euro Credit Absolute Return management at 78.0 billion.
Net inflows and a new vehicle in the UK with the Flexible continue to be strong with 6.1 billion in 2015 Retirement fund.
This solution targets and more than 44.0billion since 2010.
Fixed the defined contribution pension market, Income products attracted the highest level offering clients a lower risk, capital growth, of net flows this year, with 9.1 billion of new pre-retirement product.
Assets under management now exceed 60 billion.
28 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Liability driven investment As defined benefit pension schemes have continued to mature, trustees are looking to maintain and improve funding levels at relatively low risk, with many employing liability driven investment LDI strategies.
We have seen significant institutional client demand in LDI in 2015, with net new business of 2.6 billion.
Multi-asset continues to see strong demand across Institutional and Intermediary with net inflows of 6.1 billion.
The Groups strong financial position and In 2009, we entered into partnership with ability to invest seed capital in new strategies Nippon Life in Japan which continues to is a key strength.
At the end of December develop through demand from Japanese 2015, 229 million of seed capital was clients as well as through our two joint deployed globally.
During 2015, seed ventures in London and Singapore.
Assets under management capital was invested across a number of new outperforming benchmark or strategies in equities, fixed income, multi-asset In 2012 we acquired 25 per cent.
of Axis peergroupover three years and real estate.
See pages 32 to 34 for more Asset Management Company in partnership details on key trends in Asset Management with Indias third largest private sector bank, and Wealth Management respectively.
This investment gives us access 72% to Indian investors, brings an established 2014: 78% Associates and joint ventures distribution network in a rapidly developing In addition to our core Asset Management market and strengthens our Indian investment business, we have built successful capabilities.
The business is profitable and is partnerships in several regions which growing market share with assets under complement our own business and management of 3.6 billion.
Also in 2012 we entered into a joint venture In 2015, these investments contributed relationship with Secquaero, a Swiss-based profit after tax and before exceptional insurance linked securities and catastrophe items of 21.5million 2014: 10.6 million bond business.
The business has seen strong and returned 9.1 million of capital to the growth with assets under management Group in the form of dividends and capital reaching 1.3 billion in 2015.
In total, we increased our stake to 50.1 per cent.
we have invested 60million in these partnerships and, excluding legacy The Group segment includes our financial private equity investments, have earned investment in RWC Partners Limited.
In 2015 post tax profits before exceptional items assets under management increased to of 81.0million, of which 34.7 million has 7.9 billion 2014: 5.8 billion and our share of been received in dividends.
profits grew to 5.9 million 2014: 3.8 million.
In 2015 our associate investment in Bank of Communications Schroder in China contributed 11.1million to profit after tax and exceptional items 2014: 4.5 million.
This business complements our own onshore presence in the country and enables us to access one of the largest retail markets in the world.
We established the partnership in 2005 and since then we have recognised 64.2million of profits after tax and received dividends of 25.7 million through our 30percent.
See Glossary Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Business review Schroders 2015 in review continued Assets under management Regulation Investment performance We are strong supporters of good regulation, Delivering consistent and above average but believe that the primary responsibility investment performance is a key strategic 313.5bn for effective governance must rest with objective.
Consistent with our long-term view, 2014: 300.0 billion companies themselves.
This is reflected in we focus on investment performance over our approach to risk management, details a three year period.
Over three years to of which are on page 36.
of assets under management outperformed their We welcome regulation that increases benchmark or peer group.
transparency, improves trust, enhances market stability and results in better outcomes New business for clients.
Led by our Head of Public Policy, Competitive investment performance, we seek to actively engage with policymakers strong distribution capabilities and a global, at all stages of regulatory development to help diversified product range enabled us to promote the best outcomes for our clients generate net inflows of 13.0 billion in 2015 and our business.
Fixed income strategies attracted the largest net inflows in 2015 at In 2015 we have seen important 9.1 billion, driven particularly by demand for developments in relation to a number of European credit in Intermediary, US bonds in regulatory issues, specifically on investor Institutional and global bond strategies across protection, liquidity and systemic risk.
actively engaged with the Financial Conduct Authority, the UK regulator, with regards to Multi-asset also performed well, with net their Asset Management Market Study.
We saw continued demand from institutional clients for LDI Public confidence in financial services strategies and from intermediary clients for has declined over recent years and, as income and risk-controlled growth products.
asset managers, we have a responsibility In Equities, demand for European, Japanese to promote effective governance in the and global equity funds was offset by companies in which we invest and to redemptions from our QEP range.
These maintain the highest standards ourselves.
outflows were driven by institutional clients Client-centric behaviour is inherent in diversifying their portfolios and in most our values and culture and we expect our cases we have maintained significant client people to act with integrity and recognise relationships.
We also saw redemptions from the importance of this to our clients, who commodities as the asset class continued trust us with the management of their assets.
to be out of favour with investors.
Market intelligence In the rapidly evolving landscape for asset management, we continue to believe that firms who design their product offerings to meet ongoing shifts in client demand will have a key strategic advantage over the next decade.
To help achieve this, we established a Market Intelligence team in 2015 to integrate our analysis of global market trends and client insights.
The team comprises individuals with data science, investment and product development expertise to ensure a robust, research based approach to product development and marketing activities.
30 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review European equities European equities saw strong demand from intermediary clients through 2015, attracting net new business of 2.1 billion.
Asset Management Wealth Management Total net new business in Asset Management Wealth Management assets under was 13.1 billion 2014: 24.3 billion, management increased to 31.6 billion comprising 8.8 billion in Institutional 2014: 31.1 billion.
Despite positive net and 4.3billion in Intermediary.
new business in the UK and Asia Pacific, net outflows were 0.1 billion 2014: 0.5 billion Institutional saw good levels of gross flows inflows, principally due to redemptions from at 32.0 billion.
Net new business was cash administration and custody mandates concentrated in Fixed Income and Multi-asset in Switzerland.
and, by region, in Asia Pacific and the UK.
Total assets under management in Institutional Net revenue in Wealth Management increased 6 per cent.
was 207.2 million 2014: 213.5 million, including performance fees of 0.6 million Intermediary also generated good levels 2014: 2.9million.
Underlying revenues of gross flows in 2015 at 46.6 billion.
We were up in 2015 as revenue in 2014 included generated net inflows across Fixed Income, 9.0million from performance fees and the Equities and Multi-asset, despite challenging release of a loan loss provision.
Profit before market conditions weighing on investor tax and exceptional items was 61.3 million sentiment across the industry in the second 2014: 61.7 million.
Assets under management in Intermediary increased 3 per cent.
The Group segment comprises returns on investment capital, including seed capital Asset Management generated net revenue of deployed in building a track record in new 1,412.5 million in 2015 2014: 1,308.3million, investment strategies, and central costs.
including performance fees of 35.7million Net revenue in 2015 was 38.8 million 2014: 2014: 34.2 million.
Asset Management 27.7 million and costs were 30.9million profit before tax and exceptional items was 2014: 23.5 million.
generated profit before tax andexceptional items of 7.9 million 2014: 4.2 million.
2016 outlook and priorities We will continue to focus on providing Wealth investment solutions to meet the Total Institutional Intermediary Management bn bn bn bn requirements of our institutional, 1 January 2015 300.0 171.1 97.8 31.1 intermediary and private clients.
Gross inflows 84.1 32.0 46.6 5.5 Gross outflows 71.1 23.2 42.3 5.6 In an environment of declining fees for asset Net flows 13.0 8.8 4.3 0.1 managers we will seek to build scale in major Investment returns 0.5 1.1 1.2 0.6 asset classes, while continuing to diversify 31 December 2015 313.5 181.0 100.9 31.6 sources of revenue by region and asset class.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31
