Strategic Report Business Review Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that Business Model long term investment considerations merit the Company taking a Business and Status geared position.
Apart from in exceptional market conditions the The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Company will not take out additional borrowings if, at the time of section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on business borrowing, this takes the level of gearing beyond 30% calculated as an investment trust.
Investment trusts are UK public listed in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies companies and their shares are traded on the London Stock AIC guidelines.
In any event, the Company will not exceed the Exchange.
They invest in a portfolio of assets in order to spread limit on borrowings set out in its Articles of Association, which risk.
The Company has a fixed amount of share capital although provide that the amount of all the Companys borrowings shall subject to shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of its own shares or issue shares.
The price of the Companys shares shareholders, exceed one half of the aggregate issued and fully is determined, like other listed shares, by supply and demand.
paid share capital and capital reserves of the Company and, in The Company has been approved as an investment trust by HM addition, that the Company may from time to time borrow for Revenue & Customs subject to the Company continuing to meet temporary purposes sums not exceeding 20% of the Companys the eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the issued and fully paid share capital.
Company has continued to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to The Managers Core Investment Beliefs with respect to the comply with the ongoing requirements of section 1158 of the Company are set out on page 14.
Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF for the in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and the Managers purposes of the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Review on pages 9 to 14.
A detailed analysis of the Companys Directive.
investment portfolio is set out on pages 16 to 20.
Investment Objective Discount Premium Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an investment trust.
The Company has powers to buy back its own shares at a The objective is to maximise total return from a portfolio of long discount to net asset value and to hold such shares in treasury as term investments chosen on a global basis whilst also generating well as to sell treasury shares at a premium to net asset value.
The Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of Investment Policy shareholders to manage discount volatility and believes that the Investment is predominantly in equities.
The number of equity prime driver of discounts over the longer term is performance.
holdings will typically range between 50 and 100 and the portfolio The Board does not have a formal discount target at which can be relatively concentrated.
Achieving diversification is a shares will be bought back as it believes that the announcement requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained of specific targets is likely to hinder rather than help the successful approach is adopted and there are no fixed limits set as to execution of a buyback policy.
geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Portfolio During the year the Company bought back a total of 6,625,000 concentration and levels of diversity are monitored by the Board shares, into treasury after adjusting for the share split.
The maximum investment in any one holding is 1 April 2015 and the date of this report no further shares have limited to 8% of total assets at the time of purchase.
A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is During the year the Company sold 25,600,000 shares from paid to short term market trends when deciding strategy.
This treasury at a premium to the net asset value.
Between 1 April patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to 2015 and 8 May 2015 a further 15,250,000 shares were sold shareholders long term advantage.
An average holding period for from treasury at a premium to net asset value.
investments of five years or more is targeted.
Performance The primary investment focus is on quoted equities predominantly At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of with good liquidity.
Investment may also be made in fixed interest performance measures to assess the Companys success in securities, convertible securities, funds, unquoted entities and achieving its objectives.
other assets based on the individual investment case.
With prior approval of the Board, the Company may use derivatives for the Key Performance Indicators purpose of efficient portfolio management for the purpose of The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in its progress and performance of the Company over time are investment portfolio, including protection against currency risk established industry measures and are as follows: and for investment purposes.
The maximum permitted investment in other UK listed investment companies in aggregate is 15% of the movement in net asset value per ordinary share after gross assets.
deducting borrowings at fair value : The Company aims to achieve a greater return than the FTSE the movement in the share price: All-World Index in sterling terms over a five year rolling period or the movement of net asset value and share price performance longer.
This benchmark is a reference point for considering compared to the Benchmark: performance and emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
the premium discount after deducting borrowings at fair value : The portfolio does not set out to reproduce the index and there will be periods when performance diverges significantly from the benchmark.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 07 Strategic Report ongoing charges ratio: Premium Discount Volatility the premium discount at which the Companys shares trade can change.
The Board monitors the revenue return: and level of premium discount and the Company has authority to sell dividend per share.
shares held in treasury and buy back its own shares.
The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on Leverage Risk the Company may borrow money for investment pages 5, 6 and 21. purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not In addition to the above, the Board considers performance renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay against other companies within the AIC Global Sector.
Borrowings All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and There are four debentures in issue, all of which are listed and leverage levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at quoted on the London Stock Exchange and details of which are every meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in given on pages 47 to 48 and 53 to 55.
In addition, loan facilities quoted securities that are readily realisable.
Further information on are in place which are also shown on page 47. leverage can be found in note 22 on page 55 and the Glossary of During the year the 1 year US$150 million loan with State Street Terms on page 63. was repaid and replaced with a 1 year US$165 million loan and a Employees, Human Rights and Community Issues 2 year US$50 million loan from State Street.
The 3 year US$163 As the Company has no employees, all its Directors are nonmillion loan with National Australia Bank NAB was repaid and executive and all its functions are outsourced, there are no replaced with a 2 year US$200 million loan with NAB.
The 2 year disclosures to be made in respect of employees, human rights 61 million loan with The Royal Bank of Scotland RBS was and community issues.
repaid and replaced with a 3 year US$85 million loan with RBS.
Subsequent to the year end, the US$165 million 1 year loan with Gender Representation State Street was repaid on 10 April 2015 and replaced with a The Board comprises six Directors, four male and two female.
US$165 million 1 year loan with RBS.
The Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out on pages 27 to 28.
Principal Risks As explained on page 28 there is an ongoing process for Environmental, Social and Governance Policy identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment Company.
The principal risks associated with the Company are as can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on follows: page 29.
Financial Risk the Companys assets consist mainly of listed Future Developments of the Company securities and its principal risks are therefore market related and The outlook for the Company is set out in the Chairmans include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and Statement on pages 2 to 4 and the Managers Report on pages other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of 9 to 13. those risks and how they are managed is contained in note 21 to the financial statements on pages 50 to 55.
Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements such as the tax rules for investment companies, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties, a qualified audit report or the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
Baillie Giffords Business Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance Departments provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on Baillie Giffords monitoring programmes.
Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate compliance burdens on the Company.
In such circumstances representation is made to ensure that the special circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
Operational Risk failure of Baillie Giffords accounting systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation of assets.
Baillie Gifford have a comprehensive business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of the business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
The Board reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other key third party providers are reviewed by the Managers on behalf of the Board.
