Business review The strategic report on pages 5 to 28 has Principal activity iii Early-stage companies, which are been prepared to help shareholders The Company carries on business as an likely to include both quoted and assess how the Company has investment trust and its principal activity is unquoted companies performed, to understand its objectives investment in quoted and unquoted equities To acknowledge the Company's evolving and policies.
The strategic report has of companies incorporated or listed structure the Company's portfolio is been prepared in accordance with the predominantly in the United Kingdom, with a generally expected to reflect the following requirements of Section 414 A-D of the view to achieving the Companys investment asset allocation: Companies Act 2006 and best practice.
Investment companies are a way i Between 15 and 30% invested in mid The business review section of the for investors to make a single investment and large-capitalisation listed, strategic report discloses the Companys that gives a share in a much larger portfolio.
mature companies risks and uncertainties as identified by A type of collective investment, they allow ii Between 15 and 30% invested in the Board, the key performance investors to spread risk and diversify in early-growth companies indicators used by the Board to measure investment opportunities which may not iii Between 40 and 70% invested in the Companys performance, the otherwise be easily accessible to them.
For early-stage companies strategies used to implement the more information: theaic.
co. uk guide-toHowever, the actual portfolio composition Companys objectives, the Companys investment-companies at any one time will reflect the opportunities environmental, social and ethical policy available to the portfolio manager, the and the Companys future developments.
Strategy and investment policy performance of the underlying investee The Companys investment objective is to companies and the maturity of the portfolio.
achieve long-term capital growth through investing in a portfolio consisting The Company's portfolio is expected to predominantly of UK companies, both consist of 50-100 holdings.
The Company quoted and unquoted.
may become a significant shareholder in any of the underlying portfolio companies.
The Company will aim to deliver a return in excess of 10% per annum over the Investment restrictions longer term.
The Company is subject to the following This is a target only, not a profit forecast, investment restrictions: and there can be no assurance that it i Investment in unquoted companies will will be met.
be limited to 60% of net asset value at the time of investment The Companys portfolio is constructed on ii Investment in non-UK companies will the basis of an assessment of the be limited to 30% of net asset value at fundamental value of individual securities the time of investment and is not structured on the basis of sector iii The Companys portfolio shall be weightings.
The Companys portfolio is invested in a minimum of 40 holdings diversified across a number of sectors and, iv The Company shall not invest more than while there are no specific limits placed on 10% of its net asset value at the time exposure to any one sector, the Company of investment in an investee company, will at all times invest and manage the save that the portfolio manager may portfolio in a manner consistent with make further investments into an spreading investment risk.
investee company subject to an aggregate investment limit in any The Companys investment policy is as follows: investee company of 15% of net asset value at the time of investment Asset allocation and risk diversification v The Company may invest in other The Company will invest in a diversified investment funds, including listed closed-ended investment funds, to gain portfolio consisting predominantly of UK investment exposure but such companies, both quoted and unquoted.
investment will be unleveraged and other than in relation to investment The Company will invest in: in money market funds for the purposes i Mid and large-capitalisation listed, of cash management limited, in mature companies aggregate, to 10% of net asset value ii Early-growth companies, which are at the time of investment typically quoted although may be vi The Company shall not have exposure unquoted companies of more than 10% of net asset value, at the time of investment, to any one issuer 22 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Borrowing firm, to obtain assistance, advice, assurance, Limited, acting as AIFM, and Duff & Phelps.
The Company does not intend to deploy and documentation in relation to the ongoing Any specific considerations that arise are long-term gearing but may employ gearing valuation process.
discussed with the portfolio manager's of up to 20% of net asset value, calculated finance team and adjustments made to fair at the time of borrowing, for the The portfolio manager seeks to mitigate any values if appropriate.
Where the Pricing purpose of capital flexibility, including for conflicts of interest in the valuation process by Committee considers such an adjustment to investment purposes.
clearly segregating responsibilities in order be material, the portfolio manager will inform to ensure independence in the process.
the Board of the nature and reasons for the The Board oversees the level of gearing in adjustment.
the Company, and reviews the position with The portfolio manager considers it impractical the portfolio manager on a regular basis.
As at to perform an in-depth valuation analysis Business model the year end the Company was not geared.
for every unquoted investment on a daily The management of the Companys assets basis whether internally or with the and the Companys administration has been Hedging assistance of an independent third party.
outsourced to third-party service providers.
The Company may use derivatives for the Therefore, it is expected that an in-depth Further details of each service provider can purposes of hedging any currency risk to valuation of each investment will be be found on page 24.
The Board has oversight which the Company may be subject but will performed independently by Duff & Phelps of the key elements of the Companys not use derivatives for investment purposes.
i at the time of initial investment, ii with strategy, including the following: During the period under review the a semi-annual frequency thereafter, and The Companys level of gearing.
The Company hedged its exposure to Euro iii as required where the portfolio manager Company has a maximum limit of 20% of currency denominated holdings in the determines that a 'Triggering Event' has net asset value at the time of borrowing portfolio using forward currency contracts.
as detailed in the Companys prospectus No other derivatives were employed during The Companys investment policy which the period.
A Triggering Event may include any of the determines the diversity of the following: Company's portfolio.
The Board sets Cash management A subsequent round of financing limits and restrictions with the aim of While it is intended that the Company will whether pro-rata or otherwise by the reducing risk and maximising returns be fully invested in normal market conditions, relevant investee company: The appointment, amendment or the Company may hold cash on deposit A significant or material milestone removal of the Companys third-party or invest on a temporary basis in a range achieved by the relevant investee service providers of debt securities and cash equivalent company: An effective system of oversight over instruments.
There is no restriction on A secondary transaction involving the the Companys risk management and the amount of cash or cash equivalent relevant investee company on which corporate governance instruments that the Company may hold and sufficient information is available: Premium discount control mechanism.
there may be times when it is appropriate A change in the makeup of the The Board compares the Companys for the Company to have a significant cash management of the relevant investee share price against its then prevailing position instead of being fully or near fully company: net asset value.
As at the year end the Company A material change in the recent financial held 1.48% of its assets in cash.
performance or expected future In order to effectively undertake its duties financial performance of the relevant the Board may seek expert legal advice.
Unquoted Securities Valuation Policy investee company: It also can call upon the advice of the The Company has amended its Unquoted A material change in the market company secretary.
During the period under Securities Valuation Policy to continue to environment in which the relevant review the Board appointed Stephenson provide an objective, consistent and investee company operates: or Harwood LLP to advise on the Companys transparent basis for estimating the fair value A significant movement in market indices Initial Public Offering prior to the Companys of unquoted equity securities in accordance or economic indicators.
listing on 21 April 2015 and to provide with International Financial Reporting ongoing legal services to the Company.
Standards as well as International Private Once a valuation review has been Equity and Venture Capital Valuation established fair value will be assumed to Future developments Guidelines.
be representative of fair value each Business The Companys future developments and Day until the next valuation review is outlook are discussed in more detail in the The Unquoted Securities Valuation Policy performed by Duff & Phelps.
Chairmans statement and the and the portfolio manager's valuation manager's review.
procedures are subject to review on a regular Once completed, the valuations are basis, and updated as appropriate, in line submitted to the Pricing Committee for Premium Discount management with industry best practice.
The Pricing Committee comprises The Board closely monitors the premium portfolio manager works with Duff & Phelps representatives from each of the portfolio or discount at which the Companys ordinary Ltd, an independent third-party valuation manager, Capita Financial Managers shares trade in relation to the Companys Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 23 underlying net asset value and takes action Corporate and operational structure Donations accordingly.
During the period under review Operational and portfolio management The Company made no political or the Companys ordinary shares traded The Company has outsourced its operations charitable donations during the period predominantly at a premium to its and portfolio management to various service under review to organisations either within providers as detailed below: underlying net asset value throughout or outside the EU.
Capita Financial Managers Limited has the period.
The Board is of the view that been appointed as the Companys an increase of the Companys ordinary Environment, social, human rights, manager for the purposes of the shares in issue provides benefits to community and employee issues Alternative Investment Fund Manager's shareholders, including a reduction in the The Board has high standards on all issues Directive AIFMD Woodford Companys administrative expenses on a that concern the environment, social Investment Management LLP has been per share basis and increased liquidity in the matters, human rights, community and appointed to act as the Companys Companys shares.
In order to satisfy natural employees.
The Company has no employees portfolio manager demand in the market during the period the and all of its Board members are Capita Company Secretarial Services Board authorised the issue of 27 million non-executive.
There are therefore no Limited has been appointed to act as the shares by way of a tap issue.
disclosures to be made in respect of Companys company secretary employees.
The Board has delegated the Northern Trust Global Services Limited The Board is seeking to renew its authority Companys day-to-day operations and has been appointed to act as the to issue ordinary shares at the forthcoming investment decisions to third-party service Companys investment accountant, Annual General Meeting.
In particular, as mentioned above, administrator and depositary the Companys manager, Capita Financial Duff & Phelps Limited has been The Board believes that it is in shareholders Managers Limited, has appointed Woodford appointed to value the Companys best interest to prevent the Companys Investment Management LLP to act as the unquoted holdings shares trading at a discount to net asset Companys portfolio manager.
The portfolio Capita Registrars Limited has been value because shareholders will be unable manager considers, amongst other things, appointed as the Companys registrar to realise the full value of their investments.
the environment, social and human rights, Winterflood Investment Trusts a employee and community implications of division of Winterflood Securities As a means of controlling the discount at the companies within which it invests the Limited has been appointed to act which the shares may, from time to time, Companys assets.
The Board is provided as the Companys corporate broker trade, the Board has vested powers to with detailed information on each of the and financial adviser buy back ordinary shares up to a maximum Companys underlying holdings on a regular Kinetic Partners, a Division of Duff & of 14.99% of the shares issued following basis.
It has regular meetings with Phelps has been appointed to act as the Initial Public Offering, which equates members of the investment management the Companys tax adviser to 119.92 million shares.
This authority will team who provide them with detailed expire at the conclusion of the Companys feedback on the affairs of the Companys In addition to the above, the Company has first Annual General Meeting.
As the underlying holdings and can direct that been provided with legal advice for the Companys shares traded predominantly at action is taken to bear pressure on the work undertaken in respect of the Initial a premium to net asset value throughout companies with which the portfolio manager Public Offering and in respect of various the period under review, no repurchases invests on behalf of the Company to ensure of its unquoted investments.
At the forthcoming the highest standards are maintained.
The Annual General Meeting the Board is seeking portfolio manager exercises its votes at Alternative Investment Fund Managers to renew these powers.
the shareholders meetings of the Companys Directive AIFMD underlying holdings.
In addition the portfolio In accordance with the Alternative The full text of the authority to buy back manager meets with the boards of many Investment Fund Managers Directive, the shares or issue shares can be found in the of the Companys underlying holdings to Company has appointed Capita Financial Notice of AGM.
direct management towards high standards Managers Limited to act as the Companys with regard to each companys approach manager for the purposes of the AIFMD.
Board diversity to social, environmental, human rights, The manager has in turn appointed The Board consists of four non-executive community and employee matters.
Woodford Investment Management LLP to directors, two of whom are female.
The act as its portfolio manager to manage the Board seeks to appoint new directors on Companys assets.
The manager monitors the basis of merit as a primary the portfolio manager of the Company and consideration, with the aim of bringing an ensures that the Companys assets are appropriate range of skills and experience together.
valued appropriately in accordance with the relevant regulations and guidance.
In addition the Company has appointed Northern Trust Global Services Limited as depositary, to provide custody services to the Company as required by the AIFMD.
24 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 25
