235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:32 Page 18 Business Review The Directors present their Strategic Report for the Company Investment Objective, Policy and Benchmark, for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The Strategic Report, set incorporating the investment and derivative guidelines and out on pages 1 to 22, contains a review of the Companys limits, and changes to these: business model and strategy, an analysis of its performance maximum level of gearing the Company may employ: during the financial year and its future developments and review of performance against the Companys KPIs: details of the principal risks and challenges it faces.
Its review of the performance and continuing appointment of purpose is to inform the shareholders in the Company and service providers: and help them to assess how the Directors have performed their maintenance of an effective system of oversight, risk duty to promote the success of the Company.
Business Model The Investment Objective, Policy, and Benchmark, including The Company is an externally managed investment trust and the related limits and guidelines, are set out on pages 6 and its shares are premium listed on the Official List and traded 7, along with details of the gearing levels allowed.
on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Details of the principal KPIs and further information on the The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under principal service providers, their performance and continuing the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Manager appointment, along with details of the principal risks, and Directive AIFMD and has appointed Frostrow Capital LLP how they are managed, follow within this Business Review.
as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
The Corporate Governance report, on pages 30 to 37, As an externally managed investment trust all of the Companys includes a statement of compliance with corporate day to day management and administrative functions are governance codes and best practice, together with the outsourced to service providers.
As a result, the Company has outline of the internal control and risk management no executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
framework within which the Board operates.
The Board The Board of the Company comprises Sir Martin Smith Key Performance Indicators KPI Chairman, Sarah Bates, Jo Dixon, Dr David Holbrook, To ensure an attractive share price total return the Board Samuel D. Isaly and Doug McCutcheon.
All of these Directors monitors the following KPIs.
Further details of the KPIs, served throughout the year and are non-executive including a five year history, can be seen in the Company independent Directors, except for Samuel D. Isaly who is Performance section on pages 1 and 2. deemed not to be independent due to his role at OrbiMed.
Net asset value NAV per share total return against the Further information on the Directors can be found on Benchmark: pages 23 and 24.
Discount premium of share price to NAV per share: and All Directors seek election or re-election by shareholders at Ongoing charges ratio.
NAV per share total return against the Benchmark Board Focus and Responsibilities The Directors regard the Companys NAV per share total With the day to day management of the Company outsourced return as being the overall measure of value delivered to to service providers the Boards primary focus at each Board shareholders over the long term.
This reflects both net asset meeting is reviewing the investment performance and value growth of the Company and dividends paid associated matters, such as, inter alia, future outlook and to shareholders.
strategy, gearing, asset allocation, investor relations, The Board considers the most important comparator, against marketing, and industry issues.
which to assess the NAV per share total return performance, In line with its primary focus, the Board retains responsibility to be the MSCI World Health Care Index measured on a net for all the key elements of the Companys strategy and total return, sterling adjusted basis.
As noted on page 6 business model, including: Frostrow and OrbiMed have flexibility in managing the investments and are not limited by the constraints of the Benchmark.
As a result, investment decisions may be made Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 18 235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:32 Page 19 1 Strategic Report Business Review continued that differentiate the Company from the Benchmark and Portfolio Manager therefore the Companys performance may also be different OrbiMed under the terms of its portfolio management to that of the Benchmark.
agreement with the AIFM and the Company provides, inter alia, the following services: A full description of performance during the year under the seeking out and evaluating of investment review and the portfolio is contained in the Portfolio Managers opportunities: Review commencing on page 12 of this annual report.
recommending the manner by which monies should be Share price discount premium to NAV per share invested, disinvested, retained or realised: The share price discount premium to NAV per share is advising on how rights conferred by the investments considered a key indicator of performance as it impacts the should be exercised: share price total return of shareholders and can provide an analysing the performance of investments made: and indication of how investors view the Companys performance advising the Company in relation to trends, market and its Investment Objective.
movements and other matters which may affect the Ongoing charges ratio investment objective and policy of the Company.
The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works OrbiMed receive a base fee of 0.65% of NAV and a hard to maintain a balance between good quality service and performance fee of 15% of outperformance against the costs.
Benchmark as detailed on pages 26 and 27.
Principal Service Providers Depositary and Prime Broker The principal service providers to the Company are the AIFM, During the year the Company appointed J. P. Morgan Europe Frostrow Capital LLP Frostrow, the Portfolio Manager, Limited as its Depositary and J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp as OrbiMed Capital LLC OrbiMed, and the Prime Broker Prime Broker.
These new arrangements replaced the J. P. Morgan Chase Clearing Corp.
Details of their key Companys existing custody and prime brokerage responsibilities follow and further information on their arrangements with Goldman Sachs & Co. contractual arrangements with the Company are included in J. P. Morgan Europe Limited has discharged certain of its the Report of the Directors commencing on page 25. liabilities as Depositary to J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp. Further details of this arrangement are set out on page 27.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp, as Prime Broker, provides the As reported in the half year report the Company has following services under its agreement with the Company: appointed Frostrow as its AIFM.
Frostrow under the terms of its AIFM agreement with the Company provides, inter alia, the safekeeping and custody of the Companys investments following services: and cash: risk management services: processing of transactions: marketing and shareholder services: provision of an overdraft facility.
Assets to 140% of the value of the outstanding overdraft can be taken as administrative and secretarial services: collateral.
Such assets may be used by the Prime Broker advice and guidance in respect of corporate governance and such use may include being loaned, sold, requirements: rehypothecated or transferred by the Prime Broker: and maintains the Companys accounting records: foreign exchange services.
prepares and dispatches the annual and half year reports J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, as Depositary, must take and monthly factsheets: and reasonable care to ensure that the Company is managed in ensures compliance with applicable tax, legal and accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Investment regulatory requirements.
Funds Sourcebook, the AIFMD and the Companys Articles of Frostrow charge a variable base fee, which is dependent on Association.
The Depositary must in the context of this role the size of the Company as described on page 26 and a act honestly, fairly, professionally, independently and in the performance fee of 1.5% of outperformance against the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Benchmark as set out on pages 26 and 27.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 19 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:32 Page 20 The Depositary receives a variable fee based on the size of Principal Risks the Company as set out on page 27.
In fulfilling its oversight and risk management responsibilities the Board maintains a framework of key risks Performance and Future Developments which affect the Company and the related internal controls An outline of performance, investment activity and strategy, designed to enable the Directors to manage mitigate these and market background during the year, as well as the future risks as appropriate.
The principal risks can be categorised outlook, is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 under the following broad headings: to 5 and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 12 to 14.
Investment including leverage risks : It is expected that the Companys strategy will remain Financial: unchanged in the coming year.
Operational including corporate governance, accounting, The continuation vote proposed to shareholders at the 2014 legal, cyber security and regulatory risks : and AGM was passed.
The next continuation vote will be put to Shareholder relations and share price performance.
shareholders at the AGM to be held in 2019.
Further information on the internal control and the risk AIFM and Portfolio Manager Evaluation and management framework can be found below.
The following Re-Appointment section details the risks the Board consider to be the most The performance of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager is significant to the Company under these headings.
reviewed continuously by the Board and the Companys Investment Risks Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee the The Company is invested in market securities, as a result of Committee with a formal evaluation being undertaken each which it has exposure to the risk of changes in market prices.
As part of this process, the Committee monitors the A significant proportion of the Companys assets is, and will services provided by the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager and continue to be, invested in securities denominated in foreign receives regular reports and views from them.
The Committee currencies, in particular U. S. dollars.
As the Companys also receives comprehensive performance measurement shares are denominated and traded in sterling, the return to reports to enable it to determine whether or not the shareholders will be affected by changes in the value of performance objectives set by the Board have been met.
The sterling relative to those foreign currencies.
Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the appointment of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager in February 2015 with a The use of leverage by the Company will amplify any gains or recommendation being made to the Board.
losses on positions financed through leverage.
The Board believes the continuing appointment of the AIFM To manage these risks, the Board has imposed various and the Portfolio Manager, under the terms described in the limits and guidelines, set out on pages 6 and 7.
The Report of the Directors on pages 26 and 27, is in the interests compliance with those limits and guidelines is monitored of shareholders as a whole.
In coming to this decision, it took daily by Frostrow and OrbiMed and reported to the Board into consideration, inter alia, the following: monthly.
In addition OrbiMed reports at each Board meeting on the performance of the Companys portfolio, the quality of the service provided and the quality depth which encompasses the rationale for stock selection of experience of the company management, company decisions, the make-up of the portfolio, potential new secretarial, administrative and marketing team that the holdings and, derivative activity and strategy further AIFM allocates to the management of the Company: and details on derivatives can be found in note 18 on page 63. the quality of the service provided and the quality and The Company does not currently hedge against currency depth of experience allocated by the Portfolio Manager to exposure.
the management of the portfolio and the level of performance of the portfolio in absolute terms and by Financial Risks reference to the benchmark index.
In addition to market and foreign currency risks, discussed above, the Company is exposed to credit risk arising from the use of counterparties.
If a counterparty were to fail, the Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 20 235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:32 Page 21 1 Strategic Report Business Review continued Company could be adversely affected through either delay in receives a monthly compliance report from Frostrow, settlement or loss of assets.
which includes, inter alia, details of compliance with applicable laws and regulations: The most significant counterparty the Company is exposed to is reviews internal control reports, key policies, including J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp which is responsible for the measures taken to combat cyber security issues, and also safekeeping of the Companys assets and provides the overdraft disaster recovery procedures of its service providers: facility to the Company.
As part of the arrangements with J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp they may take assets, up to 140% of the maintains a risk matrix with details of risks the Company value of the drawn overdraft, as collateral and have first priority is exposed to, the controls relied on to manage those risks security interest or lien over all of the Companys assets.
Such and the frequency of the controls operation: and assets taken as collateral may be used, loaned, sold, receives updates on pending changes to the regulatory rehypothecated or transferred by J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp, and legal environment and progress towards the although the Company maintains the economic benefits from Companys compliance with these.
the ownership of those assets it does not hold any of the rights associated with those assets.
The Company is afforded Shareholder Relations and Share Price Performance Risks protection under both the SEC rules and U. S. legislation equal The Company is also exposed to the risk, particularly if the to the value of the assets held by J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp. investment strategy and approach are unsuccessful, that the Company may underperform resulting in the Company Credit risk is managed by the Board through: becoming unattractive to investors and a widening of the reviews of the arrangements with, and services provided share price discount to NAV per share.
by, the Depositary and Prime Broker to ensure that the security of the Companys assets is being maintained.
In managing this risk the Board: Legal opinions are sought, where appropriate, as part of reviews the Companys Investment Objective in relation to this review: market, and economic, conditions and the operation of the monitoring of the assets taken as collateral further Companys peers: details can be found in note 18 on page 66 : discussions are held at each Board meeting concerning reviews of OrbiMeds approved list of counterparties, the the Companys future development and strategy: Companys use of those counterparties and OrbiMeds reviews the shareholder register at each Board meeting: process for monitoring, and adding to, the approved actively seeks to promote the Company to current and counterparty list: potential investors: and, monitoring of counterparties, including reviews of internal has implemented a discount control mechanism.
control reports and credit ratings, as appropriate: and by only investing in markets that operate DVP Delivery The operation of the discount control mechanism and Versus Payment settlement.
The process of DVP Company promotional activities have been delegated to mitigates the risk of losing the principal of a trade during Frostrow, who report to the Board at each Board meeting on the settlement process.
Further information on the use of financial instruments and Company Promotion their risks, including credit risk, can be found in note 18 The aim of the Companys promotional activities is to beginning on page 63. encourage demand for the Companys shares.
The Company Operational Risks has appointed Frostrow to provide marketing services, in the The Board is reliant on the systems of the Companys service belief that a well-marketed investment company is more likely providers and as such disruption to, or a failure of, those to grow over time, have a more diverse and stable shareholder systems could lead to a failure to comply with law and register and will trade at a superior rating to its peers.
regulations leading to reputational damage and or financial Frostrow actively promotes the Company in the following ways: loss to the Company.
Engaging regularly with institutional investors, discretionary To manage these risks the Board: wealth managers and a range of execution-only platforms: Frostrow regularly talks and meets with institutional Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 21 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:32 Page 22 investors, discretionary wealth managers and execution-only In recent years the Companys successful performance has platform providers to discuss the Companys strategy and to generated substantial investor interest.
Whenever there are understand any issues and concerns, covering both unsatisfied buying orders for the Companys shares in the investment and corporate governance matters: market, the Company is able to issue new shares at a small premium to the cum income NAV per share.
This ensures Making Company information more accessible: Frostrow that there is no asset dilution to existing shareholders and works to raise the profile of the Company by targeting key stops the market price going to a significant and possibly groups within the investment community, holding annual unsustainable premium.
investment seminars, overseeing PR output and managing the Companys website and wider digital offering, including Details of share buy-backs and issuance are set out on Portfolio Manager webcasts and social media.
Frostrow also page 25. manages the investor database and produces all key Investment Trends and Outlook the Viability corporate documents, distributes Monthly Factsheets, Annual Reports and updates from OrbiMed on portfolio and of the Company market developments: and OrbiMed continues to believe that the fundamentals of the healthcare sector, namely: new product launches: strong Monitoring market activity, acting as a link between the product pipelines: continued levels of innovation: the net Company, shareholders and other stakeholders: Frostrow positive impact of the Affordable Care Act in the U. S. : and maintains regular contact with sector Broker Analysts and continued merger and acquisition activity will be key drivers other research and data providers, and conducts periodic for growth in the years to come.
investor perception surveys, liaising with the Board to provide up-to-date and accurate information on the latest The Directors continue to believe that the healthcare sector shareholder and market developments.
together with OrbiMeds investment strategy will provide good returns for the long-term investor and therefore that Discount Control Mechanism DCM the Company and its Investment Objective and Policy will The Board undertakes a regular review of the level of continue to be viable for the foreseeable future.
discount premium and consideration is given to ways in which share price performance may be enhanced, including Board Diversity the effectiveness of marketing, share issuance and share The Company is supportive of the recommendations of Lord buy-backs, where appropriate.
Davies Report that the performance of corporate boards can be improved by encouraging the appointment of the best The Board implemented the DCM in 2004.
This established a people from a range of differing perspectives and target level of no more than a 6% share price discount to the backgrounds.
The Company recognises the benefits of ex-income NAV per share.
diversity on the Board, including gender, and takes this into Under the DCM, the Companys shares being offered on the account in its Board appointments.
The Company is stock market, when the discount reaches a level of 6% or committed to ensuring that any Director search process more, may be bought back and held as treasury shares See actively seeks persons with the right qualifications so that Glossary on page 71.
Treasury shares can be sold back to appointments can be made on the basis of merit against the market at a later date at a discount narrower than that at objective criteria from a diverse selection of candidates.
To which they were bought and no greater than a 5% discount to this end the Board will consider diversity during any Director the cum income NAV per share.
There are currently four male and two female Shareholders should note, however, that it remains possible Directors on the Board.
for the share price discount to the NAV per share to be This Strategic Report on pages 1 to 22 has been signed for greater than 6% on any one day.
This is due to the fact that and on behalf of the Board the share price continues to be influenced by overall supply and demand for the Companys shares in the secondary market.
The volatility of the NAV per share in an asset class Sir Martin Smith such as healthcare is another factor over which the Board Chairman has no control.
24 June 2015 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 22
