Melrose Industries PLC 06 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Business at a glance Melrose aims to create significant gains by increasing the value of the businesses currently owned through substantial investment, and by seeking to make suitable acquisitions which have attractive potential rewards.
profit made by improved acquisition performance Melrose Strategic Elster Gas Elster Gas meters, systems and Industries acquisitions process heat control technology are deployed all over the world.
PLC Elster Gas is the world number one in gas metering and the joint world number one in gas safety control equipment.
Executive Board Melrose buys good Elster Electricity Melrose is led by a management Elster Electricity meters, manufacturing businesses team which has a strong track record communications and energy with strong fundamentals, management platforms are in the successful implementation of whose performance can be engineered for residential, a disciplined strategy.
Melrose finances markets, and interchange its acquisitions using a low metering applications.
Melrose level of leverage, improves Group the businesses by a mixture Pro t generated of investment and changed Elster Water management focus, sells Elster Water engineers award-winning metering and them and returns the communication systems for proceeds to shareholders.
water utilities and industries to meet the demands of an expanding and increasingly connected global community.
Melrose management Energy team own a substantial shareholding in World number one independent supplier of turbogenerators and leading the Company supplier of other electricity generating machinery, switchgear, transformers, power infrastructure equipment, aftermarket and product support Board of Directors Our strategy services for the power generation, More information p62 More information p16 Returns to industrial, oil & gas and offshore sectors.
shareholders Governance Corporate Social Responsibility More information p58 More information p50 The Board of Directors remains committed to maintaining the Melrose believes good corporate social responsibility makes high standards of corporate governance required to ensure the good business sense through supporting the development Company can continue to deliver its long-term strategic goals of employees, developing and maintaining close ties with for shareholders.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC 07 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 2014 Group revenue 1.
Energy 2 327.3m profit made by improved acquisition performance Revenue by geographical 4 destination 1.
RoW 2% 1 2 687.0m Gas Revenue by geographical destination 1.
RoW 19% 215.7m Electricity Melrose 2 Group Pro t generated Revenue by geographical destination 1.
RoW 35% 147.5m 3 Water 2 Melrose management Revenue by geographical team own a substantial 4 destination 1.
Europe 52% shareholding in Year ended 31 December 2014 3 2.
RoW 10% 327.3m 2 Energy Returns to shareholders Performance Review More information p26 Melrose is not a passive investor in the businesses it acquires.
Our Directors and senior management team have a hands-on relationship with each acquired company and work closely with them to develop the long-term strategic plans of the business.
