Mitchells & Butlers at a glance We love building innovative brands and formats and run some of the countrys best-known restaurants and pubs.
So whether youre in the mood for an unlimited hearty breakfast with your family close to home, or a pint and some tapas in a buzzing city centre restaurant, weve a business to suit every occasion.
Harvester Ember Inns Toby Carvery A welcoming place for families to spend Relaxed and welcoming suburban pubs, The home of the roast!
Every day, your local time together, have fun and share the where conversation flows.
We serve the Toby Carvery lays on a family-sized feast pleasure of good, honest food.
Enjoy our best cask ales and classic pub food with of tender, slow-cooked meats, eight lots 4.99 unlimited breakfast, free, unlimited a twist in stylish environments.
of veg including crispy, ruffled roasties and salad and fresh, tasty grilled meat and fish.
Youll find lots more on offer, such as tasty specials, all-you-can-eat breakfasts and even comfy accommodation at some of our restaurants.
Number of sites Number of sites Number of sites 213 130 158 Castle Heartland Nicholsons If you like your pint served with real A collection of the UKs friendliest pubs If you share our passion for real ale, hearty personality, pull up a chair in one of our and carveries.
What unites these pubs is food and a friendly welcome, youll feel eclectic urban pubs serving the best unbeatable value for money, generosity right at home at these traditional city draught beer and great pub food.
Enjoy the timeless is decidedly individual, with a character atmosphere thats been loved by groups to suit its community and an independence of friends, colleagues and shoppers since that attracts regulars as diverse and our first pub opened in 1873. discerning as the beers on tap.
Number of sites Number of sites Number of sites 110 440 80 4 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 Revenue by region FY 2014 % of sales excludes Orchid pubs 1 Total London 24 2 South East ex.
London 15 3 West Midlands 14 4 North West 9 9 5 Yorkshire Humberside 8 11 6 East of England 7 5 7 South West 7 4 8 8 East Midlands 5 3 6 10 9 Scotland 4 1 10 Wales 4 2 7 11 North East 3 All Bar One Miller & Carter Alex At All Bar One, weve been running stylish You will not experience a better steak than If youre out in a German city centre, these city bars in central locations since 1994. that at Miller & Carter.
We put everything classic bars and brasseries are the perfect Whether you want to catch up over into pursuing the perfect steak, from the places to stop for a beer and a bite to eat.
cocktails, share a bottle of well-chosen wine field to the butchers block to the grill, Soak up the sun in the outside eating or enjoy an excellent meal out, youll find so only the finest, most flavoursome cuts area and try the classic meals, salads and something, and somewhere, to suit you.
healthy snacks that have made Alex one of Germanys leading brands.
Number of sites Number of sites Number of sites 50 35 41 Browns Country Pubs Orchid Since the first Browns opened in 1973, its We are proud to manage over 300 of the In June 2014, we acquired 173 pubs been providing delicious food and drink in best country pubs in the UK, all offering from the Orchid Group.
These high quality, beautiful surroundings with superb service.
modern pub food and outstanding drinks well-located, largely freehold pubs expand Many are in unique landmark buildings, served with care and character by our teams.
our share of the growing UK branded pubs so you can enjoy classic seasonal food and restaurants market.
We will convert and signature cocktails in everything from 96 of these businesses to our brands and a stunning Mayfair ex-gentlemens club formats over the next two years.
to Bristols beautiful old city museum.
Number of sites Number of sites Number of sites 27 315 173 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5
