Governance 88 Corporate governance continued Highlights of initiatives monitored during the year Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment: The government of South Africa embarked on a legislated process to ensure the viable economic empowerment of all black people including women, workers, youth, people with disabilities and people living in rural areas, through diverse but integrated socio-economic strategies that include aspects such as ownership, management and control of productive assets: skills development: preferential procurement from enterprises that are owned or managed by black people: and investment in enterprises that are owned or managed by black people.
An independent assessment confirmed that Mondi again maintained its status as a level three contributor.
During the year a review was completed of the amended Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE Codes of Good Practice and its effects on Mondi Limited.
Sector Councils, including the Forestry Council which Mondi Limited is aligned with, have until 30 April 2015 to formulate and gazette revised and aligned Sector Codes, failing which the revised Generic Codes will be applied.
Environmental initiatives: In January 2014 Mondi and WWF International entered into a global partnership agreement which focuses on promoting environmental stewardship in the packaging and paper sectors.
This partnership builds on the work of the Mondi Wetlands Programme MWP established in 1991 by WWF and the Wildlife and Environment Society of South Africa WESSA with Mondi as its principal sponsor since 2001.
Odour-related issues At Richards Bay mill instability including due to power outages resulted in increased odour complaints in 2014.
Actions have been taken to improve the mills ability to cope with both internal and external outages.
Equipment will be commissioned during the March 2015 annual maintenance shut to further minimise the risk of outages.
FSC audit During 2014 our forestry operations achieved ISO 14001 environmental certification and in October, the Forest Stewardship Council FSC audit was also successfully completed with no non-compliances.
External recognition In October 2014 Massmart named Mondi its Environmental Supplier of the Year.
The award honours local suppliers for their ongoing commitment, exceptional performance and implementation of environmentally sustainable business practices.
In September 2014 WWFs Living Planet Report stated that Mondi has taken the lead in mapping, protecting and rehabilitating a critical wetland, allowing commercial tree plantations and the iSimangaliso Wetland Park, a World Heritage Site, to live side by side.
Social and economic development of forestry communities: Education Several community development initiatives focused on maths and science education at School and Tertiary level.
Through the Rural Education Access Programme REAP, an NGO established to assist academically able learners from poor rural backgrounds, more than 60 students are studying towards degrees in medicine, engineering, education, commerce and social sciences at recognised institutions.
Many of these students graduated at the end of 2014.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Governance 89 Health services In partnership with local NGOs and government departments in KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga, Mondi runs five mobile clinics that provide in-field health services to local communities.
As at the end of December 2014, a total of 50,162 visits by local contractor workers, community workers and children were recorded.
This demonstrates good progress towards comprehensive and accessible primary healthcare to all, particularly forestry workers and their families.
Land claims Since 2008 Mondis successful land claims model has enabled the settlement of 19 land claims representing just over 36,000 hectares.
Factors contributing to the slowdown in claim settlement include the governments financial situation and land-related legislative changes.
A key focus during 2014 was on providing post-settlement support to ensure the success of land claimant businesses.
Mondis approach continues to be the proactive settlement of land claims that are in an advanced stage, and to work closely with the governments Land Department on the balance.
In 2014 one signed claim was cancelled by the State due to community issues.
Mondi Zimele Over several years Mondi Zimele has focused on developing and supporting small businesses in Mondis supply chain.
This includes new emerging community forestry businesses to ensure the availability of sustainable, competitive timber by private growers for Mondi mills.
The employment footprint in 2014 was 2,600 jobs and 400 potential entrepreneurs and business people were trained.
Further examples of Mondi Zimeles work are the 8,000 small scale timber growers in the Zululand area receiving guidance on Forest Stewardship Council related matters: the establishment of three land claimant silviculture businesses with a further two under development: non-Mondi land claimant projects and 17 contractor businesses who receive business, technical, institutional or financial support totalling approximately ZAR43 million.
Mkhondo Development Programme MMDP The MMDP is a public-private partnership between Mondi and the government and aims to facilitate people residing on Mondi-owned land with security of tenure, access to basic services, social amenities and economic opportunities.
Planning commenced for eight development nodes agreed with the municipality.
At the Jabulani agri-village in Iswepe 110 houses, support infrastructure and services including solar street lights, a Multi-Purpose Centre, and Early Childhood Development Centre have been completed to date, and toilet and electrical connections are underway.
During 2014 Mondi Limited invested approximately ZAR15.3 million in various social and economic development initiatives, primarily in its forestry areas.
This is in addition to the Mondi Zimele initiatives.
Skills development: To thrive, the business needs skilled and committed employees who are passionate about performance.
Mondi is an exciting and challenging working environment, where employees are encouraged to learn and develop in order to advance.
A range of employee skills training and leadership development programmes are conducted annually.
In addition, Mondis strong values serve as the primary guiding principle that inspires a high-performance culture.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
