At a glance Our strategic priorities Our performance Our strategy is to build on our core We increased the number of business of helping customers to people engaging with us.
This find the right product.
Investing in helped grow our revenues and our technology, customer data and market shares.
Our technology tools allows us to build deeper investment programme is relationships, delivering more value ongoing.
to both customers and providers.
Since 1999 we have been helping UK households save money on their household bills and finances.
We launched new platforms for several of our channels.
In the BEST SITE late autumn, our new car We help consumers through three Be the easiest way for insurance site went into live test.
leading brands: customers to find providers Our new platforms leverage MoneySuperMarket, and products.
technology investment across our TravelSupermarket and brands and services.
Our customer account, MyProfile, allowed more than 15m customers to keep their data up EARN CUSTOMER OUR VISION to date and use it to save money LOYALTY with us.
We recruited 2.3m new We help every household make Be the destination brand for customers who want to do the most of their money.
In our Money channels we worked hard to get market-leading products.
CUSTOMERS We provide our customers with We made significant PREFERRED PARTNER free, easy to use, online services improvements to our CRM Be the best way for so they can search for a wide and organic search capability, providers to acquire helping providers reach the right range of products and find the customers.
product most suited to their needs.
We take pride in being a CORE VALUES For the majority of our services, profitable and efficient company One team always making we receive a small fee from the that has a clear focus on its things better for customers, customers.
We delivered on these provider for customers who take colleagues and providers.
02 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Our new KPIs from 2015 Our future Our principal risks Measuring our performance We continue to focus on delivering Our business is building against our strategy is key to our our technology investment and relationships and trust with future.
deepening our understanding of customers and providers.
our customers to help them make the most of their money.
22.5m 3% The sites need to continually Average monthly adapt to changing customer 2015 will see exciting innovation in unique visitors needs.
There is a risk that our TravelSupermarket, continued technology takes longer to rollout of new technology to more implement than planned, or does MoneySuperMarket channels and not deliver the expected benefits new tools for MoneySavingExpert.
16.1m 9m to customers and returns to the Investment in technology Group.
15.8m 17% The Group needs to continue to Unique adults choosing invest in its brands and its to share data We will continue to add new product offerings.
There are channels to MyProfile.
We will always risks that we make 38% 1% offer customers a greater range mistakes in these.
Our Net Promoter Score of services and analysis-based relationships with our customers insights to help them save money.
are dependent on our ability to protect the data they choose to 1.43bn 16% leave with us.
Savings made by customers 723 12% We will use our data tools, Number of providers analytics and position as the only Our business is dependent on major independent price providers continuing to want to comparison website to develop acquire new customers and to relationships with providers and want to use price comparison secure market leading exclusive websites for this.
Marketing margin 248m 10% Revenue Our strategy focuses on efficiency Weakness in the UK economy and on our customers.
In 2015, could reduce the range of 87m 12% we will measure ourselves on attractive products available for Adjusted Operating Profit Adjusted Operating Profit rather our customers, which could than adjusted EBITDA, reflecting impact our revenues and our technology investment.
84m 14% Operating Cash Flow Note: The figures for KPIs represent 2014 performance compared to 2013.
