Strategic report Highlights Paces solutions empower Cable, Telco and Strategic report 01 Highlights Satellite operators to simply and cost-effectively 02 At a glance innovate at the speed they want, in the way 04 Our business model 06 Chairmans statement they want for their subscribers.
Pace has built 07 Chief Executive Officers review 08 Our strategy up its experience and expertise over 30 years 10 Markets 12 Business performance and this is recognised by a customer base 16 Key performance indicators 18 Risk management and principal risks ofover 200 operators around the globe.
20 Financial review 23 Corporate responsibility Governance Financial highlights 26 Board of Directors R Increased operating profit through top-line growth due to Aurora 28 Framework of Corporate Governance acquisition, improved revenue mix, supply chain efficiency and 31 Audit & Risk Committee Report increased operational efficiency.
34 Nomination Committee Report 35  Report R Third year of strong cash flow generation: $204.0m free cash flow 44 Directors Report 84.6% of adjusted EBITA and sustainable cash flow model in place.
Financial reviewpages 20 to 22 Operational highlights Financial statements R Good first year for Aurora Networks strong trading performance and integration complete with expected synergies delivered ahead of plan.
47 Independent auditors report 50 Consolidated income statement R Continued strong progress against Strategic Plan: 51 C onsolidated statement of comprehensive income 52 Consolidated balance sheet R 9% operating margin target achieved one year ahead of plan.
53 Company balance sheet R Significant progress has been made in improving the efficiency 54 Statements of changes in shareholders equity 55 Consolidated statement of cash flows and effectiveness of the business.
56 Company statement of cash flows R Reconfirmed as the market leader in PayTV hardware: global 57 Notes number one in Set-top boxes, Media Servers and Advanced IBC Shareholder information Telco Gateways.
R Built on the momentum of 2013 with a number of key wins across all areas of our software and services offerings and astrong focus on product and customer project delivery for major launches with key customers.
4 F ree cash flow is calculated as cash flow before proceeds from issue of shares, dividends, 2 A djusted EBITA as a percentage of revenue isexpressed as operating margin.
acquisition cash flows and debt repayment drawdown.
3 A djusted basic EPS is based on earnings before the post-tax value of exceptional Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 01 costsand amortisation of other intangibles.
