Strategic r Strategic report - South W eport - South West W est Water ater - Highlights Operational highlights South West Water Best bathing water quality in seven years Investing in quality Improved customer satisfaction levels 17th consecutive year without water restrictions Outstanding drinking water quality Leakage control on target.
10 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Notable achievements Business plan to 2020 received 'enhanced' status from Ofwat and early Draft Determination already received Largest ever customer consultation in support of the business plan Major investment in sewer network and assets to better protect bathing waters Winner of Living Wetlands Award from the Chartered Institution of Water and Environment Management CIWEM for 'Upstream Thinking' One of the first water companies to launch a social tariff.
Strategy and performance South West Water remains committed to its Pure Water, Pure Service and Pure Environment vision.
The company strives to achieve the highest standards possible in every sphere of its activities, delivering efficiency through innovation, meeting the needs of those it serves and meeting its responsibilities to the environment, while keeping its costs as low as possible.
Pure Water Providing a reliable, clean and safe supply of drinking water.
Performance Drinking water quality among the best in the industry: 17th consecutive year without water restrictions and leakage control on target.
Pure Service Delivering responsive and cost-effective customer services that meet customers needs.
Performance Increased customer satisfaction, 78% of customers metered, social tariff launched to assist those who struggle to pay, increased use of digital media to improve customer communications.
Pure Environment Protecting and enhancing the environment through sustainable actions and initiatives.
Performance Bathing water quality at best standard in seven years, increased renewable energy generation, reduction in greenhouse gas emission levels.
Financial Management Making resilient business decisions while outperforming the regulatory contract.
Performance Continued efficiency delivered, increased operating profit underpinned by increased revenue and rigorous cost control.
Business plan to 2020 published, enhanced status achieved: the only water and sewerage company to receive Ofwat's top assessment.
co. uk 2014 11 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
