4 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts At a Glance The Groups portfolio of categories across a range ofdeveloped and developing markets forms the platform for our future growth.
Africa Asia Europe Africa remains the Groups largest region The Asian markets in which we operate Our business in Europe comprises a broad by revenue and in Nigeria, Africas most provide a naturally balanced geographic range of categories and markets.
Personal populous country circa 179 million people portfolio, containing both mature Care in the UK is serviced by our Personal and our biggest single market, we operate and emerging markets with excellent Wash Centre of Excellence facilities in in four categories: Personal Care, Home opportunity for growth.
Indonesia is the Manchester and focusses on the Imperial Care, Electricals and Food and Nutrition.
fourth most populous country in the world Leather, Carex, Mum & Me and Original The Personal Care and Home Care with a population of circa 254 million and Source brands.
Polands revenue is businesses have established local brands the largest economy in South East Asia.
generated by the Personal Care business with ongoing renovation programmes Our Cussons Baby brand is the market through replicating the innovation from leading to continued maintenance and leader and our distribution network also the UK.
The Food and Nutrition category growth of our market share.
The Electricals enables our other Personal Care brands to is represented in Greece by Minerva and business leads the core refrigerator, freezer be delivered to consumers throughout the associated brands.
The Beauty division is and washing machine market.
Australia represents a more mature a global business based in London which Food and Nutrition category we have two market where we have leading positions markets and sells Sanctuary, St. Tropez, joint ventures: Nutricima, with Glanbia Plc in the Home Care category through our Charles Worthington and Fudge brands.
operating predominantly in the nutritional dish and fabric care products, a growing TheBeauty divisions main markets are beverage sector: and PZ Wilmar, with Personal Care business and an established theUK, US andAustralia.
Wilmar International Limited operating Food and Nutrition business through the in the manufacture and distribution of Raffertys Garden baby food brand.
Our refined branded and bulk palm oil products.
businesses in Thailand and the Middle East In Ghana and Kenya our established are smaller and less well established but businesses and brands are well placed to have good growthpotential.
benefit from anticipated future growth inthese countries and the widerregion.
Revenue: Africa Revenue: Asia Revenue: Europe 361.3m 184.4m 315.7m 2013: 362.7m 2013: 174.9m 2013: 345.6m 5 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Pg 12 Pg 14 Pg 16 Africa Asia Europe To read more To read more To read more
