Strategic report Group At a glance Creating value through our Brands Our brands Grosvenor Casinos Mecca Enracha 1 UKs largest multi-channel casino operator.
UKs second largest multi-channel bingo Ranks community-gaming based 1 Serves more than a million customers operator and is Ranks community-gaming business for the Spanish market.
Ten a year through a national portfolio of brand for the British market.
With over a venues serve approximately 260,000 branded venues as well as via its online million customers a year and a national customers a year through venues in and mobile casinos.
The brand offers portfolio of branded venues, as well as Catalonia, Madrid, Andaluca and a range of popular casino table games, one of Great Britains most popular Galicia, offering a range of popular including roulette, blackjack, baccarat community gaming websites.
The digital community games like bingo and poker and poker as well as electric casino and channel offers a selection of games from as well as electronic casino and slot slot machine games.
The brands digital bingo and poker to a wide range of slot machine games, great value food and channel continues to gain scale and games, and the venues also have great drink and live entertainment.
offers many popular games including value food and drinks, and live Venues Fourth largest bingo operator the newly launched live casino.
in Spain: 10 licensed bingo venues Venues Largest operator by venue Venues Second largest operator by venue Key achievements in Great Britain: 56 licensed casinos in Great Britain: 96 licensed bingo venues Two venues have been converted to in Great Britain and two in Belgium Digital One of the leading online bingo the Enracha brand Digital Fledgling business, gaining scale operators in the UK A new customer loyalty card Key achievements Key achievements was launched Successful integration of the acquired Improved venues profitability through A new CRM system was implemented casinos from Gala Coral: encouraging revenues and cost reduction plans results from electronic product labour and marketing investments and major refurbishments Commitment to develop three new Opening of London Poker Room in bingo venues as a result of the cut in November 2013 bingo duty Launch of grosvenorcasinos.
coms Leases surrendered for three loss live casino, now a major revenue making venues, resulting in one closure contributor to our digital channel in the year and two scheduled for Awarded a 2005 Act casino licence 2014 15 in Luton Commitment to new digital gaming Cross-channel Play Points loyalty platform to drive digital growth scheme launched 2 Contribution to group revenue Operating PROFIT Customers 707.7M 72.4M 3.0M Grosvenor 391.2 Grosvenor 56.8 Grosvenor 1.8 Mecca 288.2 Mecca 37.0 Mecca 1.1 Enracha 28.3 Enracha 0.8 Enracha 0.3 1 Community-gaming as outlined above refers to the different games and services available in our Mecca and Enracha venues.
Unlike casinos the Mecca and Enracha customer base tend to have a shorter journey time to the venue and hence are more likely to reside in the local community.
Also, the games on offer differ from those found in casinos: they are pari-mutuel and hence create a community-style game within the venue.
6 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 For more information see pages: 16 Our strategy 28 Operating review Where we operate Great Britain Great Britain is the largest of Ranks markets, generating approximately 94% of Group revenue.
The Group has a total of 152 venues in Great Britain and its online bingo and casino operations are licensed out of Alderney.
Group revenue by territory 94% Belgium Belgium is a small but stable and strongly established gambling market.
Rank operates two casino venues in Middelkerke and Blankenberge.
Group revenue by territory 2% Spain Enracha is the fourth largest bingo operator in Spain with ten community gaming-based entertainment venues in Catalonia, Madrid, Andaluca and Galicia.
Group revenue by territory 4% Adult population 1 Great Britain 48.8m 2 Spain 40.1m 3 Belgium 8.8m Size of gambling market Mecca 4 Great Britain 13bn Grosvenor 5 Spain 9bn 6 Belgium 1bn Sources Gambling spend per adult 1 Ofce for National Statistics, 2011 consensus.
com Spain 224 4 Gambling Commission, Gambling Data.
5 Direccion General fide Ordenacion del Juego.
be The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 7
