Strategic Report RB at a Glance The right markets The right categories ENA RUMEA LAPAC 2% 58% 11% 15% 5% 27% Like-for-like Core net revenue Like-for-like Core net revenue Like-for-like Core net revenue North America Central Europe Northern North Asia South East Asia Russia & CIS Middle East, North Africa Europe Southern Europe Western Europe Australia & New Zealand Latin America & Turkey Sub-Saharan Africa ENA is the consumer cluster that comprises LAPAC is the second emerging market RUMEA is one of two emerging market Europe and North America.
RB made the consumer-centric cluster which features Asia Areas and spans both developed markets unconventional step of combining Europe and Latin Americas growing economies.
A in Russia and the Middle East, as well as and North America as one organisation.
rich tapestry of nations, this region witnessed the emerging economies of sub-saharan Across these two markets there are a slow down in GDP growth in 2014 versus Africa.
Brand penetration and capability many similarities in behaviours, in brand previous years, and negative currency effects strengthening in this Area helped to deliver development and in how the retail trade which negatively impacted contribution.
a strong contribution to total net revenues.
This was the right decision as we have benefited from faster in-market execution and growth ahead of the market.
Creating a simple, more agile organisation is one of the The learnings of combining Europe and North America two objectives of Project Supercharge.
Therefore, in 2015 will be applied to the emerging markets which we call we have announced our intention to reduce the three DVM.
The organisational changes will provide the Areas to two.
framework to deliver bigger, better and more scalable innovation, combined with improved in-market activation at a country level.
ENA DVM DEVELOPING MARKETS Europe including Russia CIS and Israel North Africa, Middle East excluding Israel, Turkey North America Africa South Africa, West Africa, Eastern Africa Australia New Zealand South Asia India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka North Asia China, Hong Kong, Taiwan On this basis, in 2014 ENA had sales of 5,891m representing 67% of Latin America Total NR.
ASEAN Thailand Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia Singapore, Japan, Korea On this basis, in 2014 DVM had sales of 2,629m representing 30% of Total NR.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 04 Strategic Report HEALTH HYGIENE HOME 8% 32% 3% 43% 1% 21% Like-for-like Core net revenue Like-for-like Core net revenue Like-for-like Core net revenue Generally over-the-counter OTC solutions Hygiene brands help to promote both Home care brands help create the right in this category target relief for common personal hygiene for good health and environment for families to enjoy their time ailments such as pain, fever, cold, flu, sore home hygiene to create a safe environment together.
Products in this category include throat or heartburn.
Living the brand promise for families.
Our range of products includes air care and fabric treatment.
is critical in this category as consumers seek disinfectant cleaners, multipurpose and solutions to every day health and wellbeing speciality cleaners, lavatory care, automatic market Position issues.
Sexual wellbeing products including dishwashing detergents, pest control Vanish is the undisputed world leader condoms, lubricants and other aids, make up and depilatory products.
in fabric treatment and Calgon is the No.
1 part of our health portfolio promoting safe in water softeners.
Footcare rounds out this market Position garment care and Air Wick is the No.
2 category with products to address hard skin Finish is No.
1 worldwide in automatic in air care.
and other foot and nail conditions.
1 globally in surface care with leading positions across market Position disinfectant cleaners, multi-purpose cleaners, Nurofen and Gaviscon are leading lavatory care and specialty cleaners.
Lysol is analgesic and gastro-intestinal brands in the No.
1 in North America and Dettol is the Europe and Australia.
Scholl has leading positions in many footcare markets.
Food Portfolio Food is run as a stand-alone The main component of the Portfolio business.
Frenchs is the leading Brands category is the laundry and fabric mustard brand in the US.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 05
