Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 5 HIgHLIgHTS OF THE YEAR MAY JULY AUGUST A-Plant further developed its specialty Sunbelt took delivery of and absorbed We took advantage of good debt markets services by acquiring Eve Trakway Eve.
$334m of rental equipment into the fleet and increased the size of our senior credit Eve is the UKs leading temporary access in the first quarter of the year.
The facilitys maturity provider and provides temporary put to work immediately as demonstrated was extended to August 2018 and the roadways, walkways, pitch coverings and by our strong utilisation for the quarter pricing grid reduced.
Depending on pedestrian and vehicle bridges, together at 73% 2013: 70%.
This drove Sunbelts our leverage, the pricing grid ranges with crowd control barrier systems, fleet on rent growth of 17% in the from LIBOR plus 175bp to LIBOR plus traffic management, security and lighting first quarter.
This ensures our debt package solutions.
The acquisition enables us to remains well structured and flexible, supply even more of a complete package enabling us to take advantage of to the events industry, providing prevailing market conditions.
equipment we did not previously have within our fleet.
$2bn Increased senior debt facility SEPTEMBER DECEMBER APRIL Sunbelt acquired Contractors Equipment The Groups strong momentum resulted The business is well-positioned heading Company CEC, a four location general in record first half profits with Group into 2014 15.
Ours is a seasonal business tool business, following the acquisition underlying profit before taxation up 49% and, in the US, demand builds through of M. A. C. Leasing MAC in August for a on the previous year at 212m.
With the the summer months and typically peaks total of $35m.
CEC was based in Missouri benefit of this performance, we accessed in November.
In April 2014 we had record and facilitated our geographical expansion the debt markets to raise a further levels of fleet on rent, already higher into one of our key target markets, while $400m of long-term debt enabling us to than November 2013, and prior to the MAC, which rents and services heating re-balance our fixed to floating rate split seasonal upturn.
equipment, has been amalgamated into to 45:55, more in line with our historical April also saw the acquisition of our Pump & Power Services specialty profile.
Furthermore, our strong share ElecComm Power Services, Inc. and business and is helping to broaden the price performance resulted in the On Site Company, Inc. two specialty range of industries we can service fully.
Company entering the FTSE 100 on businesses, which enhanced our pump In November, Sunbelt completed the 23 December 2013. and power capability in the New York area.
strategic acquisitions of Shamrock and CG Power for $29m, expanding its oil and gas specialty business.
These businesses expand Sunbelts oil and gas rental business into east Texas, Utah and North Dakota.
These acquisitions provide a clear demonstration of our growth strategy in action.
up 49% Group profit before taxation
