E U N E V E R STRATEGIC REPORT 4 SPORTS DIRECT AT A GLANCE The Group operates through three strategic business segments: Sports Retail, Premium Lifestyle and Brands.
Sports Retail 84.1 2,274.4m The Groups Sports Retail stores other than Field & Trek supply a wide range of competitively priced sports and leisure equipment, clothing, footwear and accessories under a mix of brands.
We stock third-party brands including adidas, Nike, Reebok and Puma.
Group-owned brands include Dunlop, Slazenger and Lonsdale.
We also sell licensed-in brands.
We have continued to develop our specialised in-store areas with a substantial unitary rollout for our Dunlop and Everlast brands.
Our SheRunsHeRuns areas also benefited from a rollout of the Karrimor running footwear zone, featuring an integrated product information and selection panel.
As at 27 April 2014 Sports Retail operated out of 418 stores in the United Kingdom excluding Northern Ireland.
The majority of stores trade under the SPORTSDIRECT.
com fascia, although Field & Trek stores trade under their own fascia.
In Europe, the Groups growth has proven unrelenting, with our products being offered via wholly-owned retail outlets, joint ventures with other retailers and stores within another retailers store.
The acquisition of Sport Eybl and Sports Experts AG EAG, and a controlling interest in Sportland International Group SIG alone increased the store portfolio by 135 stores in five countries.
During the year, as part of the accelerated growth programme in our European subsidiary, we opened 10 new stores in Europe and entered two new countries, opening stores in Poland and Spain.
Our strategy remains to identify partners in new territories while continuing to expand our operations in the countries where we currently trade.
Read more about Sports Retail on pages 13 to 15 L A T O T % E E U U N N E E V V E E R R SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 5 Premium Lifestyle Brands 7.9 8.0 214.1m 217.5m Our Premium Lifestyle division continued to evolve and expand with the The Brands division exploits Group portfolio brands by not only retailing purchase of the remaining 20% of Cruise during May 2013.
During the year in store, but also via wholesale, licensing and sponsorship.
The variety of 53 Republic stores changed to the USC fascia, more than doubling the USC selling methods ensures that our brands reach a larger audience and that portfolio to 90 stores.
they obtain a far wider distribution than if they were limited to retailing within the Group.
The division is a premier destination for branded clothing, footwear and accessories.
Catering to dedicated fashion followers and trend alert men The division has maintained its high visibility in the worldwide media and women throughout the UK, it is home to an extensive collection of through on-going sponsorship of high-profile sports personalities.
mainstream and independent footwear and apparel brands including G Star, Recently-added faces of our Group brands include Gemma Atkinson Diesel & Vero Moda.
Read more about the Premium Lifestyle division on page 16 Read more about our Brands division on page 16 L L A A T T O O T T % %
