How we create value Focus Cost leadership Differentiate Expand Our strategy is to focus solely Our strategy is to exercise Our strategy is to differentiate our Our strategy is to continue to on niche services that have Group-wide cost leadership, services through our people, via expand our revenues and further high barriers to entry, significant in order to best focus our our shared values of achievement, internationalise the Group, through value-added content, and a resources on delivering our integrity, accountability and organic growth and through global potential.
innovation, and through our bolt-on acquisitions to improve investments in technology.
thescale of our operations in aspecic market or expand thedepth of our services.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 1 Investment case Critical.
Reliable, cost-effective sterilisation underpins the efficiency of our customers operations, and ensures their medical instruments and devices are safe to use.
Synergy provides a critical service for our hospital and medical device manufacturing customers.
Synergy deploys the full range of technologies, worldwide, to sterilise instruments and devices for our customers: gamma irradiation, electron, ion and x-ray beam treatments, plasma and ethylene oxide sterilisation.
These technologies provide niche high-value solutions and, combined with our accumulated expertise and the strength of our quality systems, make Synergy a critical part of the healthcare market.
By comparison, in-house sterilisation units often lack investment, training and instrument tracking technologies.
Research shows that high levels of ash sterilisation in many in-house hospital sterilisation units lead to higher rates of post-operative infections.
Across many of our markets, we can see more demanding regulatory requirements driving business opportunities for our services.
2 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 Investment case Resilient.
We are a niche service provider operating globally in regulated markets with high barriers to entry.
Our stable underlying business mitigates risk and provides a platform for growth.
4 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Synergys businesses enjoy significant barriers to entry which make it difficult for customers or potential competitors to achieve our low costs and efficiencies.
One such barrier is our extensive global network of processing facilities, including the backup capacity that is essential to meet our customers needs.
This investment would be expensive and time-consuming to replicate.
Further, approximately 50% of the Groups revenue isderived from long duration contracts between three and 40years.
Inour Applied Sterilisation Technologies AST business, where long-term contracts are not typical, Synergy has worked hard to build long-term relationships with customers and enjoys excellent retention.
Ourbusinesses have accumulated significant technical expertise.
Our AST business includes the design, operation andmaintenance of facilities utilising radioactive cobalt, and electron and x-ray beam irradiators.
Our Hospital Sterilisation Services HSS business holds the knowledge, data and expertise required to rapidly outsource acomplex logistical environment whilst generating significant operational and total-cost efficiencies forthecustomer.
Finally, all our businesses must comply with stringent regulatory standards, which are maintained using the complex systems and quality procedures that Synergy hasdeveloped over its 22-yearhistory.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 Investment case Growing.
We are a dynamic business realising the growth opportunities within our global markets.
We are delivering on our growth strategies, and leveraging our potential to exploit exciting future prospects.
6 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Synergy is the largest global provider of outsourced Hospital Sterilisation Services HSS, and has the scale to differentiate itself fromin-house solutions and commercial competitors bycontinuing to invest in new technology.
This presents anopportunity to revolutionise the assembly of surgical instrument trays, as well as decrease risk intheoperating theatre.
With recent wins of 48 million per annum intheUS and China, together with a re-opening of the UK market, theGroup is poised to see a strong return to growth.
Synergy is the second largest global provider of Applied Sterilisation Technologies AST, and the largest outside oftheUS.
Our objective is to grow AST through a combination oforganic growth and acquisitions, whilst differentiating our services through technology and our people.
During the year we opened a new gamma facility in Marcoule, France, began utilising new capacity in Venlo, Holland and, after the year end, completed the acquisition of Bioster Group in Italy, extending our networkfurther east into Italy, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
