06 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business Vesuvius at a glance Worldwide presence Americas We are a global Group with a R&D Production centres sites 16 5 business model based on offering Employees Sales production and services in close offices 3,737 18 proximity to our customers.
See Our business model on p10 and 11 38, 11792 countries Employees 6 84 Sales offices continents 65 16 Production sites R&D centres Key to map Production and Sales sites Foundry R&D centres 23% americas Revenue 454. m 2013: 481.3m 77% Steel OUR BUSINESS 07 EMEA Asia-Pacific R&D R&D Production Production centres centres sites sites 29 9 20 2 Employees Sales Employees Sales offices offices 4,754 36 3,301 30 Foundry 41% asia-Pacific Revenue 351.
6m 59% Steel 2013: 356.9m Foundry 34% EmEa Revenue 638.8m 2013: 672.3m 66% Steel 08 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business Vesuvius at a glance continued Steel division The continuous casting of steel Continuing innovation allows us to offer Steel division is a highly demanding process that is critically enriched solutions that create additional value dependent upon consistent product quality and in our customers processes, leading to a optimised production.
Vesuvius provides systems, sales progression regularly ahead of steel Revenue products and services that allow steel mills to production volumes.
control the flow of molten metal in the continuous advanced Refractories include specialist casting process.
Our products protect the steel 981.4m refractory materials for lining steelmaking vessels from oxidation and chemical contamination, such as blast furnaces, ladles and tundishes.
increasing efficiency and productivity, enhancing These are in the form of powder mixes, which are quality, reducing the environmental footprint and spray-applied or cast onto the vessel to be lined improving the safety of the casting process.
monolithics and refractory shapes e. g. bricks, See Steel division review on p34-38 Steel Flow control supplies products used to pads and dams.
Vesuvius is one of the worlds channel and control the flow of molten steel from largest manufacturers of monolithic refractory ladle to tundish and from tundish to mould: slide linings for vessels subject to extreme temperatures, gate refractories for furnaces ladles and tundishes: corrosion and abrasion.
Key success factors in the slide gate systems: temperature measurement and Advanced Refractories product line are installation slag level detection systems: tundish and mould technologies, products adapted to fit customers fluxes: and control devices to monitor and regulate processes, and effective and efficient logistics steel flow into the mould.
These factors are successfully combined been designed to resist extreme thermomechanical with Vesuvius R&D centres, its knowledge of stress and corrosive environments.
The majority of customers processes and its project management CMYK Grey : 0 0 0 85 these products are consumed during the process capability to deliver market-leading solutions to Red : 0 100 96 0 of making steel and, consequently, demand is our customers.
primarily linked to steel production volumes.
Vesuvius flow control products Vesuvius advanced refractories Ladle, tundish products and mould 3 In a typical steel manufacturing plant Ladle linings Ladle converter and 2 Well refining ladles Ladle nozzle Robotic bottoms arm Ladle slide gate Linings tube changer and Purge bricks plug Temperature Stopper Ladle Tundish measurement & rigging shroud flux Blast furnace Weir Linings Impact pad 1 Tundish Dam Gas Turbostop diffuser Mould Tundish tube Submerged 1 flux changer entry shroud Mould Robotic level Tap hole arm control clay mould mould Iron ore Limestone Stack Coal Iron repair trough Coke 4 Steel slab or bloom Scrap ready for sale 2 Torpedo ladle transports Convertor molten iron from blast furnace to steel works Refining ladle 3 Continuous casting OUR BUSINESS 09 Vesuvius Foundry division trading as Foseco, The conditioning of molten metal, the nature of Foundry division is a world leader in the supply of consumable the mould used and, especially, the design of the products, solutions and associated services related way metal flows into the mould are key parameters to the foundry industry.
The foundry process is in a foundry, determining both the quality of the Revenue highly sequential and, similar to the continuous finished castings and the labour, energy and casting of steel, is critically dependent on metal usage efficiency of the foundry.
Vesuvius 463.0m consistency of product quality and productivity products and associated services to foundries optimisation.
The Foundry divisions solutions and improve these parameters.
advanced computer simulation techniques allow foundries to reduce defects and hence reduce labour-intensive fettling and machining, minimise metal usage requirements, influence the metal See Foundry division review on p39-41 solidification process and automate moulding and casting, thus reducing cost, energy usage and mould size.
CMYK Grey : 0 0 0 85 Red : 0 100 96 0 cope Feeder positioned Vesuvius foundry products within mould In a typical iron casting plant metal treatment INOCULIN TM MSI UNIT NUCLEANT Feeders NODULANT FEEDEX KALMINEX KALMIN KALPUR Furnace core production Ladle POLITEC melt shop refractories 1 mould detail KALTEK 1 mould exploded diagram VAPEX CRITERION KELLUDINITE 1 mould section Drag cope Feeder Core coatings Sand binders Filtration Frame technology RHEOTEC POLITEC SEDEX Innovation in mould Drag Filter TM TENO ECOLOTEC SIVEX preparation HOLCOTE FENOTEC STELEX TM TM ISOMOL POLISET RODEX ESHANOL Trademark s of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries
