Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 03 Financial highlights Mixed financial performance Our financial performance this year reflects the combination of good performance in emerging markets and challenging conditions in Europe.
Due to changes in our business and accounting standards this years report shows two views of our performance management how we run our business and statutory how we are required to report.
This annual report contains financial information on both The discussion of our revenues, EBITDA, adjusted operating profit, a statutorybasis, which under IFRS accounting principles include free cash flow and capital expenditure below is performed under the 1 the financial results of our joint ventures Vodafone Italy, Vodafone management basis, as this is assessed as being the most insightful Hutchison Australia, Vodafone Fiji and Indus Towers as one line presentation and is how the Groups operating performance is reviewed item in the incomestatement and in a limited number of lines in the internally by management.
The discussion of items of profit and losses statement of cash flows, as well as on a management basis which under adjusted operating profit is performed on a statutory basis.
includes our share of these joint ventures in both these statements See Non-GAAP information on page 201 for further information and on a line-by-line basis.
reconciliations between the management and statutory basis.
Management basis Read more 38 43.6bn -1.9% 29.4% -1.1pp 7.9bn -37.4% Revenue EBITDA margin Adjusted operating profit AOP Revenue decreased by 1.9% and fell by 3.5% EBITDA margin fell by 1.1 percentage points.
On an The reported fall relates mainly to the sale of our interest on an organic basis as strong growth in emerging organic basis, margin was down 1.3 percentage points in Verizon Wireless during the year.
On an organic basis, markets was offset by competitive and regulatory as the impact of steep revenue declines in Europe offset AOP declined by 9.4%, reflecting the decline in EBITDA pressures and continued macroeconomic weakness improving margins in our AMAP region, most notably and higher depreciation and amortisation.
17.54p -12.8% 7.1bn 13.3% 4.4bn -21.5% Adjusted earnings per share Capital expenditure Free cash flow Adjusted earnings per share was down 12.8% mainly Cash capital expenditure increased by 0.8 billion driven Free cash flow declined by 21.5%, reflecting the fall reflecting both lower EBITDA and higher depreciation by the acquisition of Kabel Deutschland, the fibre roll-out in EBITDA, increased capital expenditure and the impact and amortisation.
in Spain, and initial Project Spring investment in India of weaker exchange rates in our emerging markets.
Statutory basis Read more 97, 103 38.3bn 0.8% 59.4bn N A 12.1bn 5.7% Revenue Profit for the financial year Cash generated by operations Revenues increased by 0.8% as growth in our AMAP Profit for the financial year increased by 58.8 billion Cash generated by operations increased by 5.7%, region and from business acquisitions offset revenue primarily due to a pre-tax gain on disposal of our interest primarily as a result of higher working capital related declines in Europe.
in Verizon Wireless of 45.0 billion and recognition cash flows.
of deferred tax assets of 19.3 billion.
Ordinary dividend per share We have announced a final dividend per share of 7.47pence, giving total dividends per share for the year of 11.00 pence an 8% increase year-on-year.
Note: 1 Vodafone Italy became a 100% owned subsidiary on 21 February 2014.
