02 Strategic Report Group at a glance From post-war regeneration and the advent of nuclear engineering to high speed rail and the integrated sustainable cities of the future, our peoples drive to ask why has delivered design, engineering and project management excellence on some of the worlds most complex challenges.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 03 Group at a glance continued Our business segments The Group is managed according to a regional model and this management structure is reflected in our segmentation.
United Kingdom and Europe North America Middle East We deliver engineering and technically We provide infrastructure planning, In the Middle East we provide a full integrated design, together with engineering, construction management, range of design, engineering and project and cost management services, environmental consulting, urban project management services for to a wide range of clients in the public, planning and programme management buildings, transportation and other regulated and private sectors.
Our services to state and local government infrastructure programmes from our areas of operation include aerospace, clients, federal agencies and private eight centres across the region.
infrastructure design, transportation and water.
Our European business comprises operations in Denmark, Ireland, Norway, Poland, Portugal and Sweden.
Revenue Revenue Revenue 998.3m 380.9m 168.4m Employees Employees Employees 9,544 2,836 2,071 Find out more on page 21 Find out more on page 28 Find out more on page 31 Notes Asia Pacific Energy 1.
Full time equivalent staff at 31 March 2014 including agency staff.
In Asia Pacific we provide engineering, Our Energy business operates across 2.
There are an additional 79 staff undertaking planning, urban design, architecture multiple geographies with our main Group functions.
In mainland centres in the UK, North America, China our focus is on urban planning, Australia and the Middle East.
We alongside architecture and landscape provide engineering and project architecture design.
In Hong Kong management services and we are we deliver services in urban rail actively increasing our presence and development and highways bridge capabilities in the energy market, design.
including addressing allied issues such as climate change, sustainability and energy security.
Revenue Revenue Related sections 100.5m 169.6m Our business Employees Employees Find out more about our business on page 12 1,498 1,461 Our markets Find out more about Find out more on page 34 Find out more on page 37 our markets on page 14 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
