STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MANAGING DIRECTORS STATEMENT I am proud of the role that Berkeleys vision is to be a Berkeley has played in world-class business generating generating economic growth long-term value by creating and its wider contribution successful, sustainable places to our society where people aspire to live TONY PIDGLEY CBE CHAIRMAN ROB PERRINS MANAGING DIRECTOR Commenting on the results, Chairman Forward sales are critical to enable Looking forwards, we continue to see Commenting on the results, Managing Tony Pidgley said: the industry to commit the significant opportunities to acquire land that meet Director Rob Perrins said: capital necessary to do this.
Berkeley is our hurdle returns.
This will typically be These are strong results which reflect the Berkeley has built and sold 3,742 new building on all of its sites that have an characterised by long-term and complex current market conditions and Berkeleys homes this year at an average selling implementable planning consent and we development sites to which Berkeley can bold strategy to invest at the right point price of 423,000, driving a 40.4% increase are employing over 11,000 people directly bring its expertise.
The land already in in the economic and housing cycle.
Basic in pre-tax profits to 380.0 million and on our sites sustaining a further 10,000 our pipeline comprises a number of sites earnings per share have grown by 38.6% a rise in pre-tax return on equity from jobs indirectly in the supply chain.
This that match these criteria and the ongoing to 221.8 pence, of which 149 pence has 22.4% to 27.5%.
year we have completed some 30% more operational focus is to deliver this over been paid to shareholders as dividends homes than at the peak of the market in the next five years.
If this is achieved, The Group remained ungeared throughout in the year, and the estimated value of 2007, and I am proud of the role Berkeley it has the potential to enhance the the year, with net cash rising from gross margin in our land holdings is now has played in generating economic growth existing gross margin in the land bank 44.7 million to 129.2 million after paying in excess of 3 billion.
and its wider contribution to our society by some 1.5 billion and help build a 195.2 million of dividends to shareholders The Board has declared a further interim through the homes and places we create.
and investing further in new land and dividend of 90 pence per share 122 construction.
This investment and a Berkeleys achievements are testament to Berkeley has finished the year well, million, payable on 26 September 2014 to favourable market have enabled us to build the skill and dedication of our employees, delivering a strong cash flow performance, shareholders on the register on 22 August and sell over 15,000 new homes in London and to the commitment of our partners growing its unrivalled land holdings 2014.
This means that 254 pence per share and the South of England over the last on our schemes and in the supply chain, through acquisition and optimisation, has been paid or committed to date, and five years, during which period we have and I would like to express my thanks to continuing to invest in inventory and leaves a further 180 pence per share in delivered some 10% of both the total private all of them.
I am delighted that the Group securing additional forward sales.
This order to meet the first milestone of paying and affordable homes built in London.
has been recently awarded the Queens gives the Board the confidence to 434 pence per share by September 2015.
Award for Enterprise for Sustainable continue to invest and add value whilst Berkeleys vision is to be a world-class The Board considers that the Group is Development 2014.
This award recognises never underestimating the risks inherent DIVIDEND PERFORMANCE business generating long-term value by currently on track to achieve this target Berkeleys approach to running its in a cyclical market.
creating successful, sustainable places and is well positioned to meet the Further interim dividend of Profit before tax up business for the long-term, to help ensure where people aspire to live.
These results remaining milestones by September 2021.
Over the remainder of the current plan, a better quality of life for everyone, now are due to a unique combination of an 90p per share the Board aims to deliver the targeted 40.4% The last year has seen a surge of and for generations to come.
entrepreneurial approach to land buying, dividends from earnings while maintaining payable in Sep 2014 in the year confidence within the UK economy.
a track record of working in partnership The Board is confident that Berkeley the balance sheet at least at its current Housebuilders have been at the forefront with local authorities to create great places, has the right plan to deliver long-term level and the value in its land holdings of the return to growth, creating a strong financial discipline, autonomous sustainable success, but remains alert above 3 billion.
feelgood factor which benefits everyone.
management teams and above all a passion to the inherently cyclical nature of the Their investment has underpinned for proving how good new housing can be.
property market and the uncertainty the delivery of affordable homes and surrounding future tax policy and political With cash due on forward sales now infrastructure for our communities.
Monetary policy and approaching 2.3 billion and estimated This is a result of a stable economic the financial stability of banks, which is LONG-TERM STRATEGY OUTLOOK gross margin in its land holdings now and political environment and strong currently a concern of regulators, are both in excess of 3 billion, the Board has inward investment.
London in particular To return Estimated gross margin in factors influencing the housing market visibility over its commitment to meet the competes on a global stage and the land holdings in the long-term.
Provided any future remaining 180 pence of the first milestone strength of the market here is vitally 1.7 billion increases in interest rates or regulation through regular dividends.
The land and important for maintaining momentum 3,014 million in cash to shareholders of mortgages are matched with future planning now in place has extended this in the wider domestic market.
at year end wages growth as the economy expands, visibility to delivery of the second milestone Looking to the future the housebuilding the prospects for the housing market payment of 433 pence by September industry, supported by the stimulus of the remain positive.
2018 and Berkeley has made substantial Help to Buy scheme, has the capacity inroads into the planning requirement to increase further the supply of new on the land required to cover the third homes across the country.
milestone payment of a further 433 pence by September 2021.
