Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents THEME PARKS OUR STRATEGY and business model With Playful Learning at the heart of the experience, our six Insane fun is on offer at Thorpe Park, LEGOLAND resorts across Europe, the UKs third biggest theme park North America and Asia offer a and acknowledged thrill capital for unique LEGO themed experience teenagers, young adults and older for families with children aged two MERLINS BRANDS families.
The resort now includes Wild Adventure is at the to twelve years, often including the unique THORPE SHARK hotel, heart of Chessington World highly themed accommodation offering bite-sized rooms in a of Adventures Resort, with and based on interactivity, stunning waterfront location.
exotic themed lands and imagination and family fun.
rides mixed with amazing MIDWAY creatures from around the world.
Guests can stay in the heart of the adventure at our Safari and Azteca resort hotels.
Each of our three Eye observation Eleven LEGOLAND Discovery Centres The nine Dungeons are a unique attractions offers the ultimate birds are the ultimate LEGO indoor playground, mix of dark, historical horror Alton Towers Resort is the eye view, unparalleled and different with over two million bricks under one roof.
and irreverent humour delivered UKs number one theme every time, giving an Inspiring With Playful Learning at the heart of the through set piece shows performed park.
Set in 500 acres of Perspective of the locations experience, they create a fun filled and by live actors, rides and spine beautiful Staffordshire landscape and iconic landmarks.
interactive environment where children chillingly themed sets.
Scary Fun is countryside and boasting Gardaland Resort is Italys leading and parents are inspired to be creative.
the goal, delivered daily to families, two themed hotels and an theme park.
Located on the edge teenagers and young adults.
Heide Park is Germanys third indoor water park, it invites of Lake Garda, it boasts rides for all biggest theme park with rides and families, teenagers and ages set in a beautifully landscaped attractions appealing to all ages, young adults alike into a and themed world.
Big Fantasy set in four lands of Extraordinary world of Fantastical Adventure is all around, including Adventure.
at the Gardaland hotel and visitors from all over Germany adjacent SEA LIFE.
and beyond, who can stay in the Heide Park Adventure hotel or adjacent Holiday Village.
Madame Tussauds heritage and the With 45 sites, SEA LIFE is the worlds breathtaking artistry of the figures Jousting, knights, princesses, biggest aquarium brand, built around the at our 18 sites differentiate it from falconry, staged scenes by notion of Amazing Discoveries, and other wax attractions.
Famous Fun is Madame Tussauds and the home to a variety of creatures from the heart of the experience, where Castle Dungeon all make shrimps and starfish to seahorses, rays, visitors are encouraged to interact Warwick the Ultimate sharks and seals.
SEA LIFE campaigns with all the historical and celebrity Castle experience.
actively on a variety of conservation issues figures from Napoleon to One prioritised around breeding, rescue and Direction and everything in between.
protection of the marine environment.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents OUR STRATEGY IS TO CREATE A HIGH GROWTH, HIGH RETURN, FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY BASED ON STRONG BRANDS OUR STRATEGY AND A GLOBAL PORTFOLIO THAT IS NATURALLY BALANCED and business model AGAINST THE IMPACT OF EXTERNAL FACTORS.
NORTH AMERICA ATTRACTIONS CONTINENTAL EUROPE ATTRACTIONS Arizona Hollywood California Atlanta Lake Garda Benalmadena Mnchen Amsterdam Amsterdam Milan California Las Vegas Florida Boston Berlin Oberhausen Berlin Berlin Charlotte New Y ork Chicago Blankenberge Paris Vienna Hamburg Dallas San Francisco Dallas Bray Porto Kansas City Washington D. C. Kansas City Gardaland Scheveningen Minnesota Toronto Hannover Speyer Westchester HelsinkiTimmendorfer Berlin Billund Jesolo Strand San Francisco Oberhausen Gnzburg Soltau Knigswinter Turkuazoo Konstanz Aquarium ASIA PACIFIC ATTRACTIONS Key UK ATTRACTIONS Auckland Bangkok Bangkok Beijing Existing Merlin attractions Busan Hong Kong 2014 new openings Melbourne Singapore Mooloolaba Shanghai TM Shanghai Sydney Birmingham Gweek Blackpool Blackpool Alton Chessington Sydney Tokyo Blackpool Oban Edinburgh London Wuhan Brighton London Great Yarmouth Warwick Hunstanton York Loch Lomond London Manly Manchester Scarborough Sydney Weymouth London Warwick Windsor Manchester Chertsey and Tower Blackpool Malaysia Illawarra Otway Revenue by indoor Visitors by 1 2 1 & outdoor attactions domestic tourist Revenue by Geography Tokyo Mount Hotham UK 39% Outdoor 60% Domestic 64% Continental Europe 26% Indoor 40% Tourist 36% North America 22% Asia Pacific 13% Hamilton Island Falls Creek Sydney 1 2 Based on 2014 revenue.
Based on a sample of visitors answering the question What is your home country?.
