Highlights The acquisition of SWIP was a transformational transaction that has added scale and further diversification to our product range.
As a result, Group's AuM increased by 62% to 324.4 billion.
It has been a challenging environment as financial markets have remained volatile and risk aversion to emerging markets led to AuM outflows.
Nonetheless, revenue and underlying profit are higher than last year and we achieved a healthy operating margin of 43.9%.
Our focus, your advantage Who we are Aberdeen Asset Management is a global asset manager with a broad range of investment capabilities.
We are based in 27 countries with 33 offices, over 600 investment professionals and around 2,700 staff.
Our assets under management were 324.4 billion as at 30 September 2014.
As a pure asset manager, without the distractions of other financial services activities, we are able to concentrate all our resources on our core investment management business.
Our investment processes strive to be simple and clear and we aim to identify investments that display those qualities too.
Finally, we focus on taking a long term view of our investments.
What we do Our culture Our responsibilities Our business is predominantly the We believe there is an Our primary focus is on serving active management of financial information advantage in our customers well.
We believe assets for third parties.
We use understanding global markets that we are transparent and first-hand research to make our from the local level up, with approachable to our clients and investment decisions.
investment and client services we aim to deliver the highest teams based in or near the standards of client service.
Active investment spans equities, countries that we invest in.
fixed income, property and We do our utmost to provide alternatives, sharing resources and The Group has grown rapidly the best working conditions a common investment approach.
in the last 30 years and values a for our employees, to limit our flat management structure and impact on the environment and Our investment solutions team being an open, diverse and to manage our business in a fair can blend our abilities across accessible employer.
different asset classes to provide tailored investment outcomes We champion local decision Our corporate responsibility to meet specific client needs.
making, close-knit teams and website may be found at This can incorporate skills in interdependence among our aberdeen-asset.
both quantitative investments offices worldwide.
4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate information Contents Overview Highlights 3 Chairmans statement 6 Where we operate 10 Strategic report Business model 16 Strategy 18 Our investment process 20 Our people 22 Market review 24 Key performance indicators 28 Business review 30 Financial review 39 Risk management 44 Corporate responsibility 48 Corporate governance Chairmans introduction 51 Board of directors 52 Group management board 56 Governance overview 57 Corporate governance report 58 Board committees 61 Remuneration report 66 Directors report 81 Directors responsibilities 83 Financial statements Accounting policies 86 Financial statements 93 Notes to financial statements 99 Independent auditors report 147 Responsibility statement 150 Five year summary 151 Corporate information Principal offices 152 Corporate information 154 Financial calendar 154 Annual report online This report is available in digital format.
Please visit the investor relations section of our website: aberdeen-asset.
