Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 251 251 Risk cover business includes term assurance, or term life Non-covered business or investment sales: insurance business.
Annuity business includes immediate These include retail sales of mutual fund type products.
annuities purchased for individuals or on a bulk purchase basis There is no insurance risk borne by the Group therefore, for groups of people.
The risk of investing policy assets in this under IFRS, these are treated as deposits and investment business is borne entirely by the shareholders.
Operating management fee income is earned on the funds deposited.
earnings arise when premiums, and investment return earned These have never been treated as 'covered business' for longon assets supporting insurance liabilities and shareholder capital, term insurance and savings reporting so we show these exceed claims and benefit costs, costs of acquiring new business separately as investment sales.
Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure and financial General insurance and health business performance indicator that we report to our key decision Operating earnings within our general insurance and health makers in the businesses in order to help assess the value of business arise when premiums and investment return earned on new business from our customers and compare performance assets supporting insurance liabilities and shareholder capital across the markets in which we operate.
exceed claims costs, costs of acquiring new business and For long-term insurance and savings new business, we administration costs.
define sales as the sum of the present value of new business premiums PVNBP of life, pension and savings products and Fund management investment sales.
Fund management operating earnings consist of fees earned for PVNBP is equal to total single premium sales received in the managing policyholder funds and external retail and institutional year plus the discounted value of annual premiums expected to funds on behalf of clients, net of operating expenses.
be received over the terms of newly incepted contracts and is Arrangements for the management of proprietary funds are calculated as at the date of sale.
We adjust annual premiums to conducted on an arm's length basis between our fund reflect the expected stream of business coming from this new management and insurance businesses.
Such arrangements business over future years.
In the view of management, this exist mainly in the UK, France, Ireland and Canada.
Proprietary performance measure better recognises the relative economic insurance funds in most other countries are externally managed.
value of regular premium contracts compared with single premium contracts.
PVNBP is a European insurance industry Other operations standard measure of new business.
Other operations includes our operations other than insurance For our long-term insurance and savings business, we believe and fund management, including Group Centre expenses.
that sales is an important measure of underlying performance and a better measure for new business than IFRS net written Financial highlights The following analysis is based on our consolidated financial premiums.
We consider that the use of sales over IFRS net written premiums provides a: statements and should be read in conjunction with those statements.
In order to fully explain the performance of our Consistent treatment of long-term insurance and investment contracts: IFRS net written premiums do not include deposits business, we discuss and analyse the results of our business in received on non-participating investment contracts.
Long-term terms of certain financial measures which are based on 'noninsurance contracts and participating investment contracts GAAP measures' and which we use for internal monitoring both contain a deposit component, which are included in IFRS purposes.
We review these in addition to GAAP measures, such net written premiums, in addition to an insurance risk as profit before and after tax.
Therefore, to assess the revenue generated on a The remainder of the financial performance section focuses consistent basis between types of contracts, we evaluate the on the activity of the Group's continuing operations.
Details of present value of new business sales of long-term insurance the performance of the US Life business which was classified as and investment products on the basis of total premiums and discontinued and sold on 2 October 2013, can be found in the deposits collected, including sales of mutual fund type market performance section.
products such as unit trusts and open ended investment Non-GAAP measures companies OEICs.
Sales Better reflection of the relative economic value of regular The total sales of the Group consist of long-term insurance and premium contracts compared to single premium contracts: savings new business sales and general insurance and health net Sales recognise the economic value of all expected contractual written premiums excluding long-term health business.
cash flows for regular premium contracts in the year of inception, whereas IFRS net written premiums only recognise Long-term insurance and savings new business sales premiums received in the year.
Sales of the long-term insurance and savings business consist of: Better reflection of current management actions in the year: Insurance and participating investment business IFRS net written premiums include premiums on regular This includes traditional life insurance, long-term health, premium contracts which incepted in prior years, and annuity business and with-profits business.
therefore reflect the actions of management in prior years.
There is an element of insurance risk borne by the Group therefore, under IFRS, these are reported within net written In comparison with IFRS net written premiums, sales do not include premiums.
premiums received from contracts in-force at the beginning of the Non-participating investment business year, even though these are a source of IFRS revenue, as these have This includes unit-linked business and pensions business.
already been recognised as sales in the year of inception of the The amounts received for this business are treated as deposits contract.
In addition, unlike IFRS net written premiums, sales do not under IFRS and an investment management fee is earned on reflect the effect on premiums of any increase or decrease in the funds deposited.
persistency of regular premium contracts compared with what was For new business reporting in the UK, companies continue to assumed at the inception of the contract.
report non-participating investment business within their PVNBP is not a substitute for net written premiums as 'covered business' sales, in line with the historic treatment determined in accordance with IFRS.
Our definition of sales may under UK GAAP.
differ from similar measures used by other companies, and may change over time.
