At a glance We are a banking group with an The structure investment arm.
We are uniquely of our business positioned to capture growth opportunities in the underpenetrated banking sector and wider corporate landscape in Georgia.
Banking Business Retail Banking We operate the largest retail bank in Georgia, serving c. 1.5 million customers through 219 branches, 523 ATMs and 2,239 Express Pay self-service terminals and have a sales force of more than 2,000.
In order to better serve the varied needs of our customers, in addition to traditional banking services, Retail Banking offers differentiated products and services.
These include the well-recognised brands such as Solo Banking, a premier banking service for the mass affluent segment and Express Banking service, which is aimed at attracting mass market customers with minimal incremental operation costs through cost-efficient distance channels such as our Express Pay terminals, internet and mobile banking and technology-intensive Express branches.
We added c. 400,000 retail customers and 4.9% market share in retail loans to our Retail Banking operations, as a result of the acquisition of Privatbank completed in January 2015.
Corporate Banking Bank of Georgia is the countrys largest corporate lender with unmatched sector knowledge and local expertise.
Our dedicated bankers serve more than 6,000 businesses in the country, extending loans and other credit facilities to businesses in various sectors of the economy such as trade, energy, industry and tourism, among others.
Our Corporate Banking business offers the most comprehensive range of products and services in the country to provide flexibility and choice to our corporate clients.
Corporate Banking serves as the countrys leading trade finance business and provides leasing services through the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary, Georgian Leasing Company GLC.
Investment Management Our Investment Management business consists of Wealth Management and our newly rebranded brokerage arm, Galt & Taggart.
Galt & Taggart brings under one brand corporate advisory, private equity and brokerage services.
Through our Wealth Management business we provide private banking services to our high-net-worth individual clients and offer investment management products internationally through representative offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv.
Our Investment Management business serves international clients from more than 70 countries.
These businesses leverage our superior knowledge and capabilities in the Georgian and neighbouring markets both in terms of reach and our expertise.
Our Research department, which is part of Galt & Taggart, currently covers the Georgian and Azeri economies and publishes Georgian sector research.
4 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Share in Groups revenue 2014 % Share in Groups pro t 2014 % Share in Groups assets 2014 % 5.3 9.3 10.7 3.2 2.9 2.3 6.1 5.2 7.7 4.7 0.5 40.4 4.0 48.5 55.2 25.5 26.8 41.7 Retail Banking Georgia Healthcare Group 2 Corporate Banking m Real Estate Investment Management Other Excludes inter-segment eliminations.
Other includes P&C Insurance Aldagi, Belarusky Narodny Bank BNB, Liberty Consumer and Corporate Centre.
Investment Business Georgia Healthcare Group GHG We are the largest private healthcare services provider in the fast-growing Georgian market.
We operate a synergistic business model that comprises healthcare services and health insurance.
Our business was established in 1990 and we have over 25 years experience in the insurance market and have provided healthcare services since 2006.
We primarily focus on the mass market segment through our network of 33 hospitals and six ambulatory clinics.
Our healthcare services business had a 22.0% market share as of 31 December 2014, with 2,140 hospital beds and we have the widest geographic coverage among our peers with facilities located in six regions that contain two-thirds of the population of Georgia.
We are also the largest healthcare insurer in Georgia with a 36.7% market share as of 30 September 2014, based on revenue and with approximately 200,000 people holding our health insurance policies as of 31 December 2014.
We plan to do an initial public offering of our healthcare business in 2015.
2 2 m Real Estate m Our real estate business, the Banks wholly-owned subsidiary 2 m Real Estate, develops residential property in Georgia.
For the past couple of years it has established itself as one of the most recognisable and trustworthy residential housing brands 2 in the country.
m Real Estate outsources the construction and architecture works while focusing on project management and sales.
The Banks real estate business is in place to meet the unsatisfied demand for housing through our wellestablished branch network and sales force, while stimulating 2 our mortgage lending business.
m Real Estate completed sales of 1,327 apartments worth US$111.2 million since 2011 with 99% of apartments sold in two successfully completed 2 projects and 66% pre-sales in four ongoing projects.
m Real Estate also sold a total of GEL 58.3 million mortgages.
Georgian Global Utilities GGU A major player on the market, GGU is a privately owned Tbilisi water utility company with 143MW hydropower facilities.
In December 2014, we have acquired a minority interest in GGU, initially a 25% stake with an option to step up to 49.9% within a 10-month period.
GGU, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, is a natural monopoly that supplies water and provides wastewater service to 1.4 million people approximately 1 3 of Georgias total population in Tbilisi, Mtskheta and Rustavi.
In addition, GGU owns and operates three hydropower generation facilities with a total capacity of 143MW.
We believe that GGU fits into our strategy to acquire attractive businesses which can be monetised within a maximum of six years, via an IPO or an M&A trade.
GGU posted EBITDA of GEL 51.4 million in 2014.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 5
