Group at a glance Protecting our customers We have multiple brands, products and distribution channels.
Each enables our customers to choose the right cover to protect their cars, homes, holidays, businesses and pets.
Our brands Direct Line has maintained the heritage of its brand in the UK Green Flag is our roadside rescue and recovery product, by selling products direct to customers by phone and internet which is sold both as a standalone service and an additional only.
We target customers with a high brand affinity, focusing optional product alongside motor insurance.
on a quick and straightforward customer experience.
com Direct Line for Business is an extension of the Direct Line NIG is our specialist commercial insurance brand, brand.
It is our direct commercial insurance brand for small focused on small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs businesses in the UK that have straightforward commercial in the UK.
We sell our products through brokers, including insurance requirements.
an in-house intermediary that arranges RBS and NatWest 1 commercial insurance.
com Churchill is a household name with products marketed in the Brand Partners is the business-to-business arm of the Group.
UK by phone and internet, including by price comparison We specialise in providing personal lines insurance, and websites PCWs.
We target customers with a high brand roadside rescue and recovery products to some of the UKs affinity and that value the need for support.
co. uk Privilege targets customers who mainly buy through PCWs.
We focus on providing a quick customer experience at the best price.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, including National Westminster Bank plc.
6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Our divisions Personal Motor Home We are Britains leading personal motor insurer, with We are one of Britains leading home insurers, with a 1 1 a 13.1% share of in-force policies, mainly represented 16.7% share of in-force policies.
We reach our customers through our highly recognised brands, Direct Line, Churchill by selling home insurance products through our brands Direct and Privilege, and through partners.
We insure around Line, Churchill and Privilege as well as through our partners one in seven cars on the road, representing 3.7 million Sainsburys Bank, RBS, NatWest, Nationwide Building in-force policies.
1,342.0m 3,672 898.6m 3,526 Gross written premium In-force policies thousands Gross written premium In-force policies thousands 96.2% 297.1m 92.7% 113.9m Combined operating ratio Operating profit Combined operating ratio Operating profit For more information, see page 36 For more information, see page 37 Rescue and other personal lines Commercial We are one of the leading providers of rescue and We protect small and medium-sized enterprises through 2,3 other personal lines insurance in the UK with 8,592 thousand our own brands, NIG, Direct Line for Business and Churchill, in-force policies.
This includes providing roadside assistance and plus RBS and NatWest.
NIG sells its products exclusively through recovery for customers through Green Flag, the UKs third-largest independent brokers operating across the UK.
Direct Line for 2 roadside recovery provider.
We also offer customers protection Business provides business, van and landlord insurance products.
for their pets and holidays and we are the third largest insurer in Churchill sells van insurance direct and via PCWs.
3 the UK for these insurance products.
371.8m 8,592 487.0m 611 Gross written premium In-force policies thousands Gross written premium In-force policies thousands 92.0% 48.0m 98.8% 47.0m Combined operating ratio Operating profit Combined operating ratio Operating profit For more information, see page 38 For more information, see page 39 4 Our performance ongoing operations 4 4 Gross written premium Contribution to operating profit % % Motor 43.3 Motor 58.7 Home 29.0 Home 22.5 Rescue and other Rescue and other personal lines 12.0 personal lines 9.5 Commercial 15.7 Commercial 9.3 Notes: 1.
Ranked by total in-force policies in the motor and home markets, including partner brands: RBS, NatWest, Nationwide and Prudential GfK NOP Financial Research Survey FRS 6 months ending December 2014, 12,973 adults interviewed for motor insurance and 12,181 for home insurance.
Mintel Vehicle Recovery UK, September 2014 3.
Mintel Pet Insurance UK, August 2014 and Mintel Travel Insurance UK, February 2014 4.
