Investment Highlights The 2014 financial year was a record year for new investment demonstrating the benefit of Electras flexible investment mandate.
Trading conditions across the portfolio as a whole have strengthened allowing its prospects to be viewed with confidence.
The 25% total return from the investment portfolio over the year reflects the quality and pricing of the deals done over recent years as well as the success of our strategies for generating returns.
The 15% NAV per share total return over the year was again at the upper end of Electras long term target range of between 10% and 15% per annum.
Over the past ten years Electras return on equity has been 14% per annum.
Performance for the Year During the year, Electras share price increased by 19% compared to a 6% total return for the FTSE All-Share and a 7% total return for the Morningstar Private Equity Index over the same period.
Electras diluted net asset value NAV per share also continued to grow strongly, increasing by 15% to 3,174p at the end of the financial year compared to an 11% NAV per share increase for the Morningstar Private Equity Index.
The total return from the investment portfolio over the year amounted to 246 million or 25%.
Further information regarding the effect of this strong investment performance on Electras net asset value is included in the Financial Review on pages 58 to 59.
Long-Term Performance Over the last ten years, Electras shares have delivered a total return of 248%.
This compares favourably to the total return over the same period of both the FTSE All-Share 120% and the Morningstar Private Equity Index 41%.
Over the last ten years, Electras NAV per share total return has been 262%.
This again compares favourably to the NAV per share total return over the same period for the Morningstar Private Equity Index of 56%.
Investment Activity New investment for the year totalled 410 million, a record level for Electra compared to 337 million in the previous year, itself a record year.
The direct unlisted portfolio accounted for 392 million of this investment where new investments were made in buyouts, co-investments and bolt-on transactions, all at attractive pricing levels.
Realisations from the portfolio during the year reached 352 million, compared to 459 million in the previous year.
Realisations from the direct unlisted portfolio fell as a result of the high level of realisations in the last two years.
However, 58 million was realised by the sale of listed securities and 60 million was realised from funds and secondaries.
20 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Outlook The year to 30 September 2014 has been a year of excellent progress for Electra.
The combination of a high level of new investment and strong value growth has increased the investment portfolio to 1.3 billion.
This has resulted in Electras balance sheet being more effectively deployed with an investment portfolio amounting to 106% of the net asset value.
Electras existing capital is invested in a diversified portfolio of investments which have been acquired at attractive entry multiples.
The trading performance of many of these investments has been strong over the past year and they are well positioned for further growth.
Our investment strategy remains to use Electras flexible investment mandate to build and create further returns from the addition of appropriate private equity assets.
We will continue to implement this strategy with patience and discipline in a competitive market.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 21 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview
