Annual Report 2014 Strategic report At a glance Sky at a glance Consumer business We are Britain and Irelands leading home entertainment and communications company, providing services to more than 40% of homes.
Sky TV Sky gives millions of families a better choice of TV to enjoy on their terms, at home or on the go, watching live or on demand.
Content business We own and operate Britain and Irelands largest portfolio of pay TV channels across entertainment, sports, movies and 24-hour news.
Sky Sports Sky Sports seven channels broadcast a wide range of live and exclusive sport, news and analysis, from football and golf to cricket and tennis.
Our other businesses Sky Media We operate a number of businesses in adjacent Sky Media is our advertising sales house, offering advertisers access to sectors that draw on our core strengths in content, 125 TV channels.
Sky Medias portfolio innovation and customers.
is watched by over 90% of the population each week on TV, online, and on the go.
Financial performance 7.6bn Revenue Contribution We make a significant and growing economic 6bn and social contribution to life in Britain and Ireland, directly employing over 25,000 people.
Skys contribution to UK GDP 02 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report At a glance 34.8m Paid-for subscription products Sky Broadband NOW TV 11.5m Sky is Britain and Irelands fastest-growing NOW TV is our over-the-top streaming Customers home communications provider, connecting service, providing low-cost, low-commitment more than 5 million customers with broadband access to the best of Skys content.
Sky Entertainment Sky Movies Sky News Sky has four main entertainment channels: Sky Movies is Europes largest in-home Sky News reaches over 100 million Sky 1, Sky Living, Sky Atlantic and Sky Arts.
movie service, with over 800 film titles homes on multiple platforms across These showcase our own UK-commissioned from the major Hollywood studios 118 countries with its combination content, alongside the best of the US.
of breaking news and analysis.
Sky Business Sky Bet Content Distribution Sky Business provides Skys TV and Sky Bet offers a range of online betting Sky wholesales its channels to WiFi services to a range of commercial and gaming services under the Sky Bet, third-party pay TV platforms, as well businesses, including offices, retail outlets, Sky Poker, Sky Vegas and Sky Bingo brands.
as selling a wide range of programming hotels, and licensed premises.
1.3bn 60.0p Operating profit EPS 117,000 2.7bn 105,000 Total number of UK jobs Total annual tax contribution Number of young people who participated supported by Sky.
in Sky Academy initiatives last year.
From net VAT, corporation taxes and employee income taxes.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 03
