GROUP AT A GLANCE We provide a one-stop-shop distribution and outsourcing service across 27 countries, supplying a broad range of internationally sourced non-food products to a variety of market sectors.
Where we operate NORTH CONTINENTAL AMERICA EUROPE Revenue increased 5% Revenue up 5% at constant at constant exchange rates.
55% 19% Adjusted operating profit up Adjusted operating profit increased of 2014 revenue of 2014 revenue 5% at constant exchange rates.
Operating margin unchanged Improvement in operating margin at 6.3%.
Return on operating capital down Return on operating capital up from 61.2% to 59.6%.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT 3,372.1m 211.1m 1,146.3m 103.2m Read more about North America on page 20 Read more about Continental Europe on page 22 Our market sectors % OF 2014 REVENUE 28% 26% 13% 12% 11% FOODSERVICE GROCERY CLEANING & HYGIENE RETAIL SAFETY Non-food consumables, Goods not for resale Cleaning and hygiene Goods not for resale, A complete range of including food packaging, items which are used materials, including including packaging and personal protection disposable tableware, but not actually sold, chemicals and hygiene other store supplies and equipment, including guest amenities, catering including food packaging, paper, to cleaning and a full range of cleaning hard hats, gloves, boots, equipment, cleaning films, labels and cleaning facilities management and hygiene products, ear and eye protection products and safety and hygiene supplies, companies and to department stores, and other workwear, items, to hotels, to grocery stores, industrial and boutiques, office to industrial and restaurants, contract supermarkets and healthcare customers.
caterers, food processors retail chains.
retail chains and home and the leisure sector.
Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
02 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 UK & REST OF IRELAND THE WORLD Revenue increased 6% at Revenue up 21% at constant constant exchange rates.
17% 9% Adjusted operating profit up Adjusted operating profit increased of 2014 revenue of 2014 revenue 12% at constant exchange rates.
Increase in operating margin Increase in operating margin from 7.0% to 7.4%.
Return on operating capital Return on operating capital down improved from 98.8% to 111.7%.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT 1,078.5m 80.1m 559.6m 55.5m Read more about UK & Ireland on page 24 Read more about Rest of the World on page 26 Market environment 7% 3% GROWTH DRIVERS COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Increasing trend to No one does what we do, outsourcing.
on our scale, across our international markets.
Global legislative trends for health & safety and the Expertise in making environment.
Favourable demographics Global sourcing capabilities.
Bunzls national distribution Underlying growth in key networks.
sectors including: HEALTHCARE OTHER CUSTOMERS Foodservice away from Disposable healthcare A variety of product Strong national, regional home: consumables, including ranges to other end and local customer base.
gloves, swabs, gowns user markets such Cleaning & hygiene Working with national and and bandages, and other as government away from home: international leading healthcare related and education Safety increased companies.
legislation: care homes and other Aligned with customer facilities serving the Healthcare demographics.
