Strategic report Group at a glance We are a low cost, low risk, customer focused bank operating through four divisions.
RETAIL COMMERCIAL BANKING UNDERLYING PROFIT UNDERLYING PROFIT 3,228m 2,206m Our Retail division is a leading provider of current accounts, Our Commercial Banking division has a rich heritage of savings, loans and mortgages to personal and small business supporting UK businesses from SMEs to large corporates customers in the UK.
We have an extensive multi-brand, multi-channel offering.
With more Commercial Banking provides lending, deposits and transaction banking than 2,200 branches we have the largest branch network and one services to corporate clients as well as offering expertise in capital of the largest fee free ATM networks in the UK and also provide a markets private placements, bonds and syndicated loans, financial comprehensive digital, telephony and mobile service.
We serve millions markets foreign exchange, interest rate management, money markets of customers through our Lloyds Bank, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and and credit and private equity.
1 in 4 286bn 5% 17% First-time buyers helped by Retail deposit balances Growth in SME lending in 2014 Our share of mid-market us to buy their first home banking relationships Key brands Key brands For more on our Retail divisions financial For more on our Commercial Banking divisions performance go to page 44 or visit financial performance go to page 46 or visit 44 46 www.
com 2 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CONSUMER FINANCE INSURANCE UNDERLYING PROFIT UNDERLYING PROFIT 1,010m 922m Our Consumer Finance division provides asset finance Our Insurance division provides customers with solutions and credit cards to consumer and commercial long-term savings, investment and protection products customers.
In Asset Finance, Black Horse provides motor finance loans to over Our long-term savings, investment and protection products are offered 200,000 customers through more than 5,000 dealers.
Lex Autolease under the Scottish Widows brand.
Products are available through is the UKs leading fleet management and fleet funding specialist intermediaries, direct channels and also through our Retail division with close to 300,000 vehicles under management.
via Lloyds Bank, Halifax and Bank of Scotland.
We are also one of the UKs leading credit card issuers through our The General Insurance business is a leading provider of home insurance Consumer and Commercial Cards businesses meeting the needs in the UK, with products sold through the branch network, direct channels of seven million customers daily through purchasing and flexible and strategic corporate partners.
short-term borrowing propositions and payment acceptance services for UK merchants.
17% 15% 3.7m 10% Growth in UK consumer Our share of credit Home insurance customers Our share of the life finance lending in 2014 card balances and pensions market Key brands Key brands For more on our Consumer Finance divisions For more on our Insurance divisions financial financial performance go to page 48 or visit performance go to page 50 or visit 48 50 www.
com BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 3
