Our business in brief As the leading operator in most of our markets and the services we provide, we are well positioned to be the go-to telecoms operator in the Caribbean and Latin America.
Our business in brief We provide customers with every telecoms Our key operations are in Panama and 14 Caribbean service they need.
We deliver mobile, fi xed line, markets, including Jamaica, Th e Bahamas, broadband and TV services to consumers as Barbados and the Cayman Islands.
We also hold wellas connectivity and managed services to aminority stake in Telecommunications Services businesses and governments.
We also are a ofTrinidad and Tobago TSTT.
partner in the largest undersea cable network We operate these businesses from our inthe Caribbean and Latin America, spanning headquarters in London and our new operating more than 42,000 kilometres.
Our company is listed on the We are a key infrastructure provider in the London Stock Exchange.
countries in which we operate, and a partner to We aim to make an active contribution in the governments.
We are also a major employer and communities in which we operate, employing contributor to the economies of our markets.
ethical practices and paying a fair share of tax.
Our brands Panama Caribbean cwmovil.
com St. Lucia Insurances Mrs. Albertha Bartlett a LIME customer a BTC customer Sharing information among our three outlets had Having been with BTC for many years I thought I would become somewhat unwieldy, necessitating the try the competition and applied to have my landline introduction of a switchboard and database linking all number ported.
Half way through the process voice and data communications.
Now we can access any I discovered that the new provider wouldnt be able to document on the server from any of our locations, or if facilitate my alarm system.
My familys security is very we need to touch base with a colleague at another important to me so I cancelled.
BTC couldnt have been location, we just have to call an extension.
nicer when I called and told them about it.
BTC made sure I could receive and make calls on their network Alvin Malaykhan, Managing Director Chief Financial until I was switched back.
Offi cer, St. Lucia Insurances Limited Mrs. Albertha Bartlett, The Bahamas 02 Cable & Wireless Communications Our services Broadband TV Mobile Fixed voice We enable customers to make We provide high speed We provide landline services We off er TV services in four calls, send messages and fi xed broadband to homes, to customers residential countries and plan to begin accessonline services.
We are workplaces and public subscribers, businesses and off ering in several more utilising converging our mobile and fi xed amenities.
As the demand for our extensive networks and networks to allow our customers to increase broadband speed these services declines we are customer service systems.
to reliably use mobile data and reliability.
We have 388,000 helping our customers to Wehave 79,000 TV customers.
anywhere, at any time, on any broadband customers.
migrate to broadband and device.
We have 3.7 million mobile services.
Business-to-business  Cable network We provide a broad range Using our telecoms services We have a joint venture with of services for our business we help governments to improve Columbus Networks operating customers, from installing the effi ciency and cost of the most extensive sub-sea cable telecoms and IT systems to delivering public services in communications network in the managing services on their areas such as healthcare, Caribbean and Latin America.
In 2013 14 we launched emergency services calling We continued to invest in CWC Business Solutions to platforms, CCTV surveillance capacity last year through our enhance our services to and online education.
Th ere involvement in the PCCS cable enterprise customers.
We will areopportunities to expand system which links Ecuador to increasingly provide end-to-end ourwork and replicate it Florida.
Excess capacity on the solutions for businesses of inothermarkets.
cables is sold on a wholesale allsizes.
basis to other carriers of telecoms services.
