Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements At a Glance What we do We want to give consumers better information and more choice.
At JUST EAT, we operate the worlds leading online and mobile With the huge range of cuisines we offer through the 45,700 marketplace for takeaway food, providing consumers with an contracted restaurant partners on our platforms, supported by easy and secure way to order and pay for food from local over seven million reviews, consumers can make more informed takeaway restaurants.
Takeaway restaurants who join the choices than ever, whether ordering through online, mobile JUST EAT platform have their menu made accessible to online and apps.
These consumers search for local restaurants using their postcode and any cuisine preference.
We transmit the Where we are details of their order to the takeaway restaurants via proprietary Since the first JUST EAT website was launched in Denmark in Just Connect Terminals JCTs, which restaurants use to accept 2001, we have expanded globally with operations in Belgium, orders and send confirmations to the consumer.
Once prepared, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, the restaurant will deliver the food to the consumer, who can Norway, Spain, Switzerland and the UK.
In early 2015, we choose to pay securely online at the point of ordering or cash expanded into Mexico with the acquisition of Sindelantal Mexico.
We are market leader in the majority of our countries: a key success factor in our sector.
The UK, where we are clear market We derive the vast majority 76% of our revenue from leader, is the largest of JUST EATs operations in terms of commission charged to restaurants on the value of successful number of takeaway restaurants, orders and medium term orders placed.
This, plus certain administration fees, typically opportunity, representing 73% of total Group revenues.
related to card payments, comprise the B2C order-driven revenue that in total accounts for 89% of all revenues.
The remaining Our team continues to grow with over 1,500 people now working 11% of our revenue consists of one-off connection fees paid by for JUST EAT globally.
Our headquarters are in the heart of restaurants to join JUST EAT, top-placement advertising fees London, but this is very much a local business and we have and other revenues.
teams on the ground in every country including dedicated in-house customer care teams.
Our mission is to empower consumers to love their takeaway experience.
Its about providing breadth of selection, transparency, security and convenience.
How We Generate Value Technology Scalability People Brand Our technology is making When creating, developing Our people are integral to all Consumers have the life easier for consumers and and maintaining our that we do at JUST EAT.
We reassurance of ordering restaurants.
The JUST EAT technology, we recognise have an outstanding central from a well-known, trusted system enables restaurants the importance of scalability.
team who are responsible brand, receiving customer to efficiently manage their We invest heavily to ensure for designing, implementing, service through JUST EAT order process by reducing our platforms and apps are maintaining, supporting online support or offline communication errors that robust, flexible and secure and promoting our websites through our call centres.
could be made over the enough to meet increasing and apps, as well as great Brand association helps phone and reducing the peaks of demand from local teams who lead sales, restaurants to drive scale in time spent on processing.
marketing and operational orders by enabling efficient The JUST EAT websites and functions in-country.
entry to the online market.
apps enable consumers to make informed choices about what food to order in a quick and convenient way.
2 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Simple, Success-Based Revenue Model 5% Connection fees revenue Restaurants pay a one-off fee to join the JUST EAT network.
The pricing varies, depending on market maturity and thereafter any compulsory fees are 1 success-based.
13% Payment card admin fees revenue This is a small fee typically charged when consumers choose to pay online.
76% Commission Commission is charged to restaurants on the value of successful orders placed by consumers.
The rate charged varies by country, averaging 11.4% across the Group.
6% Top-placement fee and other revenue Restaurants can choose to pay for additional services such as promotional top-placement on the JUST EAT platform and can purchase low-cost branded commodity products.
1 With the exception of Denmark and France, where restaurants pay a small annual subscription fee in addition to commission and admin fees.
