CSR in review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report CSR at a glance our five strategic areas of focus Following the transfer of handset connectivity and handset location development operations to Samsung in 2012, our platform strategy has accelerated and we have focused our energies on five markets which we believe provide growth potential.
We are developing enhanced and We take a disciplined approach to Our strategy focuses on targeting connected platforms in five end capital allocation, investing in higher our chosen end markets with our markets, including Automotive margin platforms and markets where integrated and differentiated Infotainment, Bluetooth Smart, we see the best prospects for technology platforms, with a goal to Document Imaging, Voice & Music and profitable revenue growth.
achieve sustainable growth with higher the nascent market of Indoor Location.
We also develop a range of products for other markets including gaming and PC.
Automotive Infotainment Indoor Document Five strategic Location Imaging areas of focus Bluetooth Voice & Music Smart See more on page 14 www.
com 9 Chief Executives review continued The growth in factory-t was offset, however, by revenue declines TRENDS IN OUR MARKETPLACE in PND and the automotive aftermarket, predominantly in China, due to competitive pressures as well as an overall decline in We operate in a fast moving marketplace.
The results of our demand from end customers for these products.
operations during 2012-2014 were materially affected by the following trends within the semiconductor industry in which we operate, several Our Consumer segment revenue declined 14% to $155.4 million, of which are likely to continue and which we expect are likely to affect primarily due to declining revenue in Cameras and Gaming.
During 2014, the digital still camera marketplace continued These include: consumer taste for electronic devices, which can show rapid change to experience a sharp drop in demand with the move by and so impact on the size of the markets to which we supply our consumers away from digital cameras, towards smartphones products and technologies: and tablets with video and still shot capabilities.
changes in the semiconductor industry, which can affect the availability of sufficient capacity to meet our demands for integrated circuits: Our revenue in Cameras was lower in 2014, due to customers switching to next generation products offered by competitors, economic uncertainty, particularly in China, which affects the level of demand for consumer-related products: following our decision in 2013 to cease investment in our intense competition from third parties, particularly from Asia, COACH platform.
Revenue from our Gaming business was including for example, alternative features offered in competing also lower as a result of weakness in some areas of the console products, pricing strategies to attract customers and release of market and declining revenues from a single customer.
See page 21 new products by competitors: for more information.
the recognised and ongoing trend in the semiconductor industry for declining average selling prices of integrated circuits through the We continue to invest in emerging technologies and markets period of their market lifecycle: which we believe offer potential for significant growth.
Particular customers ordering products with short lead times between the date focus has been given to Bluetooth Smart, driven by the general of the order and required delivery, creating uncertainty in both our interest in the Internet of Things, and we are making good future revenues and whether our suppliers are able to meet our progress with our Indoor Location technology.
In each of these, requirements: we believe we have differentiating technologies that position cyclical trends in the semiconductor industry generally: us well to compete.
Revenues from these technologies are the reduction in the lithographic dimensions of semiconductors recorded within Consumer, and, as expected, did not contribute which can now be measured almost in individual atoms and which meaningful revenue in 2014. continue to reduce, allowing improved throughput and functionality, but increasing our development costs: Revenue in our Legacy business, which comprises the unexpected changes in consumer demand for particular discontinued home entertainment, handset connectivity and applications, for example, the integration of standalone functions into handset location businesses, was $71.8 million, a decline of devices like smartphones, such as taking photographs: 70% on the prior year.
Performance in this area was in line with uctuations in currency exchange rates which can affect our costs our expectations, and we continue to believe Legacy revenue in in light of the global nature of our business: and 2015 will be minimal.
litigation associated with alleged infringement of proprietary rights, which is commonplace in the industry.
As we have previously reported, we continue to see competition In addition, the majority of the technologies which we supply to our in our markets from existing and new entrants and we see customers are installed into devices that are sold to consumer increasing investment by these companies in emerging, as well markets.
Demand for consumer products, and therefore for our own as more established, markets.
products, is subject to seasonal variation.
This in turn affects our results, which typically are stronger in the second and third quarters of We prepare our financial statements in accordance with IFRS, a financial year, as our customers order in anticipation of demand for but also report underlying measures, which are non-GAAP their own products.
Underlying measures are supplemental measures We rely on our suppliers to provide the volumes of integrated circuits that management uses in assessing the financial performance sufficient to meet the demands for our products from our customers.
Our largest suppliers have continued to expand their capacities in the of the Group see pages 144 to 147. face of increasing demand.
In most instances the strength of CSRs Underlying gross margin increased from 52.4% in 2013 to 58.5% relationship with its primary suppliers has enabled us to respond to the needs of our customers.
We work to maintain a strong relationship with in 2014, as we increased the proportion of revenue derived from our suppliers and the Company has benefited from the commitment our higher margin Core business.
Importantly, we saw Core of a number of key partners who have supported our business.
underlying gross margin increase to 60.8%, compared to 59.7% in 2013, which we believe reects well on our strategy of moving towards differentiated, higher margin platforms.
10 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report CSR at a glance our platform positions Our aim is to develop higher margin platforms in markets that we expect will outgrow the overall semiconductor market.
We expect our total serviceable addressable market SAM to grow from approximately $4.0 billion in 2014 to $6.6 billion in 2019 excluding revenue from the yet to be commercially introduced market of Indoor Location, representing a compound annual growth rate of 11%.
The adoption of integrated information and entertainment The SiRFprimaII integrates an ARM Cortex A9 CPU core, systems in vehicles continues to grow, whether it is GPS to upto 1GHz and targets mid-end and high-range products TM guide the journey, video and music systems for passengers while the SiRFatlasVI integrates an ARM Cortex 9 CPU core, entertainment, or diagnostic systems which are used to up to 1GHz and targets low-end and mid-range products.
maintain and repair the vehicles we drive.
TheCSR1010 auto is a fully Bluetooth v4.0 qualied Automotive embedded device for automotive applications.
We work with many of the worlds leading automotive Infotainment manufacturers, providing integrated solutions that combine We have increased our volume production for our auto our existing strengths in audio, connectivity, and location.
infotainment system-on-a-chip SoC with previously reported design wins with Tier One factory-t OEMs.
Wecontinue to see good interest from Tier One factory-t OEMs in our upcoming new generation automotive SoC.
Enterprise workforces are becoming increasingly mobile and Our Quatro system processors are highly integrated system reliant on smartphones and tablets.
Mobile workers want processors that cover a broad product range including totake attachments and other documents that are too single-function printers, multi-function printers and complex to read on a small screen and conveniently print scanners, from entry level to high performance.
CSRs them on a nearby printer.
We call this walk-up printing.
DirectOce Mobile Print software application directly CSRenables this with a complete printer controller platform renders Microsoft documents into high-delity output Document that includes the system processor, wireless connectivity without the need for a PC.
Imaging and document imaging software.
This market has experienced significant growth, driven by In 2014, we received our first revenue for our VibeHub the demand from consumers to carry their music in digital networked solution.
VibeHub delivers powerful versatility for form on their smartphone, tablet, or other mobile digital sourcing audio from home networked PCs, Bluetooth music players and stream their music to stereo headsets, enabled devices, and even cloud-based sources, routing soundbars or speaker docks.
audio throughout the home to one or manyspeakers.
Voice & Music We continue to expect long-term growth for streaming audio As the opportunities within this market expand, the level via Bluetooth as the proliferation of Bluetooth-enabled ofcompetition continues to intensify, in particular in China, wireless audio devices increases.
An example of where for low cost entry level audio products.
suchgrowth is anticipated is in the soundbar market, which enhances the audio quality for at-panel TVs.
Bluetooth Smart is an evolution of the Bluetooth standard We expect that there will be an increasing demand in the which uses signicantly lower power levels compared to wireless home entertainment ecosystem for products classic Bluetooth.
It enables wireless connectivity between utilising Bluetooth, Bluetooth Smart and Wi-Fi, combined a broad range of devices including the latest smartphones, with our technologies such as aptX and aptX Low Latency, TVs and tablets.
DDFA power amplication, MAPX audio DSP and the Bluetooth Reciva internet radio service.
We have seen increased interest in Bluetooth Smart, with Smart agrowing pipeline of design wins.
This has beendriven, In 2014, we announced CSRmesh, a disruptive Bluetooth inpart, by the use of Bluetooth Smart Readysmartphones, Smart technology designed to place the smartphone at or tablets, as a gateway to the Internetof Things.
thecentre of the Internet of Things IoT.
Building on the success of GPS for location and navigation, The SiRFusion Software Development Kit enables indoor there is a growing interest among consumers and business positioning for Android developers looking to create for similar capabilities within heavily built-up areas, in places next-generation apps.
Developers can now leverage the like shopping malls and even in subways and train stations.
SiRFusion library to rapidly integrate new location-based capabilities and services such as indoor location tagging Indoor and analytics for social networking applications, indoor Location navigation, lone worker eciency and safety capabilities, aswell as indoor asset tracking.
com 11 Chief Executives review continued IFRS gross margin mirrored the performance of underlying gross Technical innovation margin and increased to 58.1% in 2014, from 51.6% in the prior year.
We continue to develop and deepen our range of technical capabilities.
In May, we announced that our SiRFstarV Underlying operating profit increased to $109.9 million from architecture had established a position x using Galileo satellites.
$104.3 million in 2013, reecting the increase in both underlying Galileo support is required to implement the European gross margin, and our focus on reducing our cost base.
The Commissions recently mandated eCall emergency response IFRS operating profit for the year was $97.0 million, compared system for light vehicles, which will automatically send with a loss of $48.4 million in 2013.
The swing mainly reects the emergency notication messages from these vehicles when they profitability movement between 2014 and 2013, including the are involved in an accident.
gain arising from the sale of certain Imaging IP and the connected impairment reversal during 2014 and the non-cash Looking ahead impairment charge on our cameras business in 2013.
All these Our products are used in a wide variety of consumer devices factors are explained in more detail in the financial report on and, as a result, we are heavily exposed to consumer pages 18 to 31. sentiment.
The macro-economic environment has a significant impact on consumer sentiment, and in 2014, we saw Our operating costs for the year were in line with our somewhat improved economic conditions, especially in the US, expectations at $391.1 million and were lower than our 2013 but ongoing caution as a result of economic uncertainty in costs of $466.8 million.
Overall therefore, the global outlook for Diluted underlying earnings per ordinary share increased to 2015 remains unclear.
Our IFRS diluted profit per ordinary In Auto, we are experiencing strong design win momentum for share was $0.55, versus a diluted loss per ordinary share of our automotive factory-t infotainment SoC platforms and we $0.28 in 2013. continue to see good growth in Voice & Music.
As I have Capital allocation mentioned, we have a strong presence in each of these We take a disciplined approach to capital allocation, investing markets, with established products, as well as a track record for in higher margin platforms and markets where we see the best delivering innovative and leading ideas which are attractive to prospects for profitable revenue growth.
both our customers and end-users.
At the same time, we are experiencing declines in our PND, Auto aftermarket, Cameras We continue to retain a strong and healthy cash balance with cash, and Gaming business lines.
cash equivalents and treasury deposits of $283.2 million, at the end of 2014.
This gives us the necessary exibility when assessing Pending satisfaction of certain conditions and the scheme of whether to acquire additional technological capabilities.
arrangement associated with the Qualcomm Transaction becoming effective, our focus remains on supporting our As part of executing on our strategy, we regularly evaluate the customers by the continued delivery of our products and most effective means by which to enhance our capabilities, services, while maintaining our current operating cost structures.
including the development and delivery of new products and We expect that demand for our products and services will be technologies.
Where appropriate, we enhance our in-house driven by wider market and economic conditions in both capabilities with targeted acquisitions.
developed and emerging markets, as well as changes in the Our most recent acquisition, which we completed in 2014, requirements and the implementation plans of our customers.
was that of people and assets from Reciva Limited, a private Qualcomm company based in Cambridge, UK.
This acquisition provides Finally, I wish to mention the Qualcomm Transaction to acquire capabilities enabling us to aggregate internet radio and CSR which was approved by shareholders in December 2014 streaming music services in the cloud and provide a common and which is a major landmark for the Company.
I would like to interface which can stream multiple services to internet echo our Chairman and say that the transaction is testimony to connected audio products.
the value created by the work and dedication of CSR people.
Overall, we expect that there will be an increasing demand in the wireless home entertainment ecosystem for products utilising Joep van Beurden technologies such as Bluetooth, Bluetooth Smart and Wi-Fi, Chief Executive officer combined with our technologies such as aptX and aptX Low Latency, DDFA power amplication, MAPX audio DSP and the internet radio service capabilities from the Reciva transaction.
Some of our initiatives in this market are reported on page 14.
12 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report CSR at a glance See more on page 14 our technologies We aim to use our range of technologies including connectivity such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, audio, document imaging and location to deliver integrated and dierentiated technology platforms in order to achieve sustainable growth with higher margins and returns.
Below we show the key technologies that go to make up our platforms in our five strategic areas of focus.
Automotive Document Voice & Music Bluetooth Indoor Infotainment Imaging Smart Location Bluetooth Bluetooth Bluetooth Bluetooth Bluetooth Bluetooth Bluetooth Bluetooth Smart Smart Smart Smart Wi-Fi Wi-Fi Wi-Fi Wi-Fi GPS GPS Audio Audio Processor Processor Processor Processor Processor Analog Analog Analog Analog Image Image Processor Processor Power Power Power Power Power Management Management Management Management Management Server S W Server S W Server S W www.
com 13 Chief Executives review continued our performance in platforms We continued our market leadership in the area of Bluetooth stereo audio, within Voice & Music.
In Auto, we are seeing growth in factory-t, but continued weakness in PND and aftermarket.
Consumer had a challenging year due to lower sales in Cameras and Gaming.
STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESS IN PLATFORMS DURING 2014 Looking at our product areas in integrate networked audio their automotive connectivity automotive applications qualied more detail, we continued our capabilities into their products.
This enables OEM for mass production.
The market leadership in the area of Audio speaker designer and customers to offer CD-like audio solution equips automotive Bluetooth stereo audio, which manufacturer BRAVEN also quality for Bluetooth stereo manufacturers with the tools forms part of our Voice & Music announced the first portable streaming in automobiles to the they need to add exciting new segment.
This market is growing Bluetooth and Wi-Fi distributed head unit, or to rear-seat features to existing infotainment rapidly, as more and more people audio system based on our entertainment applications for systems and to design carry their music in digital form on VibeHub product in Q3 2014. watching movies or gaming.
innovative future Bluetooth their smartphone, or other mobile Smart applications for both In Auto, we are seeing the In Q2 2014, together with digital music players, and want to inside and outside the car.
increasing use of wireless Abalta Technologies, we wirelessly stream their music to connectivity and infotainment in announced a partnership Consumer experienced listen on stereo headsets, new build cars.
While audio and to integrate Abaltas connected a challenging year with a soundbars or speaker docks.
At navigation systems are now well car solution, WEBLINK, decline in revenues in the same time as this growth in established, the use of video and with our SiRFprimaII both Cameras and Gaming.
demand, consumers are also Wi-Fi is becoming more In-Vehicle Infotainment IVI seeking a high quality audio Cameras declined during 2014 widespread, resulting in location, connectivity and experience which emulates the in light of our decision in 2013 increasing demand for our multimedia system-on-a-chip.
sound quality available from to cease investment in Automotive Infotainment traditional wired music systems.
In Q4 2014, we announced the technologies for this market, products and platforms, CSR has proven strengths in channel availability of the with the result that customers including SiRFprimaII and delivering high performance CSR1010 auto, a Grade 2 AEChave switched to alternative SiRFatlasVI.
We also saw wireless audio.
Q100 Bluetooth suppliers able to increasing demand from Tier One Smart chip for offer next As a result of these capabilities, customers for our connectivity we continued to experience good products, with our autograde customer traction with customers Wi-Fi ramping into volume including Beats, BOSE, Sony, production with a number of Vizio and Xiaomi releasing new customers.
During 2014, the audio products based on our proportion of our Auto revenues solutions during 2014. derived from business with Tier One customers grew signicantly Our aptX audio codec as a result of the adoption of our technology, which we acquired in new technologies.
We believe 2010, is an important contributor we are well placed to continue to our success in this area.
to grow our business in this At the end of 2014 we had 320 area.
licencees, a strong increase from 236 at the end of 2013. aptX is a At the same time, we have good example of an incremental experienced increasing acquisition which complements competition in the automotive our platform technologies, aftermarket, primarily in enabling us to further extend our China.
This sector is based competitive advantage.
During on the sale to consumers of 2014, there were around 180 automotive infotainment products launched which systems that are installed after featured aptX from companies the purchase of a vehicle from such as Sony, Asus, Samsung, an auto dealer.
As a result of LG and HTC along with Vizio this increased competition, and Denon.
our revenue in this area has declined.
We also saw a We are making good progress continued decline in the with our Wi-Fi audio product, market for standalone VibeHub.
CSRs multi-user personal navigation devices Stereo audio is networked audio platform for the PND.
growing rapidly as home is specically designed to people carry their allow original design During 2014, our aptX codec music in digital form.
manufacturers ODMs to was adopted in automobiles quickly develop and easily for the first time by Alps for 14 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report generation technologies, our capabilities in the area of reference design, a complete In addition to adoption by in addition to the move by Bluetooth Smart, which is a low rmware and hardware solution consumers of our Location consumers away from digital power connectivity technology.
for developing pointing and technologies for their leisure time, cameras towards smartphones We believe there are multiple gesture-based remote controls.
we believe that, while there is still and tablets with video and still potential use cases for Bluetooth The CSR Smart remote platform work to be done to rene our shot capabilities.
Within Gaming, Smart in devices which are either is an end-to-end solution utilising solution for commercial use, we continue to see weakness handheld or worn by the user CSR1010 and the CSR8510, there is good potential for our in some areas of the console and which will be able to function enabling seamless data transfer technology in areas such as market and declining revenues using signicantly lower power.
between a remote control and asset tracking and support for from a single customer.
While revenue in 2014 from TV or set-top box.
logistics companies for just in Bluetooth Smart was small time delivery and scheduling.
We continue to believe that our In February 2014, we announced compared to our overall revenue, We continue to make progress capabilities in indoor location CSRmesh, a disruptive Bluetooth we continue to see the potential toward a commercial deployment.
offer opportunities for growth Smart technology designed to for strong medium and long-term and we made encouraging place the smartphone at the We are making good progress growth in this market.
In April centre of the Internet of Things with the commercial 2014, CSR and OriginGPS Our pipeline of design wins for IoT.
CSRmesh enables an development of our Indoor announced a series of highBluetooth Smart continues to almost unlimited number of Location platform.
This solution performance GNSS modules grow.
For example, during 2014, Bluetooth Smart enabled devices utilises existing infrastructure using our SiRFstarIV and we collaborated with Universal to be networked together and such as Wi-Fi as well as utilising SiRFstarV product lines.
Electronics Inc. to add Infra-Red controlled directly from a single motion and pressure sensors IR setup and control smartphone, tablet or PC.
The solution is The new modules are smaller functionality to remote controls experiencing a high level of currently in customer trials in than current solutions and deliver based on our CSR Energy interest for this technology from a multiple geographies around the a reduction in Time-To-First-Fix Bluetooth Smart platforms, which wide range of manufacturers world.
The ongoing investment TTFF, providing benets for will enable both IR and Bluetooth including those in the area of IoT.
into the creation of indoor maps applications such as health and Smart capability on a single We have secured wins for will continue to fuel the tness trackers, sports watches, device.
We believe that the CSRmesh for consumer lighting requirement for more accurate medical devices, wearable action application of our Bluetooth and see increasing customer indoor location technology to cameras and digital still cameras.
Smart in such devices, combined interest for a range of IoT better utilise this development.
During the fourth quarter, we also with our position in the Voice & applications.
During 2013 and announced software releases for In Q4 2014, we launched the Music market, will enable us to 2014, we saw increased interest the SiRFstarV 5ea automotiveSiRFusion Software Development extend our presence in the in using Bluetooth Smart for grade quad-GNSS location Kit SDK for Android application developing wireless home wireless beacons to enable platform, whereby support was developers.
The solution enables entertainment ecosystem.
This positioning xes to be taken added for concurrent use of GPS indoor positioning for Android ecosystem comprises wirelessly using mobile devices within and BeiDou BDS satellite developers looking to create connected products such as buildings.
Each of these end next-generation apps.
Smart TVs, set-top boxes, infrastructure based model will applications were a focus of Developers can now leverage remote controls, soundbars, combine well with our own much attention at the Consumer the SiRFusion library to rapidly sub-woofers, 3D glasses, stereo Indoor Location technology.
Our Electronics Show in Las Vegas integrate new location-based headsets, game controllers and Indoor Location solution utilises which was held in January 2015. capabilities and services such keyboards.
infrastructure such as Wi-Fi and as indoor location tagging and or Bluetooth Smart to determine In Q3 2014, we launched a new In 2014, we saw increasing analytics for social networking a users location indoors, in series of dual mode Bluetooth customer traction for our applications, indoor navigation, addition to motion and pressure 4.1 compliant platforms, CSR1010 and CSR1011 lone worker efficiency and safety sensors, to build up a picture of a designed to give greater exibility Bluetooth Smart products.
capabilities, as well as indoor persons positioning within a to developers looking to create Design wins for our CSR1010 asset tracking and targeted building such as a shopping mall.
low latency and low-power during 2014 included Lenovo for e-commerce services.
its new S9 and S52 Smart TVs, We believe that such The CSRB5341 and the Although we see Bluetooth which have fully featured developments and the ease of CSRB5342 provide developers Smart and indoor location as Bluetooth Smart remote controls, use by consumers on devices with turnkey solutions for wireless key areas of our future growth Incipio with its offGRID Smart such as a tablet or smartphone gaming controllers and HID potential, we do not expect them Portable Backup Batteries, and will encourage the development applications from a single device.
to be a significant contributor to Tanita with its new smart weight of indoor maps, plus apps our revenue in 2015. scales.
Our Bluetooth Smart based on indoor location, We see good growth and are remote platform has also been to locate people or places of experiencing increased integrated into Philips uWand interest when indoors.
engagement with customers for www.
