Strategic report Directors report Accounts fide La Rue at a glance Currency Solutions Provides market leading printed banknotes, Provides specialist physical and digital banknote paper and polymer substrate products and services, including cash and a comprehensive portfolio of banknote processing, revenue and brand protection, security features.
Working in partnership identity solutions, and financial and with its customers to provide effective secure documents.
currency solutions, the business also Cash Processing Solutions advises on critical issues of currency Provides central banks and bulk cash strategy such as design, demand handling organisations with a range of forecasting, denominational structure sophisticated high speed cash sorting and protection against counterfeiting.
and authentication systems as well as software solutions, consultancy, service and support.
These solutions enhance the productivity, performance and security of cash processing operations.
The business also manufactures inspection equipment for banknote printing facilities, enabling new notes to be quality assured prior to issue.
Security Products Two complementary Delivers solutions critical to the authentication of products and documents to protect revenues for governments, divisions offering a commercial organisations and financial institutions around the world.
It supplies comprehensive portfolio authentication labels, brand licensing products and government and financial documents along with the associated of security products software and systems.
Identity Systems Develops and delivers sophisticated and services.
As a specialist systems integrator, it works with governments around the world to secure personal identities, focusing on the provision of passport, ePassport, national ID and eID, driving licence and voter registration schemes.
2014 share of revenue 2014 share of underlying operating profit Currency 66% Currency 69% Solutions 34% Solutions 31% Identity Systems 15% Identity Systems 24% Security Products 8% Security Products 12% Cash Processing Solutions 11% Cash Processing Solutions -5% fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 3 Our technology centre leads the way Innovation at work Following two years work and significant investment fide La Rues technology centre, opened in October 2013, features state of the art technology and equipment and provides a flexible, contemporary working 50 staff including more than 20 PhDs Product performance analysis and testing environment.
This lays the foundations to offer our customers a wider choice Development of new Investment in new equipment of secure solutions and further grow our security features and pilot machines patent portfolio.
The centre has been built to European Central Bank standards.
The fide La Rue technology centre was officially opened in December 2013 by His Royal Highness The Duke of Kent.
Recent R&D activity includes investment in state of the art micro-optic technology, an expansion of our scientific research team and an enhanced security features pipeline.
Climate controlled laboratories Counterfeit analysis The further development of security features for use on polymer is a particular area of focus.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 4
