06 Our Group at a Glance EU Pharmaceuticals Dechra Veterinary Products EU DVP EU Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing DPM 323 13 328 2 Employees Countries Employees Manufacturing Sites DVP EU markets and sells Dechras veterinary products throughout DPM produces the vast majority of Dechras pharmaceuticals Europe and exports to over 40 countries.
The business has an and also manufactures for third parties on a contract basis.
operating board of eight senior managers, and is managed from The key strategic objectives of manufacturing are to produce Bladel, the Netherlands, Sansaw, UK, and Uldum, Denmark.
In Dechras veterinary pharmaceutical product range efficiently and total, DVP EU employs 323 people.
Inventory is managed through economically, maintain a robust and reliable supply chain a central distribution centre in Uldum, Denmark.
for the Group and to contribute revenue and profit to the business through third party manufacturing.
DVP EU has sales operations in 13 countries: Belgium, Denmark, France, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Skipton Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the UK, each run by a country The site at Skipton employs 220 people, and offers a manager.
DVP EU also exports to other European countries comprehensive range of pharmaceutical manufacturing such as Austria, Czech Republic and Poland, as well as other and packing services, predominantly for Companion Animal territories including Australia, Brazil, the Middle East and the Products.
The site is dual-licensed to produce both veterinary Far East.
The site includes Pharmaceutical Development, Routine QC Quality Control and Stability Testing The key products in the DVP EU portfolio are predominantly and Validation Laboratories.
Companion Animal and Equine Products: however, with the acquisition of Eurovet in 2012, the range expanded into the Bladel food producing animal market.
The site at Bladel employs 108 people.
The operation complements the Skipton site, predominantly manufacturing DVP EU also markets a range of specialist, therapeutic and products for food producing animals in large scale batches.
This maintenance pet diets, branded Specific.
site also has an aseptic manufacturing facility to produce sterile injections, an important competence in DPMs manufacturing portfolio.
As in Skipton, the site includes QC and Development Laboratories.
Profit Evolution Revenue for the EU Manufacturing for EU Pharmaceuticals Segment Volumes 60.0 50.0 49.0 45.8 40.0 172.4m 30.0 28.9 20.0 10.0 Diets 16% CAP 46% Internal 54% Equine 7% Third Party Contract Manufacturing 46% 0 Manufacturing 10% 2012 2013 2014 FAP 21% Find out more about Our Business Model on page 14.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A profit m Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 07 US Pharmaceuticals Product Development 54 2 54 4 Employees Locations Employees Locations Dechra Veterinary Products US DVP US markets and sells The Product Development and Regulatory Affairs PDRA team Dechras veterinary products across the US, the worlds largest develops and licenses Dechras own branded veterinary product animal health market.
The business is strategically located in portfolio of novel and generic pharmaceuticals.
Additionally, the Kansas City, at the heart of the Animal Health Corridor, an team manages post approval adverse event reporting, periodic area recognised globally for its concentration of animal health product renewals and other activities required to maintain the businesses.
DVP US expanded during this financial year with product approvals.
the acquisition of PSPC Inc. s manufacturing unit, based in The team of 54 people at 30 June 2014 is split into European Melbourne, Florida.
Regulatory Affairs, US Regulatory Affairs, Pharmaceutical Led by an operating board of four senior managers, DVP US Development and Product Development.
They work at four comprises 54 employees at year end, 28 of whom are locations: Overland Park, USA, Sansaw, England, Skipton, field-based sales representatives responsible for around England, and Bladel, the Netherlands.
The team includes 1,000 clinics each.
The rest of the team consists of marketing veterinarians, formulation chemists, pharmacists, analysts, professionals, in-house veterinarians, field veterinarians, clinical trial managers and product development managers.
technical support staff and a customer service team.
DVP US currently markets Companion Animal and Equine Products.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A profit m Development spend m
