OUR BUSINESS AT A GLANCE The Group operates in global markets, providing manufacturers and printers with the ability to code, mark or print data, information or graphical images on to their % 20 products or packaging at highspeed, typically in line NORTH AMERICA inthe manufacturing or printing process.
SOUTH AMERICA WHAT WE DO % Our complete solutions approach is based 3 upon expert applications knowledge and, where required, innovative coding automation software for effective manufacturing line integration.
Our next generation of equipment uses our unique intelligent Technology, i-Tech, Demand for our products and services is which makes production lines lower created through legislation and mandate, maintenance, lower cost and more typically meeting the need to inform efficientall round.
consumers, and through providing manufacturers and printers with an We support a global customer base Typical customers are manufacturers, economic means of decorating, through an extensive sales channel including multinational, regional and identifying, tracing, protecting or network comprised of directly held sales national companies, spread across a wide authenticating their products for subsidiaries and third party distributors.
We also supply commercial or regulatory purposes.
Every sales channel is trained and equipped printers of labels, mail and other web to provide professional sales advice, based materials to meet their short run PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS installation, service and support.
Our products are designed to support our make to order manufacturing strategy.
MARKETS Food, beverage, pharmaceutical and Typical lead times for the equipment we In 2014, our revenue split by location commercial printing are the largest sectors: sell are less than four weeks.
Fluids and of customers was 23 per cent in the combined they represent approximately other consumables are often supplied to Americas, 43 per cent in Europe and 66 per cent of total sales.
Our breadth of customers next day.
34 per cent in Asia Rest of World.
industry coverage and lack of reliance on We have an installed base well in excess any one or small group of customers of 200,000 printers operating worldwide.
provides protection against sector specificmarket risk.
2 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GLOBAL PRESENCE, REGIONAL SALES BY LOCATION OF CUSTOMER Developed markets Developing markets % 7 % UK 5 WESTERN CENTRAL AND EUROPE EASTERN EUROPE % ASIA PACIFIC 31 % 27 MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA % 7 SECTOR COVERAGE 1 In depth sector expertise and market based 7 solutions enable us to differentiate and 6 rapidly respond to the diverse needs of our 5 chosen markets.
Our breadth of industry coverage reduces our risk or dependency on individual sectors.
4 3 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Food & Pharmaceutical Printing Industrial Electronic Construction Others Beverages & Healthcare Components & Chemicals % % % % % % % 42 14 11 10 5 6 12 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 3
