STRATEGIC REPORT Group at a glance Our mission is to be the number one pizza company inthe UK, the Republic of Ireland, Germany and Switzerland.
In 2014, we opened 44new stores and sold76.3million pizzas anaverage of over 1.4million pizzas per week.
The Group in numbers How we operate 100 8.7 44 NUMBER OF AVERAGE NUMBER OF NUMBER OF FRANCHISEES STORES PER FRANCHISEE NEW STORES SUPPLY CHAIN Our passion for only the finest quality ingredients ensures we continue to maintain an excellent relationship with oursuppliers.
We negotiate the best commercial terms and have many long-term supplier agreements in place.
Our Supply Chain Centres continue to lead the way for Dominos globally, remaining among the highest ranking in relation to standards of excellence throughout Dominosworldwide.
STORES REVENUE m 894 294.4 FRANCHISEES Our network of exceptional franchisees remains committed to promoting the Dominos brand.
Their entrepreneurial spirit and drive ensure our continued success on the high UK 811 UK 257.6 street.
It is our job to support our franchisees Republic of Ireland 48 Republic of Ireland 21.5 intheir efforts to run profitable businesses andto ensure that high brand standards Germany 22 Germany 5.7 areachieved in all stores.
Switzerland 11 Switzerland 9.6 Our business model Mobile unit 2 page 10 Our markets page 12 Dominos Pizza Group plc 02 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What makes us different PRODUC PRODUCT T SER SERVICE VICE We take great pride in the quality of our products and we work hard We are obsessed with time.
That is, the time it takes to make, withour suppliers to make sure that each pizza uses the best possible cookanddeliver a pizza.
We measure and record every step of the ingredients.
This means our customers can be confident that they are process toensure we always deliver a piping hot, fresh tasting pizza buying carefully sourced and prepared foods without hydrogenated fats within 30minutes.
A number of companies may claim to make great or artificial flavourings and colourings.
pizza, and a number of companies may deliver to a customers door, butwe know that to do both well takes rigorous in-store operations, o 4,000 tonnes of fresh, sun-ripened tomatoes are harvested for procedures, hard work, dedication and commitment, oraswe like useachday at peak season tosayhustle on our feet not on the street.
o 1,700 tonnes of our thicker cut pepperoni are made to a secret, o heightened time awareness touch-points in-store that are authentic recipe and smoked over beech wood chips for a monitoredviareal time statistics richerflavour o patented heatwave technology used to ensure products stay o we only use 100% mozzarella cheese on our pizzas, all made hotondelivery intheUK from milk farmed in north west Wales o customers can track their order via the pizza tracker IMAGE IMAGE TECHNOL TECHNOLOG OGY Y We take pride in the image we portray to customers.
We invest national We have long abided by the guiding principles of product, service and advertising funds to help build the profile of the brand in marketing image, but have now added a fourth, technology.
We have made the communications amongst our target audience and have recently refreshed transition from a bricks-and-mortar retailer to a genuine e-commerce our store design to better celebrate the theatre of making a fresh pizza.
We constantly strive to be at the cutting edge of technological new store design takes inspiration from the freshness of the ingredients, innovation, as demonstrated by our initial commitment to online ordering provides customers with a window into the world of pizza making, inthe 90s, or the more recent development of our mobile app platforms.
showcasing that every one of our pizzas is made fresh to order.
We are relentless in our pursuit of using technology to make our customers lives that little bit easier.
o broadcast sponsorship of programmes like Hollyoaks the #1 tea-time TV programme in the UK, and The Big Big Movie on o development of new e-commerce platform Saturdaynights in ROI o increased investment in digital marketing to make ordering a pizza o all new stores opened in the new store design, with over 25% even easier, as evidenced by our sponsorship of the X Factor app oftheestatenow re-imaged o launch of new ordering platform on Xbox one o greatness campaign provides an umbrella and focus to all  Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 03
