04 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 At a glance How we manage our business Drax Group has three principal activities: sourcing fuel includingsustainable biomass : electricity production: andelectricity sales to the wholesale market and businesscustomers.
Source Fuel 4.1 We use a range of fuels, including 2.8bn Million tonnes coal, sustainable biomass and others, Group revenue in 2014. ofbiomass burnt for example, petcoke and pond fines, which can be economically advantageous.
When our biomass 0.3 Million tonnes transformation completes we will ofeconomically burn predominantly sustainable advantageous biomass.
In the US we are investing in fuelburnt wood pellet plants and a port facility to deliver a secure and reliable wood pellet supply to meet some of our 7.2 Million tonnes biomass needs.
ofcoal burnt Read more: Operational and financial performance 2645 Total capacity across two US pellet plants in commissioning.
Generate Generation 3,960 Drax Power Station is the largest power MW connected station in the UK, almost twice thesize capacity atDrax ofthenext largest power station.
PowerStation Environment We work hard to reduce our impact on the 6.7 environment with a policy of regarding Million tonnes of CO2 saved through compliance with legislation as a minimum burning sustainable level of achievement.
As weprogress our biomass in place 900kt biomass conversion project ourcarbon of coal footprint will reduce dramatically.
Read more: Sustainable business review 5057 05 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Supply Trading 26.7 Through keeping a constant eye on TWh net sales of the commodity marketswithin which power generated we operate we are able to optimise thecommercial despatch of our power.
The growth of sales through 11.8 TWh net our retail business, Haven Power, powersupplied isbecoming increasingly important toourtrading strategy.
46 Retail % retail sales Haven Power isfocusedon providing growth by volume businesses withpower contracts that are simple, flexibleand designed to meet their specificrequirements.
Importantly, thesecontracts are backed by an excellentstandard ofcustomer service.
Read more: Operational and financial performance 2645 229m On-site storage capacity for sustainable biomass at Drax Power Station.
30 0 kt Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
