Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 nology tomer ationships Innova earch and elopment 2 0 14 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts At a glance Who we are Why invest in Elementis?
Clear strategy to grow the Specialty Products Elementis plc is a global specialty chemicals business and utilise strong balance sheet to reinvest in growth and finance returns to company with operations worldwide that shareholders special dividend programme in place.
serve customers in North and Latin America, Europe and Asia in a wide range of markets Solid financial track record with well managed businesses that are profitable and sectors.
The Company has a premium and cash generative.
listing in the UK on the London Stock Broad differentiated product portfolio that is underpinned by proprietary technology, strong Exchange and is a member of the FTSE250 customer relationships and supported by and FTSE4Good Indices.
innovation, know how and technical expertise.
Operating in high margin, segmented markets and emerging economies, where products have many applications and diverse end users, and local market presence is supported by strong global infrastructure.
Company has strong governance and risk management controls and maintains a high standard of business conduct, ethics and corporate responsibility.
Specialty Products Chromium Surfactants Specialty Products provides high value Chromium is a leading producer of Surfactants manufactures a wide functional additives to the industrial and chromium chemicals that make its range of surface active ingredients decorative coatings, oilfield drilling and customers products more durable.
and products that are used as personal care markets that improve the intermediates in the production flow characteristics and performance of of chemical compositions.
its customers products or production processes.
Read more on page 8 Read more on page 10 Read more on page 10 UU UU UU $519.7m $203.8m $66.9m Revenue Revenue Revenue Cautionary statement: The Annual Report and Accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2014, as contained in this document Annual Report, contain information which viewers or readers might consider to be forward looking statements relating to or in respect of the financial condition, results, operations or businesses of Elementis plc.
Any such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
There are many factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any such forward looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Key Specialty Products Executive management headquarters Corporate head office 1.
Organoclay leadership Specialty Products Chromium Surfactants Our innovation model comprises 3R&D We have a strong network of facilities to centres of excellence and 5 technical support our global organoclay business 1.
Centres of excellence service centres.
R&D centres focus on new which services various end use markets: product development and the technical industrial and decorative coatings, oilfield service centres focus on ensuring these and personal care.
new products deliver value in the customers formulations.
Together they generate a Markets seamless and synergistic process that Industrial Decorative starts and ends with the customers needs.
coatings coatings All R&D centres of excellence collaborate on Oilfield Personal care global projects and specialise in specific areas.
Sites Sites SciPark, NJ, US St. Louis, MO, US Livingston, Rheology for all Scotland, UK Rheological additives UU Oilfield additives UU Personal care additives UU Charleston, WV, US Anji, Zhejiang Delden, Netherlands province, China Surface chemistry Specialty building blocks UU Specialty coatings additives 2.
R eaction chemistry UU Green solutions Newberry Springs, Changxing, capability UU CA, US Zhejiang province, Hsinchu, Taiwan China Industrial additives Adhesion promoters UU Dispersing and wetting agents UU Slip and levelling agents UU Chromium 2.
Reaction chemistry capability Our strategy of stable earnings and cash flow is centred around a flexible manufacturing model that relies on operational excellence from strategic sourcing and procurement to health, safety and environment.
One of our key R&D focuses has been to target the decorative coatings market and Our principal facility in Castle Hayne, in particular the $467 million global market North Carolina, is accredited in the for acrylic and associative thickeners.
STAR programme which is the highest recognition level under the US OSHAs Our strategic $25 million investment in our voluntary protection programme and New Martinsville site in the US enables us 3.
Organoclay leadership recognises the achievement of exemplary to be a global supplier by having reaction occupational health and safety chemistry capability in all of our three global performance and standards.
regions: Americas, Europe and Asia.
Sites New Martinsville, WV, US UU Surfactants Watercryl, Brazil UU Livingston, Scotland, UK UU Delden, Netherlands Our shared site in Delden, Netherlands, UU Shanghai, China is well managed and maintained and, UU together with our expertise in surface chemistry, is able to carry out a broad source: Kusumgar, Nerlfi and Growney Global range of chemical processes including coatings and ink additives, September 2014. polymerisation and condensation reactions, ethoxylation, propoxylation, phosphation, sulphation, sulphonation and quaternisation.
9 countries 30 locations Our success factors are at 1300 employees the heart of what we do.
R eaction chemistry capability To see how our key strengths UU drive our business go to page 6 3.
Organoclay leadership Innovation Relationships Global infrastructure Intellectual property, Relationships with innovation and new customers, suppliers Our global infrastructure product development.
and other stakeholders and ability to access based on trust and market channels.
Clear strategy Finance Leadership Clear objectives and Strong financial Strong leadership, business strategies.
resources, balance sheet governance and risk and cash generation.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Highlights Contents IFC At a glance Group earnings per share increased UU by 8 per cent to 24.8 cents per share.
Strategic report 2 Chairmans statement 4 Group Chief Executives overview Good growth in Specialty Products: UU 6 O ur objectives, strategies andbusiness model 8 Our businesses North America coatings up 7 per cent.
1 2 Finance report Asia Pacific coatings up 5 per cent.
1 5 Key performance indicators 1 6 Risk management report Personal care up 8 per cent.
20 Corporate responsibility report UU Another year of excellent cash generation: Corporate governance 26 B oard of directors and senior executives Net cash position increased to $64.2million.
28 C hairmans letter on governance 28 C orporate governance report 31 Nomination Committee report Total dividends for the year increased UU 32 Audit Committee report by 11per cent to 15.40 cents per share: 35 Di rectors remuneration report 38 Remuneration policy report 47 Annual report on remuneration Special dividend increased by 19 per cent.
55 Directors report 57 Directors responsibility statement 58 Independent auditors report Financial statements Financial summary 60 C onsolidated income statement 2014 2013 change 60 C onsolidated statement of comprehensive income Sales $790.4m $776.8m 2% 61 Consolidated balance sheet Operating profit $150.1m $146.6m 2% 62 C onsolidated statement of changes in equity Profit before tax $141.9m $136.0m 4% 63 C onsolidated cash flow statement 64 No tes to the Consolidated financial Diluted earnings per share 24.8c 23.0c 8% statements Operating cash flow $144.4m $143.9m 93 P arent company statutory accounts 94 N otes to the company financial Net cash $64.2m $54.1m $10.1m statements of Elementis plc Shareholder information Profit for the year $175.4m $106.7m 97 Glossary Basic earnings per share 38.1c 23.3c 98 Five year record 99 Shareholder services 100 Corporate information Dividends to shareholders: 100 Financial calendar 100 Annual General Meeting Interim dividend 2.70c 2.57c 5% 100 Principal offices Final proposed 5.75c 5.50c 5% Special dividend 6.95c 5.86c 19% Total for the year 15.40c 13.93c 11% before exceptional items Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1
