At a glance Our divisions Housebuilding We are one of the UKs leading housebuilders.
Ourhousebuilding division includes Linden Homes, which develops private and affordable homes for Saint Nicholasgate is an award-winning collection of traditionally sale, and Galliford Try Partnerships, our specialist inspired family homes and apartments in the market town of affordable housing business.
Linden Homes Linden Homes revenue Up 20% Partnerships revenue Up 150% We develop bespoke homes in prime locations, primarily in theSouth of England and the eastern counties.
Our homes complement their surroundings and we take pride in their quality and attention to detail.
760m 243m We often build on brownfield sites and use our construction Linden Homes profit from Partnerships profit from division to help us deliver the most complex developments, operations Up 37% operations Up 257% differentiating us in the market.
We have a strong focus on meeting our customers needs and our success has been recognised through numerous industry awards in recent years.
115m 5m Linden Homes currently delivers around 3,000 houses and apartments each year, the majority of which are for private sale.
Linden Homes margin Partnerships margin Up from 13.3% Up from 1.4% Galliford Try Partnerships Partnerships provides specialist contracting services to housing associations and local authorities.
We have a strong presence in 15.1% 2.1% the South and North East of England and a growing business across the rest of the country.
Completions by sector Up 6% Partnerships also develops mixed tenure projects, producing private housing on sites that are predominantly affordable developments.
We draw on Linden Homes expertise in housing Private 2,360 development and sales to successfully deliver these projects.
Affordable 747 Partnerships delivered 220 private units in the year.
3,107 Our prime sites, bespoke designs and Landbank Up 23% southern focus give Linden Homes a strong platform to deliver disciplined revenue growth and rising margins over the next fewyears.
Andrew Richards 13,900 Managing director, housebuilding 02 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Construction We are a major UK contractor, operating mainly under the Galliford Try and Morrison Construction brands.
We work for clients across the public, We are one of three contractors appointed by Manchester Airports regulated and private sectors, and develop longGroup to carry out its entire Capital Delivery Programme over term relationships based on our ability to provide three years, with the potential for two further 12 month extensions.
whole-life solutions, high standards of project delivery and innovation.
Our diverse business has Profit from operations Down 5m Cash Up 19m expertise in key sectors ranging from water and transport to education and hotels.
8m 151m Construction is organised into building and infrastructure businesses and also includes ourinvestments business, as well as our multiProfit margin Order book Up 17% Down from 1.6% disciplined group of chartered surveyors and our national piling specialists.
1.0% 1.4bn Building Increased to 3.0bn following Our building business serves clients in the health, education and acquisition of Miller Construction in commercial markets across the UK.
Our largest markets are the July 2014.
South of England, the Midlands and Scotland, where we have a significant presence and strong track record.
Infrastructure Infrastructure operates across the UK.
It carries out civil engineering projects, primarily in the water, highways, flood Revenue Up 1% alleviation, remediation and renewable energy markets.
PPP Investments Building 458m Our investments business delivers major building and infrastructure Infrastructure 375m 833m projects through public private partnerships.
It leads bid consortia and arranges finance, makes direct equity investments and manages construction through to operations.
The diversity of our business and order Revenue Up 1% book, our deep sectoral expertise and our ability to be selective about the work we take on position us for success as our markets improve.
Ken Gillespie 833m Construction division chief executive Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 03 s s u k n s Q Q s t o i i u r a u i t a a a g n l l i c i n t a t i o b y y l g l a b e e a n u n m b i d l a i u d r i M P l d At a glance Strength in diversity Our diverse business and our divisions mix ofskills give us unique competitive advantages, allowing us to create value for our clients andultimately for our shareholders.
A complete offering in affordable housing Group structure P10 explains our Aligning Galliford Try Partnerships with We have two complementary divisions, businessmodel Linden Homesreinforces our leading housebuilding and construction.
Our position in affordable housing, allowing us business model pages 10 and 11 to offer both contracting and mixed tenure explains the advantages of this developments to our clients.
Estate above in Walworth, South East London, combines homes for sale, Group services Health, Safety and Sustainability affordable rent and shared ownership.
Human resources Nightingale Park below in Sarisbury Finance and Corporate Green, Hampshire, is a collection of new homeswithin the grounds of the old Coldeast Hospital.
P23 Housebuilding Construction Our vision To be leaders in the construction of a sustainable future Corporate values Excellence, passion, integrity and collaboration 04 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 s s I u u d d r n S c c n n e d u l i o o a a f f p a v t i y y p r r i e e d t t l o i i y u m m n n n a o o c s l u u h h t d t m m a i s s p e i u u m m n s C s C i o o g c c n Strategic report Governance Financials A premium housebuilder Linden Homes is positioned for further growth, benefiting from its record landbank of prime sites, rising profit margins, and by building more houses and fewer apartments.
Pictured left, the Swallowhurst development in Cranleigh near Guildford sets a new benchmark, featuring Linden Homes highest priced home sold to date.
Below, Thornbury Park is set in the prime location of Isleworth, Middlesex.
P18 People are vital to our success To achieve our growth plans over the period to 2018, we will need to retain and develop our people, and to recruit more than 1,000 new employees.
We are thereforedelighted to be joined by around 600 experienced staff following the acquisition of Miller Construction in July 2014.
More information about how we manage our people can be A diverse construction found on pages 36 and 37. business We are seeing encouraging P36 signs in construction markets.
Over the coming years, weexpect to see attractive opportunities to grow, particularly through framework contracts, in the private sector and by taking on more major projects.
Examples include the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth in Scotland above and Flow, an office development in Staines, Middlesex right.
P24 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 05
