02 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Greggs at a glance With 1,650 shops, nine regional bakeries and 19,500 employees who serve millions of customers each week, Greggs is the UKs leading bakery food-on-the-go retailer Our vision Our vertically integrated... is to be a winning brand supply network... comprises nine in the food-on-the-go market.
regional bakeries, two distribution centres and two production centres How will we achieve this?
We own all our own Our people... are what make bakeries and delivery network, making our business successful.
We aim and delivering fresh products to our to provide them with a great place shops every day.
to work, where they feel valued.
Our values... commit us to being Our food... is made with high quality, enthusiastic and supportive in all that wholesome ingredients.
Our dailywe do, open, honest and appreciative, fresh sandwiches and freshly-baked treating everyone with fairness, savouries ensure that we deliver an consideration and respect.
Our commitment to making a difference... is deep-rooted, and Our shops... are being re-modelled was cemented by the establishment of and re-sited to meet the demands the Greggs Foundation in 1987.
Along of busy food-on-the-go customers.
with our values it forms the bedrock of our approach to social responsibility.
Bakeries Distribution centres Production centres of excellence Shops Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03 Greggs shops Our business model Our  operations Our market locations 1,650 We own and operate a  is key in the food-on-the-go integrated supply chain, from production market and we continue to open and through distribution to point-of-sale.
re-locate shops to ensure that our estate This means we can make great tasting, is well positioned.
A high proportion Distribution centres high quality bakery food at great prices, of our openings are in areas away from offering value for our customers.
traditional high streets as we diversify our portfolio in line with market trends.
2 Our target market Working with franchise partners we Food-on-the-go is a growing market.
have extended the Greggs offer to Greggs is a brand with broad appeal, previously inaccessible travel and attracting customers of all types and we convenience locations.
Regional bakeries have the opportunity to fulfil more of their needs by focusing on great tasting fresh food-on-the-go at all times of the day.
9 Production centres of excellence Our  operations 2 Employees Central Manufacturing Delivery Shops Support logistics 1 9,500 Our target markets Food-on-the-go All consumer United Kingdom demographics Our market locations Shopping Work Travel Leisure Our offering to customers High quality Great value Convenient Great service Happy food and shops customers drinks
