Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance Percentage split of revenue 8 With revenues of 5.5bn and over 40,000 % 17 Americas employees in more than 50 countries, N. Europe & CIS AMEA & S. Europe Amec Foster Wheeler operates across the Global Power Group 28 whole of the oil and gas industry from production through to refining, processing and distribution of derivative products 47 and in the mining, clean energy and environment and infrastructure markets.
Total pro forma scope revenue 2014 5.5bn Office locations Percentage split of average aggregate employees Aggregate employees 2014 7 % 23 Americas N. Europe & CIS AMEA & S. Europe 40k Global Power Group 29 41 Amec Foster Wheeler 02 Annual report and accounts 2014 From 2015, our operations are structured into four business units.
Our operations From 1 January 2015, our operations are structured into the four business units described here.
Compared to 2014, only the Americas business unit has the same geographical remit as there were previously three AMEC divisions Americas, Europe and Growth Regions and two Foster Wheeler divisions Engineering & Construction and Global Power Group.
The new company structure has been designed to further enable collaboration and promote greater growth opportunities.
Americas Northern Europe & CIS The largest of our business units, with around 16,000 Northern Europe & the Commonwealth of Independent States employees and approximately 150 offices in 10 countries, has around 12,000 employees operating in more than 120 across the two continents.
locations across 15 countries, with its expertise extending into many more.
Our business is balanced across our markets and we have a growing mid downstream Oil & Gas business in North The unit has broad-based customer reach across three of America: a presence in the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil upstream our markets, in Environment & Infrastructure: Clean Energy offshore and we are the market leader in mineable oil sands.
notably in the nuclear industry, including asset support, We are the leading mining consultant in the region and have decommissioning and new-build programmes: and Oil & Gas good solar and bioprocess positions in the US, nuclear and across the value chain and lifecycle for projects on and off wind positions in Canada, and we are a leading environmental shore, from pre-feasibility consulting to late-life management consultancy.
AMEA & Southern Europe Global Power Group The Asia, Middle East, Africa & Southern Europe AMEASE Operating four manufacturing facilities, two cogeneration unit has over 9,000 employees, spread across more than plants, 11 engineering and service centres in eight countries 40 locations with strong capabilities and customer reach and employing around 2,600 employees, this business unit across each of our Oil & Gas, Environment & Infrastructure designs, supplies and erects boilers, auxiliary steam and and Mining markets.
In addition we have our Consultancy and air pollution control equipment, as well as a wide range of Special Construction group which is focused on infrastructure aftermarket products and services.
planning, design and construction serving government, Delivering projects and services virtually anywhere in the Oil & Gas, and Mining customers across key geographies world, we enable utilities, independent power producers and in and beyond the AMEASE region.
industrial customers to achieve their power, process steam and environmental goals.
Collaboration and leveraging of skills around the world.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 03 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance continued Our customers include Our four markets We have positioned our operations across four markets BG Honeywell because we believe a diversified approach minimises risk BP KNPC and maximises opportunity over the long term.
In Oil & Gas, Canadian Natural Resources Ltd National Grid Mining, Clean Energy and Environment & Infrastructure, we provide similar services, winning work through strong ConocoPhillips Newmont customer relationships and our proven ability to deliver projects Dow Chemical Novartis successfully.
Many of the services we provide to our customers EDF Energy Pemex are transferable across markets.
Enterprise Products Royal Dutch Shell Oil & Gas ExxonMobil Saudi Aramco We are involved in every part of the project delivery phase Freeport-McMoRan Sempra Energy across the oil and gas value chain, but we specifically do not GDF Suez US Government operate in early cycle exploration or drilling.
Clean Energy Order book In renewables we provide a full service engineering, 6 % 25 procurement and construction solution on wind, solar, biomass Americas and biofuels projects.
We also support the full lifecycle of N. Europe & CIS nuclear energy and are a respected leader in the design and AMEA & S. Europe supply of combustion and steam generation equipment.
Global Power Group Mining 32 37 We offer mining consultancy including ore resource estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies, design, project and construction management services.
Environment & Infrastructure E&I We are a leading consulting, engineering and project Order book management firm with strong market positions, especially in the water, transportation and infrastructure, government services and industrial sectors.
6.3bn Providing safe and sustainable project solutions for our customers.
Amec Foster Wheeler 04 Annual report and accounts 2014 Our sectors Upstream Midstream Delivering challenging Providing transportation and complex upstream for the midstream oil and oil and gas projects gas industry Downstream Mining & Metals Pre-eminent provider Expertise and delivery of services to the oil and from concept to closure gas industry Nuclear Renewables Bioprocess Expertise spanning the A century of experience entire lifecycle of complex supporting todays nuclear assets renewable energy Power Transmission & Distribution Shaping the future Innovative and high value of clean energy added solutions Water Government Global expertise in every Comprehensive engineering aspect of water, from services and solutions source to ocean Industrial Pharmaceutical Transportation & Offering a whole world of Infrastructure technical expertise Innovative solutions for complex transportation needs Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 05 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
