ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Overview ITV at a Glance ITV total revenue ITV EBITA before exceptionals Broadcast & Online 2,023m Broadcast & Online 568m ITV Studios 933m ITV Studios 162m Overview ITV Studios ITV, as an integrated producer broadcaster, creates, owns and ITV Studios is the Groups international content business.
We distributes high quality content on multiple platforms.
have built significant scale in key creative markets around the world, creating and producing programmes and formats We operate the largest commercial family of channels in that return and travel, namely drama, entertainment and the UK and deliver our content through traditional television factual entertainment.
broadcasting as well as on demand via ITV Player.
ITV Studios UK is the largest commercial producer in the UK.
Our international studios business creates and produces We produce programming across a diverse range of genres content for both our own channels and third parties, while for ITVs own channels, accounting for 60% of the total our distribution business, Global Entertainment, sells spend on original commissions for the main channel, as well finished programmes and formats worldwide.
as for other UK broadcasters such as the BBC, Channel 4 and Broadcast & Online Sky.
ITV broadcasts a wide variety of content on its family of ITV Studios America is the largest unscripted independent free-to-air channels.
We invest over 1 billion annually in producer of content in the US.
We have acquired a number programming for our channels which is primarily funded by of unscripted and reality producers and are also growing our television advertising revenue.
ITV has the largest share of scripted presence, using our strong cash flows to produce the UK television advertising market, and we estimate this high profile dramas with the potential to travel and build share to be 45.9% in 2014. international appeal.
Our main channel ITV main channel, is the largest ITV Studios also operates in Germany, France, Australia commercial channel in the UK, delivering 99% of all and the Nordics, producing content for local broadcasters commercial audiences over five million.
Our free-to-air in these regions.
This content is either created locally or digital channels provide more targeted demographics for formats that have been created elsewhere by ITV, primarily advertisers and consist of ITV2 and ITV3, the two largest the UK.
digital channels in the UK, ITV4, CITV and ITVBe, a lifestyle Global Entertainment, ITVs distribution business, licenses and reality channel that launched in 2014.
We also have ITVs finished programmes and formats and third party high definition versions of our digital channels available on content internationally.
Within this business we also pay platforms and launched ITV Encore, our first pay only finance productions both on and off-ITV to acquire global channel, in 2014.
The family of channels attracted a total distribution rights.
share of viewing SOV of 22.0% in 2014, the largest audience of any UK commercial broadcaster.
In addition to linear broadcast, ITV delivers its content across multiple platforms.
This is either through ITV Player, now available on over 20 platforms including ITVs website itv.
com and pay providers such as Virgin and Sky, or through direct content deals with services such as Amazon, Apple iTunes and Netflix.
