STRATEGIC REPORT Our business at a glance KCOM Group is the partner of choice forconsumers and organisations wanting to harness the power ofcommunications Our strategic vision is to passionately We provide communications pursue better ways to connectpeople and services toorganisations to deliver inspiring customerexperiences andconsumers Our strategic pillars We report our activities under twosegments KC segment Consumers, businesses andpublic sector organisations Customers in the Hull andEastYorkshire region Telecommunications and internet-based services People Kcom segment UK-based businesses and publicsector organisations Communications solutions to support business goals Partners Processes and systems See also See also 14 7 Our strategy Our business model Our ambition Our key partners To become an acknowledged leader in the markets I Amazon Web Services I Comms-Care we serve andan automatic partnerofchoice for I Avaya I ForgeRock consumers andorganisations in thosemarkets.
I BT I IBM I Cisco I Microsoft I Cobweb KCOM Group PLC 02 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Strategic report We operate responsibly We serve customers the way we do business is across the UK from eight as important as what we do office locations Our focus for  CR Our main office locations Community People 1 Brighton 2 Exeter 3 Hemel Hempstead 4 8 4 Hull Environment 5 Ipswich 6 London 5 3 6 7 7 Reading Supply chain 1 8 Wakefield 2 See also Some of our customers 24 Corporate responsibility I Admiral Group I Molson Coors I ASDA I Morrisons I Association of Train I National Farmers Employees bygender Operating Companies Union Mutual as at 31 March 2014 I Aviva I Phones4u 1,900 37% Female I Dominos Pizza I RNLI people I Dorset PSN I RSPB 63% Male I East Midlands PSN I United Utilities I HM Revenue &Customs I Visa KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 03 STRATEGIC REPORT Market opportunities The growing role oftechnology Technology plays an increasing role in business and everyday life.
At KCOM Group, we believe we have Weliveinan always-on, 24 7 connected society.
At home, activities suchas internet shopping and online gaming are part of day-to-day life.
asignificant opportunity to help people At work, theway organisations and the people within them interact and and organisations harness the power collaborate has changed significantly.
We are increasingly dependent onbeing able to harness the power of .
We create services Using the capabilities of our Group and its partners we can help to satisfy the requirements of the peopleand organisations harness that technological power by creating marketswe serve by: services that satisfy the varied requirements of the markets we serve.
Bymonitoring future trends in technology and business, and by listening to our customers plans and needs, we design and shape the services we I Monitoring future trends can offer now and in the future.
 The rise of the data hungry household I Listening to our customers plans and needs Over the past five years, demand for faster broadband speeds and data usage has grown dramatically, and its easy to see why.
Withmore and I Designing and shaping the serviceswe can more households owning multiple devices tablets, computers, games offer now, and inthefuture consoles and smart TVs there is a constant stream ofdata flowing into and out of the home.
Alongside this, we have become used to accessing services like Netflixand YouTube, where the speed and download capacity ofourinternet connection is key.
This is driving demand for fasterandfaster broadband services.
Looking to the future, with more devices and services set to join this online world including telehealth for monitoring patients in their own homes and smart appliances which send data back to an external organisation, as with smart metering services the thirst for bandwidth and superfast internet is set to continue.
Building better businesses Today connectivity is crucial for businesses of all sizes.
The internet hasmade the world a much smaller place and businesses now have to contend not only with traditional bricks and mortar based operations butalso lower cost, internet-based competition in the UK and abroad.
For the small enterprise owner, balancing the need tofocus on growing business with being able to access a range oftechnologies can be achallenge.
Much like consumers, they want bundled solutions that can deliver all their communications needs.
Having access to customer and technical support isalso vital, as small organisations typically have limited specialist in-house IT resource.
For larger organisations, the challenges become more complex, driven not only by new demands from customers but also the need to leverage talent across the organisation.
KCOM Group PLC 04 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Strategic report As the marketplace becomes increasingly competitive, organisations are At the same time, changes in workplace demographics, and a drive looking for new ways to stand out from the crowd.
The ability to deliver towards greater work life flexibility have coincided with faster access consistent and high standards of customer service can be a challenge speeds and the emergence of new technology such as 4G to create when there is also pressure to deliver more for less.
anexpectation from an increasingly specialised workforce for collaboration and communications tools that enhance productivity andspeed up innovation.
Customer service Organisations that can adapt to key trends in customer service will be Creating work life flexibility will be a priority for organisations seeking able to deliver an experience that will empower customers and provide toattract and retain talent.
Empowering employees to deliver the best a competitive advantage.
results and an enhanced customer experience will make collaboration tools and off-site connectivity a key success factor.
Technology has The explosion in broadband, smartphone and social media adoption, gone mobile, the use of video and gamification in business is growing, and the pace of technological change present opportunities for and employees are pushing for choice as consumer devices outpace personalisation, enhanced customer service and innovation to corporate ones in terms of functionality and ease of use.
differentiate organisations against the background ofamore forlessenvironment.
Business leaders and end users are already bringing their own tablets and smartphones into the workplace and using cloud applications such The economic environment has been very challenging for some time as Dropbox, Evernote and SkyDrive to store and transfer corporate data.
causing organisations to re-think their plans.
Alongside cost reduction While this presents an opportunity for employees to be more productive, programmes, management teams are now looking to embrace innovation it creates an information security risk to the organisation.
and IT to create a competitive advantage and find new ways to interact with their customers, deliver services and manage their operations Being prepared for, and embracing, such opportunities is critical for both andsupply chain.
Organisations are increasingly becoming aware that people are a key strategic asset, so finding ways to foster By integrating online channels into their contact strategy, organisations innovation and productivity is key to success.
Technology, particularly can build a single view of the customer, tailor their service to customer enterprise-grade communications and collaboration tools, can have a needs, and respond in the timeframe that todays consumers expect.
bigimpact onhowemployees interact and solve problems.
Being ready Assome online channels are effectively self-service, there is an to meet the challenges of security and device management will be opportunity for organisations to become more efficient in the way criticalto success.
Organisations are looking for trusted partners to help them navigate Research weve undertaken in partnership with the Contact Centre through the latest trends in business and IT, and identify and deliver Association CCA has shown that 60 per cent of customers want to talk new, compelling capabilities in the areas of collaboration, contact, to a person, rather than an automated system this is in stark contrast mobility and Bring Your Own Device BYOD services that add to figures that show up to 80 per cent of businesses want to increase demonstrable value.
self-service features for their customers.
There are however certain transactions that customers prefer to handle via self-service or automated systems.
There is an opportunity for organisations to findabalance Connectivity is at the heart of everything between human interaction and automated services and take In order to exploit these technologies in the workplace to the best effect, amulti-channel approach to delivering customer service which organisations are increasingly looking to pay for what they use, rather willincrease both satisfaction and efficiency.
than owning technology assets outright.
Connectivity will be key to delivering hybrid cloud solutions that allow organisations to accelerate innovation, explore new ideas and reduce the time to bring new products The future of work to market.
These solutions will help them stay poised to take advantage In just over 20 years, weve gone from a paper-driven society to one of rapid technological advances, and give them the agility, flexibility and that is almost entirely digital - and we are now connected in ways that scalability to respond to opportunities, all for a predictable cost.
To exploit would have seemed like science fiction in the early 1990s.
these opportunities, organisations require much more from their networks than ever before and thinking of the network in a strategic way has never Organisations that have been traditionally based upon hierarchical, been more important.
Networks will become intelligent, contextual and pyramid, command and control models are now flattening their service-aware, and they will be judged on what they enablerather than structures and evolving organisational design thinking from a built what they are.
tolast approach to one that is built to change.
Social software, collaborative technologies, workflow automation and task tracking areenabling organisations to become more flexible and agile.
A key component of this new, agile structure is the application of tools and technologies that can create virtual networks and allow greater mobility of skills and knowledge.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 05 STRATEGIC REPORT Market opportunities continued Connectivity is at the heart of everything continued In this context, IT becomes a strategic enabler for business, unlocking In an increasingly competitive world, successful organisations must look the potential ofpeople across organisations through new collaboration, to embrace the opportunities and seek out innovative methods for contact andmobility services and experiences to customers, employees facing everyday challenges.
Its more than the possibility of using technology to avoid undesirable Not only are organisations becoming more tech savvy, so are tasks through automation and the streamlining of processes.
Its about theirconsumers and employees, and end users are seeking increased harnessing knowledge and information to provide a richer view of our personalisation, integration and connectivity in all facets of technology.
customers and allowing technology to empower us by innovating and expanding our existing capabilities: ultimately being augmented rather Whatever the market segment, its clear that customers are looking for than replaced by technology.
some key things from their technology partner: the skills and capability to create and integrate solutions: great customer service to anticipate and meet their needs, innovative thinking and access to the right The challenge for IT teams products and services.
Because it is such a driver for change, understanding the potential that can be realised by technology is a must for organisations that want to create a high-performance workplace.
What it means for KCOM Group At KCOM Group, we bring all these elements together to create the right In the past, IT innovation took place in the workplace first and then, solutions for customers across our markets.
We base our strategy on when commoditised, became available in the consumer space.
four strategic pillars: Since2009 this has been reversed.
Consumer IT has delivered transformational innovation that is now being embraced in I our customer focus through each of our brands we tailor our offer to theenterprise.
the needs of a particular set of customers and deliver an experience to match their requirements: End users want a consumer IT experience and the IT function wants I our people making sure we leverage their skills and capabilities and secure, enterprise-grade IT services.
The reality is that its possible for create the right environment for them to achieve their full potential: both.
Cloud, social media, mobility and Big Data are a nexus of forces I our partners who help us to deliver a wide breadth of services which that is transforming the way businesses will function in the future.
wecan bring together using our expertise and experience: and I our processes and systems making sure they give us the flexibility Rapid innovation and the proliferation of technology have changed the andagility to serve our customers.
Organisations want more from their IT networks, not just in terms of speed, but also functionality, connectivity and reliability.
Find out more about our approach in the Our business model section of this report on pages 7 to 9.
This means that organisations must focus on IT now more than ever, finding new ways to integrate technology into the company strategy to enhance communication, streamline operations, increase revenue and transform the business.
KCOM Group PLC 06 Annual report and accounts 2013 14
