Laird PLC 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Performance highlights We continue to deliver against our strategy of investing for growth Investing for growth Over the past two years, we have Our products provide mission-critical focused on investing in innovation protection and connectivity in harsh and and diversifying our customer base.
demanding operating environments for Radio Customers rely on our design teams Frequency RF technology.
Our products are used in a wide range of applications and to develop innovative product end markets, from smartphones, automotive, solutions, from product conception andmedical applications to large scale through to efficient manufacturing.
installations forrailways, ports, mines and This strategic focus has resulted in military uses.
increased business from both new Our engineers work closely with customers designing bespoke solutions that capture value and existing customers, diversifying for both the customer and for our business.
Our designcentres and manufacturing facilities, located worldwide on three continents, enable usto respond quickly to customers requirements, frominnovative design to reliable fulfilment and speed.
Strong financial performance with Delivering against our strategy good organic growth for the year forgrowth and creating value 1 5% increase in total revenue in Sterling to 564.9m Successfully delivered on our strategy to diversify 2013,537.0m.
our customer base with 6 customers over $25m in revenues 2013,5 customers and 79 customers over 2 8% organic increase in revenue.
12% increase in operating profit in US$.
Six consecutive quarters of organic revenue growth.
9% organic growth in Performance Materials, driven Innovation and customer mindshare underpinned by strong performances in smartphones and mobile by 10% increase in gross R&D investment to $81.9m LTE 4G investment.
Expanded production footprint with new factories in China, Vietnam and the United States 8% organic growth in Wireless Systems, driven by and anew design centre in South Korea.
3 Successful acquisition of Model Solution in South 5% increase in underlying profit before tax to 63.2m 2013,60.1m after increased investment in R&D and Korea, opening up new markets and customers.
Full year dividend increased by 4%.
Proposed final dividend per share of 8.23p 2013,7.90p.
1 3 Translated at $1.65 which is the average exchange rate over the year Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before 2013, $1.56.
exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and US capitalised development costs, gain loss on disposal of businesses, 2 Organic revenue growth is defined as the prior years base revenue impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition including revenue from newly acquired companies as if we had owned transaction costs.
those acquired companies for the same period in the prior year.
Total revenue is based on the absolute increase in revenue from the prioryear including newly acquired companies without adjustment.
Laird PLC 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial highlights 1 Revenue Revenue Statutory profit Underlying profit 2 after tax before tax 8% organic growth 11% total growth 5% total growth 63% 5% 50.2m $932.0m 564.9m 63.2m $839.8m 60.1m 537.0m 30.8m 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 $932.0m 564.9m 50.2m 63.2m Operating margin Underlying basic earnings Dividends per share per share pence pence 3% 4% 12.5p 12.6% 19.1p 12.0p 12.5% 18.6p 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 12.6% 19.1p 12.5p Good diversification of our customer base Over $25m $10m $25m $1m 10m 8 8 65 6 57 5 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Laird at a glance We protect electronics and enable connectivity in mission-critical applications Performance Materials Revenue We design and supply a full range of electromagnetic $604.0m 366.1m interference EMI shielding materials, thermal management solutions and signal integrity products 13% 7% SIP.
Our products provide critical protection for a 2013, $536.2m 2013,342.8m wide range of electronics, allowing them to function and connect effectively.
These products isolate and protect sensitive electronics from interference and Revenue by market segment stop them from interacting with other components.
Our Performance Materials products are supplied to 6 1.
IT Telecom 31% a broad range of markets including IT and telecom, 5 2.
Smartphone 28% smartphones, automotive, industrial applications, 4 1 3.
Other industrial 21% consumer and medical.
Consumer 9% Performance Materials tend to be 12-18 months for 5.
Transportation 6% products such as smartphones, often with large 6.
Our customers value highly our ability to develop innovative design 2 solutions combined with high production capacity whilst meeting exacting quality standards reliable fulfilment and speed of response throughout the design and fulfilment process.
Wireless Systems Revenue Our Wireless Systems products enable mission- $328.0m 198.8m critical connectivity and remote smart systems, with primary markets in automotive, telecoms, industrial 8% 2% and medical.
Reliable connectivity is mission- 2013, $303.6m 2013,194.2m critical in environments such as transport, industrial applications, military and medicine.
Our ability to deliver innovative solutions in the field of wireless Revenue by market segment connectivity reliably contributes to our strong customer mindshare.
Transport 61% We design, manufacture and supply a broad range 3 2.
IT Telecom 20% of products and solutions that enable wireless 3.
Industrial 15% communication such as antennae, embedded 4.
Other 4% wirelessmodules, telematics products, M2M devices, wireless automation and control systems, along with 2 1 software solutions to support asset management systems in specialised industrial applications.
Laird PLC 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The challenge Our solutions How we protect electronics Solutions Electro-Magnetic Shielding Electronic devices give off electromagnetic emissions The complexities of todays electronics pose several design as a by-product of electrical or magnetic activity challenges.
Protecting and isolating radio frequencies needs that can interfere with performance.
EMI shielding to be balanced with product constraints on space, weight products isolate sensitive apparatus from these and production capabilities.
Our board level shielding electromagnetic fields.
expertise encompasses all phases of development, from design, rapid prototyping and pre-production through to final production and automated packaging.
Thermal Management Electronic applications generate heat that As a leader in thermoelectric management applications, canadversely affect a devices performance.
Our we design and manufacture some of the worlds highestthermal management materials and active cooling rated, thermally conductive materials for telecoms, solutions provide a way to manage andactively instrumentation, and other industrial applications.
Our controlheat in a variety ofelectronic applications.
Thermal Interface Materials TIMs soften and conform at operating temperatures to dramatically increase the removalof heat and so deliver more reliable operation.
Our skilled engineers also combine this expertise with in-house design, assembly, and manufacturing expertise.
Signal Integrity Our ferrite-based product family preserves high Ferrite materials exhibit varying magnetic properties quality signal integrity by removing and filtering depending on the frequency at which they are excited.
unwanted or harmful electromagnetic noise By changing the composition of ferrite, it is possible generated by active components such as oscillators to enhance attenuation in selected frequency ranges.
and microprocessors, as well as signal interference We havedeveloped a family of ferrites with varying escaping from any electronic product through direct compositions to allow the user to manage every type DC power lines.
of application, from pulse transformers to ground faultinterrupters.
Telematics M2M We are a global leader in the design, manufacture We custom-engineer our antennae specifically for each and delivery of automotive antennas, with state-ofcustomer, designed to optimise the RF environment for the-art designs including satellite radio, GPS, cellular, each vehicles connectivity requirements.
For vehicular AM FM, on-glass, amplifiers, Bluetooth and DAB to Telematics M2M applications, we manufacture wireless enable a range of wireless connectivity applications Bluetooth and Wi-Fi radio modules, including custom from asset tracking to pay-as-you drive insurance powerlevels and extended-range versions for original and from fleet management to theft recovery.
Our equipment manufacturers and commercial applications.
wireless communications capabilities are world class, recognising the multiple design and specification requirements that individual Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs and vehicle modelsdemand.
Wireless Automation The high-reliability wireless remote control systems We have state of the art remote control applications for that we design and supply serve railways, mining, cranes, railway systems, material handling equipment, and Control and industrial markets globally.
These remote control mining machinery, mobile equipment, shiploaders, systems are specifically designed for any equipment agricultural machinery, and virtually any equipment where where the operator can remotely operate heavy the operator can be moved to a safer, more efficient location.
We also provide The reliability of our wireless connectivity solutions is critical fullyhosted networked applications software that to proving a safe and effective working environment.
enables customers to monitor their remote controlled assets in real-time.
Infrastructure Antennae We provide high performance indoor and outdoor Our solutions offer robust designs to address the antennae solutions.
In-building wireless antennae challenges of large scale installations, such as multipath are particularly applicable in environments where and interference, signal dead spots and shadows, ensuring aesthetics and wide angle coverage are necessary comprehensive coverage inside or outside a building.
Their small size Maintaining mission-critical signal integrity and adding allows them to be hidden almost anywhere, providing Wi-Fi capacity are some of our product capabilities.
an invisible solution for most applications.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our global reach We deliver solutions across the world 1 9,000 29 11 644 Approximately Engineering and Customer design centres Registered patents 9,000employees manufacturing of excellence globally across5continents sites globally and 19 countries Oct Increased production footprint, WACS wireless, Ohio 2015 Summer 2015 Opening of telematics plant, Sao Paulo Design Manufacturing Both 1 Total patents as at 20 February 2015. design manufacturing both Laird PLC 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Apr Acquisition of Model Solution, South Korea Oct Increased production footprint, telematics plant, Shanghai Apr June New design centre, South Korea New plant opening, Vietnam design manufacturing both Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our business model Innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed underpin our business model and create shareholder value Laird design, Customers innovation and speed Customer mindshare Laird manufacturing, reliable fulfilment and speed Reliable Innovation Speed Fulfilment Our commitment to A consistent level of high Fast response through the innovation is reflected quality engineering and design cycle and speed inourinvestment in R&D.
manufacturing processes of delivery matters to ensures we deliver quality our customers.
product on time to our customers.
Laird PLC 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Speed:fast response through the design Strategic differentiation andproduction cycle Our business model is underpinned by our One of our strategic differentiators is the speed with partnership with our customers who rely which we service customers, from design through to on our expertise in developing innovative delivery.
Customers highly value our ability to combine solutions, combined with our commitment to design innovation with fast and reliable fulfilment.
reliable fulfilment and speed in responding to We ensure that our production capabilities match our customers needs so that our customers never wait for their needs.
Our long-term partnerships, or our components.
customer mindshare help us to penetrate new We also have the ability to create rapid prototypes product lines and platforms and thereby grow through our acquisition of Model Solution which helps our business, creating long term value for our our customers accelerate their product development.
We discuss our strategic vision in Building prototypes also helps strengthen our customer more detail in Our strategy on pages 16-17. relationships, giving us valuable insight into future trends and designs.
Innovation:first point of contact Customer mindshare: long-term collaboration Our design engineers engage with customers at every andreliable fulfilment stage of the design process, creating value by providing The differentiation we offer through innovation, reliable creative solutions and engineering innovation.
For some fulfilment and speed means that our customers know of our customers, speed of design, innovation and that they can rely on us.
The confidence that customers reliable fulfilment throughout the design and production have in us as innovative design partners and consultants, cycle is of primary importance.
For other customers, combined with our position as an essential supply chain it is our ability to create mission-critical connectivity supplier sets us apart from the competition.
It is this solutions in the most demanding environments, from customer mindshare that underpins our business model.
stadiums to ports, mining and railways, that reinforces our customer mindshare.
Reliable fulfilment:meeting customer demandthroughout the product cycle High standards of quality engineering, precision manufacturing expertise and manufacturing facilities close to our key customers ensure that we are able to deliver consistent quality throughout the peaks of production demand, smoothly and efficiently, regardless of customer demand.
This is a capability that few of our competitors can match, and it underpins our welldeserved reputation for reliable fulfilment.
We have extensive manufacturing facilities around the globe, located close to our customers for just-in-time fulfilment.
By having on-site testing and the highest industry accreditation, we provide assurance for customers across a wide range of demanding and harsh industrial applications.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our business model continued Our business model focuses on becoming a trusted partner to our customers by providing a differentiated Culture solution and unique customer value.
This is manifested Leadership inour business model by: creating innovative customer solutions that anticipate Strategy market changes and provide our customers with a step jump in competitive advantage Innovation : Operating model ensuring high quality engineering and manufacturing Governance processes that are able to meet rapid changes in customer demand to keep production lines running CEO Reliable fulfilment : enabling accelerated new product launches by delivering unparallelled speed and access throughout the customer design process Speed : and Executive team driving higher levels of customer engagement and fostering long-term strategic partnerships to define the future product and service needs Customer mindshare.
Leadership team Customer mindshare underpinned by The Five Pillars Management team A key part of our strategy is to create an internal culture that fosters innovation, collaboration and a commitment to winning customer mindshare.
Under our One Laird banner, the Leadership team, comprised of our most senior managers, is tasked with implementing our Whole organisation business strategy across the Company.
The Leadership Our Five Pillar management philosophy based on the One Laird team meets regularly to encourage collaboration concept ensures that a consistent and coherent strategic vision is across business units and corporate functions, to share cascaded down through to all employees, regardless of geographic knowledge and to win new business from both existing location or line function.
The Management and Leadership teams customers and new prospects.
meet regularly throughout the year to exchange customer insights, best practice and innovative solutions.
The Leadership team forms the core of the wider Management team, comprising the top 200 managers who meet annually.
This group reaches deeper into Culture statement the organisation to embed the culture, to cascade the strategy and provide guidance and leadership to the We work as a global team of talented individuals to make a difference to our employees, business whole organisation.
Our well-defined strategy to invest for growth and create value provides the framework to manage our We have an unwavering commitment to being honest businesses on a day-to-day basis on a global footprint.
and ethical in all situations and treating each other The strategy framework is the context for setting with dignity andrespect.
business objectives, investment decisions and M&A We create an open and engaging environment that evaluations which feed into our operating model.
thrives on high energy, adaptability and delivering onour commitments.
Our corporate culture is based on being honest and ethical in all situations and treating each other, our Laird is a great place with great opportunities for customers and our suppliers with dignity and respect.
personal and professional growth for those who work We strongly believe that our corporate governance hard, are willing to learn and deliver results.
principles, which guide how we do business, contribute to customer mindshare and long-term growth.
