Strategy We are in business to generate consistent, upper quartile shareholder returns by delivering best value for our products and services in aerospace, defence and specialist markets.
Terry Twigger Chief Executive ourselves with the technologies that Balancing interests will win our place on new ones.
Proactively managing and investing in Meggitt businesses as a group is key to sustaining growth over the Managing our aftermarket long term.
This includes maintaining We design and develop our products, a balanced portfolio that enables us so are well-placed to look after them to steer a steady course throughout throughout their service lives, our business cycles.
We balance achieving consistent, predictable sales to original equipment and long-term aftermarket revenues.
manufacturers with sales to their We underpin product quality with aftermarkets: military with comprehensive care packages that commercial interests: and North support customers with inventory American with European and Asian control, spares distribution and third business.
Our growing international party supply management.
presence includes our sourcing, manufacturing and aftermarket Equipping our people capability in Asia, and our recent Meggitt people set high standards acquisitions in France.
Our business model is evolving for themselves and take pride in to match our changing market meeting them consistently.
This Acquisitions conditions but remains underpinned culture of strong performance has Meggitt is an experienced integrator by several fundamentals: owning been integral to our success and of new businesses, whether to and investing in intellectual we are determined to protect it by strengthen our existing positions property: providing exceptional supporting, training, developing and or acquire new ones.
We are always aftermarket services: developing rewarding them so they are equipped ready to seize opportunities to and rewarding our excellent to respond to the needs of our highdevelop our markets and enhance workforce: exploiting the growth growth business.
our technologies when presented opportunities our businesses can with appropriate acquisitions.
seize by coordinating activities: Working as a group maintaining a balanced portfolio Some of these needs centre on of interests: and remaining poised exploiting growth opportunities to grow by targeted acquisition.
intrinsic to us as a group of businesses.
We are increasingly Owning our technologies managing our investment in core Terry Twigger Owning intellectual property makes technologies from this perspective Chief Executive it hard for potential competitors to and, as we coordinate and present gain ground.
We take care to invest what Meggitt offers as a coherent in our established portfolio of highly whole, simplifying procurement for engineered and specialist products, key customers.
We will continue to protecting our position on current achieve economies of scale through programmes and equipping group purchasing initiatives.
06 Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 Group strategy Deliver upper quartile shareholder returns from best total value products and services for civil aerospace, military and specialist markets Group strategic objectives Continue to Maintain a Promote group Proactively Grow by targeted develop leading culture of strong synergies manage our acquisitions positions in performance businesses and markets with investments to high barriers to deliver long-term entry and strong sustainable aftermarket growth revenues Key business actions Earn high Protect and Achieve Support, train Exploit market Maximise Seek acquisitions ratings from develop our operational and develop and technology intellectual and alliances to customers for intellectual excellence our people opportunities property in strengthen our world-class property by across the group related markets technology and service delivery strategic R&D market positions investment Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 07
