Aftermarket Our products are on virtually all military and civil aircraft.
Some 19,000 wheel and brake assemblies alone are on over 30 different aircraft typesjust one of the many technologies offered by specialist Meggitt businesses, all looking after their products, round the clock, all year, lifelong.
Maintenance, repair and overhaul services, Aircraft on Ground support, technical helplines, product repair training, spares provisioning and site visits are backed by in-house, return-to-service test facilities.
We dont just overhaul units.
Our total care packages support customers with inventory control, spares distribution and third party supply management, so equipment is up to the mark, on the spot.
And our products are the real thing: all OEM-specified to the original design, so theyre accurate, not just close.
Now we are integrating the aftermarket capability of the group in our expanding Singapore facility.
This new Meggitt aftermarket business model, which is already bringing new reach and power to our airline services, will become a full-service plant, supporting all Meggitt products in the region.
Paul Brown Vice-President Meggitt Asia Pacific, Singapore After nearly 20 years living and working starting up Meggitts first production in Asia, I have a deep affinity for the facility in China.
Armed with a chemical established an international purchasing engineering degree, my career started organisation in Singapore, providing in technical sales for Johnson Matthey.
strategic sourcing for Meggitt businesses I moved to Hong Kong in 1987 to develop worldwide.
Right now, being at Meggitt their catalytic systems business in in Asia means being part of a rapid Asia and then to Singapore to set up expansion in manufacturing, sourcing, manufacturing operations, culminating sales and aftermarket services in the in my leadership of JMs south east Asian worlds fastest growing aerospace semiconductor business.
I thrive on leading these three years heading up a global business initiativesand the opportunity to segment of Honeywell Electronic continue my exploration of this Materials, I accepted a new challenge, fascinating region.
26 Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005
