Thermal management and control systems Meggitts complex thermal management and control systems draw on a vast reservoir of engineering talent in fluid dynamics, heat transfer and electro-mechanical design, a wide range of system parts and decades of experience solving problems in jets, armoured vehicles, the nuclear industry, spacecraft and industrial gas turbines.
We ventilate nuclear containment facilities and provide advanced fuel metering systems for efficient land-based power generation: cool state-of-the-art electronics in M1 Abrams tanks: ensure the fault-free operation of the V22 rotorcrafts key avionics and gearbox systems: integrate the bleed air components for the radar pressurisation and cooling system for the US Navys next generation EC-2 Hawkeye early warning aircraft: and cool laser mine detection systems, mastmounted helicopter sights and countermeasure pods.
Now we are responding to the needs of mainstream aviation, combining a wide range of Meggitt products into single aircraft systems, saving customers the onerous costs of part-by-part engineering, procurement and testing.
We provide the Eclipse 500s nacelle anti-ice system and its lightweight, easy-to-maintain ducting: the environmental control system ducting for Alenia Aeronauticas ATR 42 and ATR 72 aircraft: the anti-ice system for the Embraer Phenom 100 very light jet engine and from design through to test, qualification and integrationthe complete environmental control system for Javelin, the advanced executive jet and military trainer.
Doug Boobar Director of Engineering Meggitt Thermal Systems, California Ive liked mending things from childhood, development role.
I am helping build solving problems, being creative.
This destined to become an engineer in environmental control systems capability adulthood.
After taking my Bachelors comes from combining multiple products and Masters in Mechanical Engineering from the Meggitt family, using the systems and getting my Professional Engineering integration experience weve been applying License, I went on to work for Parker for several years to the light jet market.
Hannifin, Hamilton Sundstrand, later I am packaging something together that consulting for GE, Goodrich and Embraer.
works, improving efficiency and profitability Now my career is taking a different path.
Im still mending Meggitt has given me the chance to use things.
Theyre just biggerlike creating my engineering skills, explore my this new Meggitt business model, fusing entrepreneurial side and make strategic components into a thriving systems line business decisions in a technical business that only we can orchestrate.
Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 23
