Brakes, wheels and anti-skid systems Meggitts lightweight carbon brakes were the first to be used in commercial flighton Concorde.
A combination of lightweight alloy wheels, high performance carbon and mechanical and digital anti-skid brake control systems continue to be deployed on state-of-the-art aircraft such as the Joint Strike Fighter, Eurofighter Typhoon and modern business jets like the Gulfstream G550.
We support them all with comprehensive aftermarket services.
Research and development focuses on cutting operating costs by lowering weight, extending intrinsic product life and reducing maintenance requirements.
Our  Ebrake, using carbon composite technology, does all thisand can deliver more reliability and flight readiness than conventional hydraulic systems.
Our innovative product improvement programmes for regional aircraft operators extend the life and reliability of older braking technologies.
Meggitt engineering and design comes with extreme testing.
Our dynamometer test facilitythe most advanced in the worldis used for critical rejected take-off tests, involving simulated braking and severe wear testing of the heaviest civil jet at full weight and speed.
Rob Cooper Machinist Dunlop Aerospace Braking Systems, England Ive been in the metal-cutting business from other companies are amazed how at Dunlop since I was 16 but dont cut we cut this hard material.
This kind of job by hand much now.
Its computerised should involve eight set-up operations.
 machines more We do it in oneand theres no CNC than handles and levers.
I used to feel comparison because no-one else is when the metal was cut right.
Now weve got the machine work with the best metal-cutting machine up to speed, were taking cost out of the there is and I hear how it cuts.
I make job by getting more life out of the tooling.
My apprenticeship comes into its own They can stop a super jumbo from 200 againknowing how to use tools and miles an hour in under 25 seconds and understanding how different metals save 120 kilos in weight.
No-one here react under stress.
Thats how you had ever seen such big lumps of titanium improve a process and stay up to when the castings came in and engineers speed yourself.
12 Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005
