Health monitoring and management To cut the cost of unscheduled maintenance, unnecessary inspection and trouble shooting, system operators must anticipatenot just discoverwear and tear.
When planning operations, maintenance and inventory, they come to Meggitt for the latest predictive tools.
We have been at the forefront of vibration monitoring technology for over half a century.
Today, our expanded range of sensors is underpinned by a complete systems integration capability and new diagnostic and prognostic packages that turn data into maintenance actions and monitoring into active management of system condition.
This capability is exemplified by state-of-the-art monitoring systems which create clear and unambiguous images of the Trent 900 engine for the Airbus A380: and the Trent 1000 and GEnx engines for the Boeing 787.
Our helicopter health and usage monitoring systems have proved themselves over a million flying hours in all terrains and all climates.
This includes ROTABS, the world-leading system, which gathers data during revenue flight and presents simple rotor balancing instructions to ground crews.
Peter Kupferschmied Director, Systems Engineering Vibro-Meter, Switzerland Academia wasnt really all for me.
After aero engines and other valuable assets.
a Masters in Mechanical Engineering, This enables me to work across Meggitt, postgraduate technical business science where there are huge opportunities for studies and a Doctorate in aerodynamic interesting technologies to merge into measurement at the Swiss Federal advanced products and applications.
Institute of Technology, I became Deputy The mix of disciplines and cultures is Director of the Institutes turbomachinery fascinating.
Im an exotic creature here lab, competing for business with industrial a mechanical engineer in an electronic research and technology programmes engineering world.
When we and moving towards my real ambition: look across our boundaries, we generate to create products from A to Z.
Now I new, bigger and better ideas.
As most run Vibro-Meters systems engineering things in life, its all about people: bring group, delivering advanced solutions to the right people with the right skills monitoring and managing the health of together and innovation starts to look easy.
Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 05
