Land systems Our environmental control systems and ammunition handling technology is well-established in the worlds premier combat vehicles.
Our thermal management systems cool crew and equipment in the M1A2 SEP Abrams tank.
The Strykers mobile gun system increases its firepower with our replenisher, which can automatically transfer ten rounds a minute.
Now we are mobilising more of the groups extreme environment engineering to meet the militarys requirement for the smaller, more mobile and deployable vehicles needed for asymmetric, information technology-enabled warfare.
Meggitts fire protection technologycarried by 85 per cent of aircraft in serviceis now being deployed in land systems, building on existing developments in main battle tanks, landing craft and light armoured vehicles.
Our sensors, navigation and communications devices: nuclear, biological, chemical and ballistic threat detection equipment: decoys and countermeasures: electric drive and electric braking: and smart cabling and condition monitoring capability are equally ripe for technology transfer, with the potential to make armoured vehicles robust yet agile and their firepower and command and control systems more powerful yet energy efficient.
All will be underpinned by the standards of operational readiness and reliability that characterise Meggitts extreme environment products.
Stuart WestlakeToms Business Development Director Meggitt Defence Systems, England At 17, I was an aircraft apprentice and and moving cross-country on every pilot.
I could still replace the electrics in type of terrain, in all weathers, teaches a Vulcan.
Later I became a Gunner in the you what they need to do.
Then came British Army, so I know artillery.
Thats the desk jobsdefining requirements, the fit with Meggitt Defence Systems, trialling guns and missile systems which specialises in threat simulation integration, looking after customers and weapons and land systems in the UK MOD procurement process.
Ive spent a few hours in All this experience underpins my armoured vehicles too.
Wheeled, tracked, coordination of Meggitts land systems in the UK, US, Canada, Germany, Oman.
We can make an important When you drive a vehicle, maintain it, live contribution to developing the armoured in it, command it and train to fight with it, vehicles of the future.
That excites me, its your second skin.
Running convoys as a soldier and a businessman.
Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 09
