MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir Adrian Montague CBE 5 Terry Benson 5 Charles-Henri Dumon Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Managing Director Continental Europe and The Americas Sir Adrian Montague is NonTerry Benson joined Michael Page in Charles-Henri Dumon joined Michael Executive Chairman of British Energy 1979 and was appointed to the Board Page in 1985 and was appointed plc, Friends Provident plc and in 1983.
In 1986 he was promoted a Director in 1987.
Since then he Infrastructure Investors Limited.
From to Managing Director of the Groups has had full responsibility for the 1997 to 2001 he held senior posts marketing recruitment businesses Groups operations in France and concerned with the implementation and in January 1988 to Managing has managed the Groups entry into of the Governments policies for the Director of the Group.
In 1993 he Southern Europe and South America.
involvement of the private sector in was appointed Chief Executive of the He was appointed as Managing the delivery of public services, first Group.
He will stand down as Chief Director for all Michael Pages as Chief Executive of the Treasury Executive at the forthcoming Annual Continental European and South Taskforce and then as Deputy General Meeting in May and will leave American businesses in January Chairman of Partnerships UK plc.
His responsibilities were He was Deputy Chairman of Network Stephen Box 55 increased to include North America Rail from 2001 to 2004 and NonIndependent Non-Executive in January 2006.
Executive Chairman of Cross London Director, Senior Independent Rail Links Limited from 2004 to 2005.
Director Steve Ingham He spent his early career as a solicitor Managing Director UK Stephen Box qualified as a Chartered with Linklaters & Paines before Chief Executive Designate Accountant at Coopers & Lybrand joining Kleinwort Benson in 1994. where he spent more than 25 years, Steve Ingham joined Michael Page Sir Adrian is also a Non-Executive 15 of these as a partner.
From August in 1987 as a consultant with Michael Director of CellMark AB, the pulp and 1997 to November 2002 he was Page Marketing and Sales.
He was paper marketing company based in Finance Director of National Grid.
responsible for setting up the London Gothenburg.
He was awarded a CBE He is a member of the Financial marketing and sales businesses and in 2001 and a knighthood in 2006.
Reporting Review Panel and a Nonwas promoted to Operating Director He was appointed Non-Executive Executive Director of South East in 1990.
He was appointed Managing Director of Michael Page International Water Limited SEW and Wales and Director of Michael Page Marketing plc on 27 February 2001, and West Utilities Ltd WWU.
Subsequently he appointed Chairman on 22 May 2002. experience of Audit Committees as has taken additional responsibility for a partner at Coopers & Lybrand, as Michael Pages Retail, Technology, an Executive Director of National Grid Human Resources and Engineering attending Audit Committees, and as businesses.
He was promoted to a Non-Executive Director chairing the the Board as Executive Director of Audit Committees of SEW and WWU.
UK Operations in January 2001, and He was appointed a Non-Executive subsequently to Managing Director of Director of Michael Page International UK Operations in May 2005.
He was plc on 27 February 2001. appointed Chief Executive Designate in December 2005.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 005 Tim Miller Hubert Reid 5 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive In addition to the Executive Directors, Director Director the Executive Committee comprises Tim Miller was appointed to the Board Hubert Reid is Chairman of Enterprise Chris Adams Regional Managing on 15 August 2005 and became Inns plc and of the Midas Income Director - Asia Pacific and Andrew Chairman of the Remuneration and Growth Trust PLC and Deputy Wayland Chief Information Officer.
Chairman of Majedie Investments Chris Adams He is also a member of the Audit and PLC.
He was previously Managing Regional Managing Director - Asia Nomination Committees.
Tim has Director and then Chairman of the Pacific wide experience in human resources Boddington Group plc, Chairman of Chris Adams joined Michael Page and has held a number of senior HR Ibstock Plc, Bryant Group plc and Marketing in Birmingham in 1987 and and business roles in the information the Royal London Group.
He was transferred to Australia in 1990.
He technology, retail and pharmaceutical appointed a Non-Executive Director was appointed a Director in 1996 and sectors.
He is currently a Director of of Michael Page International plc on Managing Director of Michael Page Standard Chartered Bank, responsible 25 February 2003.
Hubert has been a Australia in 1998.
He was appointed for HR, Corporate Real Estate, member of various Audit Committees Managing Director of the Asia Pacific Corporate Secretariat, Compliance since 1993 including Bryant Group region in May 2000. and Regulatory Risk, Internal Audit plc, Ibstock Plc, Greenalls Group plc, and Legal.
Royal London Group, Midas Income Andrew Wayland and Growth Trust PLC, Enterprise Chief Information Officer Stephen Puckett Inns plc and Majedie Investments Group Finance Director Andrew Wayland was the UK IT PLC.
Business Management Director of Stephen Puckett qualified as a  where Chartered Accountant with BDO he worked for over 10 years in Binder Hamlyn.
He joined Wace the internal IT functions.
He brings Group plc in 1988 as Director of extensive experience in establishing Corporate Finance, subsequently IT strategy and innovation to support being promoted to Group Finance the wider business strategy, and Director in 1991.
He was Group integrating technology teams.
He was Finance Director of Stat Plus Group appointed Chief Information Officer of plc in 2000, and appointed Group Michael Page in December 2005.
Finance Director of Michael Page International plc in January 2001.
He is a Non-Executive Director of SHL Group plc and chairs its Audit Committee.
