MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activity and review Biographical details for all the current Share capital of the business and future Directors are shown on pages 22 The authorised and issued share developments and 23. capital of the Company are shown in The Group is one of the worlds The beneficial interests of Directors note 18 to the financial statements.
leading specialist recruitment in office at 31 December 2005 in At the Annual General Meeting held consultancies.
The Groups trading the shares of the Company at 31 on 27 May 2005 the Company results are set out in the financial December 2005 and at 27 February renewed its authority to make market statements on pages 48 to 79.
Details 2006 are set out in the Remuneration purchases of its own ordinary shares of the Groups strategy, outlook and Report on page 38. up to a maximum of 10% of the review of operations are described All of the Executive Directors are issued share capital.
in the Chairmans Statement, Chief deemed to have an interest in the During the year, the Company Executives Review and Finance ordinary shares held in the Employee purchased 16.8m shares which were Directors Review on pages 17 to 21.
Benefit Trust and its subsidiaries.
The nominal value Directors and interests of these shares was 0.2m and Results and dividends The following were Directors during represented 4.8% of the issued share The profit for the year after taxation the year and held office throughout capital.
The shares were purchased amounted to 49.6m 2004: 34.3m.
the year other than as shown below.
for a consideration of 34.2m A final dividend for 2004 of 2.75 including expenses.
On 28 December Sir Adrian Montague CBE Chairman pence per ordinary share was paid 2005 all 24.6m shares held in treasury Terry Benson Chief Executive on 3 June 2005.
An interim dividend were cancelled.
Stephen Box of 1.5 pence per ordinary share Stephen Burke resigned 25 May Substantial shareholdings was paid on 14 October 2005.
The 2005 Directors recommend the payment As at 27 February 2006, the Charles-Henri Dumon of a final dividend for the year ended Company has been notified of the Steve Ingham 31 December 2005 of 3.5 pence per interests held in more than 3% of the Rob Lourey resigned 25 April 2005 ordinary share on 5 June 2006 to issued share capital of the Company shareholders on the register on 5 May as shown in Fig.
Tim Miller appointed 15 August 2005 2006 which, if approved at the Annual Stephen Puckett General Meeting, will result in a total Hubert Reid dividend for the year of 5.0 pence per Non-Executive Directors ordinary share 2004: 4.0 pence.
Senior Independent Director In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Tim Miller, who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 15 August 2005, will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for Fig.
In addition, Stephen Puckett and Number of % of issued Holder ordinary shares share capital Hubert Reid will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, Harris Associates 39,232,100 11.75 being eligible, offer themselves for Silchester International Investors 25,683,231 7.69 re-election.
Barclays plc 19,905,287 5.96 AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 19,560,090 5.86 Legal & General 12,780,166 3.83 Capital International Limited 12,311,486 3.69 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 005 Corporate social responsibility optimising the use of energy: Waste CSR ensuring the efficient use of 274 tonnes of waste was The Board recognises its materials: generated by UK offices.
Our responsibilities in respect of social, current national recycling rate is encouraging re-use and recycling: environmental and ethical SEE 16% from recycling confidential and matters, with the UK Managing paper and toner cartridges.
incorporating the principle of Director having Board responsibility for sustainable development.
Through recycling, Michael Page Group Environmental Management.
in the UK has saved 677 trees During the year, the Group has The Directors continually monitor 3 and saved a total of 230m landfill continued to allocate a significant all risks to its businesses, including space.
amount of time and resource to SEE risks, which may impact the further identify where its activities Energy Groups short and long term value.
have an impact on the environment.
During 2005 no significant SEE risks 3,587,058 kWh of electricity An environmental review was again were identified.
The Company is was consumed in the UK, which undertaken jointly by Michael Page also a member of the FTSE4Good converts to 1,542,440 kgCO.
2 International plc, and Green-Works Index Series designed to measure 2,272,919 kWh of gas was Consulting, an external firm of the performance of, and facilitate consumed in the UK, which environmental consultants.
investment in, those companies converts to 431,855 kgCO.
2 meeting globally recognised standards This review is carried out annually Water of corporate responsibility.
in accordance with the guidance as laid down by the Department for In the UK, Michael Page The Groups policies on CSR matters 3 Environment, Food and Rural Affairs consumed 22,991 m of water.
are described in the following DEFRA, and the Global Reporting paragraphs.
Transport Initiative GRI, an independent, a Environmental policy In total, UK employees travelling to international institution established and from work converts to 1,841,860 The Group does not operate in to create a common framework for kgCO.
2 a business sector which causes sustainability reporting worldwide.
significant pollution but the Board The current environmental report, recognises that the business does which covers our UK businesses have an impact on the environment.
only, will shortly be available on the The Board is committed to managing Michael Page website.
A summary of and improving the way in which our its findings during 2005 is shown in activities affect the environment by: Fig.
UK Waste Generation Annual weight % of generated tonnes total waste Confidential waste 40 15% Toners 2 1% Mixed office paper 96 35% Food waste and packaging 94 34% Aluminium cans 2 1% Glass bottles 5 2% Plastic bottles & plastic cups 5 2% Cardboard 13 5% Miscellaneous 17 5% Total 274 100% 5 MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL DIRECTORS REPORT b Charitable donations d Equal opportunity and diversity In 2005, the Group joined Race for Opportunity RfO, part of Business in The Group made charitable donations The Group endorses and supports the Community, a UK movement of of 70,245 during the year 2004: the principles of equal employment over 700 member companies whose 44,037.
It is the policy of the purpose is to inspire, challenge and are amounts made to the Tsunami Group to provide equal employment support business in improving its Appeal, and various local charities opportunity to all qualified impact on society.
On completion serving the communities in which the individuals which ensures that all of the benchmarking, Michael Page Group operates.
Subject to certain employment decisions are made, International plc was credited in the restrictions, the Group matches subject to its legal obligations, Best Newcomer Category.
As a charitable donations made by on a non-discriminatory basis.
result, the Group has taken a number employees.
It is the Groups policy not Due consideration is given to the of proactive steps to enhance its to make political donations either in recruitment, promotion, training position on diversity and works closely the UK or overseas.
and working environment of all staff with a number of clients to share including those with disabilities.
It is c Employee involvement ideas best practice, and to offer the Groups policy to encourage the Employees are involved in all expertise to minority groups.
training and further development of all aspects of the business.
Michael its employees where this is of benefit The Group is currently working with Page International is featured in The to the individual and to the Group.
RfO on the 2006 benchmarking Sunday Times 100 Best Companies exercise, the results of which Throughout 2005, the Group to Work For and received particular will be reviewed by the Diversity monitored the diversity of its UK commendations for organic growth, Steering Group, which is chaired employees, 79% of whom to date people development and individual by an Executive Director, and its have completed the voluntary request contribution to the business.
recommendations presented to for information.
The analysis indicates Communication with employees is the Board for consideration in all a split of 55% female, 44% male, with effected through the Companys territories.
1% declining to answer, and regarding Intranet, information bulletins, briefing origin, 89% white, 10% ethnic origin e Health and safety meetings conducted by senior and 1% declining to answer.
The UK It is the policy of the Group to take management and formal and informal 2001 Census showed a total ethnic all reasonable and practicable steps discussions.
Interim and Annual population of 7.9%.
Similar monitoring to safeguard the health, safety and Reports are available to all staff.
will be carried out during 2006. welfare of its employees, visitors and Informal communication is further The Group recognises the importance other persons who may be affected facilitated by the Groups divisional of diversity in the workplace for both by its activities.
In order to meet these organisation structure.
our own and our clients businesses.
responsibilities the Group will: We are committed to increasing the assess the risks to health and recognition of our brand amongst safety: a more diverse audience, and to implement safe systems at work: encourage development of an provide information, instruction increasingly diverse candidate and training: database together with our workforce.
establish and maintain emergency Our monitoring of our candidate procedures: and databases confirms that the brand regularly review health and safety attracts candidates from a wide range policies and procedures.
The Group is being proactive in our We strive to ensure that we offer our approach to health and safety by clients the most qualified candidates monitoring proposed changes in on the basis of their relevant legislation and implementing policies aptitudes, skills and abilities and that accordingly, and as such we comply such candidates are drawn from with all statutory and regulatory diverse backgrounds.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 005 f Supplier payment policy circumstances, a fair presentation Annual General Meeting will be achieved by compliance with It is the policy of the Group to agree The resolutions to be proposed at all applicable International Financial appropriate terms and conditions for the Annual General Meeting to be Reporting Standards.
Directors are transactions with suppliers by means held on 23 May 2006, together with also required to: ranging from standard written terms explanatory notes, appear in the to individually negotiated contracts properly select and apply Notice of Meeting set out on pages and that payment should be made accounting policies: 82 and 83. in accordance with those terms and present information, including By order of the Board conditions, provided that the supplier accounting policies, in a manner has also complied with them.
that provides relevant, reliable, The Company acts as a holding comparable and understandable company for the Group.
Creditor days information: and for the Company were nil 2004: nil Richard McBride provide additional disclosures as the Company does not undertake Company Secretary when compliance with the specific any transactions with suppliers.
The 1 March 2006 requirements in IFRS is insufficient Groups creditor days at the year end to enable users to understand the were 30 2004: 38 days.
impact of particular transactions, Statement of Directors other events and conditions on responsibilities the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for and the financial statements.
The keeping proper accounting records directors are required to prepare which disclose with reasonable financial statements for the Group accuracy at any time the financial in accordance with International position of the company, for Financial Reporting Standards safeguarding the assets, for taking IFRS and have also elected to reasonable steps for the prevention prepare financial statements for the and detection of fraud and other company in accordance with IFRS.
irregularities and for the preparation Company law requires the directors of a directors report and directors to prepare such financial statements remuneration report and operating in accordance with IFRS, the and financial review which comply Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of with the requirements of the the IAS Regulation.
Companies Act 1985. International Accounting Standard Legislation in the United Kingdom 1 requires that financial statements governing the preparation and present fairly for each year the dissemination of financial statements companys financial position, financial may differ from legislation in other performance and cash flows.
requires the faithful representation Auditors of the effects of transactions, Deloitte & Touche LLP are willing to other events and conditions in continue in office and accordingly accordance with the definitions resolutions to re-appoint them as and recognition criteria for assets, auditors and authorising the Directors liabilities, income and expenses set to set their remuneration will be out in the International Accounting proposed at the forthcoming Annual Standards Boards Framework for General Meeting.
the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 005
