MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate Governance The Board is committed to ensuring that good practice in The Board currently comprises the Chairman and two corporate governance is observed throughout the Group, non-executive directors, who are directors of the majority and remains the responsibility of the whole Board.
The shareholder, City Developments Limited, a senior Board is committed to maintaining high standards of independent non-executive director as Deputy Chairman, business integrity and professionalism in all its activities, four additional independent non-executive directors and and continues to support the highest standards in two executive directors.
Each director is expected to ful l corporate governance.
their duties for the bene t of all shareholders and it is believed that the independent non-executive directors The Board considers that, throughout the year, it was in provide strong independent judgment to the deliberations compliance with the provisions of the Revised Combined of the Board.
Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 except for the requirement for nonDirectors biographies shown on pages 12 and 13 identify executive directors to annually appraise the Chairman the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, the chairmen A.
6.1. of the Boards standing committees and other directors considered by the Board to be independent, having taken consideration of the factors set out in Code provision THE BOARD A.
There have been no signi cant changes in the Overall control of the Group is exercised by the Board, Chairmans external commitments since the last annual which has responsibility, amongst other things, for report.
setting strategy and ensuring that adequate resources are available and leadership is provided to achieve the There is a clearly fide ned division of responsibilities at Groups strategy.
The Board meets up to seven times the head of the Company, through the separation of the a year and has a schedule of matters reserved for its positions of Chairman and Group Chief Executive Of cer, attention.
All directors receive detailed papers one week and a written statement of their respective responsibilities prior to Board and committee meetings.
Reserved matters has been approved by the Board.
which require Board approval include: acquisitions: signi cant property transactions: capital expenditure All directors have access to the advice of the Company above predetermined limits: major contractual Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring the Board commitments: Board level and Company Secretary procedures and applicable rules and regulations are appointments terminations: signi cant litigation issues: observed.
In addition, the directors are able, if necessary, the Groups financial statements and communications to take independent professional advice at the Companys with shareholders.
Other matters which are reserved for expense.
No such advice was sought in the year.
There the Board have been delegated to its standing committees, is the opportunity for non-executive directors to meet details of which are set out further in this report.
Executive management is responsible to the Board for the Groups operational performance including: implementing Group strategy as determined by the Board: maintaining adequate internal control systems and risk management processes: monitoring operational performance against plans and targets and reporting to the Board any signi cant variances: maintaining an effective management team and planning for succession.
14 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS Secretary, is also responsible for ensuring that new General presentations are made after the announcement directors receive appropriate training and induction to of preliminary, quarterly and half-yearly results.
There is also a procedure whereby Board programme of meetings exists with major institutional members receive appropriate training at the Companys shareholders to review the Groups performance and expense where speci c expertise is required in the course prospects.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director of the exercise of their duties.
All directors receive a has meetings with a range of major shareholders during Board Compendium detailing matters relating to Board the year and other non-executive directors also have the procedures.
opportunity to attend such meetings.
Regular feedback is provided to the Board of views expressed by shareholders Non-executive directors are appointed for a speci c at these meetings.
term and re-appointment is not a matter of course as each directors position is reviewed as they approach At general meetings there is the opportunity for all re-appointment.
Succession planning is considered by the shareholders to question the Chairman and other directors non-executive directors as appropriate.
including the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
The Company prepares separate John Sclater and Sir Idris Pearce have been directors of resolutions on each substantially separate issue put to Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc since the otation of shareholders and does not combine resolutions together the Group in 1996.
The Board considers that both John inappropriately.
A schedule of the proxy votes cast is Sclater and Sir Idris Pearce continue to be independent in made available for inspection at the conclusion of the character and judgment and that there are no relationships proceedings and the Annual Report is laid before the or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Notice of appear to affect, either directors judgment.
the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 days prior to the date of the Tony Potter, The Viscount Thurso, Charles Kirkwood meeting, and the Company encourages all shareholders and Christopher Sneath will retire by rotation at the to make positive use of the Annual General Meeting for forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and will offer communication with the Board.
15 MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate Governance The audit committee is also responsible for reviewing the BOARD COMMITTEES independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
In relation to certain matters, committees have been The audit committee has concluded that, in some cases, established with speci c delegated authority.
The standing notably the provision of taxation services, the provision committees of the Board are the audit, remuneration and of non-audit services by the auditors is appropriate nominations committees.
The terms of reference for these and this has been communicated to the Board.
Audit committees are available, on request, from the Company independence and objectivity are safeguarded by the audit Secretary.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all committee monitoring and approving, where appropriate, standing committees of the Board.
the nature of any non-audit work and the level of fees paid.
Audit Committee The audit committee, chaired by Christopher Sneath, The external auditors, head of internal audit and the consists of four non-executive directors, all of whom are senior management of the Groups finance function independent.
It is considered that Christopher Sneath has normally attend all committee meetings.
Separate meetings recent and relevant financial experience as required by the are held with the external auditors without the presence Code.
The duties of the committee include: of any member of the executive management and similar meetings are held with the head of internal audit.
Reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management procedures: Remuneration Committee The remuneration committee is chaired by The Viscount Consideration of the appointment of the external Thurso and consists entirely of independent nonauditors and making appropriate recommendations executive directors.
The committee met three times during through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the year.
It is responsible for considering and making the Annual General Meeting: recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys remuneration policies, Agreement of the detailed scope of the external audit the remuneration package of executive directors and prior to the commencement of their work: reviewing the operation of the Companys employee share-based the scope and results of the audit and its cost incentive schemes.
The Group Chief Executive Of cer effectiveness: and recommendation of the audit fee to is invited to attend meetings, if appropriate, but is not the Board: present when his own remuneration is discussed.
The committee takes independent advice as deemed necessary.
Monitoring the integrity, prior to submission to The Directors Remuneration Report is given on pages the Board, of periodic financial statements, annual 22 to 28, where further details of remuneration strategy accounts, reports to shareholders and any other public are given.
The fees paid to non-executive directors are announcement concerning the Companys financial considered by the full Board, having regard to advice position, corporate governance statements and received from the Group Chief Executive Of cer.
statements on the Groups system of internal controls: Nominations Committee Ensuring that arrangements are in place for employees The nominations committee is chaired by the Group to raise concerns, in con dence, about possible fraud Chairman, and includes five independent non-executive risk or wrongdoing in financial reporting or other directors and meets as necessary.
On behalf of the Board matters: the committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, considers succession planning for directors Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the and other senior executives, taking into account the internal audit function: agreeing its annual work plan challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the and satisfying itself that the function has the proper skills and expertise that are therefore needed on the Board resources to enable it to satisfactorily complete such in the future.
The committee is responsible for identifying work plans: reviewing status reports from internal and nominating for the approval of the Board candidates audit: considering managements response to any to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise.
major nding and providing support, if necessary, for any follow-up action required: and ensuring that the function obtains free and unrestricted access to all Group activities, records, property and personnel necessary to ful l its agreed objectives.
16 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS The number of meetings of the Board, and its committees, held during the year are shown below together with attendance details of each director: Board Audit Remuneration Meetings Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Kwek Leng Beng Chairman 6 6 na na The Viscount Thurso Deputy Chairman 5 6 3 4 3 3 Tony Potter 6 6 na na Wong Hong Ren 6 6 na na Christopher Sneath 6 6 4 4 3 3 Kwek Leng Joo 1 6 na na Kwek Leng Peck 1 6 na na Sir Idris Pearce 6 6 4 4 3 3 John Sclater 4 6 3 4 3 3 Charles Kirkwood 6 6 na 1 3 No nomination committee meetings were held during the year.
Figures in brackets represent the maximum number of Board or committee meetings held whilst the individual concerned is a Board member or member of the relevant committee.
In addition to the formal Board and committee meetings, the Chairman held one meeting during the year with only the independent non-executive directors present.
EVALUATION PROCESS The Board has a formal annual evaluation in respect of its own performance, its committees and individual directors.
In respect of the Board and its committees, directors complete an evaluation questionnaire, developed in conjunction with external consultants.
Responses from the process are collated by the Company Secretary who compiles a report which is then presented to the Board.
The performance of the executive and non-executive directors is assessed annually by the Chairman.
During the year the Board reviewed and acted upon the findings of the formal evaluation that was undertaken.
The independent non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, will meet annually to evaluate the effectiveness of the Chairman.
The first such review will take place in 2006.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM The full Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
In establishing this system, the directors have considered the nature of the Groups business, with regard to the risks to which that particular business is exposed, the likelihood of such risks occurring, their potential impact and the costs of protecting against them.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The Board con rms that, in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and has been in place for the year under review, and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
Primary responsibility for the operation of the system of internal controls is delegated to executive management.
The effectiveness of the operation of the internal control system is reviewed by an internal audit function and, where appropriate, by the Companys external auditors, who report to management and to the audit committee.
In addition, responsibility is delegated to an executive committee to monitor the effectiveness of the systems of control in managing identi ed risks as established by the Board.
17 MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate Governance The internal audit department reviews the effectiveness STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS of key internal controls as part of its standard work RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF programme, and individual reports are issued to THE DIRECTORS REPORT AND appropriate members of senior management.
These THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS reports are summarised and distributed to all members of the audit committee, the Group Chief Executive Of cer The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual and the external auditors.
They are subsequently reviewed Report and the consolidated and parent company by the the audit committee which ensures that, where financial statements, in accordance with applicable law necessary, recommendations on appropriate corrective and regulations.
action are drawn to the attention of the full Board.
Company law requires the directors to prepare The main features of the Companys internal control consolidated and parent company financial statements framework are: for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the consolidated financial statements The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed in accordance with International Financial Reporting by the Board, which sets business objectives for the Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected Group.
Annual plans and performance targets for each to prepare the parent company financial statements in hotel are set by the executive management team and accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
reviewed by the Board in the light of overall objectives: The consolidated financial statements are required by The processes used to manage the key risks to the law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the success of the Group are regularly reviewed by the financial position and performance of the Group: the Board and improved as necessary.
Such processes Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial include, but are not limited to, customer satisfaction, statements that references in the relevant part of that Act health and safety, market share, insurance matters, the to financial statements giving a true and fair view are performance of acquisitions and treasury risks: and references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Within the financial and overall objectives for The parent company financial statements are required by the Group, agreed by the Board, the day-to-day law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of management is delegated to the Group Chief Executive the parent company.
Of cer and executive management.
The executive management team receives a monthly summary of In preparing each of the consolidated and parent company the results from the businesses and carries out regular financial statements, the directors are required to: operational reviews with business managers to ensure appropriate pursuit of the overall objectives and Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them management of the primary risks of the Group.
consistently: Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and GOING CONCERN prudent: After having made appropriate enquiries, the directors are satis ed that the Group has adequate resources to For the consolidated financial statements, state whether continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for adopted by the EU: preparing the accounts.
For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
18 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 The directors are responsible for keeping proper ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy The Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.00am on at any time the financial position of the parent company Thursday, 4 May 2006 at the Millennium Hotel London and enable them to ensure that its financial statements Mayfair.
The notice to shareholders can be found at the comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general back of the Annual Report.
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to At the Annual General Meeting resolutions will be prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
proposed to approve the Directors Remuneration Report, to renew the directors authority to allot shares, Under applicable law and regulations, the directors to authorise the purchase of shares in the market, to are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, renew the authority given in regard to pre-emption rights Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate under the terms of a Co-operation Agreement dated 18 Governance Statement that comply with that law and April 1996 with City Developments Limited, to renew those regulations.
the authority to fund donations and or incur expenditure under the terms of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 to a limit of 100,000 where it SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS is in shareholders interests to do so, and to adopt the As at 20 February 2006, the Company had been noti ed terms of the new Long-Term Incentive Plan and the new that the following companies hold 3% or more of the Sharesave Scheme.
A separate shareholders circular issued share capital: accompanies the Annual Report and provides details of the proposed schemes.
Number of % of issued shares share capital AUDITORS City Developments 151,783,937 52.67 % In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act Limited 1985, a resolution regarding the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at Arnhold and S 25,829,394 8.96 % the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Bleichroeder Advisers LLC Prudential plc 22,148,110 7.69 % The interests of Prudential plc includes an interest of the Prudential Assurance Company Limited which itself has a noti cable interest of 21,828,984 representing 7.57% of the Companys issued share capital.
19 MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate Social Responsibility A structured programme of staff training and workshop INTRODUCTION seminars is also carried out.
Employees at every level are The Board takes regular account of the signi cance of encouraged to develop their skills and quali cations.
A social, environmental and ethical matters to the business variety of internally managed development programmes of the company, and is identifying and assessing the are available and, in certain regions, the Group offers signi cant risks to the Companys short and long term a tuition support programme for external courses.
The value arising from those matters as well as opportunities principles of the national standard of best practice to enhance value that may arise from them.
The Board in employee development and involvement are being believes it has received adequate information to make this followed in the countries in which we operate.
Best assessment and will ensure that the Company has effective practice in terms of labour standards is also upheld.
systems in place for managing signi cant risks.
During the year, grants of options were made under the Executive Share Option Scheme in which 23 employees, EMPLOYEES other than the directors, participate and also under the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc operates in various Sharesave Scheme in which 115 employees, other than countries and values highly the rich ethnic and cultural directors, participate by entering into a three or five year diversity of its people.
The Group strives to build on savings contract.
the qualities inherent in its global environment by encouraging people with different views, styles and approaches.
CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS Service Excellence is the Groups UK customer service The Companys policy is to provide equality of programme which came into operation in May 2000.
The opportunity for all employees without discrimination programme is based on research findings from guests who and continues to encourage the employment, training are asked for their views on the type of customer service and advancement of disabled persons in accordance they expect.
with their abilities and aptitudes, provided that they can be employed in a safe working environment.
Suitable It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree the employment would, if possible, be found for any employee terms of payment with suppliers at the commencement who becomes disabled during the course of employment.
of the trading or contractual relationship and to operate within such terms subject to satisfactory completion of the The Group is committed to a policy of involvement suppliers obligations.
It does not follow any particular by keeping its employees fully informed regarding its guidelines established by third parties.
The effect of the performance and prospects.
Employees are encouraged Groups payment policy is that its trade creditors at the to present their suggestions and views at staff consultative financial year-end represent 23 days purchases 2004: groups at each location and the Group believes that 24 days.
At the year end the Company had no trade the dissemination of appropriate information is key creditors 2004 : nil.
to achieving success and motivation.
Viewpoint is a magazine about the Group, as is the in-house The Board has adopted a Business Integrity Policy which quarterly publication Global Connect, which provide provides standards on relationships with suppliers and communication to staff and guests.
This requires directors and employees to act honestly, with integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care.
20 20 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 To ensure the delivery of the Boards policies in respect HEALTH AND SAFETY AND of health and safety and the environment, Tony Potter THE ENVIRONMENT has been identi ed as the Board member responsible Safety and environmental management are key for both areas.
The Company has been a member of the management responsibilities.
The Groups hotels are FTSE4Good UK Index of socially responsible companies responsible for ensuring that the hotels take every since the indexs establishment in July 2001. reasonable and practical step to maintain a safe and healthy environment for employees, public visitors, guests and contractors and performance in this area is measured COMMUNITIES and judged in the same way as other key business The Group has extensive links with the local communities parameters.
Staff are trained to meet the needs of disabled through partnerships established by the hotels and at a customers.
Across the Group staff and management are involved with a range of charitable organisations.
The Health and safety is managed on a practical level by Group gave 40,975 2004: 46,293 to charities during established regional health and safety management the period.
The Groups policy is to consider charities groups.
The audit committee receives a report from all that improve the economic or social wellbeing of ordinary regions at each meeting.
Specialist health and safety and people or those who are deprived in some way within the food safety consultants have been appointed to provide Groups area of operation including local and national advice and guidance in all aspects of compliance with charities.
The Group made no political contributions relevant legislation and to monitor, audit and review during 2005. systems to ensure compliance with such legislation.
Training needs are being met at all levels.
By order of the Board The Board has a formal environmental policy in place and a structured Environmental Management System.
The Group is committed to meeting regulatory requirements in the different countries in which the Group operates, minimising the use of energy, water and materials, managing effectively the waste and emissions produced and managing any speci c environmental risks associated with its operations.
Based on environmental impact assessments, speci c targets are set for environmental Adrian Bushnell improvement and progress is monitored against these COMPANY SECRETARY targets.
Environmental management is integrated into 20 February 2006 existing health and safety structures established by the Board.
The Group operates strict controls to reduce consumption of energy, for example by installing low energy light bulbs and water saving showerheads in its hotels.
Hotels have energy committees that gather information on a monthly basis and report on energy use, water use and waste management.
The Company will continue to investigate ways to improve the ef ciency of waste disposal and recycling whilst minimising any adverse effect on the environment.
The Company only uses refrigeration equipment which complies with current legislation.
Obsolete equipment is removed by nominated waste disposal companies for safe disposal.
