888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 23 Regulatory and Compliance Review The regulatory framework of online gaming in different In Italy, authorities have recently ordered local Internet countries around the world remains as dynamic and rapidly Service Providers to prohibit access by Italian users to evolving as ever.
While some jurisdictions have moved to foreign gaming sites.
The Board is carefully monitoring this curtail the activities of online gaming sites, others are development and, together with others in the online gaming currently contemplating liberalisation and regulation of the industry, is weighing up its potential responses, especially industry.
The Board note that there are significant risks, in light of the fact that this legislation is perceived to be in unique to the online gaming industry, including in the USA contravention of European law.
where members of 888 generated 55% of our Net Gaming Revenue in 2005.
The Board remains committed to In Israel, law enforcement authorities have raided the monitoring closely and addressing regulatory changes as offices of several Internet portals and arrested several they occur, and to fostering, so far as possible, the trend individuals on the suspicion that they had advertised online towards liberalisation and regulation of online gaming gaming sites in Israel, in contravention of the Israeli Penal throughout the world.
888 does not allow Israelis to wager on its websites and has systems to prevent them doing so.
888 is licensed and regulated in Gibraltar.
In December 2005, the Government of Gibraltar enacted a new Gambling However, 888 has been advised that since it does not Ordinance.
The Ordinance introduces a tailormade regime facilitate, offer or provide gaming activities prohibited under for the regulation of remote gaming.
888 has actively the Penal Law to Israeli residents, the Penal Law will not be supported the introduction of such legislation and the Board applicable to 888 since no offence is committed wholly or in looks forward to full implementation in the coming months, part within Israeli territory.
which will include the appointment of a new regulator.
The Board continues to monitor these developments closely In the USA, several members of Congress have proposed and is alert to changes as they may occur in areas where various Bills aimed at prohibiting online gaming in the USA the Group operates.
or financial transactions with online gaming sites.
These Bills are currently in their preliminary legislative stages and the Board will continue to monitor their progress closely.
