888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 35 Directors Report The Directors submit to the members their Annual John Anderson will retire by rotation at the Annual General Report and Accounts of the Group for the year ended Meeting and, being eligible, will offer himself for reelection.
The report on Corporate Governance and the Remuneration Report on pages 24 and 29 Amos Pickel, who was appointed as an Independent Non respectively, form part of this Directors Report.
executive Director on 14 March 2006, will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer himself Principal Activities for reelection.
During 2005 the Groups principal activities were the provision of online gaming entertainment.
A review of the Share Capital business is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 10 Changes in the Companys share capital during the period are to 11, the Chief Executives Review on pages 12 to 15 and given in note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
the Financial Review on pages 16 to 19.
Substantial Shareholdings The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 52.
As at 16 March 2006 the Company had been notified of the following interests in 3% or more of its Share Capital: Results and Dividends Number of % Issued The Groups Profit for the financial year of US$48.0 million shares share capital is reported in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 38.
As stated in the Prospectus, a final dividend will not E Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,535 25.60 be paid in respect of the financial year but that it is the O Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,535 25.60 intention of the Directors to declare an interim dividend BenYitzhak Family Shares Trust 57,522,356 17.06 payable in October 2006.
As disclosed in the Prospectus, a Relationship Agreement Directors and their Interests governing the relationship between the above Principal Biographical details of the current Board of Directors are Shareholder Trusts and the Company was entered into in shown on page 21.
The Directors who served during the connection with the Companys flotation.
The Relationship year are shown below: Agreement provides that all transactions between the Group and the Principal Shareholder Trusts will be on a normal business basis, that the Group will be allowed to carry on John Anderson business independently of them and that the Principal Marie Stevens appointed 1 February 2005, Shareholder Trusts will not cause the Group to contravene resigned 10 March 2006 the Combined Code unless required by law or as Aviad Kobrine appointed 30 August 2005 contemplated in the Relationship Agreement.
It further Shay BenYitzhak appointed 30 August 2005 provides that each of the Principal Shareholder Trusts will Richard Kilsby appointed 30 August 2005 not solicit Group employees without consent, that only Brian Mattingley appointed 30 August 2005 Independent Directors can vote on proposals to amend the Michael Constantine appointed 30 August 2005 Relationship Agreement, that the Principal Shareholder Peter Montegriffo resigned 30 August 2005 Trusts will consult the Group prior to disposing of a Eyal Shaked resigned 30 August 2005 significant number of shares in order to maintain an orderly Clive Needham resigned 16 February 2005 market and shall not disclose confidential information unless required to do so or having first received consent.
The Relationship Agreement also includes restrictions on The beneficial and nonbeneficial interests of the Directors the Principal Shareholder Trusts power to appoint Directors in shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration and obligations to ensure that the majority of the Board, Report on pages 29 to 34. excluding the Chairman, is independent.
The Principal Shareholder Trusts can nominate a Nonexecutive Director Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any for appointment to the Board and the Directors will interests in the shares of the Company or in any material consider the appointment of the nominated person to contract or arrangement with the Company or any of the Remuneration Committee.
In the event that this right its subsidiaries.
is exercised and it results in fewer than half the Board excluding the Chairman of the Board being Independent Shay BenYitzhak, Aviad Kobrine, Richard Kilsby, Brian Directors, such appointment shall only become effective Mattingley and Michael Constantine who were each upon the appointment to the Board of an additional appointed as Directors during the year, will retire at the Independent Director.
Such restrictions and obligations Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer apply whilst the E Shaked Shares Trust and O Shaked themselves for election.
Shares Trust collectively or the BenYitzhak Family Shares Trust individually, hold not less than 7.5%.
36 Directors Report International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for Charitable Contributions the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
Contributions for charitable purposes were made during the In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be year amounting to approximately US$70,000.
achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
A fair presentation also Directors Responsibility Statement requires the Directors to: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting consistently select and apply appropriate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time policies: the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the present information, including accounting policies, in a assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for understandable information: and the preparation of a Directors report which complies with the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999, the Gibraltar specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable Companies Consolidated Accounts Ordinance 1999 and members to understand the impact of particular the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended.
transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Financial statements are published on the Groups website in accordance with legislation in the UK governing the Auditors preparation and dissemination of financial statements, During the year ended 31 December 2005 BDO Stoy which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Hayward LLP were appointed auditors for the purposes of maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the the Company meeting its obligations to prepare financial responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility statements under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial Authority.
For the purposes of meeting the Companys statements contained therein.
statutory requirements under Section 182 of the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended and the filing of The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual the Companys financial statements in Gibraltar pursuant to report and the financial statements.
The Directors are Section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance required to prepare financial statements for the Group in 1999, as amended, BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Limited have been appointed to act as auditors.
IFRSs and have also chosen to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
A resolution for the reappointment of BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited will be Group and Parent Company Financial Statements proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2006.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with International On behalf of the Board Financial Reporting Standards and the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Ordinance 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and John Anderson cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the Chief Executive Officer effects of transactions, other events and conditions in 16 March 2006 accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the
