Misys plc The profile of the Sesame brand has gone from strength to strength.
The aim has been to communicate the message that Sesame exists for the benefit of its members, and the brands growing profile enhances members reputation with their customers.
Patrick Gale, CEO, Sesame Sesame Market overview older households through inheritance reputation with their customers.
As the There was considerable and longand decades of increasing property issue of pension provision becomes awaited change in the regulatory values suggest the outlook for longmore acute, and with millions of landscape in which Sesame operates, term demand is broadly positive.
people in the UK currently not seeking during the year.
The Financial Services financial advice, Sesames proposition Business development Authority FSA extended its supervision of making money easier has a direct Sesame is a leading provider of support to include mortgages in October 2004 appeal to consumers, raises confidence services to financial advisers in the UK.
and general insurance in January 2005. and supports Sesame members own It achieved impressive take-up of new In December 2004 the FSA also marketing initiatives.
service offerings developed in response introduced its new depolarisation rules, to the new regulatory environment.
The decision to create a strong Sesame designed to give consumers greater The number of Registered Individuals brand is paying dividends with member choice when they consult a financial RIs across Sesame grew by over 20% firms, as well as with banks and insurance adviser.
The changes also provide to 8,150.
Within that number, Sesame companies, who see Sesame as a blue- 16 greater clarity, so that people have a Direct, which offers research, rate chip distribution channel for their better understanding of their options quotations, technology and compliance products.
This is especially true of the for receiving financial advice and how advice to intermediaries regulated lending community, with whom Sesame the intermediary advising them will be directly by the FSA, saw strong growth has constructed innovative, marketpaid for their service.
Financial advisers to over 3,000 RIs, driven by demand leading propositions at excellent rates in now have the option of offering advice following regulation of mortgage and the newly regulated mortgage market.
based on products from one or more of general insurance products.
Sesame continues to improve core the following: the whole of the market: propositions and undertook several a limited number of companies which In July 2005, there was a change in campaigns during the year, most notably is a new option created by the the ownership structure of business-toon annuities and ISAs.
Through research, changes: a single company.
business internet portal AssureWeb Sesame built a panel of recommended Limited, when Sesame sold its 60% Demand for investment products funds for ISA investments and helped stake to the five investing product has remained muted, caused by advisers with marketing.
AssureWeb will continue disappointing returns, low interest rates to be Sesames portal of choice for Sesames reputation for intelligent and some weakening of the property advisers but there will now be a innovation and well-designed business purchase market in many areas.
House greater onus on providers to ensure propositions has been reinforced prices have steadied but transaction and the service achieves effective industry with the launch of its multi-tie mortgage volumes have declined penetration and delivers greater value proposition, Sesame Select.
Launched marginally, while in the life and pensions for intermediaries.
in July 2005, this offers a broad range business, trends show very modest of competitively priced products growth.
The future of pensions has Creating a lighthouse brand for from five of the UKs leading financial come to the fore.
Consumers remain advisers and consumers services brands.
This new advice service wary of entering long term financial The profile of the Sesame brand has will offer enhanced service levels and commitments, despite statistics showing gone from strength to strength.
The e-enabled products allowing advisers that few people are saving enough to aim has been to communicate the to strengthen the efficiency and achieve financial security in retirement.
message that Sesame exists for the profitability of their businesses.
Interest However, Britains ageing population benefit of its members, and the brands in multi-ties from the financial adviser and the concentration of wealth among growing profile enhances members community has been encouraging.
com SESAME SELECT Brand Network Sesame Select is the new multi-tie offering.
Launched in July 2005, this offers a broad range of competitively The creation of a strong brand is paying The numbers of Registered Individuals priced products from five of the UKs dividends for Sesame with member firms, across Sesame grew by over 20% to leading financial services brands.
The capabilities of Sesames call centre and student life including saving, a leading financial advice brand.
The in Salford, which opened in early 2004, borrowing, insurance and mortgages.
business has sufficient scale to develop were broadened to handle enquiries Welcomed by the FSA and revenue-generating propositions for its on all aspects of the business.
Originally educationalists, it confirms Sesames customers and is creating differentiation focused on pricing and commissions, ability to leverage its research and within the market.
Regular opinion the centre now deals with queries on industry experience as a source of quality research among advisers and employees compliance, business monitoring, financial information for consumers.
proves Sesame is gaining credibility, research and technology.
with much improved scores for In the two years since its formation, leadership, understanding of strategy Sesames efforts to further fide-mystify Sesame has established a distinct image and targets, communication and financial topics and reinforce consumer and the senior management team has motivation since September 2003. awareness of its brand were boosted successfully positioned the company as by publication of Money Money Money in February 2005.
Aimed 17 at young people aged 14-24, and approved by pfeg Personal Finance Education Group for use in all UK secondary schools and colleges, Money Money Money is a jargon-free guide to managing money that covers important issues such as work, leaving home, cars, travel
