Misys plc 2004 05 was again highly successful with new revenue and profit records and considerable progress against all our business targets.
Phillip Bell, CEO, Misys General Insurance General Insurance Market overview Misys General Insurance is the clear better commission rates and enhanced The UK and Republic of Ireland general market leader in general insurance service standards from partnering insurance market continues to show intermediary systems and related insurers.
ACT Insurance Systems steady growth with estimated gross services, operating in three areas.
Misys provides systems to general insurance written premium GWP now standing Financial Systems provides hardware, companies.
at just under 40bn annually, split software and services to general A significant market opportunity is fairly evenly between personal and insurance companies and to over 2,000 now emerging, brought about by commercial insurance lines of business.
It now has more a new wave of industry automation.
Of the 40bn, around 60% is sold than 20,000 users.
Misys Insurance Increasingly, brokers are seeking by insurance brokers, including Management is a voluntary affiliation to transfer routine commercial approximately 85% of commercial of around 800 insurance intermediaries transactions from manual to electronic insurance business.
who use Misys systems and who transmission systems, mirroring a participate in the Countrywide network shift that has taken place in personal 14 to obtain privileged access to products, insurance over the last 15 years.
At this formative stage of a new market opportunity there is strong competition between software vendors for first mover advantage.
com OASYS COMMERCIAL Opportunity Innovation OASys Commercial, our flagship product, supports digitisation of commercial lines insurance and A significant market opportunity is now We again increased spending on product addresses the market opportunity emerging, brought about by industry development in order to accelerate technical in automation.
Increasingly, brokers are and functional innovation whilst maintaining seeking to transfer commercial transactions reliability and sustaining our market lead.
costs are such that once brokers have to FSA regulation and secured its customers as their strategic systems chosen a system provider, they are authorisation.
With the trend towards unlikely to change for the foreseeable created an FSA compliance module fewer but larger brokerage firms, future.
The strength of Misys as the which assists its broking customers to such successes are highly encouraging.
market leader in general insurance comply with the new regulatory regime.
We have won several contracts with puts the company in a valuable Towergate, one of the UKs top We again increased spending on strategic position.
insurance brokerages and a leader product development in order to in the industrys consolidation, to Outstanding business performance accelerate technical and functional replace competitor systems in two 2004 05 was again highly successful innovation whilst maintaining reliability key businesses.
Our long standing with new revenue and profit records and sustaining our market lead.
OASys relationship with Carole Nash, and considerable progress against all Commercial, our flagship product, the biggest broker for motorbike our business targets.
The Financial supports digitisation of commercial insurance, developed further with Services Authoritys FSA extension of lines insurance and addresses the an initial two-year contract for joint 15 supervision to the general insurance market opportunity in automation development of specialised processing, sector in January 2005 affected both outlined above.
A very substantial management information and customer Misys Financial Systems and Misys increase in electronic transmission of service functionality.
This contract, the Insurance Management.
Misys transactions between finance providers largest in the history of Misys Financial Insurance Management is now subject and intermediaries boosted revenues Systems, is a strong demonstration of from our Premium Finance solution.
Some 300 customers are now using the system and transaction volumes are growing strongly.
EDI volumes also showed strong growth.
As a result of our ability to offer non-standardised solutions, we have recently been chosen by several major
