com Misys recognises that its success depends on the quality of the people it employs and believes that everything starts with talent.
Misys thus seeks to select, develop and retain employees on the basis of ability and qualifications for the task employed.
applicants are treated equally and in information and communications General grants in a few cases, fairly on merit regardless of gender, technology ICT worldwide.
The the Foundation is prepared to support sexual orientation, age, race, Foundation is run independently of the special projects where there is a nationality, physical ability, political Company by a separate Director who broader contribution towards the beliefs or religion.
Misys believes that is answerable to the four Trustees.
It is enhancement of ICT education.
In this equal opportunities are important in funded directly through donations from category the Foundation has made order to encourage the development Misys plc, whose Board is firmly limited grants to certain specific of an individuals abilities, talents and committed to the Foundations aims.
charities that are providing ICT training potential as well as to enable potential One of these aims is to strengthen ties to disadvantaged and homeless employees to be attracted from the with the Companys own employees individuals.
worldwide many of whom are In 1998 the Foundation provided one personally involved in the local Misys believes in effective, two-way university scholarship.
By May 2005 community and charitable activities communication with its employees.
the number of students helped by the so they can share the pride the 25 The Group regularly holds formal Foundation totalled 205.
Of these, Foundation takes in the achievements and informal briefings as well as 160 are or were UK based with the of its scholars and partners.
management and sales conferences remaining 45 studying at universities to update and obtain feedback from In addition to the 1.1m previously in India, Philippines, South Africa, employees on all aspects of the donated to the Foundation, the Board France, US and Vietnam.
Employees also receive agreed in 2003 to provide a minimum Further information on the work of information via the Groups intranet of 100,000 per annum for five years.
the Foundation can be found on the sites and e-mail.
The Company also Misys made donations to the corporate website.
provides employees with information Foundation during the year totalling about their personal benefit options, 124,453 2004: 109,872.
Donations by the Group to charities such as pension and sharesave other than the Foundation amounted The Foundation offers support in three schemes, and conducts seminars on to 118,000 during the year distinct ways: these schemes to promote a better 2004: 20,000.
In January 2005, understanding of them.
Scholarships the main activity the Company donated US$50,000 to of the Foundation are provided the South East Asian tsunami appeal.
The community through partnerships with leading Misys employees raised US$80,000 Misys main community contribution is educational institutions to enable for the appeal and the Company is through its employees and the activities exceptional students in financial need contributing a further US$50,000.
of the Misys Charitable Foundation.
to undertake undergraduate and In total the tsunami appeal will With 6,500 employees in 28 countries, postgraduate studies in ICT related receive US$180,000 from Misys plc Misys brings employment and all disciplines.
attendant benefits to many local communities around the globe.
Purchase of equipment grants may be given towards the purchase of Misys is the only contributor to equipment for use in ICT teaching the Misys Charitable Foundation.
in educational institutions, notably The Foundation was created in 1997 primary schools, that have limited with the goal of furthering education funds for such resources.
