Misys plc Misys plc Misys plc Directors report The Directors of Misys plc submit their report and the audited Details of executive Directors service agreements, non-executive financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2005.
Directors letters of appointment, emoluments and share interests can be found in the Remuneration report on pages PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF BUSINESS 34 to 43.
The Groups principal activities are the development and The Company has granted indemnities to its Directors in their licensing of a variety of software products to customers primarily capacity as Directors of the Company and in their capacity in the international banking and healthcare industries and the as directors of the subsidiaries of the Company.
The Company UK general insurance market.
It also conducts transaction and has also granted indemnities to some of the directors of its claims processing for US physicians and UK financial advisers.
subsidiaries and such indemnities remain in force pursuant to Through a wholly owned subsidiary, Sesame, it also provides the transitional provision of the Companies Audit, Investigations support services to over 8000 financial advisers in the UK.
and Community Enterprise Act 2004 Commencement and The Chairmans statement, the Operating review and the Companies Act 1989 Commencement No 18 Order 2004.
Financial review on pages 2 to 23 provide a review of the For some years the Company has purchased insurance to activities of the Group, its financial performance and its likely cover its directors and officers against their costs in defending future business developments.
themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful Acquisitions during the period are disclosed in note 17 on defence of any proceedings.
Neither the insurance nor the page 59. indemnity provide cover where the director has acted fraudulently or deceitfully.
DIVIDENDS The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.28p per ordinary With the exception of service contracts and the indemnities share.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.56p per referred to above, during the year under review and up to the share paid on 8 April 2005, makes a total dividend of 6.84p date of this report, no Director has had any interest in any per share for the year 2004: 6.52p.
material contract with the Company.
The proposed final dividend, if approved at the Annual RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT R&D General Meeting AGM, will be paid on 19 September 2005 In the markets in which the Group operates, effective R&D is to shareholders on the register at the close of business on vital to maintaining competitive advantage and securing future 29 July 2005. income streams.
The extent of the Groups commitment to R&D 28 is detailed in the Chairmans statement on page 3.
Effective use DIRECTORS of products generated through R&D is also vital.
The Group has Details of the Directors of the Company at the end of the devoted considerable additional effort to plan and manage its financial year are given on pages 26 and 27.
Al-Noor Ramji was products through their life cycles.
appointed a non-executive Director on 1 February 2005.
Robert Ingram will retire from the Board at the 2005 AGM, as will Ian EMPLOYMENT POLICIES Dyson following his appointment as Group Finance Director of The Groups policies on communications with its employees, Marks and Spencer Group plc.
equal opportunities and health and safety are covered under In accordance with the Articles of Association, Tony Alexander, Corporate responsibility on pages 24 to 25.
Ivan Martin, Jasper McMahon, Tom Skelton and Dr Jrgen Zech will retire from the Board and, upon the recommendation of the ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP ARRANGEMENTS Nomination Committee, offer themselves for re-election.
It being The Company is committed to encouraging employee share the first AGM since his appointment, Al-Noor Ramji will retire ownership by operating tax authority approved share plans open and offer himself for election.
Ivan Martin, Jasper McMahon, to all eligible employees.
Tom Skelton and Dr Jrgen Zech, if re-elected, and Al-Noor In the UK the Company has operated a sharesave plan since Ramji, if elected, will serve the customary three-year term.
For 1992 in which a total of 695 employees participate.
reasons set out in the Corporate governance report at page 30 and as agreed at the 2004 AGM, Tony Alexander is subject Since 1996 the Company has extended the opportunity to to annual re-election and, if re-elected, will be appointed for participate in savings-related share plans to its overseas one year.
Tax efficient plans are in place in the US, Ireland and France.
An international savings-related plan is offered to all Biographical details of all Directors, including those being other overseas qualifying employees in jurisdictions where this is proposed for election and re-election, are given on pages practicable.
All these savings-related plans operate on broadly 26 to 27. the same terms as the UK plan.
Each of Ivan Martin, Jasper McMahon and Tom Skelton has A phantom share option plan is offered in those jurisdictions a service contract requiring one years notice of termination.
where local regulations mean that a share-based plan is not As non-executive Directors, Tony Alexander, Al-Noor Ramji and appropriate.
This is cash rather than share-based, but in all other Dr Jrgen Zech each have a letter of appointment rather than respects operates as other savings-related schemes.
com Details of the options outstanding under the all-employee share SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS ownership arrangements are given in note 4 on page 54.
As at 21 July 2005, the following substantial shareholdings were recorded in the register maintained by the Company in CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY accordance with the Companies Act 1985: The Corporate responsibility section on pages 24 to 25 reviews the Companys position on social, ethical and environmental UBS AG acting through its business group matters and its involvement in the community, including and various legal entities 10.59% charitable donations.
In line with its policy, the Group made FMR Corp. and its direct and indirect no political donations in the year under review 2004: nil.
subsidiaries and Fidelity International Limited and its direct and indirect subsidiaries 3.85% CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY Legal & General Group plc and or It is the Companys policy to agree terms and conditions for its its subsidiaries 3.85% business transactions with its suppliers.
The Company seeks to AEGON UK plc Group of Companies 3.09% abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has abided by its contractual obligations.
The trade creditors of the Company at 31 May 2005 GOING CONCERN represent 16 days 2004: 24 days as a proportion of the total After making due enquiry, embracing the normal forecasting amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
process, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources and committed borrowing facilities to continue in SHARE CAPITAL operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in with details of the movements in the Companys issued share preparing the financial statements.
capital during the year, are shown in note 33 on page 71.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING During the year the Directors continued the share buyback The 2005 AGM will take place at 12 noon on Tuesday 13 programme started in October 2002 as they believed that, September 2005 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, at the prevailing share price, it was in the best interests of London WC2A 3ED.
shareholders and an appropriate use of cash resources.
A separate circular sent to shareholders with this Report At the 2004 AGM shareholders authorised the Directors to 29 contains the Notice of AGM and explains the business to be make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares up considered at the meeting.
to a maximum nominal value of 0.53m, which represented 10% of issued share capital, and to either hold the shares as AUDITORS Treasury shares or cancel them depending on the best interests  LLP have expressed their willingness to of the Companys shareholders at the time.
continue in office as auditors and a resolution to re-appoint Pursuant to this authority, and the authority obtained at the them and authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will 2003 AGM which it superseded, the Company has in the be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
financial year ended 31 May 2005 purchased, at an aggregate consideration of 52,536,370 before expenses, an additional By Order of the Board 26,410,000 ordinary shares of 1p each, all of which were put into Treasury.
During the year 1,778,000 shares were transferred out of Treasury to meet the Companys obligations under its Dan Fitz employees share plans.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Under the 2004 AGM authority which expires at the conclusion 29 July 2005 of the 2005 AGM, the Company may purchase a further 36,637,800 of its own shares.
It is proposed that the authority be renewed at the forthcoming AGM.
At close of business on 21 July 2005, Misys plc had 559,727,036 ordinary shares in issue, of which 51,062,000 are held in Treasury.
Also included in the special business of the 2005 AGM are proposals to renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash up to prescribed limits.
Further details are given in the Notice of AGM.
