Misys plc Our rejuvenated product portfolio with supporting functional and technological enhancements has generated customer confidence and helped us achieve a strong uplift in our performance.
Ivan Martin, CEO, Misys Banking Systems Banking Market overview globally and by the constant need to Our rejuvenated product portfolio with Banking is the largest market for reduce costs and improve efficiency supporting functional and technological information technology IT worldwide while meeting regulatory requirements enhancements has generated customer and our estimates point to annual and rising consumer expectations.
confidence and helped us achieve expenditure of approximately a strong uplift in our performance.
The use of third-party software is US$150bn.
Of this, we estimate increasing and financial institutions are Our development centres in that some US$8.8bn is spent on looking to consolidate their IT spending Bangalore and Manila now represent third-party application software, and strategically around streamlined vendor approximately 40% of the effort of that, approximately half is devoted relationships.
Banks see investment in involved in development engineering.
the value chain, including client access We recruited over 100 skilled new With the 90s boom long past technology, as crucial to managing staff in Bangalore and this will increase and market conditions for banks higher transaction levels, credit risk further when the new development themselves remaining challenging, and complex multi-channel service facility, to be shared with our 6 it is encouraging that the signs of distribution.
market improvement that began to Accelerating core product We also invested in our support appear last year were realised and development infrastructure with the creation of seem set to continue in 2005 06.
Our organic growth strategy and a customer service centre in Manila.
Even so, there has been vigorous continued commitment to investing This consolidates over 40 points of competition for any increased spend, in our businesses is reflected in our contact for our banking customers with software only one of many expenditure on product development into one integrated 24 7 operation, priorities for financial institutions.
During 2004 05, we a combined call centre and internet However all sectors are showing increased investment across all core portal providing fault reporting, with increasing signs of growth with sectors and products.
diagnostic services, online training new investment in retail banking, wholesale banking, treasury and capital markets.
Geographically, the pattern of demand is little changed from last year, with marked regional variations.
Developing markets, including Eastern Europe, China and South East Asia, remain strong.
The banking landscape is rapidly changing as banks focus on adapting to market conditions.
Demand continues to be driven by merger and acquisition activity among banks looking for growth opportunities www.
com MIDAS PLUS Talent US$8.8bn Misys MidasPlus enables banks to reduce costs by consolidating multiple processing centres onto Across our business we have continued We estimate this amount is spent annually a single hub within a multi-currency to invest in talent and new skills, attracting on third-party software with half devoted and multi-regulatory database.
high-calibre recruits from other parts of to retail banking applications.
and a knowledge base to follow.
We can now handle all day-to-day support functions across our wholesale product portfolio through the customer service centre in an operation that will set an industry standard for service.
Building on successful wholesale banking applications Misys MidasPlus, launched in May 2004, enables banks to reduce costs by consolidating multiple processing centres onto a single hub within a multi-currency and 7 multi-regulatory database.
Building on the global success of Misys Midas, with an installed base of more than 500 sites in 86 countries, we signed a number of major MidasPlus contracts, bringing the total to 28 wins to date.
The largest of these, with Fortis Bank, covers both their commercial and Misys plc Banking continued merchant banking operations.
We are also extending our portfolio, wins in Asia for Summit solutions were MidasPlus will be rolled out across reach and partnership capabilities.
fuelled by demand for systems to Fortis existing sites and will support The partnership established in 2003 04 handle more complex high margin their plans to open 15 new offices.
with S1 Corporation to use its multiproducts.
In the US, new customers Other MidasPlus contracts in Europe channel architecture in our wholesale for Summit within the structured fixed included deals with Raiffeisen business has been expanded to cover income market included Federal Home International and HypoVereinsbank.
We are integrating Loans Bank, Pittsburgh and BB&T.
The product was named Cash this architecture into Misys Midas and We have made significant investment Management Solution of the Year Misys Equation to give back-office in Misys Opics and have seen interest in The Banker Technology Awards.
systems additional front-office increase considerably ahead of the capability.
As we take on larger and Misys Global Managed Services, our launch of OpicsPlus, including a major more complex contracts, we shall bring foreign exchange matching application win at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken.
on board market-specific expertise for service provider, maintained its leading key territories as we have done in Latin Approximately 30% of the worlds position and currently handles average America, where our relationship with commercial loans flow through Misys daily transaction volumes of the Stefanini Partnership supplements systems, giving us unrivalled insight approximately US$1 trillion.
In this Enhancing our retail banking sector we further expanded the Progress in treasury and capital offering functionality of Misys IQ, acquired markets The key focus for our retail banking in January 2004, adding modules for On 1 June 2005, we established a operation has been charting the future construction budgeting, short settlement Treasury and Capital Markets business for our primary retail banking solution, and swaps and extending its geographic to sharpen our focus on the needs of Equation.
We are now preparing to markets.
This has brought new clients customers in this sector, by uniting launch Misys EquationPlus, a Javain Europe including Key Bank as well 8 three major product families Summit, based multi-channel solution for retail, as strong gains in the solutions original Misys Opics and Misys IQ.
Led from corporate and treasury operations.
Like North American market, where we New York, this business brings together Misys Equation, this gives banks live signed contracts with leading banks expertise and world class products to integrated information on transactions, such as JPMorgan Chase.
create one of the largest systems allowing bank staff to manage financial vendors in this field.
Expanding our risk management relationships in real time across multiple presence accounts, channels and territories.
We During the year we continued With legislation such as Sarbanes-Oxley achieved strong growth in the retail developing advanced functionality in the US and the Basel II Accord banking market, winning a US$9m within Summit FT and Summit MUST, globally, the importance of software and services contract with resulting in numerous client projects understanding their organisations total AK Bars, a new customer in Russia, underway and live implementations risk exposure and ensuring compliance and a number of contract extensions.
at Bank Danamon in Indonesia and is firmly on our customers agendas.
at a major bank in Germany.
New client Our risk management operation, Knowledge Approximately 30% of the worlds commercial loans flow through Misys systems, giving us unrivalled insight into customer requirements.
com Harnessing the network of banking intelligence Misys Banking Systems global presence As one of the largest vendors of banking application software worldwide, we have an unmatched network of contacts and intelligence that keeps us at the forefront of customer requirements and emerging trends.
formed 12 months ago, expanded its In July 2005 we acquired the risk talent and new skills we require to 9 development team in Bangalore, and management software business help us do this, attracting high-calibre we invested further in the product set.
Almonde, with whom we established recruits from other parts of the The outcome was several sizeable a strategic partnership in the previous software market.
orders for our risk management year.
The acquisition was a logical next As one of the largest vendors of solutions and new interest from step, bonding Almondes strengths in banking application software existing wholesale, retail and regulatory compliance solutions with worldwide, we have an unmatched treasury capital markets clients as our risk management offering, creating network of contacts and intelligence they consider how best to embed risk a market leader.
that keeps us at the forefront of solutions into their IT infrastructures.
Talent and brand customer requirements and emerging We won a contract from Standard We started 2004 05 knowing that trends.
To capitalise on this, we are Bank of South Africa to incorporate we had tackled the organisational branding our entire global offering as compliance modules into our Misys ground work necessary to rebuild our Misys Banking Systems in order to BankMaster retail product that the bank performance levels.
Across our business strengthen awareness of our market deploys in 15 territories across Africa.
we have continued to invest in the presence, knowledge and expertise.
Quality Partnerships Our customer service centre We are extending our portfolio, reach and in Manila, an integrated 24 7 partnership capabilities.
The partnership operation, will set an industry established in 2003 04 with S1 Corporation standard for service.
to use its multi-channel architecture in our wholesale business has been expanded to cover our retail solutions.
