Misys plc Our focus is not only to connect all venues of care, but also to provide IT solutions that dramatically impact care quality, help prevent errors, reduce costs and improve patient satisfaction.
Tom Skelton, CEO, Misys Healthcare Systems Healthcare Market overview US, who are increasingly required estimate that some US$10bn will be Healthcare delivery and spending by employers and insurers to assume spent annually by 2007 on healthcare remain near the top of the political a larger share of responsibility for IT in the areas we serve.
agenda in the United States and payment.
The entire healthcare industry With so much at stake, governments many other countries.
In the US, our is under pressure from all quarters to and healthcare providers are likely primary market, there is a strong drive invest in IT as a means of controlling to favour large software vendors to transform healthcare delivery by inflation caused by increasing with wide-ranging product suites, promoting adoption of interoperable consumer expectations of access interoperable connectivity capabilities electronic health records, the impetus to advanced medical technologies and the financial stability to support reinforced by the US Governments and pharmaceuticals.
appointment of the first National number of medically-qualified Coordinator for Health Information personnel has declined in recent Stepping up product development Technology.
Health information years, and insurance premiums have We continue to expand product 10 systems and electronic medical records, risen for both medical professionals development efforts and have doubled especially those that integrate the and consumers.
the size of our development centre major venues of care and allow sharing in Bangalore, which now supports Within a decade, the US Government of clinical data by caregivers, are seen both our hospital and physicians wants patient histories and treatment as essential to improving the quality office offerings.
records computerised, with details of of clinical attention as well as reducing procedures, referrals and prescriptions Further expansion is planned to over administrative costs.
available online in secure systems.
300 specialised healthcare software The need for cost containment is Canada and the United Kingdom developers in 2005 06.
In the past three also directly affecting the public in the have similar initiatives.
In total, we years we have increased our strategic www.
com MISYS CONNECT Partnerships US$10bn Misys Connect is a new web-based, data-sharing solution and part of Misys Optimum.
It enables caregivers During the year we took steps to accelerate We estimate this sum will be spent to access patient information wherever the development of an electronic health annually by 2007 on healthcare IT it is held without leaving their current infrastructure, entering into a series of in the areas we serve.
product development, resulting in application.
It is an important step Committed to quality a number of significant product in linking community-based physicians A number of our products were upgrades as well as the completion with hospitals and homecare agencies ranked first or second in their of the integration of Misys CPR, our to improve decision making and categories in the 2004 KLAS Vendor computer-based patient record system.
The first Relationship Evaluation including: Misys Optimum site to go live in We have enhanced the Misys Optimum Misys Radiology connecting a hospital with its admitting family of products, which promote Misys Laboratory physicians practices will be Arnot sharing of clinical data across Misys Homecare Ogden Health Center in New York.
organisational boundaries, healthcare Misys Vision venues and technological platforms, Our focus with Misys Optimum is not The Misys EMR Client Services by introducing Misys Connect, a new only to connect all venues of care team won the Service and Support web-based data-sharing solution.
across the community physicians Professionals Associations most improved STAR Award.
This was Misys Connect enables caregivers to offices, hospitals, patients homes and 11 based on client satisfaction ratings, access patient information wherever long-term care agencies but to provide services provided to clients and it is held without leaving their current IT solutions that dramatically impact performance metrics.
Misys plc Healthcare continued care quality, help prevent errors, reduce Laboratory information management centralised billing practice management costs and improve patient satisfaction.
Significant investment services, letting application service has gone into upgrading this product provider ASP companies provide The contract we signed in 2004 with suite with new functionality and Misys products to their customers.
POH Medical Center in Pontiac, features including blood bank and Michigan, was a first ever combination In the field of transaction services, microbiology modules, as well as of Misys CPR and Misys EMR, our we formed a partnership with increased lab accuracy in patient electronic medical record product.
UnitedHealth Group, an insurance information.
A contagious disease This was implemented and went live in company, to give Misys clients a direct reporting interface was added which April 2005 in a successful deployment link for claims processing, automated the New York State Department of that won high praise from the Centers payment posting and eligibility checks.
Health activated in April 2005 to equip Chief Information Officer for its speed, public health officials with better ways We introduced the Community Clinical smoothness and efficiency.
A thousand to track, predict and control the spread Partnership Programme to encourage healthcare professionals across the nine of epidemics.
adoption of electronic medical records inpatient units and two emergency among community-based physicians departments operated by the New alliances to reach more offices.
This unique programme enables oesteopathic teaching hospital are now customers and enhance service hospitals to gain exclusive rights in their using our solutions to communicate During the year we took steps to surrounding markets to offer Misys and coordinate care throughout patient accelerate the development of an EMR to their admitting practices, so visits, from registration to clinical care electronic health infrastructure, patients histories are available to to final discharge.
entering into a series of strategic multiple providers enabling treatment alliances and partnerships.
We Sales of our departmental systems to deliver continuity of care.
launched the Misys Channel products were strong, led by the programme to offer more physician One of the years key initiatives was a University of South Alabamas US$1.2m 12 practices access to our electronic series of regional electronic medical agreement to purchase the full Misys medical records technology via record seminars targeted at physicians, www.
com which resulted in strong order intake choice for their 1,500 members.
The Support Professionals Associations and revealed additional opportunities.
deal was won after United Physicians most improved STAR Award.
This was conducted extensive research and based on client satisfaction ratings, We upgraded our successful Misys determined that Misys products services provided to clients and Tiger practice management system, are the best products in the field.
Additionally, used by smaller physicians practices many processes across our operations without specialist IT personnel.
The In the homecare market, where we have been re-engineered following upgrade enables practices to scan are a leader, our business continues workflow analysis, resulting in patient ID cards and, through to grow.
We signed large deals with significant improvements in client integration with a new Misys the Visiting Nurse Association VNA support resolution times and product FastEligibility offering, to check their in Dallas, the largest homecare agency development models.
insurance eligibility to comply with in Texas, and with Metropolitan Jewish security audit requirements, saving Health System, New York.
Clinical automation is gathering administrative time and resources.
momentum, not just in the United Commitment to quality States, but worldwide.
While our We signed a large number of Independent endorsement of our focus remains primarily on the US Misys EMR contracts during the year, clinical products and the quality of healthcare IT market, given its size including one with Mercy Medical our service came from the 2004 KLAS and potential, the compatibility and Group, a 150-physician group practice Vendor Relationship Evaluation in strength of our product offering means with 500 users across 64 locations which a number of our products that we continue to take advantage of utilising the system.
We finalised an were ranked first or second in their international opportunities.
Reflecting arrangement with United Physicians, categories, including Misys Radiology, this strategy, major hospital systems Michigan, making our electronic Misys Laboratory, Misys Homecare projects went live during the year in medical records and practice and Misys Vision.
The Misys EMR Client both the United Kingdom and Saudi management solutions the preferred Services team won the Service and 13 Arabia and are performing well.
