% % 1 9 4 % 3 3 4 9 7 2 2 % % Misys plc Founded in 1979, Misys today is one of the largest and strongest vendors of industry-specific software products and solutions in the world.
We have over 6,500 employees serving customers in more than 120 countries.
Our customers are in the international banking and healthcare industries and the UK general insurance market.
Sesame, a wholly-owned subsidiary, provides support services to over 8,000 financial advisers in the UK.
Big software decisions are major commitments for any organisation.
Increasingly, one of the key factors for many customers is the need to work with fewer, larger and more capable vendors in order to drive down the cost of developing and deploying increasingly sophisticated systems.
These customers need vendors who can offer them a comprehensive solution and who are committed to Our business Banking Healthcare 245m 44m 2,500 290m 42m 2,750 Revenue Adjusted Employees Revenue Adjusted Employees operating profit operating profit Statutory operating Statutory operating profit 36m profit 20m 4 Misys Banking Systems is the largest Misys Healthcare Systems, one of the top independent banking applications software five healthcare IT companies in North America, vendor outside North America and a market develops and supports software and services leader in terms of customer base and global that enable physicians and caregivers to more reach.
It supplies over 1,200 customers in over easily manage the complexities of healthcare.
120 countries, among them 90% of the top It currently serves more than 92,000 physicians 50 banks worldwide, with software and in 18,000 practice locations, 1,250 hospitals, solutions for retail banking, wholesale 600 home care providers and hundreds of banking, treasury and capital markets and commercial laboratories, clinics, managed risk management.
Over 70% of employees services and other related organisations.
are based outside the UK, and it has sales, Based in the US, it has offices in 30 locations.
implementation and customer support teams Misys Connect launched part of the Misys in over 28 countries.
Optimum family of clinical products a webbased solution which facilitates data-sharing In retail banking, Misys Equation roadmap between physicians and other caregivers.
has driven new business growth including a US$9m contract with AK Bars in Russia.
Community Clinical Partnership Programme introduced, enabling hospitals to gain exclusive In wholesale banking, Misys MidasPlus performed rights to offer Misys EMR to their admitting strongly, with 28 contracts to date.
contract so far won with Fortis Bank.
Major contracts signed for Misys Homecare.
Misys Treasury and Capital Markets business formed a leading systems vendor in its field.
Independent endorsement for Misys Radiology, Misys Laboratory, Misys Homecare and Misys Continued expansion of risk management Vision in the 2004 KLAS Vendor Relationship offering has driven new wins.
of Almonde extends Basel II capability.
Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 3 3 % 4 % www.
com long-term investment in their products.
This trend favours Misys which has the scale, industry expertise and financial strength to meet this challenge.
We know how critical information technology IT systems and solutions are to our customers operations and everything we do revolves around this.
As a company, we start by hiring talented people with technical expertise and a deep understanding of our customers business: we develop them with stretching assignments to mature their talents and give them real responsibility.
We believe everyone at Misys makes a difference.
Its all about helping our customers succeed with their customers, and about executing quality ideas fast.
Together we create a successful company, and successful partnerships with our customers.
General Insurance Sesame 34m 16m 300 319m 6m 900 Revenue Adjusted Employees Revenue Adjusted Employees operating profit operating profit Statutory operating Statutory operating profit 16m loss 25m 5 Misys General Insurance is the leading Sesame is one of the UKs largest providers of supplier of IT solutions to general insurance support services to over 8,000 financial advisers.
intermediaries in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Sesame provides life, pension and investment It supplies over 2,000 broking sites and owns solutions, mortgage and general insurance Countrywide, the largest intermediary network services.
100% increase in Sesame Direct advisers to 3,000.
Complete set of OASys e-Quotes web quotation Strong demand following mortgage and general engines launched and integrated with the Misys insurance regulation with 5,000 advisers back-office system.
Uptake of OASys Commercial software by brokers Strong brand created with consumers and advisers, more than doubled and two new premium reinforced by Money Money Money media finance providers contracted for integration with campaign and book, aimed at young people.
Annualised rate of premiums financed via Multi-tie proposition Sesame Select launched the software doubled to over 100m.
July 2005 offering enhanced service and Number of policies written via EDI on the competitively priced products from five of Misys system increased by 12% to 1.8m.
the UKs leading financial services brands.
Continued product enhancements contributed to new contracts won with Towergate and Carole Nash.
