Health and safety, food safety and re safety audits take place an Employee Community Award Scheme, which enables employees a minimum of twice a year, measuring performance against who actively support a charity through fundraising or voluntary work Company policy.
to apply for a Company donation.
In addition to local initiatives, we use our countrywide reach to work with selected charities seeking The Company uses a major, independent safety and assurance to make a real difference at a national level.
company to audit and report upon these vital safety practices entirely in all our businesses.
These inspection programmes The Company supports community initiatives and charitable causes form an essential element of our due diligence programme and in 2005 donated 143,170 2004 103,000.
In addition to and include: these cash contributions, employees are encouraged to give their time and skills to a variety of causes and the Company makes An independently veried means of monitoring safety standards: donations in kind, such as making its facilities available for use or Consistent audit systems across all 2,000 businesses: and by giving free meals in Company premises.
It is estimated that those An independent assessment of standards combined with contributions raised the total value of the Companys donations to technical support on performance improvement.
In addition to the Companys internal safety experts, the services In April 2005, Mitchells & Butlers announced that Barnardos would of leading consultants in the elds of food safety and re safety be its new charity partner.
Barnardos works with vulnerable children are also retained.
As a result of the audits and analysis of incidents and young people, helping them transform their lives and full their and claims, proposals are considered for future improvements in potential.
As the UKs leading childrens charity, supporting 100,000 the management of health and safety, food safety and re safety.
children and their families, Barnardos has an excellent network of local projects enabling Mitchells & Butlers to increase its Employees commitment directly to the communities in which it operates.
Mitchells & Butlers is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination and is In addition to an initial Company donation of 50,000, supportive of the employment and advancement of disabled Mitchells & Butlers supports Barnardos by encouraging employeeand disadvantaged persons.
Over 7,000 had been raised by corporate staff for Barnardos in the six months to the end of the Considerable emphasis is placed on employee communication, financial year.
We also operate a payroll giving scheme.
particularly on matters relating to the Companys business and its performance.
Communication channels include regular team Mitchells & Butlers is actively involved in Fair Cities Birmingham, a meetings, communication forums, informal briengs, in-house government initiative led by a board of local employers with the aim publications and the Company intranet.
Regular feedback is obtained to increase the employment of people living in Birminghams diverse through employee focus groups and employee opinion surveys, the and disadvantaged communities.
In partnership with the Birmingham results of which are used in developing management policies and College of Food, Mitchells & Butlers has put in place a four-week best practice.
The Company conducts a Business Forum at which training programme comprising of bar catering, service and life skills.
Executive Directors and representatives of the senior management On successful completion of the programme, the candidates will meet with employees at all levels to discuss business issues.
have earned industry-recognised qualications and are guaranteed an interview for a job in one of the Companys local businesses.
We are proud of the fact that our employees are highly engaged in the pursuit of our business success: the overall aggregate score We are proud to be one of the longest serving patrons of the from our annual Corporate Employee Satisfaction survey improved City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra CBSO, now in our for the second consecutive year.
92% of employees surveyed 25th year of sponsorship.
We believe that the CBSO considerably would recommend Mitchells & Butlers as a good place to work.
enhances the cultural vibrancy and standing of the city within which our head office is based.
In 2004, we extended our The Company is committed to the health and well-being of its successful partnership with the CBSO by continuing to sponsor employees, and recognises that working in a pub environment the CBSO on the Road programme.
This is a series of specifically can at times be stressful.
We have in place a stress management devised community concerts which enables the CBSO to offer policy underpinned by a condential and impartial counselling concerts to charities, community groups, schools, arts organisations and advice service both by telephone and in person provided and music clubs across the Midlands region, bringing music to by an external independent company.
local communities and into venues which do not have the facilities to accommodate a full orchestra.
To coincide with our silver Community anniversary sponsorship year, a total of 25 On the Road concerts Mitchells & Butlers recognises that each of our businesses has an will be held during 2005 06. important role to play in its local community, and we also pursue national initiatives to support this local role.
Mitchells & Butlers is now in its third year as a Major Corporate Patron of the Birmingham Repertory Theatre.
Mitchells & Butlers introduced the Heart of the Community Awards in 2004 to celebrate and recognise the positive Corporate governance community impact achieved by our pub managers.
These awards Our Executive Committee has adopted a Code of Ethics to recognise the fundraising and community activities which help promote the honest and ethical conduct of our Senior Executive forge good relations with the communities in which we participate.
The code includes: We encourage the managers and staff of all our pubs to support The ethical handling of actual or apparent conicts of local causes and to bring local communities together.
We operate interest between personal and professional relationships: Page 9 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Operating and financial review continued A requirement that any hospitality from suppliers must be approved, with a presumption against its acceptance: Requiring full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in periodic reports required to be filed by Mitchells & Butlers plc: and Promoting compliance with all applicable rules and regulations that apply to the Company and its ofcers.
Mitchells & Butlers offers an independently administered condential hotline, also known as a whistleblowing hotline, for any employee wishing to report any concern that they may have that they feel unable to raise with their line manager.
All whistleblowing allegations are reported to and considered by the Audit Committee.
Our businesses and employees are part of a wider community and are expected to act in a way that respects the social, economic and environmental well-being of the wider world.
Our Business Conduct guidelines describe the standards of behaviour expected from those working for the Company.
Our corporate reputation depends on all staff acting in good conscience and behaving with integrity in our dealings with employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers and all other stakeholders.
The Board is responsible for and reviews the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
This is detailed in the Corporate Governance report on page 13.
A Mitchells & Butlers Risk Management and Disclosure Forum exists to monitor operational activities and to ensure that a consistent and proactive approach to managing risk occurs throughout the Company, including those of a social, ethical or environmental nature.
The Forum meets on a quarterly basis.
Mitchells & Butlers also abides by the Code of Ethics issued by The Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply.
Our guiding principles on corporate procurement are to: Enable the Company to conduct its procurement activities in a safe, ethical and professional manner: Exclude suppliers that disregard health, safety and welfare: Ensure all personnel conform with national and EU laws: Ensure representatives are fair and reasonable with suppliers: Exclude suppliers that exploit people unfairly: and Utilise suppliers that preferentially conserve the environment.
The Companys social, environmental and ethical disclosures are reviewed for accuracy through a combination of detailed verication by members of management responsible for the individual areas of corporate social responsibility and high level review by the members of the Board and Executive Committee.
Further details of Mitchells & Butlers corporate social responsibility practices can be found in the Companys Corporate Social Responsibility Review 2004 on www.
Page 10 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
