Chief Executives Review continued Reception at Eland House, ODPM Service Facilities Management Sector Government Client Office of the Deputy Prime Minister By continually improving quality and value through innovation, collaboration and consultation, the ODPM contract is going from strength to strength.
During the year under review MITIE started the The ODPM contract has given MITIE the opportcontract to provide a full facilities management unity to deliver a comprehensive range of services service to the main office buildings of the Office using the specialist knowledge of our teams.
It is this of the Deputy Prime Minister ODPM in London.
flexibility that makes MITIE so unique and helps us The contract, awarded for an initial term of five provide truly integrated services.
years, was mobilised on 1 April 2004, with full operations commencing on 1 July 2004.
Intense, regular and open communication was key to the successful mobilisation of this contract.
The main buildings covered by the contract, Eland Alongside continual daily communication, MITIE House and Ashdown House in Victoria, and personnel attend weekly team meetings, monthly Riverwalk House on Millbank, are serviced by liaison meetings and quarterly joint Board meetings a team of over 180 MITIE people in support of to ensure that all levels of both MITIE and ODPM the 3,000 ODPM staff.
Services provided by staff are kept informed of contract developments.
MITIE include Facilities Management, Building MITIEs partnership ethos with its customers has also Services, Grounds Maintenance, Pest Control, ensured the transference of best practice from other Waste Management, Catering, Security, Cleaning, parts of MITIE and the wider industry into this conMail Services, Reprographics, Safety, Health & tract.
Moreover by continually improving quality Environmental Management, Reception, Conferand value through innovation, collaboration and ences and Space Management.
consultation the ODPM contract is going from strength to strength.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 09 Pest Control that our commitment and investment in our officer Pest Control has had a year of consolidation followbase will fully meet the requirements for licensing ing its acquisition in the last financial year and set by the Security Industry Authority and we are has now integrated well into MITIE.
They have confident that we will exceed the criteria set for the been awarded a five-year contract with Compass.
proposed new Approved Contractor Scheme They have also been awarded work with Safestore ACS.
Security: patrolling the Victoria Shopping Quarter in Leeds Pest Control has invested in its sales force to achieve its organic growth targets and will concentrate on multi-site retail outlets and railway-related services, in addition to its core market of smaller businesses and local markets.
It will continue to focus on maintaining its high levels of customer retention.
The company is now the third largest pest control business in the UK.
Security Security is performing well, having successfully integrated the acquisitions from the previous year.
Notable contract wins include CIS and Re: Sources UK Publicis.
MITIE Security South West started The impact of licensing we believe will stimulate trading in September 2004 and on 4 May 2005 we further consolidation in the security marketplace as announced the acquisition of Intruder International smaller providers struggle to meet the requirements Ltd Intruder, which is at the forefront of developof both the licensing regime and the standards set ing integrated networked security solutions.
The short-term impact, as the deadline of March 2006 approaches, could be instability MITIE Security forges long-lasting relationships by of a short-term nature in the labour supply market.
understanding and supporting its clients and its However, in the medium to long-term, standards people.
It achieves this by delivering on its promises will rise, margins should improve and a licensed of a timely and properly structured security solution officer will become more highly valued by both that clearly meets the requirements of its clients.
The business is primarily a single service provider Managed Services focused on the manned guarding sector.
Its strategy Managed Services has made good progress this year, is to move the business to a broader-based security focusing on customer satisfaction and retention, service combining the use of manpower and which has resulted in the expansion of many electronic security.
existing relationships including our work with Land Securities on their Landflex sites in London and The business has a series of objectives: with ShopDirect in Manchester.
Managed Services was awarded contracts with Transport for London, 1.
Complete the national footprint for manned 3Com and Crown Castle during the past year.
Since guarding: the year-end we have regained and expanded 2.
Achieve an improved geographical balance: and our framework contract with RWE NPower for an 3.
Enhance its electronic security capability based additional five years.
This success has been achieved on integrated solutions that utilise clients by closely monitoring customer needs, conducting existing network infrastructure.
extensive customer surveys, closely monitoring performance and improving service levels.
Licensing for security officers becomes mandatory in March 2006.
We have invested in ten trainers Managed Services has continued to improve its who are qualified to deliver the required Level 1 & 2 support functions for human resources, sales and training programme and currently have 30% of our marketing, health and safety, energy management officer base that have completed the requisite certiand commercial management.
We pay particular fied training.
By early September 2005 we anticipate attention to the development of our employees to 60% of our officer base will be certified and full ensure that we have the appropriate skills as the compliance is targeted by the deadline date.
10 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued Enjoying school at eco-friendly Kingsmead Service Engineering Sector Education Client Kingsmead Primary School A particular emphasis has been placed on making this building a learning tool for its pupils.
Creating a building able to conserve resources generate energy.
A particular emphasis has been and positively affect the surrounding environment placed on making this building a learning tool for its has become something of a holy grail within the pupils, ensuring that they get a first-hand underconstruction industry.
MITIEs involvement in standing of the way their school operates, saves state-of-the-art eco-friendly school, Kingsmead energy and works with its environment.
Primary, in Cheshire, has demonstrated the way that concepts of sustainable construction can Understanding the wider picture of sustainability, become a reality.
MITIE sourced products from local suppliers and researched project grants available for the project, Earmarked by the Department for Education and via schemes such as Clear Skies, for key elements Skills DfES as an exemplar model of excellence throughout the build process.
MITIE was able and selected as a Constructing Excellence demonto support and adapt the services for maxistration project, the school, incorporates numerous mum long-term efficiency and ensure that the innovative features including: a biomass boiler burninnovative services could be integrated to provide a ing reclaimed wood pellets to provide heating, a rainfunctioning, comfortable environment.
The result is water recycling system that provides water to flush a school that demonstrates the wholly viable reality toilets as well as solar panels and photovoltaic cells to of sustainable construction in the public sector.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 11 PFI Martin Brown has decided to retire this year: Martin Our PFI company, which specialises in providing was Head of our Engineering Maintenance business.
facilities management to PFI school projects, where I would like to thank him for the important contriwe take no equity, continues to develop.
We now bution he has made to MITIE over the years.
have 15 signed contracts in respect of 33 schools and are preferred bidder on five further contracts.
Building Services Engineering Services Business Services The trading climate in Engineering has not Business Services had another good year adding improved since our Interim Report and margins further blue-chip customers to their impressive list continue to be under pressure.
In the coming year of leading corporations, financial institutions and Engineering Services will be focused on improving professional firms, with contract wins at Morgan margins, even though turnover growth as a conseStanley and Socit Gnrale.
The business also quence may be lower.
renewed contracts in the last year at the London offices of the international law firms of White & A key focus of Engineering is to develop long-term Case, Skadden Arps and Sullivan & Cromwell as relationships with forward visibility.
The University well as the London Stock Exchange.
of Plymouth has recently awarded MITIE an innovative three year Mechanical and Electrical A growing part of the business is document soluframework contract adding to the current list of tions, involving the entire lifecycle of the document frameworks which include Boots, MOD Prime from creation, to print, through to distribution.
South West, BT Telereal and Annington Homes.
Fit-out project in London Future growth will come from: 1.
Developing existing relationships with key clients to expand the range of services: 2.
Investment in business development and obtaining new clients: and 3.
Expanding the range of services to include creative services, print management and distribution.
Engineering Maintenance Engineering Maintenance had another successful year.
The business is well positioned with one With strong experience in education, Engineering is cohesive management structure and a central team well positioned for involvement in the Building supporting the regional operating companies.
Schools for the Future programme.
In the current A national sales and service delivery team has been schemes MITIE are a Tier 2 Contractor for the created to provide national customers with a consisBirmingham Framework and have just completed tent quality service.
Engineering Maintenance has Turves Green School.
There has been continued sucacted as the springboard for other MITIE services to cess in the public sector with procurement routes create bundled opportunities.
An increased number including LIFT and PFI PPP.
of customers are recognising the benefits that MITIE can bring as a co-ordinated Group in bundled The focus on developing specialist solutions services contracts.
for our customers has seen on-going success.
The specialist retail business, whose clients include Engineering Maintenance has been awarded a numASDA and Primark, has completed 14 projects for ber of notable contracts including Standard Life, the Marks & Spencer and has now been awarded a major University of Bath, Apsley House, Ayrshire and store in Plymouth.
The social housing business conHighland Councils.
Bundled service contract wins tinues to grow with over 80% of its work under partincluded the Department for Education and Skills at nering contracts.
their five main sites and Telecom Service Centres.
Since the year-end, the commitment of Engineering Crucial to the future development of Engineering to training and health & safety has been recognised Maintenance is a highly developed integrated Health, through two industry awards Mechanical & Electrical Safety and Environmental management system.
Specialist of the Year and HVAC Contractor of the Year.
12 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued Caring for residents and their properties at Oakfern Service Repair and Maintenance Sector Social housing Client Sentinel Housing Group When a property is empty we are responsible for improving the condition of the property as quickly as possible so that it is available for occupation.
Sentinel Housing Group, incorporating Oakfern able to provide a service that is responsive to the and Hart Housing Associations, owns 8,500 houses tenants needs.
Arranging appointments efficiently in the Basingstoke area, 7,500 of which are mainand completing work promptly is the key to custained by MITIE.
The accommodation includes tomer satisfaction.
We operate a two-hour time sheltered housing, low-rise flats, semi-detached and options system which allows the tenants to choose terraced housing.
time slots that fit in with their plans.
An internet based tracking system is used which enables us to We are responsible for all reactive repairs including allocate efficiently the resources of the tradesmen burst pipes, electrical faults, drainage, painting, plason the contract.
When a property is empty we are responsible for improving the condition of the Market conditions for social housing are positive.
property as quickly as possible so that it is available Underpinned by the Governments Decent Homes for occupation.
Working with Sentinel we have Standard initiative, which aims to improve all managed to reduce this time to an average of less social housing across the country, this market looks than three weeks.
set to sustain significant growth for the future.
Increasing numbers of customers in this market are MITIE has a dedicated office in Basingstoke in the awarding longer-term contracts with wider scope heart of the housing stock.
This ensures that we are and MITIE is well placed to benefit from this trend.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 13 In line with the objective of identifying growth has increased the visibility of Building Services order potential in both geographical and specialist book.
The percentage of budgeted revenue secured markets, an opportunity for the development of for 2006 is 70% compared to 67% last year.
The regional contracting businesses was identified in the percentage of revenue secured for 2007 is 44% Channel Islands.
The establishment of a Jersey compared to 42% last year.
office confirmed the potential of this venture and a Guernsey office has since been opened to respond Cash to the opportunities on the Islands.
We recognise that the assets of the business belong to the shareProperty Services holders and that it is our responsibility to maximise Property Services has had a good year, building the long-term return from those assets.
During the upon the performance in the first six months and year we have increased the dividend by 36%, started seeing increased levels of profitability.
A strategic a share buyback programme and considered several decision was taken to change the corporate and acquisitions.
Since the year-end we have completed operational structure which was proving to be the acquisition of Intruder for a consideration a barrier to tendering for the larger lucrative markets of 4 million.
The Board regularly reviews the of social housing, education and health.
During the structure of the Groups Balance Sheet, evaluates its year all of the trade from the wholly-owned suboptimum structure and continues to make this an sidiaries were merged into one business to form important priority.
MITIE Property Services UK Ltd.
This is already Waste Management at Rolls-Royce, Bristol starting to produce improved results and will have a positive impact on performance in the coming year.
Property Services has increased its investment in its social housing and local authority team to accelerate growth in this market.
Contracts will be performed with directly employed teams for refurbishment, repairs and maintenance.
Several long-term contracts have been secured during the period including Pavillion Housing Association, Brent Decent Homes, Warden Housing Association, Poole Housing Association and Southampton City Council, that have a combined order book value in excess of 60 million.
Other contracts included a Future prospects major redecoration contract for North West Trains The business has excellent prospects.
Our markets and a refurbishment project for Durham University.
are favourable despite being very competitive, they have the capacity to sustain future growth.
I am MITIE Interiors, the London-based fit-out business, confident that we can maintain our progress.
has had a very good year completing substantial projects for Land Securities and Legal & General.
I am always delighted to see the passion and commitment of our employees.
I would like to thank Generation each and every one of them for keeping that passion Generation was sold to its management team on 30 alive and for driving our business forward and September 2004 and marked our exit from capitalcontinuing to support our customers.
We wish them every success for the future.
Ours is not a business that is dependent upon technology or capital assets.
It is a business that Dynamics of the business will succeed or fail based primarily on how good MITIE is fortunate that a high percentage of our work its people are, how well they work together and comes from long-term contracts.
Support Services is anticipate and satisfy their customers needs.
able to grow steadily because it has an excellent The people in MITIE are excellent and are record of customer retention and a reputation for confident about the future.
Your Company is in providing quality services that meet the needs of the good hands and I am sure we will continue to deliver customer.
Building Services has traditionally been good results.
different with relatively short-term order books, however, this is changing with the trend towards partnering style or framework contracts, which Ian R Stewart Chief Executive 14 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued Helping to keep the Thames Barrier secure Service Security Sector Government Client Environment Agency We now have a growing number of prestigious security clients across a diverse range of sectors.
With over 500 years experience between the manageMITIE has been providing 24 hour manned guardment team, MITIE Security is now ranked as the ing services at the Thames Barrier for over four eighth largest manned security provider nationally years and has recently had the contract extended.
and as the second largest in London.
We have recentHelping the Environment Agency to protect London ly added to the range of services that we can provide from flooding is no small feat, which is why we with the acquisition of Intruder International Ltd, have 17 officers on the contract who work in a three a leader in the provision of integrated electronic shift pattern over each 24 hour period.
We now have a growing number of just under an hour to patrol the entire site, which prestigious security clients across a diverse range of doesnt include monitoring two external sites linked sectors, particularly in the City.
Contracts where we to the Thames Barrier.
offer bespoke security solutions, include the Tower of London, Tate Modern, the Office of the Deputy Prime Our commitment to training and education for offiMinister and the Thames Barrier.
cers ensures an added value service for the client, a reduction in staff turnover and motivated employees.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 15 David C Or Ruby McGregor d ChairSmith, manGroup Finance Director MITIE is in a strong financial position protecting the interests of shareholders.
Financial results The cash generative nature of our activities, Turnover together with the move away from capitalOperating profit intensive businesses provides financial Exceptional items flexibility.
We will direct funds to areas Profit Goodwill which generate shareholder value.
Taxation Pensions Acquisitions Financial review Returns to Shareholders Treasury policy Accounting developments International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Cash flows Investment for the future Going concern 16 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005
