Directors Report Employee involvement possible re-issue at a future date, rather than canThe Group offers equal opportunities to all applicelling them as had previously been required by cants for employment whatever their sex, race or legislation.
Accordingly, if the Company were religion.
Disabled persons are considered for to purchase any more of its own shares, it would employment, training, career development and consider holding them as treasury stock, pursuant promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilto the authorisation conferred by this resolution.
This ities in common with all employees, providing the would give the Company the ability to re-issue disability does not make the particular employtreasury shares quickly and cost-effectively, and ment impractical, or the employee is unable to would provide the Company with additional flexiconform to the stringent regulations that apply to bility in the management of its capital base.
the operations of the trading companies.
Resolution 10 seeks to amend the Companys existThe Directors acknowledge the importance of ing Articles of Association.
Under the Companys good communications and employee relationcurrent Articles, one third of the Directors are ships.
In each trading company, there is a direct required to retire by rotation at each Annual relationship between the Managing Director and General Meeting.
In accordance with recent corindividual employees of the company.
porate governance guidelines, the Directors now recommend that the Articles be amended to The Directors believe that employees should ensure that every Director shall be required to retire be encouraged to become shareholders.
The by rotation at least every three years.
Savings Related Share Option Schemes, established in 1991 and 2001, currently have a total of Statement of Directors responsibilities 1,561 2004:1,828 contributing employees.
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements that give MITIE is in the process of establishing an Employees a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Forum to comply with the requirements of the Company and the Group as at the end of the Information and Consultation regulations.
financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial stateAuditors ments the Directors are required to: Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Auditors and a resoluselect suitable accounting policies and then tion to reappoint them will be proposed at the apply them consistently: forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and Annual General Meeting state whether applicable accounting stanThe Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 dards have been followed, subject to any noon on Thursday, 28 July 2005 at The Merchants material departures disclosed and explained Hall, The Promenade, Clifton Down, Bristol.
The Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that contained in the Notice of Meeting.
the Company keeps accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Resolution 8 renews the Directors authority to allot financial position of the Company and that new Ordinary Shares, not exceeding 5% of the enable them to ensure that the financial stateissued share capital, for cash without first being ments comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The required to offer them to existing Shareholders in Directors also have general responsibility for the the proportion of their holdings.
system of internal controls, for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the Resolution 9 renews the Companys authority to assets of the Group and to prevent and detect purchase its own shares, not exceeding 10% of the fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors will continue to exercise this authority if satisfied that to do so would This Report was approved by the Board of result in an increase in the Groups earnings per Directors on 20 May 2005 and signed on its behalf.
share and would be in the interests of Shareholders generally.
Following the introduction of The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Corina K Ross Company Secretary Shares Regulations 2003 companies are now permitted to retain any of their own shares which they have purchased as treasury stock with a view to MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 25 This Report has been prepared in accordance with Components of remuneration the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations Components of remuneration are: 2002.
It also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority Basic salary determined by the Committee and describes how the Board has applied and reviewed annually on 1 April: the Principles of Good Governance relating Performance-related bonus based on improveto Directors remuneration.
As required by the ments in Group and or Business profits: Regulations, a Resolution to approve the Report Pension contributions through membership of will be proposed at the AGM of the Company at the Companys pension scheme.
Basic salary which the financial statements will be approved.
alone is pensionable: and Executive share options and opportunities The Regulations require the Auditors to report to to invest in subsidiary companies for Ruby the Companys members on the auditable part McGregor-Smith.
of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the Service contracts Report has been properly prepared in accorAll Executive Directors have rolling service condance with the Companies Act 1985 as amendtracts, providing for a maximum of one years ed by the Regulations.
The Report has therefore written notice.
There are no provisions for combeen divided into separate sections for audited pensation payable upon early termination in the and unaudited information.
Information not subject to audit Manish J Chande, Sir John Jennings and David C Ord are appointed under fixed-term agreements, Remuneration Committee which are due to expire on 31 March 2006.
Cullum The Committee consists of four of the Companys McAlpines agreement expires at the Companys Non-Executive Directors: Manish J Chande Annual General Meeting, in 2006.
All agreements Chairman, Cullum McAlpine, Sir John Jennings, may be renewed on expiry by mutual agreement and David C Ord.
The Committee consults the or terminated on six months written notice.
These Chief Executive about its proposals and has agreements required the Director to attend all access to professional advice from outside the meetings as notified by the Group, to serve on the Company.
During the year, the Committee did Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees not receive any material assistance from any as the Group may request and to carry out such external professional advisers.
additional functions as the Group may require.
Remuneration policy Non-Executive Directors remuneration The basic salaries and other benefits of the The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is Executive Directors are determined by the determined by the Board and reflects the knowCommittee in the light of the need to attract, ledge and experience that they bring to the retain and motivate Directors of the calibre Group.
They do not participate in the Companys needed and to reward them for enhancing value bonus or share option schemes.
They are not to Shareholders.
The Committee has regard to members of the Companys pension schemes, executive remuneration packages of similar nor do they receive taxable benefits in kind.
jobs in comparative groups of companies.
There are no current plans to significantly alter this for Manish J Chandes, Sir John Jennings and David future years.
C Ords remuneration comprises shares in MITIE Group PLC at the market value on the issue date.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept Cullum McAlpines remuneration comprises an appointments outside the Group, providing perannual fee, which he has elected to waive for this mission is sought from the Chief Executive, and to and subsequent years until further notice.
retain earnings from such appointments.
Further details are shown in Note 27.
Performance graph MITIEs TSR vs FTSE Mid 250 index The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE Mid 250 index over the past five years.
The Committee believes that this comparison provides a clear picture of how well the Company has performed relative to a range of companies of a comparable size.
26 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005
