qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 41 Board of directors b d David Arculus 58 Chairman Rudolf Lamprecht 56 David Arculus was appointed to the Board in 2003 and became Chairman on 28 July 2004 at the conclusion Rudolf Lamprecht was appointed to the Board on 30 March 2005.
He is presently a member of the of mmO2s 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Mr Arculus is Chairman of the Better Regulation Task Force and Management Committee of Siemens with responsibility for Osram lighting, the Fujitsu joint venture and a non-executive Director of Barclays.
He has also served as Chairman of Severn Trent.
Mr Arculus was household appliances.
He was previously a Board member at Siemens and held a number of senior positions, previously Chairman of IPC Group Limited and, before that, Group Managing Director of EMAP.
including President of information and communications products.
He is highly experienced in complex business-to-business technology, sales cycles and multiple channels to market.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS b c e Peter Erskine 53 Chief Executive officer Patrick Lupo 54 Peter Erskine was appointed to the Board in 2001 as Chief Executive officer.
He joined the Company from Patrick Lupo was appointed to the Board on 10 August 2004.
Mr Lupo was previously Chief Executive and BT where, since March 1993, he held a number of senior positions including Director of BT Mobile, President then Executive Chairman of DHL Worldwide Express.
He is currently a non-executive Director of Hilton Group and Chief Executive of Concert, and, from 1998, Managing Director of BT Cellnet.
Prior to joining BT, he and was also, until March 2004, a non-executive Director of WH Smith.
Patrick Lupo held a number of was European Vice President of Sales and Customer Service for Mars and Senior Vice President Sales and senior positions at DHL Airways Inc and DHL Worldwide Express between 1984 and 2001, where he was Marketing for UNITEL.
Mr Erskine is also a member of the Advisory Board of the University of Reading instrumental in establishing it as the global market leaders in international express and logistics.
a Kathleen ODonovan 47 b c David Finch 49 Chief Financial officer Kathleen ODonovan was appointed to the Board on 30 March 2005.
She currently chairs both the audit David Finch was initially appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Finch is the Companys Chief Financial officer committee of the Court of the Bank of England and the pension fund of Invensys, the engineering group and has extensive experience in financial management, having previously held senior finance positions at where she was previously Chief Financial officer.
She is also Deputy Chairman and senior non-executive Exel, Novar formerly Caradon and Grand Metropolitan.
In addition to Group Finance, he has direct Director of Great Portland Estates, and holds non-executive directorships at Prudential and EMI Group.
responsibility for the Group Treasury and Investor Relations functions.
d e Andrew Sukawaty 49 c Rudolf Grger 50 CEO O2 Germany Andrew Sukawaty was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Sukawaty was the non-executive Deputy Rudolf Grger was appointed to the Board in 2003.
He joined the Company in October 2001 as Chief Chairman of the Company and senior independent Director until 31 December 2004.
He is Chairman and Executive officer of O2 Germany.
Prior to this, he was Managing Director of T-Systems International GmbH, Chief Executive officer of Inmarsat Group.
He is President of Cable Partners Europe LLC, which invests a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, from 1999 to 2001.
He played a key role in the acquisition of Debis in and operates cable television services in Europe.
He is Chairman of Xyratex Group Limited.
He is a Systemhaus GmbH and its integration into Deutsche Telekom.
He has also worked for Siemens and was former Chairman of Telenet.
He has considerable experience in the mobile telephone industry and head of its German information and communication product operations.
telecommunications industries in the United States and Europe, having at different times in those periods held the offices of Chief Executive and President of Sprint PCS, Chief Executive officer of NTL, and Chief NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Operating officer of Mercury One2One.
He has also been a former Chairman of the Cellular Telephone and a d e Stephen Hodge 63 Internet Association CTIA in the United States.
Stephen Hodge was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Hodge was Director of Finance of the Royal Dutch Shell Group, prior to his retirement in September 2001, where he had responsibility for all financial COMPANY SECRETARY AND GENERAL COUNSEL and investor relations issues for the Shell Group and its parent companies.
He has extensive knowledge of Philip Bramwell 48 the financial management of international companies, having worked throughout the world including Philip Bramwell joined the Company from BT, where he was employed since 1998, initially as Legal Manager, Australia, the Netherlands, Venezuela and Argentina in a variety of financial positions.
He is Chairman of Group Strategy and Development and then as Chief Counsel, Corporate Development.
Before joining Shell Pensions Trust Limited and Deputy Chairman of the Franchise Board of Lloyds of London.
Mr Hodge BT, he was a partner in DDV, a European specialist telecommunications consultancy rm.
Prior to this, was appointed as non-executive Deputy Chairman and senior independent Director on 1 January 2005. he held the position of Vice President and General Counsel at BellSouth Europe and Legal Advisor at SmithKlineBeecham Pharmaceuticals international division.
He was called to the Bar in 1983. a d David Chance 48 Key to membership of Board Committees: David Chance was appointed to the Board in 2003.
Mr Chance was Deputy Managing Director of BSkyB a Audit Committee d Nomination and Governance Committee b Chairmans Committee e Remuneration Committee until June 1998 and is Chairman of Modern Times Group and Top Up TV Limited, and is a non-executive c Executive Committee Director of ITV and Sunderland AFC.
He previously held senior marketing and business development roles at All of the non-executive Directors are considered independent of the management of the Company.
US telecoms companies, scientific Atlanta and Grass Valley Group, and European satellite broadcaster, SES.
