#4 Improving efficiency worldwide We have rationalised.
Almost 35% of our workforce is now based in low-cost countries.
As a percentage of revenues, our employment costs have fallen significantly.
We have made other savings in all areas of the business.
Now, as we complete our profit improvement plan we are concentrating on our high-margin, high-growth plan.
Free of debt, following the sale of our Magnetics business, we are on the lookout for bolt-on acquisitions to augment our organic growth.
We are targeting enterprises making high-tech, high-value products in low-cost, high-growth locations.
Opposite Our newest Technical Ceramics plant opened in 2005.
08 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Transformation in progress #5 Focusing on attractive product segments We are gaining entry to lucrative new markets by leveraging our existing technologies and products.
This involves increasing the value-added component and focussing on highly engineered products requiring custom solutions.
In Insulating Ceramics we have launched a product called Superwool 607 HT, a low bio-persistent insulating fibre that withstands temperatures up to 1300C.
In Technical Ceramics we are continuing to grow our business in medical and surgical applications.
In Carbon we have developed second-generation body armour.
Importantly, these markets have excellent growth potential.
Opposite Market segments we serve include oil and gas, aerospace, medical, defence, automotive and transportation.
10 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Transformation in progress I am pleased to report excellent progress on our strategic Given our desire to improve transparency to shareholders, we Chairmans statement initiatives to simplify Morgan.
The most significant part of this have decided to adopt the framework of the Operating and was the disposal of our Magnetics division for a total of 300 Financial Review OFR.
This provides shareholders with more The right direction million, of which 225 million was in cash and 75 million information on our performance, the risks and opportunities in pension and other liabilities.
This transformational deal has we face and how we manage the business.
significantly improved the balance sheet of Morgan, thus Our OFR includes a corporate responsibility review.
The Board positioning it for profitable growth.
has been pleased with the progress underway in this area.
As a result of the positive free cash flow that the Group is During the year, Morgan joined the FTSE4Good index.
now generating, the Board is recommending a resumption We updated our Statement of Core Values, published our Morgan has delivered an excellent set of of dividend payments.
A final dividend of 2.5 pence per share Ethics Policy and we are rolling out our Ethics and Compliance will be proposed at the AGM.
We are working to reduce the environmental impact results this year.
Our focus on shareholder of our operations and the number of work-related accidents is The Morgan Board recognises that it is collectively responsible falling.
More details are included in our annual Environmental, to the Companys shareholders for the success of the value has resulted in top line growth, Health and Safety report which will be published on our Company.
One of the Boards primary accountabilities is to website in April 2006. ensure that the highest standards of corporate governance improving margins and positive cash flow.
During the year the Board complied in full Delivering better results does not happen by chance.
All of Morgans divisions contributed to this with the Combined Code.
Morgans progress is down to the skills, professionalism and dedication of our staff.
The whole Board was encouraged by There have been several changes to your Board during the improved performance, highlighting the the results of our 2005 employee survey which was conducted year.
Simon Heale joined in February as a non-executive in eight languages and shows that our people around the Director.
Simon is Chief Executive of the London Metal underlying strength of your Company.
world increasingly recognise that they are a part of a global Exchange and his background, particularly his knowledge business, that they know how their role contributes to the and understanding of business in Asia, complement the skills Companys goals and that they can make a positive and experience of his fellow Directors.
Mark Lejman and contribution to Morgans future.
On your behalf I should like to Hartmut Eisele were appointed as executive Directors in congratulate them for their achievements and to thank them March.
Mark joined Morgan in early 2004 and is the Chief for all their hard work and commitment.
Executive of our Carbon division.
Harmut was the Chief Executive of Morgans Magnetics division and he resigned As we announced in February, Warren Knowlton will be from the Board on the completion of the disposal of that stepping down in the third quarter after leading Morgan in its business on 8 December 2005. transformation.
I would like to thank him on your behalf for his tireless efforts.
Mark Robertshaw, who has been our CFO for On 31 December, our senior independent Director, David 18 months, will take over from Warren.
I have every confidence Godwin retired.
David was appointed to the Board in 1998. in Marks ability to lead the Group into its next phase.
He chaired our Remuneration Committee and served on our Audit and Nomination Committees.
He has had a significant Morgan continues to make excellent progress.
Your Company impact on the Board and the Company and I will particularly is in good shape and is well positioned to achieve profitable miss his counsel, wisdom and insight.
growth in line with its goal of delivering superior value to shareholders in the coming years.
Lars Kylberg Chairman Revenue for Continuing Business at Constant Currency Free Cash Flow see page 25 m m 620 30 600 20 580 560 10 540 0 520 500 -10 Year 2002 2003 2004 2005 Year 2002 2003 2004 2005 UK GAAP IFRS Underlying Operating Profit for Continuing Business at Constant Currency Underlying Operating Profit as a Percentage of Revenue m % 60 10.0 50 7.5 40 30 5.0 20 2.5 10 0 0.0 Year 2002 2003 2004 2005 Year 2002 2003 2004 2005 Operating profit before financing and restructuring costs, UK GAAP IFRS Operating profit before financing and restructuring costs, UK GAAP IFRS costs associated with prior period litigation and property disposals.
costs associated with prior period litigation and property disposals.
12 12 The Mor The Morgan Cr gan Crucible Compan ucible Company plc y plc 13 13 The Mor The Morgan Cr gan Crucible Compan ucible Company plc y plc Chairmans statement Operating inancing and restucturing costs, cost associated with prior period litigation and losses on property disposals Financing and restucturing costs, cost associated with prior period litigation and losses on property disposals The turnover of Carbon business was up 1.9% compared Looking forward Our rigorous focus on costs will of course continue into 2006 Balance sheet transformed: to last year at 199.9 million 2004: 196.1 million.
The cost discipline that has been established c 400 million debt eliminated in three years The success of the profit improvement programme coupled Underlying operating profit for the Carbon business since 2003 is now embedded across the Company.
We are with the sale of Magnetics has put us in a far stronger position Underlying operating profit margins nearly at showed a strong improvement up 31% at 27.4 million two-thirds of the way through our three-year profit than before.
We will be seeking organic growth across all our double-digit target a year ahead of schedule 2004: 20.9 million.
improvement plan and we are delivering on the commitments divisions that is higher than the GDP growth in their markets.
that we made to our shareholders in February 2004.
Given our Pension deficit was c 3 times market capitalisation The Technical Ceramics businesses trading performance Our growth will be targeted at high growth lower cost technologies and market positions, we believe that we can in 2003 compared to a target of 15% for H1 2006 reflects substantial progress during the year.
Turnover grew locations such as China and Eastern Europe.
We will also achieve mid-teen operating profit margins in strong markets 6.7% to 144.8 million 2004: 135.7 million and underlying be looking for bolt-on acquisitions to further strengthen the Business simplification since 2003: with a minimum of double digit margins even in poor markets.
operating profit increased by 64.9% to 12.2 million market positions of our core businesses.
As part of this strategy, 9 Divisions reduced to 3: manufacturing footprint 2004: 7.4 million.
we announced two joint ventures in China during 2005.
Our core businesses are now well positioned in markets that reduced by a third have strong growth characteristics and our aim is to reinforce The Insulating Ceramics businesses trading performance Morgans product offering is now focused on two key areas: On track delivery of profit improvement programme our established leadership positions.
We now have the reflects steady progress during the year.
Turnover grew 6.1% Carbon and Ceramics.
We have strong market positions financial strength and leverage to do so.
This year we have achieved underlying operating profit to 265.1 million 2004: 249.8 million and underlying operating in each with number one or two positions in 80% of our margins for continuing Group businesses of 9.1% compared profit increased by 14.4% to 21.5 million 2004: 18.8 million.
In my three years at Morgan, I have been increasingly pleased to 7.2% in 2004.
Like-for-like revenues in continuing businesses with the efforts of our people around the world.
They have One of the major events in 2005 was the disposal of the Morgans strengths in applications engineering and superior are up 4.8%, underlying operating profits are 32.9% higher embraced the challenges that have been set to make Magnetics division.
It is the largest transaction in the history materials technology, coupled with global process and and underlying earnings per share are up 31.0%.
Morgan a world-class company, delivering both customer of Morgan and as such, has transformed the financial health management capabilities put us at the forefront of materials satisfaction and shareholder value.
Your Company is focused, This is the result of growth in our selected markets and the of the Company.
We sold Magnetics for 300 million of which science.
This breadth enables Morgan to respond quickly financially robust, delivering on its targets and is well positioned rewards of the actions we have taken over the past three 225 million was in cash and 75 million was transferred to market changes and provide customers with high for further progress in 2006. years to make our cost base more competitive, focus on pension and employee benefit liabilities.
The sale price value-added tailored solutions.
Understanding the global what we do best and to invest in growth.
We have also represented a significant gain on Morgans investment, demands for a variety of high technology markets has Warren Knowlton Chief Executive Officer concentrated on moving our businesses to lower cost locations.
given that we paid 115 million cash for the business in 1999. enabled Morgan to establish an outstanding reputation for As a consequence our total employee costs as a percentage The deal was widely recognised by the financial community providing value-added solutions through world-class research of sales have decreased from 39.3% in 2003 to 35.7% in the as transformational to Morgans balance sheet and follows and development and innovative design.
second half of 2005 on a continuing business basis.
several other divestitures such as the sale of the Auto & Consumer business in 2004.
Over the past three years we have Highlights of 2005 sold or closed approximately one third of the manufacturing All of our divisions reporting have delivered significantly footprint that existed at the beginning of 2003. improved profit margins.
Cash generation was also strong, We have eliminated our bank debt and we have made even allowing for our investments in restructuring and growth.
a significant reduction in pension and employee liabilities, Capital investment was 45.3 million, exceeding depreciation with further opportunities to reduce pension liabilities in 2006. and amortisation by 14.0 million and we invested 12.5 million Our remaining businesses are less cyclical, less vulnerable to in research and development.
raw materials prices and also generate more cash.
Chief Executive Officers review Taking things forward Our full year results for 2005 see Morgan Crucible entering into a new phase.
Having spent the past three years restructuring and rationalising the Group, we are now realising the benefits of our profit improvement programme.
We are growing our businesses and increasing margins to create value for shareholders.
Our three divisions have all delivered strong performances with encouraging top-line growth, profit and margin improvement.
Defined as operating profit before financing cost, restructuring costs, cost 14 14 The Mor The Morgan Cr gan Crucible Compan ucible Company plc y plc associated with the settlement of prior period litigation and property disposals.
15 15 The Mor The Morgan Cr gan Crucible Compan ucible Company plc y plc Chief Executive Officers review Operating and Financial Review We have strong positions in our chosen markets: 80% of Research and development Our Business Review of 2005 results revenues are in market segments where we have the number A total of 12.5 million was invested in research and Group activities The main performance measures used by the Company one or two position.
Following the sale of the Magnetics development.
This compared with 11.7 million in 2004. are revenue, operating profits and cash generation.
division, which was completed in December 2005 for a Morgan is a global specialist materials engineering company Morgans continuing businesses made good progress consideration of 300 million 225 million of which was in Interest and other financing charges and has a wide portfolio of products servicing the needs against all of these in 2005 and towards the commitment cash, we have the opportunity to accelerate our strategic of customers in a range of markets such as electrical Interest charges were 3.0 million lower than in 2004 mainly as made at the time of our rights issue to achieve double-digit development.
We aim to continue to focus on those components, transportation, fire protection, medical and a result of lower average borrowings.
The net interest charges operating margins by early 2007. businesses where we have leading positions in our target alternative energy.
Founded 150 years ago in 1856, Morgan were covered 7.4 times by headline operating profits.
markets, both through organic investment and selected employs approximately 9,300 people worldwide and has Revenue bolt-on acquisitions.
Particular opportunities for growth Pension position manufacturing operations in 35 countries.
Revenue for continuing activities were up 4.8% to include a number of new product developments such Provisions totalling 124.2 million are included in the financial Strategy and objectives 609.8 million.
The effect of exchange rates, mainly the as piezo ceramics in Technical Ceramics, patented silicon statements at the year-end, a decrease of 58.8 million from strengthening of the euro over the past year, had a carbide graphite materials in Carbon and the next Morgans strategy is to concentrate on high value-added the prior year.
The decrease is represented by 75.0 million favourable impact of 8.5 million.
Excluding the effect of generation of high temperature Superwool 607 HT in products and services in selected technologies and markets.
arising from the disposal of the Magnetics business while the currency translation, continuing revenues grew by 3.4%.
By leveraging our strengths in applications engineering and remaining 16.2 million increase is mainly from net actuarial Further detail of each divisions growth is included in the superior materials technology, coupled with global process The Board also intends to use the proceeds of the sale of losses in the US and UK schemes.
review of operations on pages 18 to 23. and management capabilities, we target areas where we Magnetics to help reduce borrowings.
Further, we aim to Restructuring costs and prior period litigation costs have a competitive edge.
Total revenue for the Group was 745.7 million 2004: reduce substantially the deficit in the UK pension schemes 795.9 million.
The year-on-year reduction was due primarily during 2006, and we will consider the selective buyback Restructuring costs were 29.7 million, compared with Our strategy is: to the disposal of the Magnetics division announced in of shares.
We have also incurred costs of 2.3 million To manage actively and to simplify our portfolio of businesses September 2005.
2004: 11.2 million associated with the settlement of prior Changes in the Groups composition focusing on higher value market segments.
We aim to period litigation.
Profits and margins concentrate our portfolio on markets with attractive We have changed the structure of Morgan radically in the Dividend growth characteristics, low cyclicality and less tendency Underlying operating profit on continuing businesses, which we past three years.
At the beginning of 2003 there were nine to commoditisation.
define as operating profit before financing costs, restructuring business units.
As part of the rationalisation programme, three The positive net free cash flow has enabled the Board to costs, costs associated with the settlement of prior period business units were amalgamated to become the Carbon recommend the resumption of dividend payments with a To achieve leading positions in our chosen markets.
litigation and property disposals, increased by 32.9% to division, a further two were merged to become the Technical 2.5 pence final dividend being proposed.
It is intended to To increase the value-added component in our offering 55.4 million, with margins up from 7.2% to 9.1%.
There was Ceramics division and the Thermal Ceramics and Crucibles have a progressive dividend policy, with an approximate one through technological leadership and increasing levels a favourable currency translation impact of 1.3 million.
businesses report as the Insulating Ceramics division.
third two thirds balance, so the final payment equates to of customisation.
Underlying earnings per share were up 31.0% to 13.1 pence.
In 2004, the Auto & Consumer business was sold, and a pro-forma full year dividend of 3.75 pence.
the sale of the Magnetics division was completed in To continue to focus on rigorous cost management and Profit before tax on a statutory basis was 20.4 million Group outlook December 2005. enhancing efficiency.
compared with a loss of 31.0 million in 2004.
The financial transformation of Morgan, which accelerated in As is further described in the divisional sections, Morgan To develop our presence in global dynamic economies, Cash generation 2005, provides a strong platform for growth.
All three major now reports as three divisions: Carbon, Technical Ceramics and to utilise joint ventures as a lower cost, lower risk route divisions continue to make good progress in margin Operating net cash inflow was 48.5 million, which included and Insulating Ceramics.
improvement with the Groups double digit operating target an adverse cash impact from restructuring costs and now very close to being realised a year ahead of schedule.
costs associated with anti-trust litigation of 30.8 million 2004: 26.0 million.
There was a working capital increase Divisional restructuring of 6.2 million 2004: decrease 7.0 million.
The disposal of the Magnetics division for 225 million cash and 75 million Magnetics Sold of pension and other employer liabilities assumed by the purchaser has transformed the financial position of Morgan, Mechanical Carbon eliminating net debt and creating a year end net cash Specialty Graphite Carbon position of 50.5 million.
Industrial Rail Traction Auto Consumer Sold Advanced Ceramics Technical Ceramics Electro Ceramics Thermal Ceramics Insulating Ceramics Crucibles Year 2002 2003 2005 Continuing business 2004 2005 Revenue m 880.3 849.6 795.9 745.7 609.8 Underlying operating 3.9% 5.0% 7.0% 8.9% 9.1% profit margin UK GAAP IFRS 16 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review 17 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review Review of operations Aerospace Morgan has seen growth in the aerospace sector, 2005 performance review Outlook Carbon driven by demand for components for both commercial and The Carbon Division has recognised and addressed the Carbon Overview military engines.
Passenger travel has recovered since 2001 changes in its market place and has structured its operations and maintenance schedules have accounted for much of the The expertise of Morgans Carbon Division is based on over to be well positioned for the future.
As the recognised leader in aerospace a centurys involvement in the industry, and combines turbine engine seal and bearing components, Morgan is well The focus on rationalising our manufacturing footprint and 12% advanced materials technology in carbon, graphite, silicon, positioned and continues to work closely with leading in making more use of low cost manufacturing locations boron carbide and related materials with in-depth application 10% manufacturers on the latest engine technology.
Significant investment has been made in our knowledge to produce added value components for the 8% operations in China, India and Mexico to both satisfy markets we serve.
In our target sectors we are a world leader Protective armour The Carbon Division produces non-oxide 6% the organic growth in these markets and to provide with a number one or two position.
ceramics for personal body, vehicle and aircraft armour a low cost source for the European and American markets.
4% systems, working globally with armour integrators and defence The Carbon Division has operations in over 25 countries ministries.
Conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere in the Morgan is also addressing growth opportunities where we 2% and employs some 3,800 people.
In 2005 revenues were world have increased demand for body armour.
In parallel can leverage our advanced materials technology.
Examples 199.9 million, of which 31% is from European operations, 0% with growing demand, the ballistic threat has also increased include graphite bi-polar plates for fuel cells and the use of 48% from the Americas and 21% from the rest of the world.
Year As reported 2003 20042 050 with the general availability of powerful armour piercing impregnated and purified graphite components and felt Products Underlying 1.6% 0 10.7%.
7% 13 ammunition and the need to protect against multiple hits.
materials for the manufacture of solar cells.
operating Morgan has developed materials to counter these high-end profit margin The Carbon Division produces a wide variety of products.
Carbon has clear business plans for each market sector threats and offers armour with double curvature to mirror These include: Operating profit before financing and restructuring costs, UK GA AP IFRS focused on profitable revenue growth.
Each market is body shape.
supported by R&D and application engineering resource.
Carbon brushes and related components including Diamond synthesis Morgan is the leading supplier of highly commutators, brush-holders, slip rings and terminal blocks The introduction of the new silicon carbide graphite composite engineered graphite powder used in the manufacture of 2005 2004 for the electronics industries.
to enhance our fluid handling product range and of the m m Increase synthetic diamonds.
This sector has seen demand increase new generation armour product are two examples of the Rotary transfer systems.
with increasing usage of synthetic diamonds as abrasives, and Revenue 199.9 196.1 1.9% opportunities we will be addressing in the future.
high demand from the construction and oil drilling industries.
Underlying operating profit 27.4 20.9 31.1% Bearings and seals for fluid handling applications.
The Divisions capabilities include new methods for raw Underlying operating Graphite powder for the synthetic diamond sector.
material control and combination and innovative new profit margin 13.7% 10.7% materials for control of the synthesis process, all of which Protective body armour.
help customers to improve productivity and product quality.
The results represent strong improvement on 2004 reflecting Carbon technology solutions for the aerospace and space the progress achieved in the market place and the benefits Semiconductor Morgan supplies a range of highly exploration industries.
from the large number of rationalisation projects that were engineered graphite products for use throughout the silicon implemented during 2004 and 2005.
These consumable components are utilised in ion implantation, epitaxy, and compound During the year, trading in the core electrical and fluid The markets served by Morgans Carbon Division include: crystal growth equipment.
Morgan also supplies a range of handling markets in the Americas was very strong.
Revenue Electrical industrial and traction Morgan provides electrical carbon graphite felt and cloth for thermal insulation in very from protective body armour slowed during the middle part of current transfer systems from carbon brushes through to high temperature processing.
In 2005, the semiconductor the year due to a change in specifications, but material and collectors and rotary current transfer products, serving both industry experienced strong growth in chip production, process development have led to the production of a new original equipment manufacturers and the aftermarket.
The expansion of integrated circuit fabrication facilities, and the generation product that satisfies these new specifications.
industrial market is stable and relatively mature.
Morgans introduction of new and improved semiconductor processing The overall European economy has shown very little growth global presence has enabled the Division to benefit from the equipment.
These developments led to a strong performance during the year.
This has impacted our European operations, shift of manufacturing capacity to emerging markets.
In the rail in Morgans semiconductor market segment.
but progress has been achieved through increased market sector, the change from alternating current to direct current is penetration and the focus on areas where Carbon has a having an impact on demand for traction rail brushes, but this leading product offering.
has been offset in part by change from metal to carbon on the pantograph strips which conducts current from the Our Asian business has grown strongly, most notably in China overhead power line to the rail vehicle.
where double digit growth has been achieved due to the underlying growth in the economy and Morgans investment Fluid handling Morgan supplies carbon and silicon carbide in market presence and technology.
components for the seals and bearings which are critical to the pumps and compressors used in many industries.
During the year, fluid handling markets were strong and significant progress was achieved by Morgans patented sintered silicon carbide graphite composite material, PGS-100.
This material is the prime solution for demanding sealing applications ranging from low-volume, highly engineered components to high volume domestic applications where the need for increased life and performance is key.
We continue to explore further applications for this unique composite material.
Right In the fast growing global market for domestic central heating pumps, Morgan engineered carbon seal and bearing material technology play a vital role.
18 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review 19 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review Below Morgan supplies a range of highly engineered components to the aerospace industry, including the Airbus family of aircraft.
Medical Morgan supplies components and sub-assemblies 2005 performance review Technical Ceramics for a broad range of application niches, primarily implants and Technical Ceramics Overview prosthetics.
Long-term durability, biocompatibility, mechanical and electrical properties make ceramic material ideal for a Morgan Technical Ceramics designs and produces advanced 10% range of medical applications.
An ageing population and ceramic solutions from a comprehensive range of ceramic, a desire to employ non-invasive surgical techniques have glass, precious metal, piezoelectric and dielectric materials.
8% meant that the industry has a need for ever smaller, yet more The business is focused on market niches where we offer complex components.
Morgan has an extensive portfolio of customers a technical advantage.
6% materials combined with processing techniques such as Morgan Technical Ceramics operates worldwide, offering injection moulding, engineered coatings and ceramic-metal 4% value-added solutions, world-class research and development, assemblies that are enabling medical equipment innovative design and application engineering.
The Division manufacturers to address this opportunity.
2% has 16 manufacturing sites across the USA, UK, Netherlands, Semiconductor processing Morgan supplies components Germany and China and employs approximately 2,100 people.
0% and sub-assemblies used in wafer handling and processing Year As reported 2003 2004 2005 Approximately 45% of the 2005 Divisional turnover of chambers, serving both the semiconductor processing 144.8 million was from European operations, 52% is Underlying 0.5% 5.5% 8.4% equipment OEMs and the wafer fabrication plants.
The operating from the USA, and around 3% from Asia.
majority of the components Morgan manufactures are profit margin classified as consumable spares.
The demand for integrated Products Operating profit before financing and restructuring costs, IFRS UK GAAP circuits in electronic equipment is the main driver of the Outlook costs associated with prior period litigation and property disposals.
The Division has two major product groups: equipment market, combined with the introduction and Technical Ceramics has significant potential for further adoption of new and updated technology.
The installed Advanced Ceramics products which primarily utilise the 2005 2004 revenue and profit growth.
Its strategy has been to focus on base of equipment using Morgan products is high and mechanical and chemical stability of our materials and m m Increase customers and markets that are themselves growing and are demand for spare parts continues through market downturns.
include engineered ceramic components, metallised innovative in their approach.
40% of the Divisions revenues Revenue 144.8 135.7 6.7% Overall demand slowed in 2005 but the market is seeing ceramic components, braze alloys, ceramic metal are now in the growing markets of medical, aerospace and Underlying operating profit 12.2 7.4 64.9% sustained recovery and is returning to positive growth.
assemblies, metal injection moulded components and specialist electronics such as airport security detection Underlying operating hard engineered coatings.
Electronics Morgan supplies niche applications within the devices.
The Division plans to increase its presence in profit margin 8.4% 5.5% electronics market where our products are differentiated the rapidly expanding Asian region, helped by the new Electro Ceramics products which utilise tailored piezo or by their superior material and or geometric characteristics.
Technical Ceramics turnover rose 6.7% to 144.8 million and dielectric properties, and include piezoelectric ceramics, Markets for components and sub-assemblies include underlying operating profit rose 64.9% to 12.2 million.
transducers, sensors, actuators, microwave ceramics and There is also scope for further margin improvement to telecommunications, lasers & optoelectronics and IT hardware.
meet the Groups target of double digit margins, thanks Trading performance for the Technical Ceramics Division was The laser market continues to grow as devices find new to the cost reduction programmes as well as product and strong throughout the year and the business continues to Markets applications and become smaller and more affordable for pricing initiatives which are offsetting continuing raw material make good progress towards its organic revenue growth and users.
Applications include cosmetic surgery, dentistry, Morgan Technical Ceramics serves a number of selected and energy cost pressures.
The business has continued to product marking and spectroscopy.
A major driver of the markets, including: focus on cost reductions and these helped to offset raw optoelectronics market is the demand for surveillance materials and energy cost increases.
Aerospace Braze alloys for aero engine build and repair, equipment in military and commercial applications.
ceramic components and sub-assemblies for engine Within the IT hardware market, demand for data storage US markets remained strong overall.
However, as was the case monitoring and control equipment.
Morgan serves the has increased dramatically as more people are utilising in 2004, the telecoms market suffered in Q3 from some supply new-build and aftermarket in both the commercial and home PCs for music, pictures and videos and advances in chain overstocking, but this has cleared in Q4 with a return to military aerospace sectors, as a tier 2 supplier to the major technology create options for TV recording and playback.
Overall Europe was stable and in Asia manufacturers and a supplier to MRO maintenance, repair additional capacity is now in place in the Yixing, China facility and overhaul companies.
Increased demands in passenger that will enable the Division to meet the growing demand for and cargo traffic are driving the commercial market, resulting its thermal processing products in that region.
in growth in new builds for single-aisle, twin-aisle and large Globally, the piezo ceramic and medical segments continued cargo aircraft and regional jets.
In 2005, the commercial sector to show good growth and we have recently commenced an saw an increase, whilst the military sector was broadly stable.
investment programme to expand the piezo business across all regions.
20 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review 21 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review Aluminium Reducing heat loss and improving heat In terms of new markets there is increasing interest in the During 2005 operations were expanded in the Middle East Insulating Ceramics containment is a major opportunity for aluminium producers.
following areas: to take advantage of developments in the key markets of Overview Morgans product range enables furnace design and Aluminium, Petro-chemical and Power Generation.
In China Domestic appliances Manufacturers in this sector are now performance to be improved.
Morgans Superwool product the two new Joint Ventures signed in 2005 will be operational TM Morgan Insulating Ceramics provides engineered heat utilising Superwool in ovens, microwaves, gas and oil boiler range is used in consumable products to further enhance in 2006, providing both domestic and export potential for the management solutions for the ceramic, iron and steel, systems and water heating systems.
In order to support environmental performance.
Expansion of aluminium smelting Division.
Expansion into Eastern Europe has included a JV in aluminium, chemical, power generation, fire protection, opportunities in Eastern Europe and Asia, Morgan extended in the Middle East, is expected to provide growth opportunities Russia and the plan for a second new site in the region is transportation, non-ferrous metals and other industries.
Superwool production in Korea, Japan and Australia in 2005 in this sector.
This is in line with the Group strategy of Products include insulating wools, insulating firebricks, and there are plans in place for India and China in 2006. moving to lower cost production countries and entering new castables and foundry crucibles.
Transportation and automotive Morgan has expanded Fire protection Morgan materials are used in various geographical markets.
TM its presence in these markets with Superwool engineered Insulating Ceramics is Morgans largest division by revenue.
applications including the protection of tunnels and the products.
Catalytic convertor mats, heat shields and In conjunction with these geographical expansions we have It operates globally with dedicated applications engineering, construction of fire doors and ducting systems.
A growing special adhesives have been developed in-house and been upgrading facilities in South Korea, Brazil, India, France thermal profile analysis and system design and development market opportunity in fire protection for offshore and with international partners in Japan, USA and Europe.
support for each target market.
The division has manufacturing petrochemical facilities is being addressed through The increased use of diesel engines offers further growth facilities in 26 countries with customers in over 80 countries.
marketing partnerships to offer customers a package Revenue in Crucibles was static during 2005, with Europe opportunities.
Increased activity in domestic and international The division employs approximately 3,400 people.
seeing a fall in revenues, a modest increase in the Americas air travel has increased revenues of consumable products and double-digit revenue growth in Asia, led by the expanding During 2005, the division has continued to implement its for the production of aero engine blades and insulation.
2005 performance review automotive segments in China and in India.
Operating profit strategy of geographical expansion through capital Morgan also supplies crucibles and foundry consumables margins were down, due in part to large raw material and Insulating Ceramics investment, acquisition and joint ventures.
Approximately 42% to the automotive sector which is making increased use energy price increases.
Steps were taken to reduce fixed of the 2005 divisional revenue of 265.1 million was from of components cast from molten aluminium alloys with, costs in our European manufacturing plants and through 8% European operations, 28% from the Americas, and 30% from for example, increasing fitment rates of alloy wheels.
some rationalisation of distribution activities, although these the rest of the world.
7% Petro-chemical This market is showing strong growth in the improvements will not take full effect until 2006.
6% Products Middle East, India, China and Eastern Europe.
Many of the Outlook 5% opportunities are from new plants and involve a project based The major product groups of the Insulating Ceramics 4% approach including design, supply and supervision, ensuring The outlook for 2006 remains positive, with demand for heat Division include: 3% that a guaranteed minimum temperature loss is achieved.
management and insulating products increasing due to the The Thermal Ceramics range of insulating fibres which In America and Europe we are also seeing increased 2% high long-term cost of energy.
Continued R&D has led to the include the Kaowool, Cera blanket, Pyro-Bloc, maintenance activity.
expansion of the Superwool range of fibre products which 1% Superwool and Firemaster brands.
The new range of now includes engineered fibres for automotive applications.
0% TM Ceramics This industry is currently dominated by European Superwool branded low bio-persistence fibre continues to The outlook for individual markets is varied and according design and manufacturing companies.
Morgan is a major Year As reported 2003 2004 2005 penetrate the traditional refractory ceramic fibre markets.
Insulating Ceramics order book is up, on a year supplier and is following the relocation of capacity to China, Underlying 6.4% 7.5% 8.1% by year comparison: the successful launch of the higher Thermal Ceramics insulating firebrick and castable products India and the Middle East.
Morgan is able to design and operating temperature range of Superwool 607 HT in December profit margin include the K, JM, TC, TJM and Tri-Mor brands.
engineer solutions in Germany and Italy and supply materials 2005 continues the development of technically advanced They have an excellent future in the high temperature Operating profit before financing and restructuring costs, UK GAAP IFRS from any of our manufacturing facilities according to costs associated with prior period litigation and property disposals.
products, whilst demand continued to grow in Asia and markets of chemical processing, aluminium, ceramic and customer requirements.
Further opportunities exist for bolt-on acquisitions iron and steel due to their high performance characteristics.
Power generation This market saw increasing activity through and these will be pursued where Insulating Ceramics core 2005 2004 The Crucibles range of foundry crucibles, energy efficient 2005 and the expectation for 2006 in all global markets is competencies can be enhanced and leveraged.
m m Increase melting and holding furnaces, heated molten metal strong.
The use of gas for power generation drives increased In Crucibles the outlook for 2006 is somewhat uncertain as Revenue 265.1 249.8 6.1% transport ladles and other foundry consumables employed activity in the land based turbine business and Morgans the prospect of higher fuel and energy prices continues to TM Underlying operating profit 21.5 18.8 14.4% in metal handling, purification, flow control and Superwool and special alloys business benefits from the suppress confidence in major segments of our end user Underlying operating temperature measurement.
use of heat recovery steam generation systems which utilise industries, particularly in Western Europe and in North America.
Brand recognition is vital in Insulating Ceramics global However, we expect the Asian market to remain strong markets, offering security and reassurance of performance to Precious metal processing Morgan provides crucibles and and as a consequence, additional market development Insulating Ceramics revenue rose 6.1 % to 265.1 million.
This is supported by Morgans capability to develop other foundry consumables to the precious metal refining, resource will be dedicated to the region in the coming Underlying operating profit margins were up, despite large raw and supply complete, integrated systems combining all reclamation and manufacturing sectors.
Further development of our low cost production sites is material and energy increases.
Underlying operating profits product lines.
for precious metals for use in the auto-catalyst, electronics, anticipated including some expansion of capacity to meet were up 14.4% to 21.5 million.
Whilst prices advanced in 2005, jewellery and other areas has seen strong prices for a the growing local demand.
these were not sufficient to compensate for the increased Markets number of precious metals, making refining and reclamation costs.
Accordingly further increases have been implemented Morgan Insulating Ceramics targets the following key markets: viable from sources that were previously uneconomic.
for 2006 and will be reviewed during the year.
However, the positive impact of this has been mitigated by Iron and steel Morgan supplies heat management solutions There have been marked differences between the a number of customers consolidating their facilities and to steel making and downstream processes, both direct to the geographical regions in which we operate.
Western European closing plants in Europe.
steel producers and through major contractors.
In 2005, global demand remained generally flat: the industrial markets have production of iron and steel reached over 1 billion tons: the suffered from competition from Asia, Latin America and major driver has been in Asia where growth in infrastructure Eastern Europe.
However, we have seen double-digit revenue has led to strong growth for Insulating Ceramics.
growth in the Americas and Asia for the fourth year running.
22 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review 23 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review Financial review This is the first year that Morgan Crucible has produced its The table below highlights the continuous half yearly Dividend Treasury policy results under International Financial Reporting Standards improvement that has been made since 2004 with the The Group is proposing a final dividend of 2.5 pence per share.
Group Treasury acts as a service to the businesses of the IFRS.
All the figures referred to below are extracted from the second half of 2005 showing a 9.7% operating profit margin.
Group, not as a profit centre.
It operates under policies financial statements on pages 48 to 96 and are IFRS compliant.
Earnings per share Continuing Group results actual currency rates used approved by the Board.
Group Treasury seeks to reduce Reference is made to underlying operating profit and Basic earnings per share EPS, was a profit per share of financial risk and to ensure that the Group has sufficient 2004 2005 underlying earnings per share EPS.
Underlying operating 18.1 pence 2004: loss of 22.2 pence.
EPS based upon the liquidity available to meet all foreseeable needs.
1st 2nd 1st 2nd profit is defined as operating profit before financing cost, underlying operating profit was 13.1 pence 2004: 10.0 pence, It is responsible for all of the Groups funding requirements, half half half half restructuring costs, cost associated with the settlement of prior an increase of 31.0%.
Details of these calculations can be cash management and other treasury business.
Group Treasury mmmm period litigation and property disposals divided by revenue.
found in note 10 on page 63. makes limited use of derivative instruments to hedge foreign Revenue 284.4 297.2 301.0 308.8 EPS is defined in note 10 on page 63.
These measures of currencies and interest rates: speculative transactions are Underlying operating profit 17.9 23.8 25.6 29.8 Balance sheet earnings are shown because the Directors consider that they not permitted.
Underlying operating give a better indication of underlying performance.
At the year end total equity was 195.7 million 2004: 153.1 profit margin 6.3% 8.0% 8.5% 9.7% Group Treasury prepares a formal report on Treasury activities million.
With closing net cash of 50.5 million 2004: net debt of Group revenue and underlying operating profit for the Board at least biannually and reports to the Chief 147.9 million, gearing at the year end was nil 2004: 96.6%.
Restructuring costs in the year were 29.7 million 2004: Financial Officer monthly.
Underlying 47.5 million and costs associated with the settlement of prior Non-current assets fell significantly as a result of the disposal Revenue operating profit Foreign exchange risks period anti-trust litigation were 2.3 million 2004: 11.2 million.
of the Magnetics division, total assets being reduced from 2005 2004 2005 2004 810.1 million in 2004 to 694.4 million at the end of 2005.
Subsidiaries are encouraged to manage all material m m m m The Magnetics division was sold in 2005 for an enterprise value transactional foreign currency exposures using forward Carbon 199.9 196.1 27.4 20.9 of 300 million, comprising 225 million of cash and 75 million However, the net assets of the Group increased by contracts.
Any items of a more complex nature require Technical Ceramics 144.8 135.7 12.2 7.4 of pension and other employee liabilities assumed by the 42.6 million from 153.1 million to 195.7 million due mainly approval by Group Treasury.
Currency translation risks are Insulating Ceramics 265.1 249.8 21.5 18.8 purchaser.
The gain on sale was 42.6 million and is shown in to a retained profit from the period of 54.2 million which controlled centrally.
The Groups policy is to manage the Unallocated costs 5.7 5.4 the income statement on page 48 as a gain on the sale of included the gain on disposal of the Magnetics division of translation exposure of overseas net assets by seeking to discontinued operations net of tax.
Continuing businesses 609.8 581.6 55.4 41.7 match the currency of borrowings with the currency in which Discontinued businesses 135.9 214.3 10.6 14.1 The net finance charge was 13.1 million 2004: 16.1 million.
Cash flow the net assets are denominated.
The objectives are to Net bank interest and similar charges were 10.0 million 2004: maintain a low cost of borrowings whilst maintaining a Total Group 745.7 795.9 66.0 55.8 Despite 30.8 million of cash costs in the year from restructuring 12.3 million, an improvement of 2.3 million from 2004 as our balanced portfolio of net assets by currency.
costs and costs associated with prior period litigation, cash position improved in the year and the receipts of the The Group continued to make substantial progress in its cash flow from operating activities was 48.5 million 2004: Borrowing facilities and liquidity Magnetics disposal monies were received in December three year profit improvement plan.
Part of the finance charge under IFRS is the net IAS 19 All of the Groups borrowing facilities are arranged by Group 745.7 million 2004: 795.9 million, a reduction on the previous increase in working capital 2004: reduction of 7.0 million.
Employee Benefits charge which was 3.5 million 2004: Treasury and the funds raised are then lent to operating year caused mainly by the disposal of the Magnetics division The Group achieved a 12.7 million positive free cash flow 3.8 million.
Fair value movements on interest rate swaps was subsidiaries on an arms-length basis.
In a few cases operating in September 2005.
Continuing Group revenue on a constant for 2005 2004: positive 23.6 million.
With the disposal of the a net income of 0.4 million 2004: nil.
subsidiaries have external borrowings but these are supervised currency basis using 2005 actual rates showed an increase Magnetics division in September 2005 the net debt was and controlled centrally.
Underlying operating profit profit from A five year summary of the Groups financial results is set out extinguished and at year end the Group had a net cash operations before restructuring costs, costs associated with on pages 96 and 97 of this report.
The cash flow below highlights the The Group has continued in its strategy to increase the settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation and property main cash movements in 2005. proportion of longer term debt.
In 2003 the Group issued Foreign currency impact disposals for the Group was 66.0 million 2004: 55.8 million.
US$105 million of private placement notes with maturities Free cash flow Underlying operating profit from continuing operations The principal exchange rates used in the translation of the of seven and 10 years at interest rates of 6.23% and 6.84% increased significantly by 32.9% over 2004.
The underlying results of overseas subsidiaries were as follows: 2005 2004 respectively.
In March 2005 the Group refinanced the m m operating profit margin for the continuing business in 2005 existing US$240 million bank debt syndication with a new Average rate Year end rate was 9.1% 2004: 7.2%.
Cash flows from operating activities 48.5 50.2 US$350 million deal that matures in February 2010.
2005 2004 2005 2004 Interest received 2.3 1.5 At the end of 2005, given the proceeds of the Magnetics US$ 1.8195 1.8315 1.7597 1.8834 Net capital expenditure 38.1 28.1 division sale which were received in December, the new Euro 1.4622 1.4734 1.4557 1.4169 Free cash flow 12.7 23.6 US$350 million bank syndication was undrawn.
Cash flows from other investing activities 190.8 23.3 Taxation Cash flows from financing activities 1.8 50.5 Group taxation for the year showed a net charge of Exchange movement 3.3 4.7 30.2 million 2004: charge of 2.5 million.
The effective Opening net debt 147.9 250.0 tax rate before restructuring costs, costs associated with the Closing net cash net debt 50.5 147.9 settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation and property disposals was 25% 2004: 25%.
24 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review 25 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review Risks and uncertainties Net Cash Net Debt Capital investment Morgan has operations in 35 countries worldwide and in Reputation risk m various markets.
The Group faces various risk factors, both The Group has well-established formal procedures for the Morgans reputation with all stakeholders is fundamental to the internal and external, which could have a material impact 100 approval of investment in new businesses and on capital future success of the Company.
Failure to meet expectations on long-term performance.
50 expenditure to ensure appropriate senior management in terms of the products and services we provide, the way that review and sign-off.
Global political and economic conditions we do business or in our financial performance could have a 0 material effect on the Company.
Interest rate risk Morgans worldwide operations include activities in a number -50 of developing countries.
Whilst these regions offer growth These risks are mitigated through: -100 The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that between 30% and opportunities, business activities in these areas expose the 70% of its exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings 1.
Our focus on quality, with over 90% of our production -150 Group to economic, political and business risks.
The Group is is on a fixed rate basis.
Interest rate swaps for US$60 million capacity accredited to ISO9001: -200 subject to varying legal and regulatory regimes in these areas, and B60 million were entered into in 2004 to achieve the including those covering taxation, environmental and other 2.
Our corporate responsibility programme, including our -250 appropriate mix for 2005.
All the contracts matured in matters.
Political risks include the imposition of trade barriers, Statement of Core Values: December 2005.
-300 expropriation of assets, changes in regulations, wage controls 3.
Our Ethics Policy and Internal Compliance Reporting Year 2002 2003 2004 2005 Accounting policies and restrictions on the export of currency and the volatility of Helpline: prices, taxes and currencies.
The Group has adopted International Financial Reporting 4.
Our systems of internal control and risk management.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU in 2005.
All accounting The diverse nature of Morgans products and services and Revenue for Continuing Business at Constant Currency policies shown on pages 52 to 58 are compliant with the customers and markets served help to mitigate the Raw materials and energy m adopted IFRS.
impact of any individual exposure to economic conditions.
The Groups products use a range of raw materials and our 620 However, some 36% of our revenues are to customers in the Pensions operations require significant amounts of energy.
Volatility and USA and thus we are particularly affected by economic 600 increases in prices or scarcity of supply could have a material The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout conditions in that region.
Our raw materials are sourced on the the world, the majority of which are of a funded defined 580 Technology change world market and in general the Group has access to multiple benefit type.
The largest of these are located in the sources of supply.
Where specific material properties require 560 US and UK and a number in Europe.
Provisions totalling Morgan develops and launches new technologies and particular sources of raw materials to be used, the Group has 124.2 million are included in the financial statements at the products.
Such development projects carry business risks, processes in hand to bridge any short-term interruption of 540 end of the year, a decrease of 58.8 million compared with including reputational risk, abortive expenditure and potential supply and where possible has identified alternative sources the previous year.
Of this decrease, 75.0 million arose from the customer claims which may have a material impact on 520 of supply.
disposal of the Magnetics division in September 2005 while the the Group.
remaining 16.2 million increase arose mainly from the net Pensions risk 500 Natural catastrophes actuarial losses within the UK and US schemes see note 21.
Year 2002 2003 2004 2005 The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension This net actuarial loss, is in large part, due to the market With assets in 35 countries, Morgan is exposed to a number plans with the largest of these being in the UK and the USA.
reduction in the yield on AA bonds which sets the discount of potential natural catastrophes, including earthquakes, The pension plans are exposed to the risk of changes in interest rate for the calculation of IAS 19 liabilities.
The risks are offset by the number of Underlying Operating Profit for Continuing Business at Constant Currency rates, the value and performance of investments, inflation and manufacturing locations, with no one site being critical to the m Going concern the increasing longevity of members.
As stated at the time of operations of the whole.
Additionally, the value of assets are the disposal of the Magnetics division, the Group is seeking to 60 In accordance with the recommendations of the Combined protected by insurance.
make a further contribution into the UK schemes and will Code, the Directors have duly considered the budgets, 50 Foreign exchange continue to keep funding levels under review.
forecasts, cash flows and the outlook from the operating companies and consider that the Company and the Group Morgan operates on a global basis, with a significant The Groups main US defined benefit pension scheme is 40 have adequate financial resource to continue in operational proportion of its profits earned outside of the UK.
The Group overseen by The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation which 30 existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they has significant investments around the world, with the greatest has powers to apply to court to terminate the scheme if it continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing proportion being in the USA.
As such the Group is subject to does not meet certain minimum solvency tests.
translation risk due to exchange rate movements between termination, the Group would be required to meet the full world currencies which could adversely or positively effect the cost of the under-funded liabilities under the US scheme.
The Group has entered into certain hedging Competitive risk arrangements to help mitigate the impact of currency 0 fluctuations and the Groups relevant treasury policies are The Group operates in highly competitive markets and Year 2002 2003 2004 2005 summarised in the Financial Review on page 25. significant product innovations, technical advances or Operating profit before financing and restructuring costs, UK GAAP IFRS increased price competition could all affect the Group.
In order to help ensure it remains competitive, the Group works to minimise its cost base and invests in research and development.
26 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review 27 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review Legislation and regulatory risk Controls failure The internal audit activity has been extended during 2005 by the use of external professional auditors, to supplement Morgan is subject to varying laws and regulations around the Morgan operates internal controls as described in the internal resources, in areas of the Groups operations where world.
Changes in these could affect the Groups business.
With operations in over 35 language, culture and location have made this a sensible different countries worldwide there has been a need to pay Insurance option.
Internal audits have focused on ensuring that internal particular attention to the auditing of internal controls in some control systems are functioning correctly and are adequate to Certain risks are transferred to insurers and specialist third party of the smaller sites which tend to have less segregation of the risks in the business.
Such audits are therefore not limited to audits.
Internal inspections coupled with regular reporting of duties.
As Morgan continues to expand its manufacturing financial matters but also cover operational and regulatory completion of any corrective actions ensure that the major footprint in low cost areas there is an increasing proportion of compliance matters.
The Director of Operational Risk has insurable risks are adequately managed.
The growth in our Group revenues and profits emanating from countries that worked with the Divisional Presidents and Divisional Controllers aviation and medical products businesses has meant that have different cultural and business practice standards to to identify and implement best practice across all Morgan this has been an area of particular focus to ensure that our Western economies.
The concepts of risk assessment and risk management products are consistently of the highest quality and that Business continuity continue to be embedded throughout the various contractual arrangements are clear.
activities of the Company and management at all levels Business continuity plans are either fully developed or in Environmental health and safety risks in the organisation is becoming more adept at using course of development at all Morgan sites.
Morgan operations involve the normal environmental and describe how the site involved will react to various risk events health and safety risks associated with any manufacturing and how continuity of supply to our customers may be As is further detailed in the Corporate Responsibility section, operation such as spillage, noise, air and soil pollution etc.
In some cases there are possibilities of short-term a Corporate Ethics Policy has been agreed by the Board.
The Groups businesses are subject to numerous laws and supply from an alternative site.
The measures described This lays a foundation for the determination of appropriate regulations relating to health, safety and the environment coupled with appropriate insurance help mitigate the effects conduct globally.
Our internal controls are designed to around the world.
Although the Company believes that its of business interruption.
not only protect the Companys assets but also to ensure operations are in compliance with currently applicable compliance with our Ethics Policy.
In order to assist with Risk management regulations, violations of such laws and regulations can this, the Company has also set up a Compliance Helpline lead to fines and penalties.
The Company has continued to operate a consistent and to enable any employee to seek advice or to report systematic risk management process which follows the non-compliance.
Specialist third party and internal auditors make regular guidance provided in the revised Turnbull guidance.
site visits to ensure compliance with local regulations.
The Company believes that the progression from compliance This process, which involves risk-ranking, prioritisation and An Environmental, Health and Safety Good Management to integrated risk management, through improved internal subsequent evaluation and consolidation, seeks to ensure that: Practices Manual has been issued worldwide.
Environmental, controls, is an essential step in the continuous improvement Health and Safety managers within each Division are tasked a all significant risks to Morgan have been identified of its business processes for the benefit of all stakeholders.
with ensuring that the practices outlined in the manual are and prioritised: embedded in the manufacturing sites.
Internal reporting b systems of control are in place to manage the risks: and backed by third party audits ensures that the effective operation of these good practices is monitored.
c the effectiveness of these controls has been measured and monitored.
Litigation This has enabled the Board to consider a formal report which From time to time and in the normal course of business, covered the following issues: Morgan is subject to certain litigation, in particular in the United States.
Provision for the expected costs and liabilities a identification of those significant risks to the Group which are set out in note 22 to the accounts.
If the liabilities arising have been considered by the Executive Committee: were to significantly exceed the amounts provided for, the b reports on the key risks and the adequacy of the risk Groups financial position could be adversely affected.
management process: c provision of assurances that internal controls are in place to manage the risks: and d confirmation that the process is ongoing.
28 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review 29 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Operating and Financial Review
