Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Fit Out Above: A high profile project for Overbury was a 23m fit out of Reuters new European head offices in Canary Wharf, Docklands.
10 Fit Out The Fit Out division specialises in the fit out and refurbishment of commercial premises for private and public sector organisations from offices located in London, the South East, Midlands and North of England.
Fit out projects are undertaken from 100,000 up to 45m in value.
The division consists of four businesses.
Overbury is the leading office fit out and refurbishment specialist and works for clients who employ their own professional teams of designers.
Workplace transformation specialist Morgan Lovell provides a complete design and build fit out service, from design development of clients requirements through to the management of the fit out works.
Vivid Interiors specialises in fit out and refurbishment for the hotel, retail, leisure and entertainment sectors.
Backbone Furniture supplies, refurbishes and installs commercial office furniture.
The divisions strategy is for each of its businesses to be the market leader in its chosen sector through the provision of superior quality, service and workmanship.
In addition the aim is to maintain a balanced portfolio of sectors, thereby giving the division flexibility to sustain consistent performance in changing market conditions.
Overburys projects range from refurbishing existing commercial office space to the complete internal fit out of a new building from its basic structure.
For example, Overbury is fitting out two floors in the newly constructed iconic 25 St Marys Axe in the City of London.
The work includes installing mechanical and electrical services, lighting, flooring and carpeting, ceilings and partitioning.
Top: Morgan Lovells design and build approach appeals to clients who want Public sector projects for Morgan one organisation to take their concept from design development through Lovell included a 2.8m fit out of offices at the Department of to completion.
With a team of in-house designers, Morgan Lovell is Health in London.
constantly developing new approaches to transforming office interiors Centre: into inspiring places to work.
Backbone Furniture secured a 1.0m contract to furnish new head Vivid Interiors is rapidly establishing itself in its chosen sectors.
It has offices for SAB Miller in Woking.
seen particular success in the prestige hotels sector with a major Bottom: programme of repeat refurbishment works at the Dorchester Hotel in Vivid Interiors carried out extensive London.
In the entertainment sector, Vivid Interiors has won a series refurbishment works for the Dorchester of theatre projects in the West End of London at the Prince Edward Hotel in London including the Theatre, the Novello Theatre and most recently at the Albery Theatre.
Promenade, Arcade, Crystal Suites, Grill Room and the new China Tang restaurant.
