Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Infrastructure Services Above: Morgan Ests 90m programme of tunnelling projects for BAA at Heathrows new Terminal 5 reached the final stage with the Piccadilly Line and Heathrow Express extensions nearing completion.
14 Infrastructure Services Top: In Scotland, Morgan Est is one of eight partners delivering a 1.8bn water and waste water renewal programme for Scottish Water Solutions.
Morgan Est is a national business undertaking a broad spectrum of infrastructure and utility projects.
It provides civil engineering, utility, tunnelling and mechanical electrical services through all phases of a project.
Morgan Est is based in Rugby and has four project delivery teams namely Infrastructure Scotland, Infrastructure South, Tunnelling and Utilities.
Morgan Est typically undertakes construction projects of up to 250m in value and framework contracts with an annual value of up to 100m.
In the infrastructure sector, Morgan Est offers a complete delivery process from feasibility, design and construction through to commissioning, operation and maintenance.
Projects are carried out under a number of contractual arrangements, including traditional, design and build, partnering and framework agreements and Private Finance Initiative PFI structures.
A notable achievement was Morgan Ests successful completion, seven months early, of the construction phase of the 53m A92 Dundee to Centre: Work started this year on an eight year, Arbroath road widening scheme under a PFI agreement with Angus 320m alliance contract to replace gas mains Council.
Morgan Est with its partners will now operate and maintain across the West Midlands for National Grid.
the road under a 30 year concession agreement.
Bottom: This year the balance of Morgan Ests work has moved from the civil The Morgan Est built A92 dual carriageway stretching 19km from Dundee to Arbroath is engineering sector to the utilities sector in which it has been particularly the largest PFI road project undertaken by successful.
Key project wins have included a five year framework contract, local government in Scotland.
worth up to 450m, with United Utilities for the renewal and maintenance of water and electricity distribution networks.
Morgan Est is also one of four Gas Alliance partners appointed to carry out National Grids 1.6bn gas mains modernisation programme.
Its contract, for the West Midlands area, is worth up to 320m over eight years.
Morgan Est has also commenced a 28m programme of works in the North Midlands for Central Networks to lay electricity cables, build new substations and carry out associated replacement work.
