Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Affordable Housing Above: The Way: Lovell is using advanced off-site manufacture technology to deliver a 75m mixed tenure scheme at Beswick, East Manchester.
The development is creating 550 homes for rent, shared ownership and open market sale.
Homes also incorporate energy-saving micro combined heat and power systems.
16 Affordable Housing Top: Heart of Bow: A birds-eye view of Lovells 54m mixed tenure development in Londons East End.
The 279 houses and flats for affordable rent, shared ownership and open market sale are being built near the site of the 2012 Olympic stadium.
Lovell is the leading provider of affordable housing in the UK with specialist expertise in mixed tenure developments and housing refurbishment.
Lovell operates from eight regional offices in England, Wales and Scotland and works in partnership with housing associations, local authorities and arms length management organisations at the cutting edge of urban regeneration and sustainability in order to provide housing for low income families.
Lovell has particular expertise in mixed tenure developments, which are built on land owned by housing organisations, to provide homes for rent, shared ownership and open market sale.
These developments consist of both social and affordable open market new build homes and may also include refurbishment of existing properties.
An example of this is a 75m mixed tenure scheme at Beswick, East Manchester where Lovell is building 550 new homes in partnership with urban regeneration company New East Manchester, Northern Counties Housing Association and Manchester Methodist Housing Association.
The other key area of expertise for Lovell is in housing refurbishment schemes.
These are mainly concerned with improvements to kitchens, bathrooms, building exteriors and public areas.
Most of these schemes are as a result of the Governments commitment to bring the UKs social housing stock up to a minimum Decent Homes Standard.
As an example, Lovell is carrying out modernisation work totalling 75m over three years for the Glasgow Housing Association.
The work involves re-roofing, external render and new doors while residents remain in occupation.
Lovell has also started work on a seven year, large scale housing refurbishment programme worth up to 200m with Sheffield Homes.
Overall, in excess of one million homes remain below the Decent Homes Standard and at the current annual rate of refurbishment the programme is expected to continue Centre: well beyond 2010.
Kiln Fields: A mixed tenure scheme by Lovell at Haslemere in Surrey features 64 homes for rent and shared ownership for Waverley Borough Council and Thames Valley Housing Association and 20 homes for open market sale.
Bottom: Cross Keys Homes: Lovell refurbishes around 20,000 homes a year across the UK working with housing associations, local authorities and arms length management organisations to bring properties up to the Decent Homes Standard.
Current schemes include a 4,700 home modernisation programme for Cross Keys Homes in Peterborough.
