Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Construction Above: The new 3.9m Student Services Centre at the University of Southamptons Highfield Campus is the latest in a number of projects built for the university by Bluestone.
12 Construction Bluestone provides construction services from a network of 25 offices located in seven regions across England and Wales.
The business core services include new build, refurbishment and special works under which it carries out smaller scale works including maintenance.
Bluestone undertakes projects up to a value of 20m and the average project size is approximately 2m.
Bluestones expertise is in the health, education, light industrial and repair and maintenance sectors.
Currently, approximately half of its projects are secured on a long-term framework or negotiated basis rather than competitively tendered.
This year Bluestone secured a three year framework, worth up to 40m, with the Driving Standards Agency to build motorcycle test centres across the country.
Bluestone is also a framework construction partner delivering ongoing schemes for Warwickshire, Norfolk, Dorset and Devon County Councils.
In the health sector, Bluestone is delivering four NHS LIFTs Local Improvement Finance Trust, each worth approximately 50m over Top: five years, where the business is building primary health and social The new Bingfield Street Primary Care Resource Centre care facilities for local communities in Barnsley, Camden and Islington, in Islington is the second community healthcare facility South East Hampshire and Doncaster.
Other schemes include a new to be built by Bluestone for developers Camden & adult mental health facility for North Devon Hospital and a new pathology Islington Community Solutions as part of a 50m, five year NHS LIFT programme.
unit for Princess Alexandra Hospital in Harlow.
Centre: Bluestone has a strong track record in the education sector undertaking Bluestones special works and maintenance operation projects for universities and schools.
For example, Bluestone is building has become an increasingly important contributor to the a 5m state-of-the-art Nanoscience Technology Centre for the University business, developing local client relationships which are creating long-term repeat work.
of Sheffield and a 7.1m refurbishment project for Thomas Becket Secondary School in Northampton.
In the industrial sector Bluestone has a particular expertise in building large steel portal framed buildings and has been awarded a 20m scheme to build two further industrial centres at Trentham Lakes.
This is for Stoke on Trent Regeneration, a joint venture between Bluestones key client St Modwen Properties plc and the City Council.
Bluestone is also expanding its special works services.
As a result of existing local relationships with national clients such as Cunningham Lindsey, NHBC and Legal & General, Bluestone is increasingly providing smaller scale works and maintenance services across the country.
Bottom: Norwichs new bus station is one of the most advanced and eye-catching transport hubs in the country.
Bluestone completed the 6m scheme for Norfolk County Council where it has a three year, 45m framework to carry out works to schools and public buildings across the county.
