Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Report of the directors Introduction The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group together with the financial statements and independent auditors reports for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal activities Morgan Sindall is a construction group with four divisions: Fit Out, Construction, Infrastructure Services and Affordable Housing.
The principal subsidiary companies operating within this divisional structure are shown on page 83.
The principal activities are carried out in the United Kingdom and the Channel Islands.
Business review and future developments A review of the business and progress of the Group is set out in the chairman and chief executives statement on page 2 the Operating and Financial Review OFR on pages 4 to 9 and the divisional reviews on pages 10 to 17.
The OFR also includes details of expected future developments in the Group.
Details of the use by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings of financial instruments are set out in the OFR and in note 15 to the accounts on page 56.
Results and dividends The Group made a profit after tax for the year of 29.6m 2004: 24.0m.
An interim dividend of 7.0p 2004: 5.3p per ordinary share amounting to 2.9m 2004: 2.2m was paid on 16 September 2005.
The directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 18.0p 2004:13.3p per share amounting to 7.5m 2004: 5.6m payable on 5 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 7 April 2006.
Fixed assets The Groups remaining investment property was disposed of during the year.
Share capital Details of shares allotted and issued during the year on the exercise of options under employee share option schemes appear in note 22 to the accounts on page 63.
No other shares were issued during the year.
Directors The directors at the date of this report are shown on page 18.
John Bishop retired from the Board on 12 April 2005.
All of the other directors held office throughout the year.
Further information on the Boards policies and procedures is set out in the corporate governance statement on pages 35 to 38.
Paul Smith and Jack Lovell will retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of the directors standing for re-election are shown on page 18.
As further explained in the corporate governance statement, the Board is satisfied that Jack Lovell continues to be an effective member of the Board and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Directors interests The interests of the directors, all of which are beneficial, in the ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company shares are given below.
2005 2004 Number of shares Number of shares John Morgan 4,331,038 5,831,038 Paul Smith 2,876 2,876 David Mulligan 1,250 1,250 Paul Whitmore 2,250 2,250 Bernard Asher 5,000 5,000 Gill Barr Jon Walden Jack Lovell 3,409,968 3,409,968 There have been no changes in the interests of the directors between 31 December 2005 and 22 February 2006.
20 Report of the directors The directors share options and interests in shares under long-term share incentive and other schemes are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 34.
Directors indemnities The articles of association of the Company entitle the directors of the Company to be indemnified, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 1985 and any other applicable legislation, out of the assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss or incur any liability in connection with the execution of their duties as directors, as further described under Amendment to articles of association on page 23.
In addition, in common with many other companies, the Company has in place directors and officers insurance in favour of its directors and other officers in respect of certain losses or liability to which they may be exposed due to their office.
Post balance sheet event On 1 February 2006 the Group acquired from certain private individuals the 52.5% holding in Primary Medical Property Limited that it did not already own and subsequently agreed to enter into a joint venture agreement with, and dispose of 50% of its interest in Primary Medical Property Limited to a fund managed by Barclays Private Equity.
Further details of the transaction are contained in note 28 to the accounts on page 67.
Substantial shareholdings Excluding directors, on 20 February 2006, the Company had been notified, in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests in the share capital of the Company: Name of holder Number % Standard Life Group 1,729,878 4.09 Aviva plc 1,680,539 3.97 Barclays plc 1,347,641 3.18 Employment policies The Company insists that a policy of equal opportunity employment is adhered to throughout the Group.
Selection criteria, procedures and training opportunities are designed to ensure that all individuals are selected, treated and promoted on the basis of their merits, abilities and potential.
The Group will not tolerate sexual, mental or physical harassment in the workplace.
Subject to the nature of its businesses in the construction industry, the policy of the Group is to ensure that there are fair opportunities for the employment, training and career development of disabled persons, including continuity of employment with re-training where appropriate.
The Group recognises the need to ensure effective communication with employees.
The key channels used for employee communications are as follows: The Morgan Sindall intranet is available to employees and has an extensive index and search capability containing relevant information such as corporate policies and directories.
Its news desk is updated regularly and features a constant flow of news about the Group and the construction industry sectors in which the Group operates.
Morgan Sindall News, the Groups newsletter, is sent to all employees every four months.
It reviews the Groups activities and outlines its future plans to give employees a better understanding of Group developments.
In addition, Morgan Sindall People is produced every quarter for employees and details charitable activities undertaken by and notable achievements of individuals within the Group.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy, which is also adopted by the Group, is to clearly agree and set down the terms of payment with suppliers and subcontractors when agreeing the terms for each transaction and to make payments in accordance with its obligations, save in cases of genuine dispute.
As at 31 December 2005 the Groups number of creditor days outstanding was equivalent to 30 days purchases 2004: 31 days, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
21 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Report of the directors Political and charitable contributions During the year the Group made charitable donations of 53,984 2004: 24,411 principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
No contributions were made to any political parties during the current or preceding years.
Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a report of the directors and the directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
22 Report of the directors Annual general meeting The annual general meeting of the Company will be held on 25 April 2006.
The notice of the meeting is set out on pages 84 to 86.
In addition to the ordinary business to be transacted at the meeting, the following items of special business will be proposed: Authority to allot shares An ordinary resolution will be proposed to give the directors authority to allot share capital in the Company in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
The authority will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of 705,482 representing approximately one third of the current issued share capital of the Company and will expire fifteen months from the date on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
The directors currently have no intention of issuing further shares or granting rights over shares other than in connection with the Companys employee share option and share incentive schemes.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights A special resolution will be proposed to renew the directors power to allot equity securities for cash other than by way of rights or other pre-emptive issues.
The power will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of 105,822, representing approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company and will expire fifteen months from the date on which the resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
Amendment to articles of association A special resolution will be proposed to amend article 146 of the articles of association of the Company.
Article 146 currently permits the Company to indemnify its directors, auditor, secretary and other officers against liability incurred in defending civil or criminal proceedings in which judgment is given in their favour or the proceedings are withdrawn or they are acquitted, and against the costs of successfully applying for relief from liability for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the affairs of the Company.
By virtue of legislation relating to the indemnification of directors which came into effect on 6 April 2005, directors can now be indemnified in respect of liabilities incurred by them in proceedings brought against them by third parties.
They can also be indemnified in certain circumstances in respect of the costs of civil and criminal proceedings as and when such costs are incurred.
However, the indemnity cannot cover liability incurred by a director to the Company or any associated company: fines imposed in criminal proceedings and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities: costs incurred in civil proceedings brought by the Company or an associated company where judgement is given against him or costs incurred in proceedings for relief where relief is refused by the court.
A special resolution will be proposed to amend Article 146.
The proposed new Article 146 excludes the auditors of the Company from indemnification and continues to require the Company to indemnify its officers to the extent permitted under the Act prior to 6 April 2005 and, additionally, requires the Company to indemnify its directors to the extent permitted under the recent legislative provisions summarised in the preceding paragraph.
The directors are of the opinion that the aforementioned resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
Independent auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as independent auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
By order of the Board Mary Nettleship Company Secretary 22 February 2006 23
