N Brown Group plc 18 Report and Accounts 2005 Directors report The directors present their report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2005.
Activities and results The principal activities of the group are retailing through direct home shopping, fulfilment and financial services.
The activities are more fully explained in the chief executives review on pages 4 to 13.
Group profit before taxation for the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2005 amounted to 18.6m 2004, 31.0m.
No geographical segmentation is provided as, apart from a small operation in the Republic of Ireland, all activities take place in the United Kingdom.
Dividends and reserves An interim dividend of 1.74p per share 2004, 1.74p was paid on the ordinary shares of the company on 7 January 2005.
The net cost of this dividend was 5.1m 2004, 5.1m.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.10p per share 2004, 4.10p for the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2005, the net cost of which will be 12.1m 2004, 12.0m.
Movements in reserves are shown in note 26 on page 52.
Acquisitions and disposals In November 2004 the group acquired certain assets, including the business goodwill, database and intellectual property of House of Bath Limited, a company that was in administration.
Share capital The companys authorised share capital is 39.0m 2004, 39.0m.
During the year, 65,206 ordinary shares were issued in connection with the groups qualifying employee share ownership trust and employee share ownership trust.
Details of outstanding share options are shown in note 25 on page 51.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting is to be held on 21 July 2005.
The notice convening the annual general meeting is being sent to members by way of separate circular.
Directors The biographies of the directors, all of whom served throughout the year are shown on page 16.
In accordance with the provisions of the 2003 Combined Code those non-executive directors who have served a term of more than 9 years on the board will be subject to annual re-election.
Those affected by such a provision are, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE and Ivan Fallon.
Accordingly they will retire at the next annual general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment at that meeting.
In addition, in accordance with the Articles of Association of the company Lord Stone of Blackheath will retire at the next annual general meeting and being eligible, offers himself for reappointment at the meeting.
Directors interests are separately disclosed in the remuneration report on page 33.
Jim Martin has indicated his intention to step down from the board at the annual general meeting.
Directors and officers liabilities The group maintains insurance for directors and officers of the group, indemnifying them against certain liabilities incurred by them whilst acting on behalf of the group.
Major shareholders In addition to the directors shareholdings shown in the remuneration report on page 33, the directors are aware of the following shareholdings of 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital at 29 April 2005: Holding % of issued share capital Fidelity Investment Services Ltd 40,429,794 13.69 Invesco Asset Management 19,824,846 6.71 Aberforth Partners 15,458,600 5.23 N Brown Group plc 19 Report and Accounts 2005 Directors report Ethical and social issues Ethics The board regards achievement of the highest ethical standards as an essential feature in the way in which the group does business.
A code of ethical conduct dealing with issues of commercial standards, conflicts of interest, gifts and hospitality has been circulated to all staff.
All directors and employees of the group are required to comply with both the letter and the spirit of the code of ethical conduct in all their dealings on behalf of the group and are required to file an electronic return detailing compliance with the policy on gifts and hospitality, online each month.
In their dealings with each other, other group companies and their shareholders, customers, suppliers, competitors with regulatory authorities and the wider community, employees are required to: - conduct all dealings with honesty, integrity and fairness: - comply with all relevant laws, regulations and internal company policy: - encourage and support a business culture which exhibits and promotes ethical conduct at all levels within the organisation: and - avoid any situation or action which could cause damage to the groups reputation.
Directors of all group companies will be required to disclose details of related party transactions for review by the audit committee.
A register of gifts and benefits offered by, and to, suppliers and other parties whether accepted or declined is maintained under the control of the head of internal audit.
Summary information will be presented to the groups audit committee.
All employees, managers and directors are required, each month, to declare any offer of gifts or hospitality with a value of 25 or more, offered, accepted or declined.
The group has drawn up and issued a comprehensive whistleblowing policy providing employees with an appropriate means of communication in case of ethical concerns regarding the way the group operates in its day-to-day activities.
Environment The group recognises its environmental responsibilities and is committed to minimising any damage which its activities may cause to the environment.
It has delegated specific responsibility for environmental matters to a nominated director on each of its principal subsidiary boards.
In addition, it actively pursues a number of environmental policies, including those designed to contain energy costs, the recycling of paper and packaging materials wherever practical and the use of information technology systems to reduce the level of consumption of paper by its employees.
In 1994 the government in consultation with Europe adopted an environmental policy EC Packaging Waste Directive 94 62 EC, which required larger companies to recover and recycle the packaging waste that they put into the environment.
The group was one of the first organisations to join the Valpak Organisation, which, with the endeavours of its members and their combined financial contributions, has succeeded in building a national sustainable recovery and recycling infrastructure.
The groups complement of skilled packaging technologists look at every product sold within the group to ensure its compliance to European Environmental Law with particular emphasis on Pack Minimisation Essential Requirements 1998 Regulations.
All packaging components are made from materials and processes causing minimum harm to the environment when either manufactured, processed, recycled or eventually disposed of.
All of the groups paper packaging is made from a minimum of 75% recycled paper and all other paper is sourced from 100% recyclable papers.
Wherever practically possible packaging materials and processes are derived from managed and renewable sources.
In 2003 the group undertook an initiative to minimise the environmental impact of its single largest volume-packaging component, namely our plastic delivery sacks.
After 14 months of trials the company re-engineered the base materials to reduce the gauge of the material without loss of pack strength.
The result of this project was to reduce the plastic tonnage entering the waste stream by 62 tonnes annually a reduction of 10.3%.
A comprehensive environmental risk assessment, undertaken at the same time, measured improvements achieved in the control of environmental impacts in the areas of packaging, paper, print, energy consumption and waste.
The group will continue to search out new ways of reducing our packaging impact on the environment by adopting a cradle to grave view on all packaging products used by the group.
The group firmly believes that continuing success can only be achieved by an enthusiastic, motivated and welltrained workforce.
Consequently, considerable resources are devoted to staff training.
Departmental team briefings are held and a staff attitude survey is conducted regularly.
Over 1,300 group employees either hold shares in the company or have options awards to acquire them through the groups various share option and long-term incentive schemes.
Constructive relationships with the trade unions which represent its employees principally USDAW and SATA are encouraged.
Elements of the group are covered by a collective bargaining arrangement with USDAW.
The group supports the principle of equal opportunities in employment and is opposed to all forms of discrimination, including those on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, marital status or disability.
N Brown Group plc 20 Report and Accounts 2005 Directors report O ur selection processes for recruitment, promotion, training and development are non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in the best interests of employees and the group to provide these opportunities to the most suitable candidates.
A pplications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of any employee becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The groups policy is to adhere to all relevant legislation to ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare at work of all employees and of other people working on our premises but not employed by the group.
We endeavour to ensure that products and services used in the workplace or sold by us are designed so that they are safe and without risk when properly used.
A sustained measured improvement in our health and safety record has been achieved over the past four years, with the introduction of sound management principles, policies, procedures, risk assessments and training programmes.
Over this period, group recorded accidents have been reduced by 33% and reportable accidents have seen a reduction of 28%.
A reduction of 48% has also been achieved on the number of working days lost due to accidents.
Employers liability claims have reduced by 61%.
New and improved occupational health initiatives have produced a reduction in absence figures, therefore, controlling cost.
Pre-employment questionnaires, physiotherapy, audiometry, an improved management referral process and rehabilitation programs have enabled occupational health issues to be better controlled.
Customers One of the key factors of the groups success is the quality of its relationship with its customers.
Regular customer satisfaction surveys are conducted, both directly and through third parties, to ensure that the group closely monitors the opinions and requirements of its customers.
In addition, telephone enquiry and complaint calls received from customers are analysed and appropriate action taken to improve the levels of service offered to them.
Suppliers The group sources products and services from across the world.
A significant proportion of this expenditure is with suppliers with whom the group has a long-term relationship, which helps to provide a continually improving quality of product and service to customers, whilst reducing costs.
It is the groups policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
Trade creditors of the group at 26 February 2005 represented 35 days 2004, 26 days of purchases.
The group is aware of the potential social impact of its business dealings, particularly in developing countries.
Our standard terms and conditions for the purchase of all goods for resale require that, in relation to the manufacture of merchandise, the supplier warrants that all labour, safety and other relevant laws in the country of manufacture will be strictly observed with respect to all workers at all stages of production.
Community The group believes that it has a responsibility to invest in the communities in which it operates.
The family, health and wellbeing programme launched in 2003 providing additional benefits for all our employees is actively supported and continues.
The group recently made its national call centre, based in Manchester, available to assist in taking pledges for Red Nose Day 2005.
This service was offered free of charge to the appeal committee and pledges amounting to more than 200,000 were taken by over 200 of our staff on Red Nose Day.
The company maintains close links with the Christie Hospital in Manchester and regularly assists in fund-raising for that organisation.
Recently the group has agreed to start donating its redundant IT equipment to charities operating in third world and developing countries.
The group is also a member of Business in the Community.
Charitable and political donations During the year, the group made charitable donations of 37,433 2004, 35,426.
No political donations have been made.
