NORTH AMERICA Brian Stock REVENUE IN THE DIVISION FOR THE YEAR WAS 241.8 MILLION 2004 : 213.2 Chief Executive Officer, NX North America MILLION AND NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT WAS 35.0 MILLION 2004 : division 29.6 MILLION.
IN LOCAL CURRENCY, REVENUE WAS US$440.5 MILLION 2004 : US$391.0 MILLION AND NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT WAS US$63.7 MILLION 2004 : US$54.3 MILLION.
2005 was a watershed year for our North During the year we relocated the American business.
As well as selling our headquarters of our US operation from Public Transit business we experienced our Texas to Chicago, providing a better best ever bidding season and won contracts location to manage and grow the division.
in Connecticut, Missouri and Rhode Island.
Our re-engineering project focusing on We achieved a retention rate of contracts improving the cost effectiveness of our of approximately 95%, highlighting strong operations has been launched across the levels of customer satisfaction.
All whole North American division.
The key operations experienced a smooth school objectives are to improve the cost startup, a significant feat given the amount effectiveness of our operations by reviewing of new business won during the year.
the efficiency of employee rotas, the use We are pleased to report that we of technology and better management of increased our margins despite the cost our assets such as fleet.
We believe we are well positioned to In September we completed the sale of capitalise on further growth opportunities our Public Transit operations for cash at the bid table and through acquisition.
consideration of US$93 million before working capital adjustments, enabling the division to focus on the provision of and growth in school bus transportation.
In August we strengthened our presence in the school bus market in Canada through the acquisition of Northstar, which services school boards.
Northstar operates 800 school buses and has 850 employees.
It serves 12 school boards and provides entry into new areas such as Simcoe County, north of Toronto.
In October we completed the acquisition of Jones Bus Service, which has 650 buses in Wisconsin and Illinois.
