TRAINS David Franks REVENUE FOR THE PERIOD WAS 1,497.2 MILLION 2004 : 1,712.1 MILLION Chief Executive, NX Trains division WITH NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT OF 64.2 MILLION 2004 : 61.3 MILLION.
2005 saw the launch of a major internal During the first half of the year, we In December, one introduced its new initiative focused on improving punctuality experienced substantial patronage growth.
timetable on the West Anglia route.
The and reliability within the Trains division.
This However, following the terrorist attacks in July, changes, the biggest on this route for fifty resulted in significant improvements in demand for discretionary travel in and out of years, seek to optimise route utilisation to performance across all our franchises London was badly affected.
We are pleased meet the growth at Stansted airport, whilst including Central Trains, a highly complex that passenger numbers returned to pre-July also catering for growth on the domestic regional train operating company TOC, levels towards the end of the year.
commuting traffic to the City, Stratford and where considerable progress was made.
Due to the complex Midland Mainline made good progress in the of our TOCs are in the top seven positions nature of the changes, stakeholder year with passenger growth of 3% and was in the latest industry public performance consultation has been extensive and the the most punctual long distance operator for measure PPM figures released in majority of users have benefited from the 2005 in the January 2006 PPM figures.
performance was assisted by the introduction The division also made encouraging progress of the new Meridian nine car trains.
Growth in its customer satisfaction ratings.
Gatwick was also achieved through new marketing Express consolidated its position at the top initiatives, including a summer promotion of the league tables for customer satisfaction offering 200,000 seats to London for 15 per recording an overall satisfaction rating of person and a new pricing structure launched 93% in the DfTs December 2005 National in October offering travel from Sheffield to Passenger Survey, marking the fifth London for 6.
With Sheffield station being a consecutive period when Gatwick has key hub for our MML services, we have been rated first in the survey.
In addition worked in partnership with key stakeholders c2c improved its results from 83% to 90% in Sheffield to improve the ambience and and Midland Mainline showed the greatest quality of the station.
In June a new DDA increase year-on-year, rising 10 points to 89% compliant travel centre was opened including this year.
Overall the Trains division improved extra ticket windows and a new electronic its customer satisfaction scores by three queuing process.
Gatwick Express performed well despite the impact of 7 July.
Strong revenue and cost control ensured the solid performance of the business.
We will be discussing the future of this franchise with the DfT following publication of the Brighton Main Line Route Utilisation Strategy.
