BUSES Denis Wormwell REVENUE FOR THE PERIOD WAS 268.6 MILLION 2004 : 239.8 MILLION AND Chief Executive, NX Bus division NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT WAS 41.5 MILLION 2004 : 41.6 MILLION.
Denis Wormwell was appointed Chief Executive of the Groups Bus division in February 2006.
Denis was previously Chief Executive of the Coach division We welcomed the early introduction of With central Governments renewed focus In the last quarter of the year Travel Dundee Centros concessionary fares scheme on reducing urban congestion, we believe the achieved Investors in People status and in providing free travel for men and women introduction of road pricing in London November was awarded Bus Operator of over 60 in July 2005.
This move helped to illustrates the benefits and increased bus the Year at the Scottish Transport Awards.
reverse the decline in concessionary fare patronage that can be achieved on the back This year we achieved further growth in passenger numbers we have experienced of such initiatives.
We welcome the launch of our Travel London operation through new over the past two years.
the Governments Transport Innovation Fund contract wins and the acquisition of Tellings TIF, focusing on demand management, We are pleased with our improved Golden Millers London bus operations which which highlights the West Midlands as one operational performance during the period.
have been integrated into our London of the TIF feasibility areas.
This has been achieved by the recruitment business.
This has resulted in a much greater of over 400 Polish drivers within our Travel Our investment in technology continues presence in the London market, a regulated West Midlands TWM business.
Over 10% of with the roll-out of automatic vehicle location market where further contract opportunities these drivers have already achieved their AVL equipment and mobile phone based exist.
We operate a fleet of over 400 vehicles NVQ qualifications and we are starting to real time information for over 350 vehicles.
operating from six depots at which there see the first Polish recruits being promoted During 2006, we will roll-out AVL on key remains additional capacity to accommodate to traffic controllers.
Three out of every five routes including the main Outer Circle 11 future growth.
drivers in the West Midlands have NVQ Level route in Birmingham.
To improve the The Midland Metro continued to perform 2 qualifications and over four out of five Travel attractiveness of travelling by bus we have well with passenger growth of 2%.
We are London drivers have been awarded the simplified further our ticketing and extended continuing to discuss with Centro the long BTEC accreditation.
some concessionary ticket offers such term development of this system including as the Early Bird travelcard to non Following its launch in January 2005, strong line extensions and new services.
passenger growth of over 20% continues to be experienced on our Premier 997 service In September 2005, Travel Dundee signed the linking Walsall and Birmingham.
Recent UKs first statutory quality partnership.
This research has confirmed that half of all users will be launched in April 2006 in partnership actively choose this service over alternatives with Dundee City Council and the Scottish due to its quality offering, highlighting the Executive and will focus on improving bus opportunities that product segmentation services within the Dundee area.
We continue to look for other resulted in the introduction of a new cross opportunities where similar growth city link to a major hospital in the city possibilities exist.
providing a valuable new community service under the Governments Kick Start initiative.
