Board of Directors and company secretary Clockwise, from top left: David Ross Phil White CBE Ray OToole Sir Andrew Foster Tony McDonald Tim Score Barry Gibson Sue Lyons OBE Adam Walker Jorge Cosmen 24 David Ross Chairman David Ross joined the Board in February 2001 Tim Score Non Executive Director Tim Score was appointed to the as a Non Executive Director and became Chairman in May 2004.
He is Chief Financial Officer at ARM Holdings He is Non Executive Deputy Chairman of The Carphone Warehouse plc.
Before joining ARM he worked as Finance Director of Rebus Group Group PLC, Chairman of Gondola Holdings PLC and a Non Executive Limited which he joined in 1999.
Between 1997 and 1999, he was Director of Trinity Mirror PLC, Big Yellow Group PLC and Cosalt PLC.
Group Finance Director of William Baird plc, which he joined from David is a chartered accountant.
Phil White CBE Chief Executive Phil White has extensive experience Barry Gibson Non Executive Director Barry Gibson joined the Board of the transport business gained over many years.
He is a chartered in November 1999 and became the Senior Independent Director accountant and worked for South and West Yorkshire Passenger in September 2005.
He served on the Board at BAA plc as Group Transport Executive and Yorkshire Rider in various senior finance roles.
Until October 2001 he was the Group Chief In July 1994 he was appointed Group Finance Director of West Executive of Littlewoods Organisation plc.
He is also a Non Executive Midlands Travel Limited becoming Managing Director in November Director of William Hill PLC and Homeserve plc.
He was appointed to the Board of National Express Group in January 1996 and became the Groups Chief Executive in January 1997.
Sue Lyons OBE Non Executive Director Sue Lyons joined the Board He is the 2006 President of the Confederation of Passenger Transport.
Her career has been principally with Rolls Royce which Aged 56. she joined in 1975 and where she held the position of Managing Director, Defence Europe.
In 1998 she received an OBE for services Ray OToole Chief Operating Officer Ray OToole joined the Board to the engineering industry and in 1999 she was awarded the European in November 1999 as Chief Operating Officer.
He has 30 years Woman of Achievement Award Business Category.
Sue is also a operational experience in transport.
He spent the early part of his Non Executive Director of Wagon plc and AWG plc.
Aged 53. career in various engineering management positions at Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive.
He joined National Express Adam Walker Finance Director Adam Walker joined the Board in from FirstGroup plc, where he was responsible for its operations in March 2003, as Finance Director.
He joined the Group in October 2001 Yorkshire and the North West as both Divisional Director and Group as Corporate Development Director working closely with the Groups Engineering Director.
He has been elected a member of the British operational subsidiaries on developing their financial strategies.
Prior to Transport Police Authority this year.
Aged 50. joining the Group he was Director of Corporate Finance at Arthur Andersen and an Associate Director at NatWest Markets.
He is a Sir Andrew Foster Non Executive Director Sir Andrew was appointed chartered accountant.
Aged 38. to the Board in August 2004.
He has had an extensive career in the public sector having served as Chief Executive of the Audit Commission Jorge Cosmen Non Executive Director Jorge Cosmen was appointed for England and Wales between 1992 and 2003.
Before this he was to the Board on 1 December 2005 at the time of the Alsa transaction.
Deputy Chief Executive of the NHS and is currently Deputy Chairman He was Corporate Manager for the Alsa Group from 1995, becoming of the Royal Bank of Canada Europe Limited and a Non Executive Chairman in 1999.
Between 1986 and 1995 he worked in sales, Director of the Sports Council, Nestor Health Care, PruHealth and distribution and banking.
He is a Business Administration graduate and Liberata IT Outsourcing.
Aged 61. has an International MBA from the Instituto fide Impresa in Madrid.
Tony McDonald Company Secretary Tony McDonald was appointed Company Secretary in May 2000.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior legal positions with the in-house legal teams at Guardian Royal Exchange and BP and in private practice with Slaughter and May.
Divisional Heads Paul Bunting Chief Executive, Coach Division Paul Bunting joined Brian Stock Chief Executive Officer North America Brian joined the Group in 2004 as Managing Director at Midland Mainline from the Group in 2002 through the acquisition of Stock Transportation.
Stagecoach, where he was Business Development Director for the He has overseen the North American student bus operations since UK Bus Division.
Prior to that Paul has held a number of senior March 2003 and was appointed as Chief Executive of the Groups positions within the rail industry, principally in planning and marketing North American operations in October 2004.
Brian has had over 25 roles in both InterCity and Regional Railway businesses.
Aged 46. years in the bus industry.
Prior to joining the Group, Brian was President of Stock Transportation and responsible for guiding the business to Javier Carbajo Chief Executive, Alsa Group Javier Carbajo joined the become the fifth largest school bus company in North America.
Group in December 2005 when National Express acquired Alsa.
A graduate in economics and with an MBA, Javier has been with Alsa for 27 years during which time he has held management positions in Denis Wormwell Chief Executive, Bus Division Denis Wormwell joined most areas of the business.
In 1999 he was appointed Chief Executive the Group as Chief Executive, Coach Division in January 2002.
In of Enatcar following its acquisition by Alsa.
In 2003 he was appointed February 2006 he was appointed as successor to Brian Jackson as Chief CEO of Alsa Group.
Executive of the Groups Bus Division.
Prior to joining the Group, Denis spent many years within the holiday industry both overseas and in the David Franks Chief Executive, Trains Division David Franks joined the UK building successful leisure brands such as Club 18-30 and JMC.
He Group in January 2003 as Trains Divisional Director North.
He was joined the company from Thomas Cook Group where he was Sales appointed as Chief Executive of the Trains Division in February 2004. and UK Service Delivery Director.
David has over 30 years experience in the rail industry and immediately prior to joining National Express he was Managing Director of South Central at the GoAhead Group.
