Principal Brands & Services UK North America COACHES TRAINS Durham School Services Provides student transportation throughout National Express A network of scheduled National Express Group operates the the United States of America coach services to over 1,000 destinations following train franchises in the UK: www.
com c2c Links South Essex towns with Stock Transportation Provides student Airlinks Provides contract bus coach London Fenchurch Street Station transportation in two provinces of Canada services for airlines and the wider airport www.
com community at London airports Central Trains Provides high-frequency local www.
co. uk Stewart International Airport Located in train services in the East and West Midlands Eurolines Scheduled coach services from New Windsor, New York and long-distance services between the the UK to 500 European destinations www.
com Midlands, East Anglia, North West and the www.
co. uk Gatwick Express Provides services between Central London and Gatwick Airport BUSES Spain www.
com Travel West Midlands The leading bus Midland Mainline Operates inter-city Alsa Operates coach and bus services operator in the West Midlands covering over services between Yorkshire, the East throughout Spain with operations also in 500 routes www.
co. uk Midlands and London Portugal and Morocco www.
com Travel Coventry Provides 80 bus routes in and around Coventry one Provides a comprehensive rail network www.
co. uk of services in East Anglia including commuter services to London and the regions cities, Travel Dundee Operates a comprehensive inter-city, cross country, rural lines and network of bus services in Dundee Stansted Express services www.
com Travel London The Groups London and Silverlink Silverlink County operates Surrey bus operations between London and Northampton.
co. uk Silverlink Metro operates through North, The Metro Provides a light-rail link between East and West London Wolverhampton and Birmingham City www.
co. uk Wagn Operates the Great Northern services from Kings Cross and Moorgate to Hertfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Norfolk www.
co. uk Wessex Trains Operates local and longdistance rail services throughout Cornwall, Devon, Somerset, Dorset, Wiltshire, Hampshire, Gloucestershire and into South Wales www.
