COACHES Paul Bunting REVENUE FOR THE YEAR WAS 200.5 MILLION 2004 : 195.6 MILLION WITH A Chief Executive, NX Coach division NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT OF 21.5 MILLION 2004 : 19.3 MILLION.
In February 2006, Paul Bunting, previously Managing Director of Midland Mainline, was appointed Chief Executive of the Coach division The division experienced an encouraging Our investment in coach stations continues.
complies with the new DDA legislation year as we focused on our core scheduled Working in partnership with BAA, we which was introduced at the start of this coaching business.
The first half saw good invested 2m to improve Heathrow Central year.
We aim to have a fully wheelchair growth on our London bound and airport Bus station.
The new customer facilities accessible fleet on the network by the routes.
However, the terrorist incidents in include improved waiting and refreshment London 2012 Olympic Games.
July and the subsequent reduction of areas and a new ticket office and Last year we were pleased to be awarded inbound leisure journeys into London saw a information desk.
Further investment is contracts for the provision of coaching softening of this growth in the second half.
taking place at key locations at Cardiff, services for the G8 summit and the EU Nevertheless, in the full year passenger Cheltenham, Manchester airport and summit.
This year we have extended growth of 2% was achieved.
Southampton with plans for further our provision of transport services to improvements at Bournemouth, Leicester, Following a detailed market segmentation other events including music and sporting Milton Keynes and Wolverhampton.
analysis undertaken early in the year, we are events at venues such as the Millennium We have drawn up plans for the total working on strategies to increase further Stadium, Cardiff.
redevelopment of Digbeth coach station the appeal of coach travel.
Our promotion in Birmingham, our major hub for We are investing in new technology, such as of dynamic pricing continues to play a key connecting services and we anticipate Coachcom, which provides satellite tracking role enabling customers to buy value for construction starting later this year.
and improved information for customers, money tickets.
We repeated our successful drivers and operational control.
The new 9 Go Anywhere fares as well as the We are improving the quality of our system will also improve seat utilisation by Million Seat Sale.
These, along with our product and services.
We have been checking in all tickets at the departure continued roll-out of funfares, from as little rolling out our state-of-the-art WOW point, enabling all coach tickets to be as 1 each way, backed up by national coaches, used currently on the London to checked in.
Coachcom will be rolled-out advertising campaigns, have heightened an Birmingham route, onto other key corridors across the whole fleet from summer 2006. awareness of coach travel amongst existing such as Bristol, Cheltenham and Gloucester.
We have further NXTV has been fitted on over 40 vehicles extended our sales channels through the and will be rolled-out further by the end of increased promotion of the internet which 2006.
This year we were proud to launch now accounts for 21% of total sales.
E-ticket our first fully accessible coach, the Caetano and m-ticket sales increased.
Up to nine Levante, enabling wheelchair users and out of ten purchases on the web are now people with mobility impairments to travel e-tickets with up to two thirds of all tickets by coach.
The bespoke vehicle, which has sold via our customer contact centre been developed in consultation with the distributed by either e or m-tickets.
Mobility and Inclusion Unit of the DfT, 13
