Burgos ALSA Javier Carbajo ALSA IS SPAINS LEADING PRIVATE OPERATOR OF COACH AND BUS SERVICES Chief Executive, Alsa Group OPERATING 90 COACH AND 19 BUS CONCESSIONS WITHIN THE SPANISH MARKET.
Alsa joined the Group on 1 December, Alsa is a quality business run by an providing immediate scale in an attractive experienced and long standing management European growth market.
We have team, known to the Group through the consolidated revenue of 18.2 million and Eurolines partnership.
We believe that through operating profit of 2.6 million into the close working between Alsa and our National Groups 2005 results.
Express sales, marketing and operations teams we can bring further value to both Alsa is Spains leading coach and bus operator businesses.
This acquisition gives the Group with annualised turnover of 218 million.
critical mass in the Spanish transport market It operates exclusive national and regional where we believe further opportunities for coach concessions and urban and suburban public transport growth exist.
bus services with 75% of its revenue generated by its coach operations.
It also operates 65 international coach routes in Europe.
Gdansk Spain is Europes fifth largest passenger Braniewo Szczcecin transport market and the third biggest coach Bialystok Bydgosc BERLIN market.
Approximately double the number of Poznan WASRSAW Brest Besancon Cologne London Ostende Zgorzelec passengers travel by coach on long distance Dover Wroclaw Katowice BRUSSLES Eisenach Rzeszow Calais Czestochowa Gante Liege concessions in Spain than by rail, with coach PRAGUE Frankfurt Przemysl Krakow Mons Nuremberg Brno representing 11% of the total public transport Metz PARIS VIENNA Bratislava market.
Alsa is the clear leader in coaching Besancon Basle Tours ZURICH BUDAPEST Lausanne Berne with nearly 10% of the market.
Alsas long Poitiers Lyon Geneva Lubjliana Milan Chambery distance concessions are granted on an Clermont Ferand Venice Turin Valence Bordeaux BELGRADE Genoa exclusive basis by the national government for Biarritz Nimes Monaco Florence La Coruna Toulouse Nice Santiago each route with durations varying between Valencia Irun NarbonneMarseille Lugo Orense Vitoria Ponferrada Vigo ROME 8 20 years.
The regional coach network Valladolid Zaragoza ISTANBUL Zamora Tordesillas Barcelona Oporto Salamanca concessions are awarded by regional MADRID Caceres Valencia Badajoz government.
Lisbon Cordoba Benidorm Sevilla Jaen Alicante Faro Murcia Cadiz As Spains second largest private bus Lagos Granada Marbella Malaga Algerciras operator, Alsa operates 19 urban bus Tangiers RABAT concessions primarily in Oviedo and Leon, Fez Casablanca northern Spain.
It also operates buses in Marrakech Porto, Portugal and Marrakech, Morocco.
17 San Sebastian Gijon Santander Bilbao
