Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presenting their annual report and audited accounts for the period ended 29 January 2005.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are retailing, home shopping and customer services management.
Review of operations Group results are summarised in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 26.
The amount of profit transferred to reserves for the year was 198.0m.
Turnover and operating profit of the Group are shown in greater detail in the analysis on page 32.
The Chief Executives Review on pages 3 to 8 gives details of the Groups operations.
Dividends The directors recommend that a final dividend of 28p per share be paid on 1 July 2005 to shareholders on the register of members on 27 May 2005.
The Trustee of the NEXT Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP has waived dividends paid in the year on shares held by the ESOP, see Note 25.
Share Capital The Company was authorised by its shareholders to purchase the Companys own shares for cancellation.
During the year the Company purchased a total of 3,967,421 ordinary shares of 10p each for cancellation at a cost of 57.3m, representing 1.5% of its issued share capital.
The authority to purchase shares is renewable annually and approval will be sought from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2005 to renew the authority.
On 29 January 2005 the Company had 261,103,082 shares in issue.
Since that date the Company has continued to purchase shares offmarket under contingent purchase contracts.
As at 21 March 2005, the Company had purchased and cancelled a further 750,000 shares at a cost of 11.9m, representing 0.3% of its issued share capital.
Supplier payment policy The Groups policy for the payment of suppliers is either to agree terms of payment at the start of business or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the Groups payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditor days of the Group at 29 January 2005 were 27 days 2004: 26 days based on the ratio of trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts paid during the year to trade creditors.
The Company had no trade creditors at 29 January 2005 or 31 January 2004.
Treasury operations and financial instruments NEXT operates a centralised treasury function, which is responsible for managing the liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency requirements of the Group.
Its activities are governed by policies approved by the Board.
Liquidity management The Group manages its cash and borrowing requirements centrally to maximise interest income and minimise interest expense, whilst ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquid resources to meet the operating needs of its businesses.
Investments of cash surpluses are made through banks and companies which must fulfil credit rating and investment criteria approved by the Board.
Borrowing requirements are supported by committed bank facilities of 300m as at 29 January 2005 2004: 350m.
At the year end, the Group had net borrowings of 250.8m 2004: 306.9m.
In 2003, the Group issued a 300m 5.25% bond repayable in 2013, see Note 17.
Interest rate management The Board has approved the use of interest rate swaps, options, forward rate agreements and other similar instruments to manage interest rate exposures on its cash and borrowing position.
In 2003 the Group entered into transactions to fix interest rates on 250m of its borrowings which continued throughout the year under review.
Foreign currency management The Groups principal foreign currency exposures arise from the purchase of overseas sourced products.
Group policy allows for but does not demand that these exposures may be hedged for up to 24 months ahead in order to fix the cost in sterling.
This hedging activity involves the use of spot, forward and option contracts.
10 Directors Report No recognition is made of accrued but unrealised gains or losses on currency instruments until the relevant contract is concluded.
All premiums or costs paid in respect of currency instruments are charged to the profit and loss account when incurred and receipts are not recognised until maturity and settlement has occurred.
The Group does not have a material exposure to currency movements in relation to translation of overseas assets or liabilities and, consequently, does not hedge any such exposure.
Employees The Group has continued its policy of providing employees with information about the Group and ensures that the suggestions and views of employees are taken into account.
A pension scheme and Sharesave share option scheme are available to all United Kingdom and Eire employees.
Every possible consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Group has continued the employment wherever possible of any person who becomes disabled during their employment.
Opportunities for training, career development and promotion do not operate to the detriment of disabled employees.
Donations During the year the Group made charitable donations of 708,000 2004: 393,000.
No donations were made for political purposes.
International Financial Reporting Standards The Group is required to prepare its financial statements for the year ended January 2006 and all subsequent periods in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
This will require an opening balance sheet as at 1 February 2004 to be prepared under IFRS, together with a full profit and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow statement for the year ended January 2005 for comparative purposes.
The Group intends to publish these restated figures in advance of the announcement of its first IFRS results for the six months ended July 2005.
The review of the impact of the change to IFRS has continued during the year.
The principal adjustments to the Groups financial statements are expected to arise from changes to accounting for financial instruments, operating lease incentives, share based payments, goodwill, pensions, deferred taxation and the presentation of dividends.
Substantial shareholders As at 21 March 2005 the following notifications had been received from holders of material interests in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital as shown: No.
of 10p ordinary shares % Fidelity Investments 20,767,027 7.95 Barclays plc 15,624,768 5.98 Legal & General 11,657,875 4.46 Lone Pine Capital 11,064,082 4.24 Credit Suisse First Boston 10,834,883 4.15 UBS AG 9,951,748 3.81 Lloyds TSB Group 8,167,179 3.13 Directors The current Board is shown on page 9 of this Report.
Mr Dawson and Mrs Cross were appointed to the Board on 13 May 2004 and 19 January 2005 respectively and both will retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Mr Wolfson and Mr Varley will retire by rotation.
All are eligible and willing to be reappointed.
Mr Mitchell-Innes and Ms Burdus retired from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2004.
The interests of the directors who held office at 29 January 2005 and their families are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 25.
11 Directors Report Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Group and their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The following resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, notice of which is on pages 54 to 60.
Share option schemes The management share option scheme was approved by shareholders in 1995 and expires in May 2005.
The scheme provides for options over shares, normally exercisable between three and ten years following their grant, to be granted to Group employees at the discretion of the Board.
The scheme has proved to be a very effective incentive to NEXTs employees, who have contributed significantly to its success over the last decade.
Accordingly, resolution 9 proposes the adoption of a broadly similar scheme after considering changes in legislation, practice and institutional share scheme guidelines.
A summary of the proposed plan is set out in Appendix 1 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, it is proposed that the Board should be authorised to make appropriate arrangements for similar schemes for overseas employees, having regard to local legislation.
Since 1997, NEXTs policy has been that its directors and senior management who participate in the Long Term Incentive Plan have not been granted options under the management share option scheme.
This principle is written into the rules of the proposed plan, which is an incentive scheme for NEXTs middle management and senior store employees.
Copies of the draft rules for the proposed plan may be inspected at the registered office of the Company, and at the offices of the Companys advisers, New Bridge Street Consultants, 20 Little Britain, London EC1A 7DH during normal working hours up to and including the date of the Meeting and at the Meeting itself.
Renewal of authority to allot shares Ordinary resolution 10 will renew the directors authority pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot shares.
The nominal value of ordinary shares which the directors may allot in the five year period from the date of the Annual General Meeting pursuant to this authority is limited to 8,500,000.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority.
Special resolution 11 will renew the directors authority pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to issue ordinary shares wholly for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
This resolution limits the nominal value of ordinary shares which may be issued by the directors to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital in conformity with the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
This authority also allows the directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
This authority will expire on 18 May 2010.
On-market purchase of own shares Special resolution 12 will renew the authority for the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of the Companys ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: a the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be the lesser of 39,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limits to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to special resolution 13: Contingent contracts and offmarket share purchases, see below: b the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and not more than 5% over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase, and: c the renewed authority expires on whichever is the earlier of 18 months after the date on which the resolution is passed or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2006.
12 Directors Report The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp duty liability at the rate of 50 pence per 100 or part thereof of the consideration paid by the Company.
The liability will be a liability of the Company.
The directors intend that this authority to purchase the Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result in an increase in earnings per share and it is considered to be in the interest of shareholders generally.
Shares purchased under this authority will be cancelled or, if the directors consider appropriate, held in treasury.
Contingent contracts and off-market share purchases Following shareholder authority granted at the November 2004 Extraordinary General Meeting, the Company entered into two contingent purchase contracts and as at 21 March 2005 had bought back off-market a total of 1,200,000 ordinary shares for cancellation at a total cost of 19.0m.
Under these contracts, and subject to a pre-determined barrier share price level not being reached, the Company will make further purchases of up to 1,150,000 shares for cancellation.
Special resolution 13 will give the Company authority to enter into further contingent purchase contracts with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG under which shares may be purchased off-market at a discounted price to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
The principal features of these contracts are set out in Appendix 2 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of each contract will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, and at the offices of the Companys legal advisers, Eversheds, Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4JL during normal working hours up to the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the Meeting itself.
The directors consider that these contracts will enhance the Companys flexibility to purchase its shares for cancellation and will only use such contracts if it would be earnings enhancing and in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Change in Articles of Association Special resolution 14 seeks shareholder authority to amend Article 141 of the Companys Articles of Association to reflect changes made to Section 310 of the Companies Acts Indemnities for Directors, as from 6 April 2005.
An explanatory note on these changes is set out in Appendix 3 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board A J R McKinlay Secretary 23 March 2005 13
