Directors and Officers CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS David Jones CBE John Barton, Deputy Chairman and Aged 62 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in 1986.
Aged 60 Appointed Chief Executive in 1988 and became Deputy Chairman Became a member of the Board in 2002.
He is also Chairman of in 2001 and Chairman in 2002.
Previous experience includes Wellington Underwriting Plc and a non-executive director of twenty years in a large home shopping and consumer services Hammerson Plc and WH Smith Plc.
Formerly Chief Executive of JIB group and five years as Chief Executive of a UK listed home Group Plc for thirteen years and Chairman of Jardine Lloyd shopping plc.
He is also a non-executive director of Wm.
Morrison Thompson Group Plc for five years.
Supermarkets plc, Aggregate Industries plc and Leicester Football Club plc.
Nick Brookes Aged 54 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Became a member of the Board in 2003.
He has held a number of directorships within the British American Tobacco Plc group, was Simon Wolfson, Chief Executive Company Secretary and most recently Regional Director, America Aged 37 Pacific.
Previous experience includes a career in the legal Joined the Group in 1991.
Appointed Retail Sales Director in profession and operational roles in Africa and the USA.
1993, became responsible for NEXT Directory in 1995 and was appointed to the Board in 1997 with additional responsibilities for Christine Cross systems.
Appointed Managing Director of the NEXT Brand in 1999 Aged 53 and Chief Executive in 2001.
Became a member of the Board in January 2005.
She is also a non-executive director of George Wimpey plc and Sobeys Inc Christos Angelides, Group Product Director Canada.
Previous experience includes fourteen years at Tesco plc Aged 41 and fifteen years lecturing and consulting at Edinburgh and Bath Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed General Manager of Universities.
the Companys sourcing office in Hong Kong in 1989, Menswear Product Director in 1994 and Womenswear Product Director in Jonathan Dawson 1998.
Appointed to the Board in 2000.
Aged 53 Became a member of the Board in May 2004.
He is also a nonDavid Keens, Group Finance Director executive director of Galliford Try plc and a senior advisor to Apax Aged 51 Partners financial services team.
Previous experience includes Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed to the Board in eight years in the Ministry of Defence and twenty years in 1991.
Previous experience includes seven years in the accountancy investment banking with Lazard.
profession and nine years in the UK and overseas operations of multi-national manufacturers of consumer goods.
Derek Netherton Aged 60 Andrew Varley, Group Property Director Became a member of the Board in 1996.
He is also Chairman Aged 54 of Greggs Plc and a non-executive director of Hiscox Plc and Joined the Group in 1985 and was appointed to the Board in St. Jamess Place Capital Plc.
Formerly a director of J. Henry 1990.
Previous experience includes twelve years in retail and Schroder Co. Limited.
BOARD COMMITTEES Company Secretary Audit Committee A J R McKinlay D N D Netherton Committee Chairman R J O Barton N G Brookes Registered Office C Cross Desford Road, Enderby, J D S Dawson Leicester, LE19 4AT This committee reviews the Groups internal control, accounting Registered in England, no.
Remuneration Committee R J O Barton Committee Chairman Registrars N G Brookes Lloyds TSB Registrars, C Cross The Causeway, J D S Dawson Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA D N D Netherton This committee sets the remuneration of the Groups executive directors.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Nomination Committee D C Jones Committee Chairman R J O Barton Merchant Bankers N G Brookes Lazard & Co. Limited C Cross J D S Dawson D N D Netherton This committee considers the appointment of the Groups Stockbrokers directors.
