Report of the directors The directors of Northern Foods plc present their annual report and In accordance with the companys articles of association, C Dyer, the audited accounts of the company for the year ended 2 April 2005.
M T Gribbin, A J Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Chairman confirms that, following Principal activities and business review formal evaluation, the performance of all the retiring directors Northern Foods plc is one of the UKs leading food producers, providing continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate own label and branded products to retailers.
This report should be commitment to their roles on the board and the board committees.
read in conjunction with the Chairmans review, the Chief Executives operating review, the Financial review and the Business review, which C Dyer has been a non-executive director since 1997.
By the end together include information about group activities, the financial of the 2005 06 financial year he will have served for nine years as performance during the year and likely developments.
a non-executive director since his first election by shareholders.
The board has unanimously agreed that his knowledge and experience Registered office remain invaluable to the business, particularly at this time of major The companys registered office changed with effect from change, and firmly believes that his judgement and independence 28 February 2005, when its new corporate headquarters opened in will not be affected by his continuing in office.
The new address is shown in the Company information section therefore, that C Dyer remains an independent director.
The executive directors service contracts, including that of M T Gribbin, Results for the year the retiring executive director, are referred to in the Directors Pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items remuneration report.
The executive directors service contracts was 80.2 million 2004: 86.0 million.
After the exceptional group are terminable by the company giving one years notice.
reorganisation costs, the loss on disposal of businesses, the exceptional profit on the sale of fixed assets and goodwill amortisation, there was Details of the remuneration of individual directors and of the a pre-tax profit of 4.3 million 2004: 75.4 million.
remuneration strategy approved by the board are included in the remuneration report for the year ended 2 April 2005, set out on pages Dividend 31 to 40.
A resolution will be proposed at the Annual general meeting An interim dividend of 3.35 pence per share was paid on 24 March 2005 to receive and adopt the 2004 05 remuneration report.
and the directors recommend a final dividend of 5.70 pence per share to be paid on 26 August 2005 to shareholders on the register on The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company at 29 July 2005. the year end are shown in the Directors remuneration report.
Other than service contracts, no director has a material beneficial interest Directors in any contract to which the company, or any of its subsidiaries, The following were directors of the company during the year: was a party during the year.
P H Blackburn Company Secretary M S Christie resigned 22 October 2004 With effect from 11 March 2005, the board announced that Julian Wild C Dyer would cease to be Company Secretary.
Carol Williams, head of the M T Gribbin companys legal department, was appointed to the position of A J Hobson Company Secretary from that date.
The change was made following O G Ni-Chionna the relocation of the companys headquarters to Leeds from Hull, P A ODriscoll where Julian Wild had served the business for 26 years.
H R Sims resigned 30 June 2004 Employees non-executive directors Northern Foods takes its responsibilities to its employees seriously.
It is committed to equality and opportunity and aims to treat all Directors biographical details are set out on page 11. of its employees fairly in every aspect of employment.
It is committed to giving employees the opportunity to maximise their potential.
P H Blackburn will retire as Chairman following the companys Annual general meeting in July 2005 and A J Hobson will take Employee share schemes over as Chairman from that date.
The company operates savings-related and executive share option schemes, reference to which is made under the Share capital Two new appointments to the board will be made.
D Nish will join section below.
the board as non-executive director on 1 July 2005 and will also chair the audit committee.
J Maiden has been appointed Finance Director Share capital and will join the board on a date to be agreed.
A resolution proposing The company was granted authority by shareholders at the Annual the election of D Nish will be put to a shareholder vote at the Annual general meeting on 22 July 2004, for a share buyback programme general meeting.
of up to 10 per cent of its equity.
The latest programme started in July 2004 and a total of 10,530,000 ordinary shares have been bought back under that authority and are being held in Treasury.
26 Report of the directors Northern Foods plc During the financial year a total of 15,580,000 shares were acquired Annual general meeting at a cost of 24.2 million.
Since the programme started in February The notice convening the companys Annual general meeting to 2000, a total of 167.8 million has been returned to shareholders be held at 10.00 am on Thursday, 21 July 2005 is contained in the through buybacks.
circular sent to shareholders with this report.
Shareholders are asked to note the change of time and venue.
On 17 December 2004, options over 2,313,123 ordinary shares were granted under the companys executive share option scheme at a price The board regards the Annual general meeting as an opportunity of 169.67 pence per share.
to communicate directly with private investors.
It is attended by all board members.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and Options have been exercised under the companys executive and are able to meet the directors informally.
Separate resolutions are savings-related share option schemes during the year.
As a result, proposed on each substantially separate issue and the number participants in these schemes were allotted 2,056,542 new ordinary of proxy votes cast for and against each resolution, as well as the shares in that period.
number of votes withheld, are announced to the meeting following voting by a show of hands.
A poll would be called on any resolution Unallotted shares outstanding under the above schemes at the year where it was appropriate or required.
The company offers an electronic end were 14,155,626.
From 3 April 2005 to 1 June 2005, 173,639 voting capability to investors.
new ordinary shares have been allotted on the exercise of options.
Going concern Substantial holders of stock The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going The directors have received notification of an interest of 3 per cent concern basis consistent with their view formed, after making or more in the issued share capital of the company from the following: appropriate enquiries, that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
11.02 per cent Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 7.10 per cent Auditors Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co LLC 4.03 per cent Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 3.21 per cent in office as auditors of the company and a resolution proposing Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.05 per cent their re-appointment will be submitted to the companys Annual general meeting.
Disposals The following disposals took place in the year and are also referred to in the Chief Executives operating review and the Financial review: Corporate governance On 1 May 2004 Cavaghan & Gray Group Limited sold its Compliance Emile Tissot frozen foodservice business to Dawn Fresh Foods Northern Foods is committed to high standards of corporate for 3.5 million in cash less associated costs of 0.2 million.
The company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on corporate On 22 May 2004 Convenience Foods Limited sold its Eden Vale governance the Combined Code and the associated Turnbull fresh chilled dairy business to Uniq Prepared Foods Limited for Guidance, as annexed to the Listing Rules.
18.9 million in cash less associated costs of 0.4 million.
Directors responsibilities for preparing the accounts On 4 November 2004 Northern Foods plc sold its Cavaghan & Gray United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare Seafood chilled and frozen fish business to IFP Holdings Limited, accounts for each financial year, which give a true and fair view a subsidiary of Icelandic Group plc, for 12.9 million in cash less of the state of affairs of the company and the group, and of the associated costs of 0.1 million.
profit or loss for that period.
Corporate social responsibility In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: The Corporate social responsibility review on pages 22 to 25 gives details of Northern Foods commitment to: food safety: health and safety: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently the environment: employee involvement and participation: consumers: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent community involvement and charitable giving: and ethical procurement.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Charitable donations the accounts.
During the year the group donated 273,000 for charitable purpose.
Donations for the previous financial year totalled 291,000.
There were The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, no political contributions.
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group, and enable them to ensure Supplier payment policy that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are It is the companys policy that payments to suppliers are made also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Suppliers are paid on average within 38 days 2004: 32 days of receipt of invoice.
The directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above requirements.
Northern Foods plc Report of the directors 27 Report of the directors continued The board Succession planning is a clear priority for the board.
The succession The board determines the strategic direction of the company and of P H Blackburn by A J Hobson as Chairman of the company was reviews its operating and financial position.
The board has a formal part of this planning.
The decision was unanimously approved by schedule of matters specifically reserved for it, which can only be the whole board.
amended by the board itself and which is reviewed annually.
Appointments to the board are the responsibility of the full board These matters include responsibility for approving overall group on the recommendation of the nomination committee.
New executive strategy and financial policy, board membership and board committees, directors have a formal induction programme.
The board and directors acquisitions and divestments, and major capital expenditure.
The are subject to annual appraisal.
schedule of matters reserved to the board, together with the terms of reference of the board committees, are available on the companys Board performance evaluation website.
Senior executives below board level are periodically invited The performance of the board and its principal committees was again to attend board meetings to make presentations on their areas evaluated during the course of the year.
For consistency, the approach of responsibility.
was largely the same as in the previous year, obtaining completed detailed questionnaires from all board members, analysing these The board aims to hold one or more meetings each year at an responses, and providing opportunity for directors to comment in operating location.
Appropriate training, including social, environmental their own words on any issues not directly covered by the questionnaire.
and ethical issues, is available to all directors on an ongoing basis.
The outcome was discussed with individual directors by the Chairman and then by the board as a whole, with progress on particular issues The board of directors met ten times in the year.
All directors attended from the previous year noted.
A J Hobson, as Deputy Chairman every board meeting during the year except that A J Hobson was and senior independent director, conducted an evaluation of the unable to attend one meeting.
The Chairman also held other meetings performance of the Chairman, as previously, which was discussed with the non-executive directors without the executives present.
with other board members when the Chairman was not present.
Chairman and Chief Executive Board committees There is a clear, written division of responsibility between the There are three committees of the board, each of which has written Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible terms of reference which define the role and responsibilities of the for leadership of the board, setting the agenda and ensuring its committee and which are reviewed annually.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, and for effective Audit committee communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible The audit committee comprises C Dyer Chairman, A J Hobson and for operating the business and implementing the boards strategies O G Ni-Chionna.
It met four times in the year, attended by all members.
and is supported in these matters by the operating board.
A J Hobson has significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
Directors C Dyer will resign as Chairman of the audit committee and will be Under the companys articles of association all directors are subject to succeeded by D Nish when he joins the board as a non-executive re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The non-executive director on 1 July 2005. directors stand for re-election each year.
The committee meets with executive directors and management All the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be as well as privately with both external and internal auditors.
They have wide-ranging experience and all currently occupy, or have occupied, senior positions in industry.
They have The committee: access to all information regarding the company, the advice and services of the Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal reviews and advises the board on the companys interim and may only be effected with the approval of the board, and, as required, annual financial statements, its accounting policies and the may obtain external advice at the expense of the company.
Their content of its financial and business risks remuneration consists only of fees.
Upon appointment they receive a reviews the nature and scope of the work to be performed by range of information about the company and an induction programme the internal and external auditors, the results of that work and is arranged including site visits.
managements response makes recommendations on the appointment and remuneration It was announced on 28 February 2005 that P H Blackburn would of the external auditors and the policy for the provision of non-audit step down as Chairman on conclusion of the Annual general meeting services by the external auditors in July.
He will be succeeded by A J Hobson, currently Deputy Chairman oversees and reviews the companys policy on whistleblowing and senior independent director.
C Dyer will then become which provides for confidential disclosure by staff, without fear Deputy Chairman and O G Ni-Chionna will become senior of reprisal.
28 Report of the directors Northern Foods plc The audit committee keeps under review the independence and The nomination committee selects and recommends suitable objectivity of the in-house internal audit function and external candidates for appointment as directors of the company, after audit and reviews the nature, scope and findings of internal audit.
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board.
The auditors report to the directors and the audit committee on The committee also monitors the need for succession planning and the actions they take to comply with professional and regulatory makes recommendations accordingly.
requirements and on best practice required to ensure their independence.
The committee met twice in the year, attended by all members Non-audit services to the group are awarded to providers with the and commenced a thorough search for a new finance director and appropriate experience who offer the service at a competitive rate.
an additional non-executive director to replace A J Hobson when This is in accordance with the policy laid down by the audit committee, he succeeds P H Blackburn as Chairman following the Annual general which restricts the use of the companys external auditors if the meeting in July 2005. nature of the work could present a threat to their independence.
The terms of reference of the committee are available on the The terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys website.
Relations with shareholders Remuneration committee The board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships The remuneration committee comprises A J Hobson Chairman, with all shareholders, who are kept informed of significant company P H Blackburn, C Dyer and O G Ni-Chionna.
It met six times in the developments.
Presentations are made of the interim and preliminary year, attended by all members except on two occasions when C Dyer results, briefings are given to analysts, and other meetings to discuss was unavailable, and establishes board policy in respect of all terms company direction are held with institutional shareholders on of employment for executive directors.
The Directors remuneration a regular basis.
report can be found on pages 31 to 40 and the terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys website.
The Chief Executive and the Head of Finance were closely involved in investor relations and reported back to the board the views of major When A J Hobson succeeds P H Blackburn as Chairman in July 2005, shareholders.
Investor meetings are arranged through the companys he will resign from the remuneration committee, which will then be broker, UBS Investment Bank.
The Chairman, the senior independent chaired by O G Ni-Chionna.
A J Hobson will attend the committee director and other non-executive directors are available to meet meetings by invitation.
As A J Hobson has been chairing the major shareholders whenever necessary, and regularly do so.
The committee for three years he has a great depth of knowledge of senior independent director is available to shareholders to address remuneration matters inside Northern Foods, which the company specific concerns.
would like to be available to the new chair.
Operating board The Chairman is responsible for the appraisal of the performance Northern Foods operating board met monthly and was responsible of the Chief Executive and this is an integral part of the role of the for the management of the group.
Chaired by the Chief Executive, remuneration committee.
it comprises the divisional directors and functional directors.
The role of the committee is to determine the broad policy and framework for the remuneration of executive directors and senior Internal control and risk management managers.
The committee also determines the nature and scale of incentive performance arrangements that encourage enhanced The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal performance and which reward individuals in a fair and responsible control, which covers all aspects of the business.
This includes financial, manner for their contribution to the success of the business.
In setting operational, compliance control and risk management.
The board the remuneration policy for executive directors and senior managers, sets policies and seeks regular assurance that the system of internal the committee also takes into account the reward policies for control is operating effectively.
Whilst the directors acknowledge their responsibility for the system Nomination committee of internal control, any such system can provide only reasonable, The nomination committee comprises P H Blackburn Chairman, and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss C Dyer, A J Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna.
On the retirement of and is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure P H Blackburn, A J Hobson will chair this committee.
The committee to achieve business objectives.
meets as required to review the structure, size and composition of the board.
Following the appointment in May 2005 of a new The Combined Code requires the directors to review the effectiveness finance director and non-executive director, the board will consist of of the groups systems of internal control.
The key elements of the three executive directors and four non-executive directors, and this groups internal control systems and review processes are as follows: will be kept under regular review.
Northern Foods plc Report of the directors 29 Report of the directors continued Background Engineering: sets standards for building construction and fire risk The risk culture in the group is based on a local, flexible response to management, maintains a database of approved contractors, business issues.
Short lines of communication ensure a rapid upward provides an expert consultancy for the acquisition, management information flow.
This culture has developed from the nature of the and disposal of physical assets, as well as assessing and approving business, focused as it is primarily on short shelf-life foods.
suppliers of capital equipment and non-saleable revenue items.
The operating board provides top-down strategic input.
Where formality Health and safety: provides professional advice on best practice is necessary, for example on food safety, finance or health and and also audits health and safety procedures.
safety matters, then policies and procedures are in place to ensure business conformity.
Legal: provides and obtains advice on a full range of legal issues across the group, and ensures good title to properties and The following summarises the way the group assesses and mitigates risk: intangible assets.
Policies Insurance: provides adequate cover for major losses with appropriate The board sets policy over key areas of risk which are applicable to levels of deductible, through a group programme with external all business units, dealing with controls over food safety, accounting, insurance brokers.
This cover is reviewed and negotiated annually.
treasury, capital expenditure, health and safety, human resources and information technology.
Human resources: through its management resources review, ensures the adequacy of existing management and plans succession.
Group organisation and controls The structure of the group was changed in June 2004 with the Procurement: identifies and manages key suppliers on a creation of a new operating board, comprising the Chief Executive, group-wide basis.
heads of the operating divisions and functional directors with group-wide responsibilities.
The audit committee oversees both internal and external audit procedures and monitors executive response to any significant There are clearly defined lines of authority and accountability and control issues raised.
established policies and procedures, reviewed annually, for all significant aspects of the business.
There is a clear business process for the The company regularly evaluates social, environmental and ethical identification, evaluation and mitigation of hazard and risk.
SEE risks and ensures that there are effective systems in place for managing such risks.
Information on SEE risks and opportunities Each division prepares detailed annual budgets and strategic plans, for company value is provided in the Corporate social responsibility which are reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
Weekly and review on pages 22 to 25. monthly accounts are prepared for each business unit and performance is monitored against the original, and any updated budget.
The groups Review process operating board meets on a formal basis each month to review The management of business risks continues to be an essential divisional performance.
part of ensuring that the group and each business unit meets its objectives and delivers value for shareholders.
During the year the board established a capital committee, the responsibilities of which are to set capital expenditure policy, to The formal process for reviewing business risks has been embedded oversee the capital expenditure planning and budgeting process, and in the budget process.
Each business unit is required to carry out to approve capital expenditure up to an agreed level delegated from a formal review to assess business risks in terms of impact and the full board.
The capital committee meets on a bi-monthly basis.
likelihood, and the controls in place to manage those risks.
Divisions are required to formulate action plans where appropriate to improve The business units are supported by a corporate management resource controls.
Progress of these plans is reviewed by the operating board and by specialist central functions.
These specialist functions, which and the internal auditors.
provide the technical skills to supplement the business units own resource and provide assurance over the major areas of risk, are as follows: The board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Internal audit: reviews the standard of internal financial control risks faced by the group, that it has been in place for the year under and the accuracy of financial reporting through a rolling cycle review and up to the date of approval of these accounts, and that it of audit visits under a programme of activity approved by the is regularly reviewed by the board and accords with Turnbull guidance.
Divisions and specialist functions report by exception on any matters Technical services: provides risk management in the areas of food arising during the year to the monthly meetings of the operating safety, food quality, fire prevention and approval of contractors board.
The results of the formal half yearly reviews are taken forward providing building, engineering and professional services.
Food technology: assesses and approves raw material suppliers, By order of the board audits the quality management systems in the group, provides guidance on compliance with food-related and environmental Carol Williams legislation, sets technical standards and offers expertise on a Company Secretary wide range of food science and technology.
1 June 2005 30 Report of the directors Northern Foods plc
