41 Directors report The directors are pleased to present their report on the affairs Purchase of the Companys own shares of the Company, along with the audited financial statements Authority was given by shareholders at the 2004 AGM and the auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2005. to allow the directors to make market purchases of up to 5,186,238 of the Companys own ordinary 10 pence shares Activities at a maximum price per share of 105% of the middle market The principal activities of the Group during the year were the price.
This authority will expire at the 2005 AGM, and provision of water, waste water management and related shareholder approval will be sought at that meeting to renew services.
A review of the Groups activities for the year is the authority for another year.
As at 7 June 2005, no market contained in the operating and financial review OFR on purchases have been made.
Directors Financial results and dividends The current directors are Sir Fred Holliday, Sir Patrick Brown, The Companys results and dividends are as follows: John Cuthbert, Chris Green, Martin Ngre, Sir Derek Wanless Year to and Jenny Williams.
All were directors of the Company as at 31.3.
2005 31 March 2005 and, apart from Jenny Williams who was m appointed on 27 May 2004, all served throughout the year.
Profit after tax and minority interests for the year 98.9 Dividends 51.8 The following directors who served during the year were Transferred to reserves 47.1 nominated for appointment by Suez, which was entitled to nominate two directors to the Companys Board.
Following A final dividend payment of 7.13 pence per ordinary share the sale of Suezs shareholding in the Company, Bernard will be recommended by the Board to shareholders at the Guirkinger and Christophe Cros who were directors as at AGM scheduled for 28 July 2005.
If approved, the final 31 March 2005, resigned from the Board.
dividend will be paid on 16 September 2005 to shareholders whose names appear on the Companys Register of Members Date of Date of at the close of business on 19 August 2005.
Together with Director appointment resignation the interim dividend of 2.87 pence per ordinary share, paid on Jacques Ptry 23 May 2003 27 May 2004 4 February 2005, the total dividend for the year will be 10.00 Alan Chaigneau 23 May 2003 17 March 2005 pence per ordinary share.
Bernard Guirkinger 27 May 2004 28 April 2005 Christophe Cros 17 March 2005 28 April 2005 Post balance sheet events On 28 April 2005, Suez sold its 25% shareholding in the In accordance with the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Company to Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board, and Suezs Governance published in 2003 the Combined Code and the two nominated directors, Christophe Cros and Bernard Companys Articles of Association the Articles, one third of Guirkinger resigned from the Board.
the Board will retire by rotation and will offer themselves for re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM.
Those directors Substantial shareholdings are Sir Patrick Brown and Martin Ngre.
The directors As at 7 June 2005, the Company had been notified of the biographies are set out on page 11.
Information about following interests in 3% or more of its issued share capital: those directors who are seeking re-appointment at the AGM is also contained in the Notice of Meeting booklet.
Percentage This booklet includes confirmation by the Chairman, Number of share of shares capital following their performance evaluation, of their continued contribution and commitment to their roles.
Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board 129,655,961 25.00 Amvescap PLC 98,751,491 19.04 Directors remuneration and interests Aviva plc 24,750,000 4.77 Information about directors remuneration and their interests Barclays PLC 20,972,652 4.04 in the shares of the Company is contained in the directors FMR Corp and Fidelity International remuneration report on pages 48 to 53.
Limited 16,262,510 3.14 Indemnification of directors Waiver of dividends The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited, which Enterprise Act 2004 permits companies to extend the currently holds 681,296 shares to be used in the future indemnification it provides to directors against liabilities for to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards under the legal costs in certain circumstances, and to fund a directors Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, has waived the defence costs as they are incurred.
The Company will right to all future dividends on the shares it holds.
Further therefore be asking shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for details of the LTIP can be found in the directors remuneration authority to amend the Articles to indemnify directors to the report on pages 48 and 49. extent now permitted by company law.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 42 Directors report continued Donations The Company gives full consideration to applications for The Group made charitable donations totalling 92,439 and employment from disabled persons where the requirements political donations totalling 10,995 during the year.
It is the of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or Companys policy that it does not, directly or through any disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, subsidiary, make what are commonly regarded as donations it is the Companys policy, wherever practicable, to provide to any political party.
However, the definition of donations continuing employment under normal terms and conditions in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and to provide training and career development and PPERA 2000 is wide and covers activities that form part promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
of the normal relationship between the Group and political organisations.
Political expenditure and or donations up Training and development to a total of 40,000 for the Group for the period of two Training and development of employees is important to the years from the date of the approval were approved by the achievement of Group goals and policies.
Annual appraisals shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the are conducted and training needs are properly assessed Company held on 16 December 2003.
Approval will be throughout the Group.
An accelerated development sought from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to permit programme for graduates and a management development the Group to make political donations as defined in PPERA programme are offered by some subsidiaries.
2000 up to a maximum of 25,000 in the 15 month period commencing on the date of the AGM or until the date of the Communication 2006 AGM, whichever is the sooner.
During the year, the Employees receive the Group magazine Watermark, Group made political donations, applying the wide definitions which includes articles on Company activities and news from the PPERA 2000, as follows: from subsidiary companies.
Urgent or important information is communicated via a Group-wide news flash facility.
Name of EU political organisation Donations for the year Individual Group companies use a range of communication Labour 9,139 mechanisms, including team briefing, magazines, newsletters, Liberal Democrats 853 intranet, noticeboards and regular team meetings.
NWL won Conservative 1,003 a silver award from the East Anglian region of the Chartered Total 10,995 Institute of Public Relations CIPR for its internal communication activities in 2004, was runner up in the Utility Industry These donations comprise sponsorship of or attendance Achievement Awards 2004 and a finalist in the CIPR North at dinners and party conferences which are intended to East regions awards for its employee attitude survey heighten awareness within the political arena of key industry feedback.
The Group encourages open feedback and issues and matters affecting the Group.
The value of protects employees who wish to voice concerns about donations made to each party reflects the representation of behaviour or decisions that they believe to be unethical.
political parties in NWLs areas of supply rather than the party in Government.
Health and safety The Group health and safety policy is maintained and Research and development implemented through each subsidiarys individual health NWTC, a subsidiary of the Company, co-ordinated all research and safety team.
The Groups medical advisor, Grosvenor and development activities relating to underground assets for Health, provides occupational health services.
The majority the Group, prior to the transfer of its staff and activities to of employees are offered membership of a private NWL on 1 April 2005.
The Company, through NWL, maintains healthcare scheme.
a programme of research and development activities, which are linked to UK business operations.
A review of the Employee Share Incentive Plan SIP development of the businesses of NWL and NWTC during the The directors believe that employee investment strengthens year can be found on pages 18 to 23.
During the year, the the ties between the Company and the Groups employees Group incurred research and development costs of 5 million.
by enabling employees to participate more closely in the Companys economic performance.
Around 30% of Group Employees and employment policies employees currently participate in the SIP, which was Equal opportunities launched in 2004 and is open to all eligible Group employees.
The Group operates an equal opportunity policy, incorporated The Company gives one free matching share for every three into Our Code of Conduct.
The Company promotes equality shares purchased by an employee, which must be kept in of opportunity in recruitment, employment continuity, the SIP for five years to obtain the full tax benefits.
Awards training and career development throughout the Group.
The of all shares under the SIP are satisfied using existing ordinary policy is designed to ensure that no applicant or employee shares purchased on the market, and dividends are paid in receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of age, cash directly to participants.
gender, disability, race, religion or sexual orientation.
43 Pensions Information about the pension schemes operated by the Group is contained in note 25 to the financial statements.
Creditors The Companys policy is to agree payment terms with suppliers and to pay on time according to those agreed terms.
In the absence of alternative agreement, the policy is to make payment not more than 30 days after receipt of a valid invoice.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amount invoiced to the Company by its suppliers during the year and the amount owed to its trade creditors at 31 March 2005, was four days.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the AGM to be held on 28 July 2005 was sent to shareholders with this report, together with an explanation of the business to be conducted at the Meeting, and a form of proxy.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing its re-appointment will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Financial statements preparation and going concern The directors consider that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements for the financial year on a going concern basis.
The directors have arrived at their decision based on consideration of the Companys detailed budget for 2005 06 and the business plan for the period to 31 March 2010.
Their analysis included a review of the capital expenditure and investment plans, the anticipated funding requirements and facilities available, and the reasonableness of the underlying assumptions of both the budget and business plan.
By order of the Board Martin Parker Company Secretary 7 June 2005 Registered office: Northumbria House, Abbey Road, Pity Me, Durham, DH1 5FJ Registered in England and Wales No.
4760441 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05
