06 Managing Directors review Key achievements The Chairman mentions in his statement that the process of Ofwats final determination was probably the We retain the focus on our single most significant event within the Group during the year.
As expected, core water and waste water the targets set for NWL are exacting competence.
That focus and the regulators and customers expectations are high, but the outlook underpins our expectation for the business remains positive.
The that we will continue to implications of the determination for NWL, for capital investment and for build upon the track levels of service, are outlined in the future development and performance record of service delivery, section on page 23 to 25. environmental performance NWL had another very good year, and stakeholder value on beating all but one of its customer which our reputation service targets, maintaining its very high drinking water standards and is based.
protecting the quality of the water environment by meeting all its sewage treatment works discharge consents.
2004-05 was the final year of the last Ofwat price review period 2000-05 and of the corresponding capital investment period.
I am pleased to report that NWL was able to deliver its investment programme for the five year period within the allowance made by Ofwat at the 1999 price review.
The next five years will see continuing high levels of investment, to meet the requirements of UK and EU legislation and also to meet the investment priorities expressed by NWLs customers for improvements to discoloured drinking water and to sewer flooding.
One of our investment projects from last year had a very successful first year of operation and achieved a high level of acclaim for its innovation and environmental credentials.
NWLs Langford recycling plant in Essex takes waste water that used to be discharged to sea and puts it through sophisticated treatment processes so that it can be retained as a water resource.
During the year, it won the Environment 07 Case study AES has become one of the first laboratories in the UK to receive the Environment Agencys MCERTS Monitoring Certification accreditation for a range of soils analysis.
The award of the MCERTS seal of approval follows a stringent series of quality control audits at the companys extensively equipped environmental laboratories in the north east of England.
The MCERTS scheme is designed to improve standards of reliability and validity in soils analysis and laboratories have been working towards achieving the required standards for the past year.
From 1 March 2005 all soils analysis data submitted to the Environment Agency was required to be MCERTS accredited.
AES awarded MCERTS The contaminated land service now includes an extensive range of soils accreditation for analysis with either MCERTS or UKAS accreditation, together with flexible and responsive customer service and soils analysis rigorous quality control.
Michael Phelan from AES working on soil samples.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 08 Managing Directors review continued 1 Award at the national Utility Industry project.
Similarly, in the Republic of Achievement Awards, the Water Award Ireland, completion of commissioning at the national Institution of Chemical and testing of the treatment works at Engineers IChemE Awards, a merit Cork in September 2004 marked the award from the Institution of Civil beginning of the operations and Engineering ICE Eastern Region, and a maintenance phase of the project.
prestigious Golden Apple at the Green Apple Environment Awards.
NWL as In particular I would like to take a whole also won the Constructing this opportunity to thank all of our Excellence Achievement Award in 2005. employees across the Group for their individual contributions to what has Another award-winning project is our been another successful year.
I would Wear Valley project, which involved the like to add my own thanks to those of construction of a new water treatment the Chairman to employees who strove plant in an area of outstanding natural so valiantly to restore water to the beauty.
In total, this project has won Hexham area following the disruption 2 3 nine awards including the IChemE in January.
They worked for long hours Foster Wheeler Award for Innovation in appalling weather conditions and in Project Management, the Landmark justifiably earned the praise of the Environmental Award, Civil Engineering towns residents.
We have always Contractors Association Project of the been aware of the dedication of our Year, The Green Organisation Green people, but they truly surpassed our Apple Silver Award, Constructing expectations in their willingness to do Excellence North East Best Practice what was necessary to get the job done.
Award, winner of the ICE Robert Stephenson Award for Design Outlook Category, a commendation from We retain the focus on our core water 1.
Managing Director John Cuthbert with his Honorary Doctorate in Business Administration from the University ICE Robert Stephenson Award for and waste water competence.
Construction Category, Business in focus underpins our expectation that 2.
NWI's sewage treatment works near Cork.
the Community Big Tick for Shields we will continue to build upon the track 3.
Langford recycling plant in Essex.
Environmental Award Category and record of service delivery, environmental the World of Difference Award performance and stakeholder value on from the Chartered Institute of Water which our reputation is based.
Our proposed dividend policy reflects A particularly innovative contract that the confidence of the Board following became operational during the year, the substantial financial restructuring was the arrangement between NWL and of the regulatory review of prices.
and cement manufacturer, Lafarge, It is consistent with the regulatory which now uses sewage sludge pellets, expectations of our core business from NWLs Bran Sands sludge plant on and the Board believes it provides a Teesside, as a fuel in the manufacture sustainable return to shareholders.
The contract was signed following a demanding full-scale trial and it provides NWL with a secure John Cuthbert and sustainable outlet for its sludge, Managing Director minimises disposal costs and provides 7 June 2005 a worthwhile use for this product.
Further afield, progress was made in NWIs Ayrshire and Cork projects.
In Scotland, commissioning and performance testing of the sludge treatment centre at Ayrshire was completed and this concludes the design and construction phase of the 09 Case study Six Sigma is a statistically based business approach that identifies the amount of variation in a process relative to its customer requirement or process specification.
Six Sigma is a new challenging approach for NWL and at its regional sludge treatment centre Bran Sands, where this concept has been piloted for the past six months, has produced excellent results.
Six Sigma is a rigorous and methodological approach, which is to: Define ensure all parties understand the problem, goals and boundaries.
Measure ensure existing measurement systems are in place and are acceptable.
Improve the need to initially stabilise a process before it can be optimised.
Control looking for continual improvement.
Six Sigma is now being introduced in other parts of the business and the aim is to enhance reputation, react to customers needs and utilise best ideas.
The challenge of Six Sigma NWL's Frank Errington at Bran Sands sludge treatment centre.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05
