Company Profile Overview Northgate HR has developed and implemented the products and Northgate Information Solutions is the UKs leading supplier of services which organisations need to achieve the best return on specialist software and Information Technology IT services for their HR and payroll investment.
From recruitment and both the human resources and public services markets.
induction to integrated HR and payroll, to self-service and Northgate has 25 major offices across the UK with six further intelligence gathering and pensions administration, Northgate international offices.
Headquartered in Hemel Hempstead, HR has a range of fully integrated solutions for organisations Hertfordshire, the Company employs approximately 3,300 staff from small medium enterprises to large corporates.
and has in excess of 2,700 large medium customers and more N No or rt th hg ga at te e P Pu ub blliic c S Se er rv viic ce es s than 5,000 small medium customers across the UK and Ireland.
is a technology provider with a The original Company was founded in 1969, consequently, difference.
We are committed to high quality public services and Northgate has more than 30 years experience in the IT market.
we understand the needs of the public sector.
This knowledge is Today, the Company works closely with many corporate core to our public services business.
organisations, in addition to all of the UKs regional police forces, 80% of UK local authorities and more than 50% of FTSE 100 We believe passionately in public services and are committed companies.
to community well-being which places the citizen at its heart.
We believe that knowing the problem is half way to Northgate's customer-centric approach is based on fully solving it.
It's our business to understand the demands made of understanding application-specific business processes.
This public services: from actively promoting social inclusion to enables organisations in both the public and private sectors to building stronger, safer and more secure communities and increase their business process efficiency when deploying celebrating diversity.
Northgate applications and their associated services or when utilising the Companys wide range of high quality IT services.
We work in partnership to create innovative solutions using our Furthermore, Northgate manages many customers' key systems, software, support and services expertise to promote economic providing a broad range of flexible and cost-effective outsourced efficiency and social justice in a rapidly changing world.
solutions available either at client sites or hosted at our own N No or rt th hg ga at te e M Ma an na ag ge ed d S Se er rv viic ce es s BS7799 accredited data centre.
supports customers from our 25 offices throughout the UK.
Our goal is to help our customers in Following a change in the Groups reporting structure, Northgate local government, utilities, educational institutions and the now has three major divisions focused on the Companys core corporate sector to improve their organisational performance business areas.
These are Northgate HR, Northgate Public through effective Information Communication Technology Services and Northgate Managed Services which includes the ICT solutions.
In choosing Northgate, all clients have selected former Corporate Services division, parts of the Sx3 business a partner who is flexible, responsive and committed to the and some Managed Services that were previously reported in delivery of quality solutions to support their business.
Northgate: works with 80% of local authorities in the UK: N No or rt th hg ga at te e H HR R is Northgates specialist HR division and the is the 2nd largest supplier of managed services in education leading UK supplier of HR, payroll and pensions solutions.
in the UK: Working with organisations of any size from every industry supports 8 of the10 largest water companies: sector, Northgate HR offers an integrated and highly scalable administers more than 17 billion of revenues and benefits: and flexible suite of in-house, managed and fully outsourced is highly specialised in telecommunications, retail, finance, solutions, that have been designed to meet the evolving manufacturing, construction, pharmaceutical and markets needs.
Consequently, Northgate HR is able to satisfy membership organisations.
any HR or payroll requirement.
For more information on Northgate and its businesses, please visit the Northgate website: www.
