11 Board directors biographies Sir Frederick Holliday its Chairman in 2002, a post that he still Chairman 69 holds.
In 2004 Sir Patrick was appointed Sir Fred Holliday had a distinguished a non-executive director of Amey plc academic career, including a period as and Amey UK plc.
Vice-Chancellor of Durham University, before joining the former Northumbrian Martin Ngre Water Group plc as a non-executive Independent Non-executive director in 1991.
He became its Director 58 Chairman in 1993.
He was a director Martin Ngre was appointed to the of Shell UK from 1980 to 1989 and Board in May 2003.
He was, between Chairman of the Go-Ahead Group plc April 2000 and April 2001, the Chief until October 2002.
Sir Fred is a nonExecutive Officer of the former executive director of Brewin Dolphin Northumbrian Water Group plc and the Holdings plc and of Northern 2 VCT plc chief corporate representative of its and Chairman of Northern Venture parent company Suez in the United Trust plc.
He is also Vice-President of the Kingdom.
He is currently the Chairman Freshwater Biological Association and of Ecofin Global Utilities Hedge Fund the Marine Biological Association.
Limited, an Irish Stock Exchange listed fund, and a director of Ecofin Water & John Cuthbert Power Opportunities plc, a listed Managing Director 52 investment trust of which he was John Cuthbert joined the water industry Chairman for three years.
Both funds in 1991 and was appointed Managing are focused on utilities.
Director of North East Water in 1993.
Following the acquisition of the former Sir Derek Wanless Northumbrian Water Group plc by Independent Non-executive Lyonnaise des Eaux in 1996, he Director 57 transferred within the Group to become Sir Derek was appointed to the Board in Managing Director of Essex and Suffolk December 2003.
He became a director Water plc.
John took over as Managing of National Westminster Bank in 1991 Director of the former Northumbrian and its Group Chief Executive in 1992.
Water Group plc, and also of He retired from that position in 1999, Northumbrian Water Limited, in 2001. since which time he has been involved in reviewing and reporting on the Chris Green trends affecting health services for the Finance Director 50 UK Government.
Sir Derek is currently Chris Green joined the former a non-executive director of Northern Northumbrian Water Group plc in 1990 Rock plc, vice chairman of the Statistics and was appointed its Finance Director Commission and a Trustee of the in 1997.
He was appointed as Finance National Endowment for Science, Director of Northumbrian Water Technology and the Arts NESTA.
Limited and oversaw the merger of Northumbrian Water Limited and Jenny Williams Essex and Suffolk Water plc in 2000.
Independent Non-executive Director 56 Sir Patrick Brown Jenny Williams joined the Board in May Senior Independent 2004.
She is Chief Executive of The Non-executive Director 65 Gaming Board for Great Britain.
In Sir Patrick Brown was appointed to addition to being Head of Water the Board in May 2003.
He held Finance and Flotation at the time of various positions in the Department water privatisation, Jenny Williams has of Transport and the Department of held a variety of directorships in a range the Environment, becoming Second of Government departments, including Permanent Secretary and Chief the Home Office, the Department of Executive of the Property Services the Environment, Transport and the Agency in 1990.
He was Permanent Regions and the Inland Revenue.
She Secretary for the Department of was a Director General and Board Transport from 1991 to 1997.
Sir member of the Lord Chancellors Northumbrian Water Group plc Patrick became a non-executive director Department from 2001 to 2003.
Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 of the Go-Ahead Group plc in 1999 and 12 Just an hour Case study We are committed to supporting the community and we gave 2.2% of our profits back to the communities we serve through sponsorship, environmental partnerships and our huge community programme.
More than a quarter of our employees have given time to support Just an hour, our employee volunteering programme, with projects ranging from school mentoring to community challenges like decorating, gardening or tree planting.
One of many recent projects involved teaching responsibility to a group of three and four year old nursery school children.
The excited children walked half a mile to a local pet shop where they learned that caring for animals and pets involves a lot of responsibility as well as fun.
The children saw, held and stroked the animals and our employee helped the children to understand the responsibilities of caring for pets including buying their food, feeding them and cleaning their cages or bowls.
NWL employee Clare Moore enjoying the Just an hour experience at Rainbow Nursery in Spennymoor.
