David Hodgson, aged 48, Non-Executive Chairman Divisional Managing Director, Non-Executive Director Mr Irens joined the Board as Non-Executive Northgate HR Mr Hodgson was appointed a Non-Executive Chairman on 7 January 2000.
He was Mr Aldis was promoted to the Board on 27 Director on 27 May 2004.
He is a Director at previously Chairman of Cannons Group plc.
He has been Managing Director of General Atlantic, the IT investment firm, He is a Non-Executive Director of Urbium plc Northgates Human Resources division since which has an approximately 14% stake in and Evolution plc and a Director of a number 1998, and has overseen the rapid growth of Northgate.
He serves as a Director of a of other unlisted companies.
this division and the integration of Rebus HR number of public and private information into the Group.
Chris Stone, aged 42, Chief Executive 5.
Sir Stephen Lander, aged 57, Mr Stone was appointed a Director and Chief Divisional Managing Director, Non-Executive Director Executive on 31 October 1999.
He was Northgate Public Services Sir Stephen was appointed a Non-Executive formerly with Accenture where he was Mr Meaden was promoted to the Board on 27 Director on 29 January 2004.
He was an associate partner.
He has been Managing Director of previously Director General of the Security senior management positions with Digital Northgates Public Services division since Service MI5 1996-2002.
He is a NonEquipment Corporation UK and EDS.
May 2001, with overall responsibility for Executive Director of Streamshield Ltd.
He Northgates development in the local also sat as a Non-Executive Director on the government and criminal justice markets.
Board of HM Customs & Excise 2002-2005, 3.
John Stier, aged 39, and is the Chair elect of the Serious Group Finance Director and Organised Crime Agency.
Jack Fryer, aged 66, Mr Stier was promoted to Group Finance Senior Independent Director and Director on 15 May 2003.
Prior to joining Non-Executive Director 9.
Nick Starritt, aged 51, Northgate, he held senior financial positions Mr Fryer was appointed a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director with Thames Water plc and Shanks plc.
He was Mr Starritt was appointed a Non-Executive previously with Marconi, Lucas Industries, Director on 27 May 2004.
His experience Rank Xerox and Rolls Royce.
He is also includes four years as the Group ViceChairman of Celoxica Limited.
President of Human Resources for BP plc: he was also a Non-Executive Director of Rebus HR before its acquisition by Northgate.
He is European Managing Director of Sirota Consulting Limited.
Member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 16
