DIRECTORSREPORT The directors are pleased to present their report to Directors shareholders, together with the financial statements The present members of the board, together with for the year ended 31 December 2005 on pages 38 to 41 their biographical details, are shown on page 31 of the and 44 to 116 respectively.
Details of the businesses, the annual review and summary financial statements.
development of the Group and its subsidiaries and Dennis Stevenson, who was formerly chairman, retired likely future developments are given on pages 1 to 13 with effect from 1 October 2005 and Glen Moreno was and on pages 16 to 30 of the annual review and appointed as chairman in his place.
Sales and profits of Details of directors remuneration and interests in the different sectors and geographical markets are ordinary shares and options of the company are given on pages 53 to 56. contained in the report on directors remuneration on pages 21 to 37.
Five directors, David Bell, Terry Results and dividend Burns, Reuben Mark, Vernon Sankey and Rana Talwar The profit for the financial year ended 31 December will retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual 2005 was 644m 2004: 284m and has been general meeting AGM on 21 April 2006.
Three of transferred to reserves.
A final dividend of 17p per them, being eligible, will offer themselves for reshare is recommended for the year ended 31 December election.
Reuben Mark, who joined the board as a 2005.
This, together with the interim dividend already non-executive director in 1988, and Vernon Sankey, paid, makes a total for the year of 27p 2004: 25.4p.
who joined the board as a non-executive director in The final dividend will be paid on 5 May 2006 to 1993, will not offer themselves for re-election at the shareholders on the register at the close of business on AGM.
In addition, Glen Moreno, who joined the board 7 April 2006, the record date.
as chairman on 1 October 2005, will retire from ofce in accordance with the companys articles of significant acquisitions and disposals association.
He will offer himself for reappointment at In April 2005, Pearson disposed of its 79% interest the AGM.
in Recoletos Grupo fide Comunicacin, S. A. to Retos Cartera, a consortium of investors, for net Details of directors service contracts can be found on cash proceeds of 371m.
No director was materially interested in any sold its 22% stake in MarketWatch to Dow Jones & Co. contract of signicance to the companys business.
Corporate governance Transactions with related parties Introduction A detailed account of how we comply Details of transactions with related parties, which are with the provisions of the Combined Code hereinafter reportable under IAS 24 Related party disclosures, referred to as the Code can be found on our website are given in note 32 to the accounts on page 97. at www.
htm, or by telephoning our company secretarial department on Capital expenditure 44 0 20 7010 2257 or 2253.
The analysis of capital expenditure and details of In terms of compliance with the Code during 2005, capital commitments are shown in notes 11, 12, 17 the only area where explanation is required, since the and 31 to the accounts on pages 65 to 69, 75 and 97. resignation of Peter Jovanovich, in January 2005, who had a service contract that provided for two years Events after the balance sheet date severance pay, is the independence of both Reuben On 9 January 2006, Pearson announced the purchase Mark and Vernon Sankey as non-executive directors, of 1,130,739 shares in Interactive Data Corporation which is covered below.
Except for this, the board IDC for $21.67 per share in cash.
This purchase believes that we are in full compliance with the Code.
brings Pearsons total holding in IDC to almost 62%.
On 23 January 2006, Pearson announced the Composition of the board The board consists of the acquisition of Promissor, a leading professional chairman, Glen Moreno, four executive directors testing business from Houghton Mifin Company including the chief executive, Marjorie Scardino, and for $42m in cash.
Terry Burns was appointed as our senior independent director in 2004.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED Independence of directors As announced last year both and to make a substantial, constructively critical Vernon Sankey and Reuben Mark will stand down contribution as directors.
As a result of their standing from the board at the 2006 AGM.
Both have served on down, and in order to restore balance to the board, the board for more than the recommended nine years we are expecting to announce the appointment of under the Code, but both have continued to perform two new non-executive directors in the near future.
The board Following the approval of their appointments at the considered their independence during 2005, as they AGM, the board will then consist of six independent are required to do under the Code, and concluded that directors, four executive directors and the chairman.
both continued to demonstrate a robust independence Board meetings The board meets six times a year and at other times as appropriate.
The following table sets out the attendance of our directors at the board and committee meetings during 2005: Audit Treasury Personnel Nomination Board committee committee committee committee meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 1 maximum 5 maximum 2 Chairman Dennis Stevenson 512 Glen Moreno 1 Executive directors Marjorie Scardino 62 David Bell 6 Rona Fairhead 61 John Makinson 6 Non-executive directors Terry Burns 5 and 3 and part of 1 part of 1 5 2 Patrick Cescau 64 2 Susan Fuhrman 62 Reuben Mark 3and 3 and part of 3 part of 1 3 2 Vernon Sankey 64 1 2 Rana Talwar 6152 Until 1 October 2005.
Glen Moreno was appointed chairman on 1 October 2005.
The role and business of the board The formal matters The board receives timely, regular and necessary reserved for the boards decision and approval are: management and other information to full its duties.
the companys strategy: acquisitions, disposals and Directors can obtain independent professional advice capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds: at the companys expense in the performance of their all guarantees over 10m: treasury policies: the interim duties as directors.
All directors have access to the and final dividends and the financial statements: advice and the services of the company secretary.
borrowing powers: appointments to the board: and the In addition to these formal roles, we aim to give the appointment and removal of the company secretary.
non-executive directors access to the senior managers PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED of the business via involvement at both formal and repaid not later than when the outcome becomes informal meetings.
In this way we hope that the final if: i they are convicted in the proceedings: experience and expertise of the non-executive directors ii judgement is given against them: or iii the court can be garnered to the benefit of the company.
refuses to grant the relief sought.
At the same time, the non-executive directors will Dialogue with institutional shareholders There is an develop an understanding of the abilities of the extensive programme for executive directors, including most senior managers that will help them judge the the chairman, and top managers to meet with companys prospects and plans for succession.
The non-executive directors Board evaluation With the introduction of a new meet informally with shareholders both before and chairman late in the year, our focus is on continuing after the AGM, and respond to shareholder queries to enhance board and committee effectiveness going and requests.
The chairman and senior independent forward.
The chairman has begun a process of director make themselves available to meet any meeting with the directors to discuss their views on significant shareholder, as required.
Makinson Cowell board performance and effectiveness and to develop reports to the board each year the results of an proposals for implementation during 2006.
The results extensive survey on major shareholders views and at of this review will be reported back to the board at a every board meeting on changes in market positions forthcoming meeting.
We also plan during the year, and shareholders views.
to review the composition and structure of each of our board committees.
During 2005 the executive directors Board committees were evaluated by the chief executive for performance The board has established four committees.
Chairmen against personal objectives under the companys and members of these committees are appointed by standard appraisal mechanism.
the board on the recommendation where appropriate of the nomination committee and in consultation with Directors training Directors receive an induction each requisite committee chairman.
programme and a range of information about the company when they join the board.
This includes i Audit committee During the year, the committee background information on Pearson and its comprised: Vernon Sankey chairman, Terry Burns, directors and details of board procedures, directors Patrick Cescau, Reuben Mark.
responsibilities and various governance-related issues, All of the committee members are independent including procedures for dealing in Pearson shares: non-executive directors and have significant financial their legal obligations as directors: as well as continuing experience due to the senior positions they hold or updates to the induction programme through held in other listed or publicly traded companies.
presentations about the companys operations at board meetings and ongoing information.
The induction The committee has written terms of reference also includes a series of meetings with members of which clearly set out its authority and duties.
the board, presentations regarding the business from These can be found on the company website at senior executives and a brieng on Pearsons investor www.
We supplement the existing The committee provides the board with the means directors training programme by making available to to appraise Pearsons financial management and the directors the opportunity for additional visits to reporting, and to assess the integrity of the Groups operating company divisions and meetings with local accounting procedures and financial controls.
management, as well as facilitating access to externally The Groups internal and external auditors have direct run courses should a director wish to make use of them.
access to the committee to raise any matter of concern Directors indemnities The company grants an and to report the results of work directed by the indemnity to all of its directors in accordance with committee.
The committee reports to the full board section 337A of the Companies Act 1985 in relation of Pearson.
The committee also reviews the objectivity to costs incurred by them in defending any civil or of the external auditors, including non-audit services criminal proceedings and in connection with an supplied, and ensures that there is an appropriate application for relief under section 144 3 or 4 or audit relationship.
section 727 of the Companies Act, so long as it is P PEARSON EARSON G GO OVERN VERNANCE ANCE AND AND F FIN INANCIAL ANCIAL S ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S 2005 2005 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED The committee met four times during the year with Susan Fuhrman, Reuben Mark, Vernon Sankey, the chief financial officer, head of group control and Rana Talwar.
other members of the senior management team, The committee is comprised of the chairman, chief together with the external auditors, in attendance.
executive and all of the non-executive directors and The committee meets privately with the external meets as and when required.
The committee primarily auditors and the head of group control at least once a monitors the composition and balance of the board year or more regularly if required at its or their request.
and its committees, and identies and recommends to Following the departure of Vernon Sankey from the board the appointment of new directors.
Whilst the the board at the 2006 AGM, the board plans to review chairman of the board chairs this committee he is not the composition and structure of the audit committee permitted to chair meetings when the appointment of and will appoint a new chairman of the committee his successor is being considered or during discussion in due course.
ii Personnel committee During the year, the committee In accordance with the companys articles of comprised: Reuben Mark chairman, Terry Burns, association, directors are subject to reappointment Rana Talwar.
at the AGM immediately following the date of their appointment, and thereafter they must seek re-election The committee is comprised solely of independent no more than three years from the date they were last non-executive directors and meets at least three re-elected.
The committee will recommend to the times a year and on other occasions when board the names of the directors who are to seek circumstances require.
The committee has responsibility for determining the During the year Glen Moreno was appointed to remuneration and benets packages of the executive the board as chairman.
When considering the directors, the chief executives of the principal operating appointment of a new chairman the committee companies and other members of the management reviews the current balance of skills and experience committee, as well as recommending the chairmans on the board.
A detailed specication is drawn up to remuneration to the board for its decision.
It also include any specic knowledge or expertise that is reviews the companys management development, considered necessary for the board.
External search diversity and succession plans.
consultants are then used to identify suitable The committee takes independent advice from candidates who are shortlisted and then evaluated by consultants when required.
No executive director takes the committee before it submits its recommendation part in any discussion or decision concerning their to the board as a whole.
The committee reports to the The committee has written terms of reference full board and its report on directors remuneration, which clearly set out its authority and duties.
which has been considered and adopted by the board, These can be found on the company website at is set out on pages 21 to 37. www.
The committee has written terms of reference iv Treasury committee During the year the which clearly set out its authority and duties.
committee comprised: Dennis Stevenson chairman, These can be found on the company website at Rona Fairhead, Vernon Sankey, Rana Talwar.
The committee sets the policies for the companys Following the departure of Reuben Mark from treasury department and reviews its procedures on a the board at the 2006 AGM, the board plans to review regular basis.
The treasury committee schedules one the composition and structure of the personnel meeting a year and arranges to meet at other times, committee and will appoint a new chairman of the if necessary.
iii Nomination committee During the year the Internal control committee comprised: Dennis Stevenson chairman, The board of directors has overall responsibility for Marjorie Scardino, Terry Burns, Patrick Cescau, Pearsons system of internal control, which is designed PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED to manage the risks facing the Group, safeguard assets executives as appropriate.
Group senior management and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance meets, on a quarterly basis, with operating company against material financial misstatement or loss.
management to review their business and financial performance against plan and forecast.
Major business In accordance with the provisions of the Combined risks relevant to each operating company are reviewed Code, the directors confirm that they have reviewed in these meetings.
In addition, the chief executive prepares a monthly They also confirm that there is an ongoing process report for the board on key developments, allowing for the identication, evaluation and performance and issues in the business.
management of significant business risks.
This process accords with the revised Turnbull guidance and has iv Risk management Operating companies undertake been in place throughout 2005 and up to the date of formal semi-annual risk reviews to identify new or approval of this annual report.
The results of these reviews are submitted to group control for evaluation The Groups internal control framework covers and onward reporting to the board, via the audit financial, operational and compliance risks.
Throughout the year, risk sessions features are described below: facilitated by group control, are held with operating i Board The board of directors, which has overall company management and with the Pearson executive responsibility for Pearsons system of internal control, committee to discuss and review the significant risks exercises that control through an organisational facing the business.
structure with clearly dened levels of responsibility v Group control The group control function is and authority and appropriate reporting procedures.
responsible for providing independent assurance to To maintain effective control over strategic, financial, management on the effectiveness of internal controls.
operational and compliance matters the board meets The annual internal audit plan, derived from a regularly, and has a formal schedule of matters that is risk model, is approved by the audit committee.
brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for Internal audit activity is supplemented by annual attention.
Responsibility for financial management and financial control self-assessment returns, completed by reporting, internal control and risk management has the businesses.
Recommendations to improve internal been delegated to the audit committee by the board.
controls and or to mitigate risks are agreed with At each meeting, the audit committee considers reports operating company management after each audit.
from management, group control and the external Formal follow-up procedures allow group control to auditors, with the aim of reviewing the effectiveness monitor operating companies progress in of the internal financial and operating control implementing its recommendations and resolve any environment of the Group.
Regular reports on its findings are ii Operating company controls The identication and provided to executive management and, via the audit mitigation of major business risks is the responsibility committee, to the board.
Each operating The head of group control is jointly responsible with company maintains internal controls and procedures the group legal counsel for monitoring compliance appropriate to its structure and business environment, with our Code of Business Conduct, and investigating whilst complying with Group policies, standards any reported incidents.
vi Treasury management The treasury department iii Financial reporting There is a comprehensive operates within policies approved by the board and its strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system procedures are reviewed regularly by the treasury with an annual operating plan approved by the board committee.
Major transactions are authorised outside of directors.
Monthly financial information, including the department at the requisite level, and there is an trading results, balance sheets, cash ow statements appropriate segregation of duties.
Frequent reports are and indebtedness, are reported against the made to the chief financial officer and regular reports corresponding gures for the plan and prior years, are prepared for the treasury committee.
with corrective action outlined by operating company P PEARSON EARSON G GO OVERN VERNANCE ANCE AND AND F FIN INANCIAL ANCIAL S ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S 2005 2005 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED vii Insurance Insurance is provided through Pearsons Our AGM which will be held on 21 April this year insurance subsidiary or externally, depending on the includes opportunities to meet the companys scale of the risk and the availability of cover in the managers, presentations about Pearsons businesses external market, with the objective of achieving the and the previous years results as well as general most cost effective balance between insured and AGM business.
People Sarbanes Oxley During 2005, Pearson employed over 33,000 people in As a requirement of our US listing we are required 60 countries.
Each business has detailed employment to comply with various provisions of the Sarbanes practices for recruitment, remuneration, employee Oxley Act, including Section 404 relating to the relations, health and safety, and terms and conditions effectiveness of our financial reporting internal designed for the different sectors and countries in controls.
This will apply to Pearson for the first time which it operates.
in 2006. significant work has already been undertaken We are committed to equality of opportunity for to ensure compliance and we continue on track to all regardless of gender, race, age, physical ability, meet our deadlines.
This applies equally to recruitment and to the promotion, development and Going concern training of people who are already part of Pearson.
Having reviewed the Groups liquid resources and The company takes seriously its obligations to the borrowing facilities, and the 2006 and 2007 cash ow disabled and seeks not to discriminate against current forecasts contained in the 2006 operating plan, the or prospective employees because of any disability.
directors believe that Pearson has adequate resources to We are always willing to make reasonable adjustments continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
to premises or employment arrangements if these For this reason, the financial statements have, as usual, substantially disadvantage a disabled employee or been prepared on that basis.
Every effort is made to nd suitable alternative jobs and, as necessary, training for Shareholder communication those who are unable to continue in their existing role Pearson has an extensive programme of due to disability.
communication with all its shareholders large and small, institutional and private.
We also make a Pearson is committed to clear and timely particular effort to communicate regularly with our communication with its people concerning business employees, a large majority of whom are shareholders performance.
It works hard to maintain effective in the company.
We post all company announcements channels of communication and supports employee on our website, www.
com, as soon as they representation to help positive employee relations.
are released, and major shareholder presentations Twice a year, the European Employee Forum meets to are made accessible via webcast or conference discuss issues of importance to staff in their businesses call.
Our website contains a dedicated investor across Europe.
relations section with an extensive archive of past The directors believe that the best way for people to announcements and presentations, historical financial profit from the success of the company is for them to performance, share price data and a calendar of events.
Pearson operates worldwide It also includes information about all of our businesses, share plans taking account of local country tax and links to their websites, and details of our corporate securities regulation.
With more than half of our responsibility policies and activities.
people based in the US, we have taken special care to In 2005, we continued our programme of educational make it easy for them to acquire shares in Pearson.
seminars for our institutional shareholders focusing on The listing of our shares on the New York Stock individual parts of Pearson.
The seminars are available Exchange allows us to operate a US Employee Stock to all shareholders via webcast on www.
Purchase Plan that makes share ownership in Pearson accessible to the majority of our employees.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED Supplier payment policy Registered auditors In accordance with Operating companies are responsible for agreeing section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act the terms and conditions under which business resolutions proposing the reappointment of transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
 LLP as auditors to the It is company policy that suppliers are aware of such company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level terms of payment and that payments to them are made of remuneration to be agreed by the directors.
in accordance with these, provided that the supplier is Auditor independence In line with best practice, also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
the audit committee has introduced a policy that Group trade creditors at 31 December 2005 were defines those non-audit services that the independent equivalent to 30 days of purchases during the year auditors,  LLP, may or may ended on that date.
The company does not have any not provide to Pearson.
The policy requires the significant trade creditors and therefore is unable to provision of these services to be approved in advance disclose average supplier payment terms.
The policy also establishes other procedures to ensure that the auditors External giving independence has not been compromised.
A full In 2005, Pearsons charitable giving totalled 3.3m statement of the fees for audit and non-audit services 2004: 2.5m.
In addition to cash donations, Pearson is provided in note 5 on page 59 to the accounts.
provides in-kind support such as books, publishing expertise, advertising space and staff time.
We focus Statement of directors responsibilities Company law our charitable giving on projects related to education.
requires the directors to prepare financial statements We encourage our employees to support their personal for each financial year which give a true and fair view charities by matching donations and payroll giving.
of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that More details can be found on our website at period.
The directors are responsible for keeping www.
proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position Share capital of the company and the Group and to enable them to Details of share issues are given in note 25 to the ensure that the financial statements comply with the accounts on page 92.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the 29 April 2005, the company was authorised, subject assets of the Group, and hence for taking reasonable to certain conditions, to acquire up to 80 million steps towards preventing and detecting fraud and other of its ordinary shares by market purchase.
In preparing the financial statements on Although circumstances have not merited using pages 38 to 41 and 44 to 116 inclusive, the directors this authority and there are no plans at present consider that appropriate accounting policies have to do so, shareholders will be asked to renew this been used and applied in a consistent manner, authority at the AGM on 21 April 2006. supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and At 26 February 2006, beneficial interests amounting to estimates, and that all relevant accounting standards 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the have been followed.
company notied to the company comprised: Approved by the board on 26 February 2006 and Number ofshares Percentage signed on its behalf by Franklin Resources, Inc. 104,485,808 13.00% Philip Hoffman, Secretary The Capital Group Companies Inc. 55,653,209 6.92% Annual general meeting The notice convening the AGM to be held at 12 noon on Friday, 21 April 2006 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE, is contained in a circular to shareholders to be dated 21 March 2006.
P PEARSON EARSON G GO OVERN VERNANCE ANCE AND AND F FIN INANCIAL ANCIAL S ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S 2005 2005
