BOARD OF DIRECTORS Chairman Abbey National plc and Glas Cymru Limited and a Glen Moreno chairman, aged 62, was appointed non-executive director of Banco Santander Central chairman of Pearson on 1 October 2005.
On 1 October 2005, he was appointed deputy senior independent non-executive director of Man chairman of Marks and Spencer Group plc.
He was Group plc and also a director of Fidelity International appointed a non-executive director of Pearson in Limited and a trustee of The Prince of Liechtenstein May 1999 and senior independent director in Foundation and of The Liechtenstein Global Trust.
Reuben Mark aged 67, is chairman and chief Executive directors executive of the Colgate-Palmolive Company Marjorie Scardino chief executive, aged 59, joined and a non-executive director of Time Warner Inc. the Pearson board in January 1997.
She trained and He became a non-executive director of Pearson practised as a lawyer, and was chief executive of in 1988.
He will retire from the board at the The Economist Group from 1993 until joining 2006 AGM.
She is also a non-executive director of Nokia Corporation.
Vernon Sankey s aged 56, was previously chief executive of Reckitt & Colman plc and is chairman David Bell director for people, aged 59, became of Photo-Me International plc.
He is a non-executive a director of Pearson in March 1996.
In 1998 he director of Taylor Woodrow plc and Zurich Financial was appointed Pearsons director for people with Services AG.
He became a non-executive director responsibility for the recruitment, motivation, of Pearson in 1993.
He will retire from the board at the development and reward of employees.
also chairman of the Financial Times Group, a non-executive director of VITEC Group plc and Rana Talwars aged 57, was previously group chief chairman of the International Youth Foundation.
executive of Standard Chartered plc.
He is chairman of Sabre Capital Worldwide and Centurion Bank and John Makinson chairman and chief executive officer a non-executive director of Schlumberger Limited and of The Penguin Group, aged 51, joined the Pearson Fortis Bank.
He became a non-executive director of board in March 1996 and was finance director Pearson in March 2000. until June 2002.
He was appointed chairman of The Penguin Group in May 2001.
He is also chairman Patrick Cescau aged 57, is group chief executive of Interactive Data Corporation and a non-executive of Unilever.
He became a non-executive director director of George Weston Limited in Canada.
Rona Fairheads chief financial officer, aged 44, joined Susan Fuhrman aged 61, is dean of Penn Graduate the Pearson board in June 2002, after serving as deputy School of Education at the University of Pennsylvania.
From 1996 until She is a member of the Board of Trustees of the 2001, she worked at ICI, where she served as executive Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching vice president, group control and strategy.
She is also a and a member of the Council for Corporate and School non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc.
Partnerships of the Coca-Cola Foundation.
She became a non-executive director of Pearson in July 2004.
Non-executive directors A member of the audit committee.
Terry Burns aged 61, was the UK governments A member of the personnel committee.
chief economic adviser from 1980 until 1991 and A member of the nomination committee.
Permanent Secretary of HM Treasury from 1991 s A member of the treasury committee.
He is non-executive chairman of PEARSON ANNUAL REVIEW 2005
