DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS Sir Nigel Rudd 59 Non-executive Chairman N Trevor Finn 48 Chief Executive Appointed non-executive chairman of Pendragon in October 1989.
He Joined the vehicle division of Williams PLC in 1982 and subsequently is non-executive chairman of Pilkington plc and of Boots Group PLC and became divisional managing director.
He was appointed chief executive deputy chairman of Barclays PLC.
Sir Nigel chairs the companys Nomination of Pendragon prior to the demerger from Williams.
executive director of Falcon Investment Trust PLC and of Automotive Skills Limited.
William Rhodes 67 Non-executive Director N Joined Pendragon in October 1989.
He is a director of a number of Martin Casha 45 Chief Operating Officer private companies.
Mr. Rhodes chairs the boards of trustees of a number Joined the vehicle division of Williams PLC in 1982 and subsequently of the groups occupational pension schemes.
He was appointed operations director of Pendragon in September 1995 and chief operating officer in November Neil Hannah 68 Non-executive Director N 2001.
He is a chartered surveyor and nonexecutive chairman of Innes England Limited, commercial property David Forsyth 49 Finance Director surveyors.
Joined Pendragon in October 1997 from Lonrho PLC where, since 1986, he held a number of senior finance positions.
John Holt 66 Non-executive Director A N R Joined Pendragon in November 1999.
He was previously head of Coopers Hilary Sykes 45 Corporate Services Director & Lybrands now  computer assurance practice Hilary Sykes is a solicitor and prior to joining Pendragon, advised the in the North of England.
Mr Holt is the senior non-executive director company as a corporate lawyer with Geldards LLP.
She joined Pendragon and chairman of the Audit Committee.
in 1994 as company secretary and became a director in April 1999.
Mike Davies 58 Non-executive Director A N R A Member of the Audit Committee Joined Pendragon in October 2004.
He is the senior non-executive N Member of the Nomination Committee director of Taylor Woodrow plc and non-executive chairman of Marshalls R Member of the Remuneration Committee plc.
He also serves as a non-executive director on the boards of a number retires annually at the AGM, proposed for re-election of private companies.
He is the chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
retiring by rotation at the AGM, proposed for re-election will retire after initial appointment: proposed for election at the AGM In addition, the company has announced that the following individuals are to join the board of Pendragon, each as a non-executive director:- David Joyce 57 Non-executive Director A N R Malcolm Le May 48 Non-executive Director A N R Due to join Pendragon on 1 March 2006.
He is a civil engineer and chief Due to join Pendragon on 1 March 2006.
He is executive president of operating officer of Vinci PLC formerly Norwest Holst Group PLC.
JER Partners Europe, an investment firm specialising in commercial property Mr Joyce is also a non-executive director, and the chairman of the Buildings development in Europe and North America.
Mr Le May is also a nonCommittee of the Wales Millennium Centre.
executive director of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group Plc.
Secretary Stockbrokers Solicitors Bankers Hilary Sykes Arden Partners Limited CMS Cameron McKenna LLP Barclays Bank PLC Geldards LLP Lloyds TSB Bank plc Royal Bank of Scotland plc Registered Office Registrars Auditors Loxley House Capita IRG Plc KPMG Audit Plc 2 Oakwood Court The Registry Little Oak Drive Beckenham Road Annesley Beckenham Nottingham NG15 0DR Kent BR3 4TU Telephone 01623 725000 Facsimile 01623 725010 Registered number 2304195 14
