BOARD OF DIRECTORS Kenneth George Harvey BSc, CEng, FIEE 64 Gerard Dominic Connell MA, FCA 47 Non-executive Chairman Senior independent Non-executive Director Was appointed on 1 March 1997.
Ken was formerly Was appointed on 1 October 2003.
Gerard is chairman and chief executive of Norweb Plc.
He was currently Group Finance Director of Wincanton Plc.
chairman of National Grid Holdings in 1995 and was Previously he was a director of Hill Samuel and a previously deputy chairman of London Electricity managing director of Bankers Trust and has held and earlier its engineering director.
He has also other corporate finance and business development been Chairman of a number of limited and private positions in the City and in industry.
Currently he is a nonKatharine Mary Hope Mortimer MA, BPhil 59 executive director of National Grid Transco Plc.
Non-executive Director Robert John Baty OBE, FREng, CEng, FICE, FCIWEM, Was appointed on 1 May 2000.
Kate is currently a CCMI, ACIArb 61 freelance financial consultant, a member of the Chief Executive, South West Water Limited Crown Agents Foundation Council and a director Was appointed on 1 March 1996.
Bob was formerly of Crown Agents Asset Management Limited and engineering and scientific director of South West Crown Agents Financial Securities Limited.
She Water Services Limited having joined South West was formerly a director of N M Rothschild & Sons Water Authority in 1988.
Previously he held Limited, Director of Policy at the Securities and engineering and operational appointments with Investments Board, Chief Executive of Walker Books North West Water Authority.
He is also currently and was a member of the Competition Commission a non-executive director of the Royal Devon & between 1995 and 2001.
Dinah Alison Nichols CB, BA Hons 61 Colin Irwin John Hamilton Drummond MA, MBA, Non-executive Director LTCL, CCMI 54 Was appointed on 12 June 2003.
Dinah was Chief Executive, Viridor Waste Limited formerly Director General Environment at the Was appointed on 1 April 1992.
Prior to joining the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Company Colin was a divisional chief executive of and previously held various senior appointments Coats Viyella, having previously been corporate within Government departments including being development director of Renold plc, a strategy Head of the Water Directorate during the period of consultant with the Boston Consulting Group and water privatisation.
She is also a Crown Estate an official of the Bank of England.
He is Chairman Commissioner, a non-executive director of Shires of the Governments Environmental Sector Smaller Companies Plc, chair of the National Forest Advisory Group and was a member of the Company, a board member of Toynbee Housing Governments Advisory Committee for Business Association and chair of Toynbee Partnership in the Environment between 2001 and 2003.
David Jeremy Dupont MA, MBA 51 Group Director of Finance Was appointed on 2 March 2002.
David was formerly regulatory and finance director of South West Water Limited, having joined Pennon Group Plc then South West Water Plc in 1992 as strategic planning manager.
Previously he held business planning and development roles with Gateway Corporation.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Audit Nomination Company secretary and registered office Gerard Connell Chairman Ken Harvey Chairman Ken Woodier Kate Mortimer Gerard Connell Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR Dinah Nichols Kate Mortimer Registered in England No 2366640 Dinah Nichols Environment Auditors Bruce Hewett Chairman co-opted member Remuneration  LLP Bob Baty Kate Mortimer Chairman Chartered Accountants Colin Drummond Gerard Connell 31 Great George Street, Bristol BS1 5QD Dinah Nichols Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Pennon Group Plc 37
