REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE DIRECTORS SUBMIT THEIR REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group continue to be the provision of water and sewerage The Group has a culture of continuous improvement through services and waste management.
Further information regarding investment in people at all levels within the Group.
the Group, including important events and its progress during the year, events since the year end and likely future developments is The Company is committed to pursuing equality and diversity in contained in the Chairmans statement, in the Business reviews all its employment activities including recruitment, training, and in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 36. career development and promotion and ensuring there is no bias or discrimination in the treatment of people.
In particular, the The principal subsidiaries of the Company are listed in note 32 to Company welcomes applications for employment from disabled the financial statements on page 78. persons and makes special arrangements and adjustments as necessary to ensure that disabled applicants are treated fairly when attending for interview or for pre-employment aptitude FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDEND tests.
Wherever possible, the opportunity is taken to retrain people who become disabled during their employment in order to Group profit on ordinary activities after taxation was 68.8 maintain their employment within the Group.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 29.2p per ordinary share to shareholders on the register on 5 August 2005, Employees are consulted regularly about changes which may making a total for the year of 43.0p, the cost of which would be affect them either through their Trade Union appointed 55.1 million, leaving a retained surplus of 13.7 million to be representatives or by means of the elected Staff Council which transferred to reserves.
operates in South West Water for staff employees.
These forums, together with regular meetings with particular groups of The Operating and Financial Review on pages 28 to 34 analyses the employees, are used to ensure that employees are kept up to date results in more detail and sets out other financial information, with the operating and financial performance of the Company.
including the Directors opinion on asset values page 30.
The Group also uses a monthly information cascade process to provide employees with important and up to date information DIRECTORS about key events.
Bob Baty, David Dupont and Kate Mortimer are due to retire at the The Group encourages share ownership amongst its employees by Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
operating an Inland Revenue approved sharesave scheme open to Resolutions for their re-election will be proposed at the Annual all eligible employees and intends to launch a Share Incentive General Meeting.
Plan SIP to further develop this policy.
No Director has, or has had, a material interest, directly or Further information relating to employee matters is set out in the indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any Operating and Financial Review on page 18. contract significant to the Companys business.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT A list of all the Directors during the year is set out in the emoluments table on page 42.
Further details relating to the Research and development activities within the Group involving Directors and their service contracts or contracts for services are water and waste treatment processes amounted to 0.1 million set out on pages 38 to 44 and details of the Directors interests in during the year 2003 04 0.1 million.
shares of the Company are given on pages 43 and 44.
48 Pennon Group Plc REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS DONATIONS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING During the year, charitable donations amounting to 100,000 The sixteenth Annual General Meeting will be held at the were made.
Details relating to charitable and other donations are Plymouth Pavilions, Millbay Road, Plymouth, Devon PL1 3LF on 28 set out in the Operating and Financial Review on page 20.
In addition to routine business, resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to: TAX STATUS renew the existing authorities to issue a limited number of The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the shares and to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. seek authority to make political donations under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS re-elect Bob Baty, David Dupont and Kate Mortimer as Details are set out in the Operating and Financial Review on Directors of the Company page 30. seek approval to amend the Articles of Association of the SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Company by way of separate resolutions to a amend the borrowing powers of the Company, and b update the Details are set out in the Shareholder information section on Articles generally.
Details of the resolutions are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 90 to 95 of this Annual Report.
AUDITORS  LLP were appointed auditors until the By Order of the Board conclusion of the sixteenth Annual General Meeting.
A resolution KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary for their re-appointment upon the recommendation of the Audit 23 June 2005 Committee of the Board will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting and the auditors have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
APPOINTED BUSINESS South West Water Limited is required to publish additional financial information relating to the appointed business as water and sewerage undertaker in accordance with the Instrument of Appointment from the Secretary of State for the Environment.
A copy of this information will be available from 15 July 2005 upon application to the Company Secretary at Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR.
