10549 R&A 2005 Mid 20 3 06 11:58 Page 47 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF PERSIMMON PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the financial statements of Persimmon Plc for the year ended 31 December whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statement of Recognised Income do not extend to any other information.
and Expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on been audited.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts This report is made solely to the Companys shareholders, as a body, in and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys shareholders estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys adequately disclosed.
shareholders as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements AND AUDITORS and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration as adopted by the EU, are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Report to be audited.
OPINION Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the In our opinion: Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance UK and Ireland.
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the financial statements provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
affairs as at 31 December 2005: and We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we 1985 and, as regards the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified KPMG Audit Plc 1 The Embankment for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Chartered Accountants Neville Street report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards Registered Auditor Leeds statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion 24 February 2006 LS1 4DW on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
