10549 R&A 2005 Front 20 3 06 12:01 Page 31 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting to shareholders their Annual Report and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activity of the Group is housebuilding, all of which is carried out within England, Wales and Scotland and is unchanged from last year.
The Group trades under the brand names of Persimmon Homes, Charles Church, City Developments and, following the acquisition of Westbury plc, Space4 and Westbury Partnerships.
A review of the Groups activities during the year, of its future prospects and details of any financial instruments are contained within the Chairmans Neil Francis Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Financial Review Group Company Secretary on pages 2 to 23.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND PAYMENT SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The Groups revenue and profit before taxation In addition to the interests of Duncan Davidson and his arising from ordinary activities were 2,285.7m and family, who have holdings of 16,176,260 ordinary shares 495.4m respectively.
5.5% of the issued share capital, in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has been An interim dividend of 12.0p per share was paid to notified, or is aware of, the following interests of 3% or more shareholders on 21 October 2005 and it is now proposed of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at to pay a final dividend of 19.0p per share on 21 April 2006 to 24 February 2006: shareholders on the register at the close of business on Friday 10 March 2006, making a total for the year of Percentage Number of of issued 31.0p per share 2004: 27.5p.
The Directors are again offering ordinary shares share capital shares in lieu of cash for the final dividend, as this enables shareholders to increase their holdings in a simple and cost M & G Investment Mgt 16,617,802 5.63% effective manner.
Baillie Gifford & Co 15,363,540 5.21% Scottish Widows Inv.
Partnership 12,971,056 4.40% DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS Barclays Global Investors 11,959,110 4.05% Legal & General Inv.
Mgt 10,210,797 3.46% The Directors of the Company and their biographical JP Morgan Fleming Asset Mgt 9,947,048 3.37% details are shown on pages 26 and 27.
All of the Directors Pioneer Investment Mgt IRE 9,602,551 3.25% served for the whole of the year except Adam Applegarth who Jupiter Asset Management 8,954,712 3.03% was appointed on 1 May 2005 and Nicholas Wrigley who was appointed on 1 February 2006.
Both Mr Applegarth and Mr Wrigley will stand for re-election as Directors of the EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT Company, in accordance with the Articles of Association, at The importance of good relations and communications with the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2006.
None of the employees is fundamental to the continued success of our Directors have any contracts of significance with the Company.
Each operating business maintains employee relations The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors and consults employees as appropriate to its own particular in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2005 and as needs.
Internal Group magazines are published twice a year at the date of this report are disclosed in the Remuneration and distributed to all employees to ensure they are kept well Report on page 41.
Details of the interests of the Directors informed of the performance and objectives of the Group.
in share options and awards of shares can be found on The Company makes various benefit schemes available to pages 41 and 42 within the same report.
employees, including a Save as You Earn Scheme.
All employees GOING CONCERN are encouraged to participate, subject to eligibility.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
31 Persimmon Plc Annual Report 2005 10549 R&A 2005 Front 20 3 06 12:01 Page 32 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY Equal opportunities for training, career development and The Group agrees payment with its trade creditors and other promotion are available to all employees regardless of race, suppliers on an individual contract basis when goods and colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, sex, gender, sexual services are ordered rather than following a standard code.
orientation, marital status, age or disability.
Applications for The policy is to abide by these agreed terms whenever it is employment by disabled persons are always fully and fairly satisfied that the goods or services have been provided in considered with appropriate regard to the aptitudes and abilities accordance with the contract terms and conditions.
The of the person concerned.
In the event of an employee becoming Companys average creditor payment period at 31 December disabled during their employment the Company will endeavour 2005 was 46 days 2004: 38 days.
to continue their employment and arrange appropriate training CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS and or adjustments to their working environment.
Over the last year each of our 36 operating businesses has HEALTH AND SAFETY chosen their own charity to support.
The Group as a whole has We are committed to ensuring the health and safety of our made donations of 203,000 to charitable organisations during employees, subcontractors, customers, visitors to our sites the year.
Further details of the Companys community and members of the public who may be affected by our work involvement and charitable activities can be found in our activities.
Our in-house Health and Safety Department is led Corporate Responsibility Report on our website at by the Group Health and Safety Director who reports to www.
com David Bryant, the Director responsible for Health and Safety.
No political donations were made during the year.
The department has 14 Regional and Assistant Regional Safety Advisors who provide advice and support to operational EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE management and staff at all levels and who monitor the On 17 January 2006 the Companys offer for the entire issued implementation of the Health and Safety Policy and share capital of Westbury plc was declared unconditional in all Procedures.
The Group policy documentation and safety respects and by 9 March 2006 we expect to own all of the manuals were reviewed in 2005 to reflect internal management issued shares of that Company.
Further details are included system changes and the introduction of the Working at in the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review and in Height Regulations.
Note 32 to the financial statements.
Over the past year we have: AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES Maintained an ongoing training programme for all levels At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2005, of employees in line with our Health and Safety Policy shareholders granted the Company authority to purchase up requirements, including substantial investment in the 5 day to an aggregate of 28,911,176 of its own shares.
No shares have Site Manager Safety Awareness Scheme qualification for our been purchased to date under this authority, which expires at construction management.
the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Helped to raise the health and safety awareness of our A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders contractors through extensive sponsorship and support of at the Annual General Meeting.
the Health & Safety Executive HSE Working well ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Together Campaign.
The Annual General Meeting will commence at 12 noon Continued to undertake regular and extensive health and on Thursday 20 April 2006 at The Savoy, Strand, London, safety audits of our management systems and inspections WC2R 0EU.
The notice of the meeting is given on the inside of our site and office based activities.
back cover of this Annual Report.
Reviewed all audit, inspection and accident report findings John White will retire at the Annual General Meeting, and produced Group and operating business action plans to following the Companys announcement that he will be ensure continual improvement in our management of health appointed Chairman, and is standing for re-election.
Hamish Leslie Melville and David Thompson will retire at Investigated all reportable RIDDOR accidents notified to us.
the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association and are also standing for re-election.
Both Responded positively to any enforcement action and other Adam Applegarth and Nicholas Wrigley are seeking to be findings observations by the HSE following site inspections.
elected at the Annual General Meeting having been appointed We are members of regional health and safety forums around to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting.
the country, in liaison with the HSE and some of our peers, to The Directors consider that it would be beneficial to the promote and share health and safety best practice across the Company if, in certain circumstances, the Company had the industry and actively support the House Builders Federation power to purchase its own ordinary shares.
If the authority Health and Safety Working Group Committee.
We continue to for the Company to purchase its own shares were to be be signatories to the House Builders Health and Safety Charter exercised, the Company would be able to do either or a that promotes a vision of a built environment that is safe by combination of the following: design, safe to construct, safe to maintain and safe to live in.
32 Persimmon Plc Annual Report 2005 Directors report
