Board of directors 3 Rodney Chase Keith Roberts 3 Ayman Asfari Non-executive Chairman, Age 62.
Rodney Chase was appointed nonKeith Roberts joined Petrofac in March 2002 Group Chief Executive, Age 47. executive Chairman of Petrofac on 21 June as Chief Financial Officer having spent most Ayman Asfari joined Petrofac in 1991 2005.
Rodney spent 38 years at BP plc, of of his working life as an investment banker to establish Petrofac International.
which 11 were served on its board.
He was based in the city of London.
After positions in Ayman has 25 years experience in the deputy group CEO on his retirement from the commercial banking with Standard oil & gas industry and served as BP group in May 2003.
He also spent time Chartered Bank and then with County Bank, Chief Executive Officer of Petrofac as CEO of the exploration and production, the merchant banking subsidiary of National International until his appointment as and marketing and refining divisions.
Westminster Bank, Keith moved into Group Chief Executive of Petrofac Limited corporate finance with Hawkpoint Partners He is currently non-executive deputy in January 2002. where he was a managing director and a chairman of Tesco plc, non-executive member of the operating committee.
Ayman previously worked as the managing director of Computer Sciences Corporation, director of a major civil and mechanical non-executive director of Nalco Company Keith has recently served as a non-executive construction business based in Oman.
and senior adviser to Lehman Brothers.
director of The Peacock Group plc, stepping He has previously held positions as a down from the board at the time that the board member of BOC plc and Diageo plc.
Maroun Semaan Chief Executive, Engineering & Construction, Age 50.
Maroun Semaan joined Petrofac in 1991 to establish Petrofac International.
From 1977 to 1991, Maroun held various project positions with Consolidated Contractors International Co. CCC, based in the Middle East, where he was involved in the management of oil and gas pipeline, process facilities and civil works construction contracts in Oman and Bahrain.
He was appointed Chief Executive of Petrofac Engineering & Construction in April 2004.
32 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nominations Committee 123 Bernard fide Combret Non-executive Director, Age 63.
Bernard fide Combret was appointed to the Petrofac Board in November 2003.
Bernard 123 Michael Press is an international consultant and was 123 Kjell Almskog deputy chairman of TotalFinaElfs executive Senior Independent Director committee until his retirement in 2002.
Following senior positions in both the French Michael Press was appointed to the Petrofac Kjell Almskog was appointed to the Petrofac Board in April 2002, having previously held Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Board in March 2005.
After starting his senior executive positions for the Standard Finance, he spent 24 years with Elf and professional career in brand management, Oil Company Inc and BP and as a main subsequently Total, and was heavily involved with Procter & Gamble, Kjell subsequently board director of Amerada Hess.
Between in building the trading organisation.
He also spent some 25 years in various senior 1997 and 2001, Michael held various posts held various senior executive positions, executive positions.
at KBC Advanced Technologies including including CEO of refining marketing, CEO for During 13 years in the ABB group, Kjell non-executive director, executive chairman, gas and power and CEO for trading and was country manager in Norway while in and chief executive.
parallel, developing a substantial and He is currently a director of AXA-RE and He is currently also non-executive chairman highly successful international oil and gas of SPS International, a supplier of downhole Winstar Resources Ltd, and a member of the activity, ultimately becoming group executive international advisory board of Banco tools and services used in wellbore clean-up vice-president and head of ABB Oil, Gas and and filtration, a director of ABARTA Inc and Santander.
He has previously held positions Petrochemicals.
In 1998, he moved to as a board member of Renault VI, CEPSA T3EnergyServices and a member of the Kvaerner as chief executive with advisory board of Pharmadule Emtunga.
responsibility for executing a major turnaround of that business until its acquisition by Aker in 2001.
Presently, Kjell is senior adviser and non-executive director of several international companies, including: Orkla, a large listed Norwegian group involved in branded consumer goods, chemicals and financial investments and KITRON ASA, a listed Norwegian group specialising in electronics manufacturing.
He is also chairman of the Kverneland Group, a Norwegian listed international supplier of agricultural machinery.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 33
