26 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Report of the directors The directors submit to the shareholders their report and the audited Group accounts of Photo-Me International plc for the year ended 30 April 2005.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group continue to be the manufacture, sale and operation of coin-operated automatic photobooths for identification and fun purposes, copiers, express print services and childrens rides together with the manufacture including by sub-contractors and sale of photo-processing equipment mainly minilabs and central processing laboratories, throughout the world.
The Groups activities are increasingly based on digital photographic applications.
The principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the Group are shown on page 63.
Results and dividends The results for the year are set out in the Group profit and loss account on page 36.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 1.2p per Ordinary share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 2 November 2005 to shareholders on the register at 7 October 2005 ex-dividend date: 5 October 2005.
This, together with the interim dividend of 0.8p per share paid on 8 April 2005, makes a total dividend for the year of 2.0p per Ordinary share.
Review of the business and future developments The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Financial review, all of which form part of this Report, describe the activities of the business during the financial year, recent events and the outlook for the future.
Market value of land and buildings The directors consider that the market value of the Groups interest in land and buildings exceeds, by around 50%, its aggregate net book value of 9,264,000 that is included in these accounts.
Research and development The Group is committed to its research and development programme in order to maintain its position as a market leader.
The expenditure incurred on the development of new vending equipment and photo-processing equipment is shown in Notes 3 and 9 to the accounts.
Employees The Groups loyal and skilled workforce is essential for its future prosperity.
Where appropriate, employees are provided with information on matters of interest and concern to them.
The Group encourages contact and interaction between all members of staff at all levels.
The equal opportunities policy followed by the Group gives full and fair consideration to applicants for employment who are disabled, for continuing the employment of those who become disabled and for training and developing disabled employees.
The Company continues to support Investors in People, thus demonstrating its commitment to the ongoing development of its staff at every level of the organisation within the UK.
Health, safety, the environment and social responsibilities Photo-Me International recognises its responsibilities to the environment and believes that health, safety and environmental HSE issues are integral and important components of best practice in business management.
The Groups commitment to HSE matters is demonstrated through the appointment of Franois Giuntini as the responsible director and through the activities of committees and advisers.
This structure establishes HSE objectives, reviews significant issues, recommends policy and provides strategy and direction.
National training centres have been set up to provide effective training of employees, including HSE awareness.
The involvement of the whole workforce in HSE procedures is actively encouraged.
The Groups environmental policies include: the management of operations to meet relevant legal regulations: the minimisation of energy, road transport and waste: the minimisation of exposure to any potential environmental liabilities.
The most significant environmental impacts by the Group have been reduced by: the safe destruction of all waste: using diesel fuel in most company vehicles: reviewing transport-related impacts by improved route planning: elimination of the use of halons for fire extinguishing: increased use of electronic communications to reduce paper consumption.
The Groups social responsibilities include the sponsorship of VALIDATE UK, a voluntary proof of age scheme for young people aged 12 years and over.
One of the aims of the scheme is to reduce under-age sales of age-restricted products and, in so doing, it helps to control many health and social problems associated with early addiction to alcohol, smoking, solvents and gambling.
Working with Trading Standards Officers, Health Professionals, Community Safety Officers and the Police, the scheme has been awarded PASS accreditation Proof of Age Standards Scheme, the UK Government standard for proof of age.
VALIDATE UK now operates in 73 local authorities and various police authorities across the United Kingdom.
More information is available at www.
co. uk Report of the directors Photo-Me International plc 27 Annual Report 2005 Board of directors and their interests Details of the present directors of the Company can be found on page 24, together with a brief biography of each director.
Each of them served on the Board throughout the year under review with the exception of Hugo Swire who was appointed on 1 June 2005.
In addition, David Scotland served as a director until his resignation on 1 June 2005.
As a newly appointed director, Hugo Swire will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting are Riccardo Costi, Sir Patrick McNair-Wilson and Francis Wahl.
Riccardo Costi and Francis Wahl offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests are given in the Remuneration report on pages 31 to 34.
Substantial shareholders On 20 June 2005 the following shareholders had a notifiable interest in the Ordinary shares of the Company: Number of % of issued Ordinary Ordinary shares share capital Serge Crasnianski director 71,143,070 19.53% Fidelity International Ltd. 54,637,855 14.99% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 17,400,000 4.78% Morgan Stanley Securities Ltd. 13,993,813 3.84% The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 11,056,462 3.04% Authority to purchase shares The Company was given authority at the 2004 Annual General Meeting to make market purchases of up to 18,212,618 of its own Ordinary shares representing 5% of the shares in issue at a maximum price per share of not more than 5% above the market value.
This authority will expire on the earlier of 4 May 2006 or the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
No market purchases of Ordinary shares were made by the Company in the year to 30 April 2005.
Although the Company has no current intention to make any market purchases of its own shares, approval will be sought from shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting to renew and extend the authority up to 10% of the shares in issue, being 36,428,912 shares.
Related party transactions Details of related party transactions are set out in Note 26 to the accounts.
Creditor payment policy The Company does not follow a universal code which deals specifically with payments to suppliers but, where appropriate, the Companys practice is to: a agree the terms of payment at the start of business with the supplier: b ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment: c pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
United Kingdom subsidiaries follow the same policy and overseas subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies, by applying local best practices.
The Companys average creditor payment period at 30 April 2005 was 57 days.
Going concern The directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors continue to operate the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Auditors The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
It is intended to move resolutions at the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them and authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
By order of the Board Robert E Lowes Company Secretary Church Road Bookham Surrey KT23 3EU 20 June 2005 Report of the directors
