Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Investing in our future 450m litres of processing capacity per annum at Stourton dairy 74.7m 15 distribution centres record investment strategically placed in our business nationwide 08 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 In 2005 we invested a record 74.7 million in our business, creating state-of-the-art facilities that make us a leader in technology and efficiency.
This investment has enabled us to reap the full benefits of post-merger integration and rationalisation, and enhanced our ability to capture new growth opportunities.
The new 18m dairy at Arlas state-of-the-art dairy at Stourton Lockerbie, Dumfriesshire, has a processing capacity in excess of incorporates many of the features 450m litres, housing the largest and developed at Stourton and will fastest four-pint weigh filler in the firmly establish Arlas production world as well as offering fully and distribution capabilities computerised traceability.
It sets throughout Scotland industry benchmarks for quality, efficiency and flexibility Total service nationwide Constantly raising standards Arla is the only dairy company that can offer full UK penetration During the year we completed a 6.5 million investment in our through its own network of strategically positioned dairies and Oakthorpe dairy in north London, modernising all areas of the distribution centres.
Since the merger between Arla Foods and site from milk intake through to the filling hall.
We have also Express Dairies in October 2003, we have opened Europes most continued our 12 million investment programme to upgrade technologically advanced milk processing facility at Stourton, Leeds, our Manchester dairy.
and built a new dairy at Lockerbie to serve our customers in Scotland.
We have also made substantial investments to upgrade our facilities Maximising capacity utilisation and closed the dairy facilities at Bamber Bridge Preston, Ruislip, and Critical to our status as lowest cost manufacturer of fresh milk and our old dairy in Leeds, giving us a total of eight plastic bottling dairies, cream is matching demand with capacity and utilising our assets as two creameries, two glass bottling dairies and 15 distribution centres fully as we can.
Our operating model is to locate large, well-invested across the UK.
The integration programme will be completed in 2006 dairy facilities in optimal locations to minimise supply chain costs.
when our Newcastle-upon-Tyne dairy closes, after our Lockerbie The consequence is minimal double handling through depots, so plant comes fully on stream.
The projected annual cost savings of that the vast majority of our supermarket milk volumes are delivered 20 million from this programme were delivered in full by the end direct from dairy to store.
By pursuing an effective rationalisation and of our financial year, 12 months ahead of schedule.
investment programme while successfully maintaining market share, we have achieved record dairy capacity utilisation.
Truly state-of-the-art Development of our Stourton dairy in Leeds has involved total capital expenditure of 75 million, including the 20 million Phase II investment to expand Cravendale production.
With a processing capacity in excess of 450 million litres per annum, the dairy includes advanced pasteurisation equipment for conventional milk, as well as the Cravendale PurFiltre facility, and features in-house blow moulding of plastic bottles.
Its four-pint weigh filler is the largest and fastest of its kind in the world.
The plant offers fully computerised traceability from milk intake to the fillers, and meets the highest environmental standards, as well as setting new benchmarks for quality, efficiency and flexibility.
Our new 18 million dairy at Lockerbie, Dumfriesshire, has already begun to operate as a distribution centre for our customers in Scotland, and will begin processing Scottish milk in December 2005.
09 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Building relationships 1,600 members of Arla Foods Milk Partnership now supply Arla Foods 10% 2,200 increase in supply of Arlas raw milk requirement by daily deliveries to Arla Foods Milk Partnership supermarkets nationwide by April 2006 35% share of the British fresh milk market enjoyed by Arla Foods 10 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Good relationships with milk producers and customers are critical to our success.
We have built a unique and growing Partnership with British farmers, while our leading brands and high service levels underpin our strong ties with the countrys major retailers.
We are the UKs market Jonathan Ovens, Chairman of Arla Foods Milk leader in the supply of fresh liquid milk and Partnership, who farms in Wiltshire, works closely with cream to retailers Arla Foods to develop a strong business relationship for the benefit of all Partnership members Growing our Partnership Arla Foods Milk Partnership AFMP exists to provide farmers with In addition to supplying all Asda Wal-Marts own label milk, we supply guaranteed access to the premium liquid milk market, with Arla giving over half the requirements of Morrisons and Somerfield Kwik Save, the security of a fully traceable milk supply from farmers who adhere and are a substantial supplier to Tesco.
In total we enjoy a 35 per to our high standards of milk production, farm assurance and animal cent share of the British fresh milk market, and make daily deliveries welfare.
The advantages of dealing direct with a leading processor of to 2,200 supermarkets nationwide.
non-commodity products have become evident to increasing numbers of producers, enabling us to expand the Partnership from 1,400 to We have recently strengthened our position by gaining sole supplier 1,600 members during the year.
These were supplying 70 per cent status in organic milk with Asda Wal-Mart.
This has been a remarkable of Arlas total milk requirements by October 2005, and we are on year for the growth of organic milk where the market has grown track to achieve 80 per cent supply from the start of the new milk by 42 per cent and we have secured new supply contracts to take year in April 2006. our market share to 56 per cent.
We are the UKs leading fresh cream supplier to the retail market, having won exclusive supply Working together arrangements with Asda Wal-Mart, Morrisons and Somerfield Kwik Our ever closer relationships with our farmer partners are built on Save in the latter part of the year.
We are also the sole cream supplier trust and transparency, reflecting their growing importance to the to Sainsburys and make substantial sales to Marks & Spencer and business.
Although prices must reflect market realities, including the Tesco.
Our dedication to setting the highest industry standards was effects of Common Agricultural Policy reform, the company works again recognised in this years awards by the leading trade journal, closely with AFMP to agree the best sustainable price for producers.
The Grocer, in which we received the Gold Award as the UKs These ties of mutual interest between Arla and its milk producers best own label supplier for the second year in succession.
have been further strengthened by the emergence of AFMPs investment arm as our third largest shareholder and its continuing The natural dairy partner share purchase programme.
Arla and AFMP have both welcomed Arla is represented right across the dairy category as the market the NFUs well-argued Vision for the Dairy Industry and are actively leader in milk, cream and the butter, spreads and margarine sector, engaged in the wider dialogue with the government on the future and as a major supplier of other added value products including of UK milk production.
flavoured milk, cheese and yogurt.
Our market knowledge and our access to the huge technical resources and product development Leading the milk and cream market skills of Arla Foods amba make us a natural partner to work with On completion of the reconfiguration of liquid milk supply to the both supermarkets and convenience retailers in the development major retailers, begun in April 2004, Arla is the clear market leader.
