Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Directors report The directors submit their report together with the audited power to purchase up to 29 million of its own shares.
This power has consolidated accounts of the company and its subsidiary not been used in the period to 30 September 2005.
The directors undertakings for the year to 30 September 2005. will seek renewal of this authority at the Annual General Meeting on 24 January 2006.
Activities Arla Foods UK plc, through its subsidiary companies, is a leading Employee share schemes supplier of milk and dairy products in the UK market.
The group Details of the employee share schemes are set out in note 20 to supplies liquid milk, cream, butter, spreads, cheeses, fresh dairy the accounts.
products, yogurts and desserts to the major supermarkets.
Annual General Meeting In addition the group has a home delivery business, which also The ninth Annual General Meeting of the company will be held supplies smaller shops and the out-of-home markets.
These at 12.00 noon on 24 January 2006 at Oulton Hall, Rothwell Lane, activities are supported through the supply chain by an integrated Oulton, Leeds LS26 8HN for the transaction of business as set out distribution business.
In meeting the markets requirements the in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
company is committed to working in close partnership with its supplying milk producers.
Directors The directors of the company during the year were Sir David Naish DL The groups brands include Anchor, Lurpak, Cravendale and Express.
Chairman, T J Smith Chief Executive from 1 June 2005, J Bigum Deputy Chairman, P E B Cawdron Deputy Chairman and Further information is given in the operating and financial review.
Senior Independent Director, R C N Davidson Chief Executive, resigned 1 June 2005, M J Gilbert appointed 1 June 2005, Results and dividends S O Modig resigned 4 October 2005, K Nielsen resigned The profit after taxation for the year was 11.8 million 2004: loss 30 April 2005, Sir Richard Packer KCB, N D Peet Finance Director, of 1.7 million for the 18 month period.
The company paid an interim H Sondergaard appointed 1 June 2005, resigned 22 November dividend of 0.65 pence 2004: interim dividends of 0.5 pence and 2005, S D Stevens and G C Summerfield CBE.
After the year end 0.6 pence, and a special dividend of 9.6 pence and the directors A Lundby and P Tuborgh joined the board on 4 October 2005. recommend a final dividend of 0.75 pence per ordinary share P E B Cawdron has announced his intention to retire at the Annual 2004: 0.7 pence which will be paid on 13 February 2006.
represents a total distribution during the year of 1.4 pence per ordinary share.
In accordance with article 115 of the Articles of Association of the company Sir Richard Packer KCB and N D Peet retire by rotation and, Future prospects being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment at the Annual Our core brands Lurpak, Anchor and Cravendale have continued to General Meeting.
We anticipate that the completion of the new processing facilities at Stourton will lead to accelerated growth of In accordance with article 121 of the Articles of Association of the Cravendale core products.
We anticipate that the market for fresh company M J Gilbert, A Lundby and P Tuborgh, being so appointed milk and cream in major supermarkets and the middleground sales by the board of directors, will retire at the Annual General Meeting channel will remain extremely competitive.
Discontinued operations Directors interests The company, previously Express Dairies plc, merged with Arla Foods Plc The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the company, in in October 2003.
Following the post-merger rationalisation of facilities, accordance with the register kept under section 325 of the Companies the H T Webb wholesale cheese business was closed in January 2005.
Act 1985, are set out in the notes to the remuneration report.
The mail and parcel delivery operations of Express Dairies were discontinued in October 2005 and the company has surrendered its No director had any material interest in any contract of significance standard postal licence.
On 29 October 2005 the company disposed with the company or any subsidiary during the period.
of its London Foodservice business.
Employment policies Share capital The groups employees are made aware of matters of concern to their Details of the share capital and the number of shares issued at individual site or business unit and of the wider financial and economic 30 September 2005 are shown in note 20 to the accounts.
As at factors affecting the performance of the company.
Detailed consultative 30 November 2005 the company had been notified by the arrangements vary from site to site according to business need, but following of interests in three per cent or more of the companys common standards are applied.
issued share capital: The groups employment practices are designed to attract, retain and motivate all employees and to encourage their participation Percentage of issued share capital within the business.
Following the merger a new policy review team Arla Foods UK Holding Ltd 51.00 has been established with the aim of developing integrated policies Amvescap plc 17.04 to meet the aspirations of the enlarged business.
The team is working to a timetable for completion by February 2006 and as at Milk Partnership Ltd 5.12 30 September 2005 80 per cent of the companys policies had been Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 3.27 updated and harmonised.
As a matter of course all policies, including the procedures for assessing employment applications and suitability In accordance with the authority obtained at the Annual General for promotion, are reviewed regularly and are applied equally Meeting held on 24 January 2005 the company has in place the irrespective of gender, age, marital status, religion, nationality, ethnic 33 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Directors report continued or racial origin, disability or sexuality.
In order to maximise individual The company remains committed to the development of integrated contributions to the business the company makes training and management systems covering the whole of the work environment, development opportunities available across the group.
Where including occupational health, safety and the environment, and existing employees become disabled it is the groups policy wherever the programme to obtain certification to the ISO 14001 and practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms OHSAS 18001 international standards remains on track for 2006. and conditions.
Supplier payment policy Corporate social responsibility The group aims to pay all its suppliers within a reasonable period The company is progressing an action plan for corporate social of their invoice being received and in any case within the suppliers responsibility which is kept under review by a senior management standard payment period.
It is the policy of the group to make steering committee chaired by the Human Resources Director.
payments to all creditors in accordance with the Confederation of The current policy was approved by the board in June 2004 and British Industry Prompt Payment Code copies of which are available is published on the companys website.
The company is a member from the CBI at Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London of the FTSE4Good Index.
The number of days purchases outstanding for the group at 30 September 2005 was 37 2004: 38.
The company has Charitable and political donations no trade creditors.
The company has adopted a social responsibility policy for charitable giving.
During the year ended 30 September 2005 the group made Indemnity provisions charitable donations of 0.1m 2004 0.1m.
No political donations The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise were made.
Act 2004 came into force on 6 April 2005.
This act amends the Companies Act 1985 by permitting the grant of Qualifying Third Party Innovation and development Indemnity Provisions QTPIP by a company to its directors.
Although The companys strategy is to be the leading adviser to the they do not permit indemnification to the full extent of the QTPIP supermarkets in the product areas in which it operates.
The company rules, the companys articles of association permit the granting of uses its insights into consumer attitudes and behaviours in order to certain indemnities allowed by the QTPIP rules.
complement this leadership role, attaching a high priority to innovation.
Auditors This approach generates three discrete areas of innovation and A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be development.
Product development involves developing new put to members at the Annual General Meeting to be held on consumer offerings to be sold either under one of the companys 24 January 2006. own portfolio of brands or under the brand of one of its retail partners.
The company continued its focus on new product launches By order of the board during the period.
Process development involves optimising the companys resources in supply, production, and supply chain management in order to ensure optimal cost and efficiency.
This is seen in the continued technological advances at all the groups dairies.
Category development involves working with retail customers in order to optimise sales.
The company is the leading adviser in a number of dairy categories.
Over the year significant work has been carried John Price out in the butter, spreads and margarine category on displays and Company Secretary merchandising, thereby achieving significant improvements in category 30 November 2005 sales.
Similar work is being undertaken in other categories.
The company has access to the extensive research and development capabilities of Arla Foods amba, where more than 200 people work full time on all aspects of pure and applied dairy technology.
Work environment During 2005 the company published its third biennial environmental report, which provided auditable information on policies and environmental performance in accordance with recent legislation.
Since the publication of the second report in 2003 the company has been able to demonstrate a continuing reduction in energy consumption 14.2 per cent, greenhouse gas emissions 15.8 per cent and water extraction and use 24.6 per cent, expressed per unit of milk processed.
During the year the company complied with its obligations under the Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations and met the conditions for its climate change agreements.
All major milk processing sites made their application for a Pollution Prevention and Control permit within the scheduled time frame.
