Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Creating the UKs leading dairy company 18.3% share of the butter, spreads and margarine category enjoyed by our Lurpak brand 6.8% volume growth of imported products from our major shareholder, Arla Foods amba 70% of Arlas raw milk requirements are supplied by Arla Foods Milk Partnership 04 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Arla leads growth across the UK dairy category.
This reflects the power of our brands, based on their genuine appeal to consumers, together with the quality of our assets and the strength of our relationships with both producers and retailers.
These combine to give us an exceptional platform for continued profitable growth.
Building on the success of the Cravendale brand, Cravendale One Shot will be launched in early 2006 providing a healthy alternative to traditional soft drinks Breaking records technologically advanced dairies in Europe with a throughput well We set new records in the 2005 financial year for both the volume and in excess of 450 million litres per year.
Our new 18 million dairy at value of products we import to the UK from our major shareholder, Lockerbie will begin production in December, and further substantial Arla Foods amba, showing growth by volume of almost seven per cent.
investments have been made at our Ashby, Oakthorpe, Hatfield Peverel We also increased the volume of UK milk we handle by four per cent.
These give us the infrastructure we need to Our sales to Tesco, Asda Wal-Mart, Morrisons and the supermarket sustain our leadership in the supply of fresh milk to the major retailers.
sector in general were the highest we have ever achieved.
At the With the extension of Cravendale processing capacity at Stourton, same time as building these strong relationships with Europes leading we have the ability to drive this exceptional brand by extending farmer-owned co-operative and Britains most successful retailers, we distribution of its established formats and applying our innovation and completed a record investment programme and progressively expanded marketing skills to the launch of new varieties.
Cravendale Hint Of, milk our Arla Foods Milk Partnership so that it now accounts for 70 per cent with a hint of flavour, is already making an impact on TV screens and of our milk supplies.
Regrettably, we also experienced record levels of in the supermarkets, and new Cravendale One Shot, to be launched cost inflation during the year, where we were particularly exposed in January, will provide a healthy alternative to traditional soft drinks.
to the impact of the changes to oil prices on packaging, processing and distribution costs.
Building partnerships Our strong and well supported brands, skills in product development Gaining market share and nationwide reach through strategically placed, modern assets We have gained ground on every battlefield in which we are make us a natural partner for the major retailers in the dairy sector.
engaged in the dairy category.
Lurpak in particular has made Since our major shareholder is itself farmer owned, we also have a outstanding progress and now commands over an 18 per cent share real understanding of the needs of producers and a genuine desire of a category in which a number of our competitors brands have to work with them for our mutual benefit.
We are delighted that shown declines.
Growth has again been driven by our successful Arla Foods Milk Partnership is on track to meet 80 per cent of our development of Lurpak Spreadable and Lurpak Lighter Spreadable, total milk requirements from April 2006, and that its members are which will be joined by Lurpak Spreadable Unsalted in January 2006. participating directly in the success of the company as our third Anchor has also performed well, gaining share with the aid of the largest shareholder.
Both these leading brands have benefited from increased advertising support.
Investing for growth Completion of Phase II of our Stourton dairy in Leeds brings our total Tim Smith capital outlay on the site to 75 million, creating one of the most Chief Executive 05
