Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Strong brands 64m 184m value of the spreadable category Cravendale brand value 89% 7.5m Anchor Lighter Spreadable brand value since its launch share of the spreadable in January 2005 category enjoyed by Arla 9.4% growth of the spreadable category in the last year 06 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 We are the UKs leading branded dairy company.
As well as supplying two of the top three brands in the butter, spreads and margarine category, we produce the UKs leading branded milk and have a strong presence in added value dairy products.
The launch of Anchor Since its launch in 1997, Lurpak Spreadable has Lighter Spreadable in January 2005 has grown to a value of 84m.
The Lurpak taken the Anchor brand value to brand now has a total value of 175m over 100m Driving growth through innovation We have already introduced two new variants, Cravendale Hint Of with a Arla has driven its strong growth in the butter, spreads and margarine subtle essence of either vanilla or wild strawberry, which were launched BSM category through consistent innovation, backed by heavyweight, in September 2005.
Hint Of is a unique product, totally unlike any other effective advertising.
Today we supply two of the three biggest selling flavoured milk currently on the market.
It is 100 per cent natural and products in the category Lurpak Spreadable and Anchor Spreadable remains white in colour.
having created the spreadable sector, which is the fastest growing segment of the category in recent years.
Since its introduction in 1997, Cravendale One Shot semi-skimmed will be launched early in 2006.
It Lurpak Spreadable has grown to a value of 84 million, overtaking the is a 284ml ready-to-drink pack aimed at giving consumers the chance original Lurpak butter and becoming the number one product in the to enjoy fresh milk in a convenient format when on the move.
Lurpak Lighter Spreadable, launched late in 2001, compete with carbonated soft drinks, smoothies, water and fruit juices, was the fastest growing top 10 BSM product last year, achieving value and will be available in the sandwich fixtures of major multiples as well growth of over 17 per cent and helping to lift the total value of the as in the dairy cabinet.
It will also have a strong presence in convenience Lurpak brand to 157 million.
In March we will be launching two One Shot Hint Of flavours.
Anchor remains the number one block butter by both volume and value, and the clear number two in the spreadable sector, where its Developing our added value brands year-on-year growth of almost 19 per cent has helped to raise the Our Discover and Rosenborg cheese brands have continued to benefit total value of the Anchor brand to over 100 million for the first time.
from product development initiatives and a 1 million marketing The successful introduction of Anchor Lighter Spreadable in January programme.
Discover Mozzarella Slices, Crumbled Feta and Crumbled 2005 was the biggest launch in the BSM category since 2002.
Together Feta with Tomato and Basil were successfully launched last year, and our brands command an 89 per cent share of the spreadable category, four new products are scheduled for introduction in 2006.
The which has grown by over nine per cent over the last 12 months and Rosenborg brand was relaunched with new packaging and a modern is now worth 184 million.
Our programme of innovation will continue design to reflect product improvements.
This year we will be launching in the New Year with the launch of Lurpak Spreadable Unsalted in the first ever Danish Blue with fruit.
Yorkshire Butter has continued to gain distribution as the only Yorkshire butter on the UK market and is the countrys leading Our portfolio of branded flavoured milks has also continued to grow regional butter brand.
successfully, again led by Caf Met.
Caf Met, a chilled latte on the go, is a lighter treat aimed at women in the 25-40 age group and is now Building a unique milk brand worth over 3 million.
Cravendale is the UKs only mainstream branded fresh milk available across the full range of whole, semi-skimmed and skimmed worth over 64 million.
It remains fresh on shelf for up to 25 days and consumers tell us that it tastes better.
