Our strategy ACTION Stage 1 never ends.
It is as important Improve the to continue to reduce costs now, as we approach Stage 3, as it was during the effectiveness of Step Change programme.
1 existing operations Our Project 20 internal improvement programme aims to make Pilkington 20 per cent better.
In Float and Automotive in particular, costs are a critical component of this.
ACTION Before spending cash on growth Generate cash opportunities, we must first deliver the benefits from our investment in to strengthen restructuring.
2 Our target is to cover our interest our finances cost by EBITA at least 4 times before moving into Stage 3.
Earnings before interest, taxation, amortisation and exceptionals ACTION We will identify opportunities Invest in for profitable growth in our existing businesses, new profitable growth products and emerging markets.
3 We will consider organic opportunities growth and or acquisition.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 10 24 05 2005 We are on a clear three-stage journey to ensure that we deliver value to our shareholders.
Over the past seven years, we have made significant progress in reducing our costs and improving our competitiveness Stage 1 of our three-stage journey.
Most Pilkington manufacturing operations now operate at world-class levels and cost-reduction remains high on our agenda.
Cash for Growth Stage 2 has demonstrated that we can build on progress made over the past few years, by generating the cash needed to strengthen our financial position and to enable us to begin the transition to profitable growth Stage 3.
ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE NEXT STEPS RISKS 3 Overheads reduced significantly Continue to take every opportunity Cost push in commodities and by 312 million over the past to reduce costs further.
energy, countered by more effective seven years.
purchasing, hedging strategy and Continue to drive down the introduction of energy surcharges.
3 Manufacturing performance overheads to sales ratio.
Increased competition from low Operate all our plants at the level labour-cost emerging markets, 3 Most Pilkington businesses of the best, with quality and safety countered by our increased operate at world-class as top priorities.
ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE NEXT STEPS RISKS 3 Key performance indicators, Continue to deliver strong cash Failure to capitalise on synergies management targets and incentives flow performance.
in supply chains, countered by firmly aligned to cash generation.
applying more resources to this area.
Improve supply chains to run the 3 In 2005 we are able to report business effectively at ever-lower Concentration on cash could continuing strong cash inflow.
constrain the investment in ongoing businesses: nevertheless, investment 3 Borrowings reduced by 348 million Improve debtor and creditor levels needs are relatively low while 38 per cent in the three years to reduce working capital wherever developed markets are weak and since the launch of Stage 2. possible.
we are following a focused capital 3 Interest now covered by Channel most of net free cash after allocation process.
EBITA more than four times.
dividends into reducing our debt until our target levels are reached, expected to be during 2005 2006.
ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE NEXT STEPS RISKS 3  fourth float Key factor influencing the timing Demand growth in mature line in Brazil for our South American of our transition from Stage 2 to markets slows in both building joint venture is in full production.
Stage 3 will be progress in and automotive sectors, building our financial strength.
emphasising the need to 3 Sound base established in China grow in emerging markets.
as a platform for future growth.
China, Russia, India and the Automotive plants now fully under Middle East have been identified Risks of operating in new Pilkington management.
as top four priority areas for growth.
territories minimised through working with joint ventures 3 Float line joint venture in Russia Robust systems implemented to and local partners where on target to start production in assess viability of all growth appropriate and by spreading summer 2005. opportunities.
our investments over several Groundwork laid for growth markets.
investments during Stage 2, structured to minimise cash outlay until the transition to Stage 3.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 10 24 05 2005
