DIRECTORS REPORT The directors of Pilkington plc present their annual report and the RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT audited financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2005.
Research and development expenditure for the Group amounted to 29 million for the year to 31st March 2005 2004 33 million.
Just The Group profit and loss account for the year is set out on under half of this expenditure was incurred in the UK, primarily at the page 22 and in the accompanying notes.
Pilkington European Technical Centre at Lathom, Lancashire, and the remainder at the Groups R&D facilities at sites in the USA and Europe.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF BUSINESS The principal activities and operations of the Group are described on EMPLOYMENT AND PRACTICE pages 14 to 21 of the Operating and Financial Review.
The principal 1 At 31st March 2005 there were 23,800 people working for the Group subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 55 and the principal joint worldwide, of whom 62 per cent were employed in Europe, 19 per ventures and associates in notes 15 and 16 to the financial statements.
cent in North America, nine per cent in South America and ten per Further information, including details of important events affecting cent in Australasia.
the business of the Group, its joint ventures and associates, is given in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the The Groups human resources policy and practice are designed to Finance Directors Review, which are included in the first part of the secure the goodwill, motivation, commitment and contribution of Operating and Financial Review.
all employees to the aims and success of the business.
The Groups policy statement has been distributed to all Group companies.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Group has a long established and well recognised policy of The profit on ordinary activities before taxation and exceptional encouraging employee involvement through communication and items was 172 million 2004 144 million as restated.
The profit consultation on a wide range of issues.
Every opportunity is taken on ordinary activities before taxation and after exceptional items to invite employees to participate in multi-disciplinary quality and was 165 million 2004 137 million as restated.
The profit process improvement activities.
The Group also makes wide use attributable to the shareholders of Pilkington plc was 100 million of employee surveys.
Details of the restatement arising from the adoption of UITF 17 and 38 are disclosed in note 33 to The Group publishes an international magazine, Pilkington Focus, the financial statements.
which communicates the Groups interim and final results and news on Group businesses.
The Group also has on its intranet a Group The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.35p electronic news channel, Focus Online.
The Group intranet provides per ordinary share which, taken with the interim dividend of 1.75p up to date information on objectives, performance and activities in per ordinary share, makes a total dividend for the year of 5.1p per the Group.
Payment of the recommended final dividend, if approved at the annual general meeting, will be made A European Forum is well established, at which senior management on 1st August 2005 to shareholders registered on 10th June 2005. and employee representatives from the Groups European operations meet annually to exchange information and views on the business.
SHARE CAPITAL More information on employment issues is set out on pages 31 and At 31st March 2005 there were 1,294 million ordinary shares of 32 of the Operating and Financial Review.
50p each in issue 2004 1,275 million shares.
Details of changes in the share capital are shown in note 30 to the financial statements.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Options were granted in the year to employees under the Pilkington is committed to a policy of equal opportunities in all companys share option schemes in respect of 7.2 million shares its companies and to meeting its obligations to offer employment 2004 12.2 million shares.
opportunities to disabled people and people becoming disabled during their employment.
A policy statement has been distributed No shares were purchased during the year under the authority to all Group companies.
granted at the annual general meeting on 20th July 2004 to make market purchases of up to ten per cent of the companys shares.
TRAINING The Group is committed to the training, retraining and continuous SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS development of all employees in order to develop their full potential At 26th May 2005, the company had been notified of the following and to achieve a flexible, skilled and informed workforce, at all interests in its ordinary share capital: levels, which is supportive of the aims of the business.
of shares % of issued statement has been communicated to all Group companies.
millions share capital as notified The Group has a range of management training and development Nippon Sheet Glass Co. Ltd. 256.11 20.59 programmes, co-ordinated from the UK, which aim to develop the FMR Corporation Fidelity high performing managers required to deliver the Groups strategy.
International Limited 65.10 5.03 These courses provide development in both general management Legal & General Investment and the functional skills required to achieve top class levels of Management Limited 37.71 3.00 performance.
PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Within the individual businesses of the Group, training is provided It is Group practice to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
to meet the broad range of needs of all the workforce and the Trade creditors of the company amounting to 4 million are specific needs of each business.
reported in note 22 to the financial statements, and represent 29 days 2004 28 days of average daily purchases.
Increasing use is being made of e-learning techniques to ensure training is delivered in a timely and cost effective manner.
There is DIRECTORS also a continuing high level of training devoted to e-business skills The directors of the company are shown on page 34 of the Operating to ensure employees can use new computer and communication and Financial Review and Summary Financial Statement.
technologies to full effect to improve efficiency and raise the quality 2 of service provided to customers.
In accordance with the companys Articles of Association Iain Lough, Pat Zito, Oliver Stocken and William Harrison will CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY retire by rotation at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, Iain Lough, Pat Zito and Oliver Stocken will offer themselves for The Group has a Code of Conduct which sets out the standards of re-election.
behaviour expected of the Group and all who work for the Group, in their relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, business Apart from service contracts, letters of appointment and share partners, the community including the environment, government options, no director of the company had any significant interest in and all other stakeholders in the business.
This code brings together any contract with the company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures or in one document the key elements of Group policy concerning these associates.
Each of the non-executive directors has the benefit of an indemnity under the terms of his or her letter of appointment with the ENVIRONMENT company, in accordance with which the company agrees to Pilkington strives for the highest standards in all the countries in indemnify him or her against certain liabilities which may arise in which it operates.
A copy of the Groups environmental policy may the performance of his or her duties as a director of the company.
be obtained from the company secretary.
An environmental review is also available from the company secretary and is on the website Each of the executive directors has the benefit of an indemnity under at www.
the terms of his service agreement with the company, in accordance with which the company agrees to indemnify him against certain More information on environmental issues is set out on pages 29 to liabilities which he may incur in the course of his employment with 31 of the Operating and Financial Review.
the company and its subsidiary companies or in relation thereto.
HEALTH AND SAFETY DIRECTORS INTERESTS The board is committed to achieving the highest standards of health The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the and safety throughout the Group.
share capital of the company and the number of options held by The Groups health and safety policy includes a requirement for full them in respect of the companys shares are set out in the Report health and safety audits of all facilities.
These cover management on Directors Remuneration on pages 13 to 15. responsibilities, standards and monitoring mechanisms.
A copy of the policy may be obtained from the company secretary and is also AUDITORS on the website at www.
Information on the Groups  LLP have indicated their willingness safety performance is disclosed on page 29 of the Operating and to continue in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them Financial Review.
as auditors and authorising the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
PILKINGTON AND THE COMMUNITY During the year Pilkington made donations to charitable ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING organisations in the UK amounting to 199,000 2004 204,000.
The notice convening the annual general meeting to be held at Donations to charitable organisations overseas amounted to the Pilkington European Technical Centre, Hall Lane, Lathom, 166,000 2004 256,000.
No political contributions were made.
Ormskirk, Lancashire L40 5UF on Thursday, 28th July 2005 at 11.30 am, and an explanation of certain items of business is sent The board believes that all Group companies and their employees to shareholders with this report.
benefit from making an appropriate contribution to the communities in which they operate and it will continue to encourage this.
PAYMENTS POLICY The Groups policy in relation to the payment of its suppliers is By order of the board, to settle its terms of payment with each supplier when agreeing Sheila Lennon the terms of each business transaction.
The supplier is made aware Secretary of the terms which are detailed on the Groups purchase orders.
26th May 2005 PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
