corporate certification to ISO9001:2000 include personal protection, security, energy expectation that suppliers will adopt similar quality management system for their regions saving, solar control, noise reduction, fire standards in their business relationships.
The Building Products protection, improved styling and enhanced businesses in South America and Australasia visibility for vehicles and self-cleaning STAKEHOLDERS: THE COMMUNITY have previously obtained certification.
properties for glazing in buildings.
Pilkington aims to ensure that its worldwide operations play a responsible Support is also provided to customers in The European Building Products business and responsive role in the local the selection and application of products, has been a leading player in the communities in which it operates.
in their safe handling and storage and in development of new glass product standards 33 evaluating their environmental impact.
for the European building industry.
These Local businesses are responsible for standards will enable glass manufacturers consultation and dialogue with their local STAKEHOLDERS: SUPPLIERS to meet the European Construction communities to ensure that the Group Products Directive and apply to virtually Pilkington seeks to build relationships coexists harmoniously with its community all Pilkington products used in buildings.
with suppliers that are based on CSR partners to the benefit of all parties involved.
standards similar to those in the Demonstrating confidence in its quality In 2005 the Groups direct contributions to Pilkington Code of Conduct.
management systems and the quality education, the arts, medicine, welfare, job of its products, Building Products Europe Suppliers are asked to indicate situations creation and urban renewal amounted to will adopt the new standards and apply where adoption of these standards causes 402,000. the CE mark, which confirms achievement conflicts or problems and to formulate plans These contributions complemented the of the standard, at the earliest possible for corrective action.
These will be jointly efforts of employees around the world opportunity, regardless of whether all agreed and implementation jointly monitored.
who have supported voluntary programmes member states have passed the necessary Pilkington will provide guidance, where by raising money and providing their time local legislation and of any permitted needed, during implementation.
and skills for education and community transition period.
The Group also works closely with suppliers welfare purposes.
The Building Products businesses in to ensure that their products and services Argentina and Brazil have similarly been not only meet design, cost, quality and closely involved in the development of performance requirements but are also common product standards within the backed by recognised quality standards, Mercosur group of South American appropriate environmental practices and countries.
Covering the majority of safe working procedures.
products for buildings made in the region The Automotive business has this year by Pilkington, these standards will be introduced a supplier handbook which introduced in June 2005. provides a basis for improved working Pilkington also provides customers with relationships between Pilkington and its products that have safety, environmental suppliers.
The handbook makes clear the and in-service benefits.
These benefits Pilkington Code of Conduct and the More than 2,000 young trees have been planted around In 2005, for the 17th year, Pilkington sponsored the the Caapava plant in Brazil.
A similar scheme has been UK Royal College of Art vehicle design awards.
Best design implemented at the So Paulo site.
The trees improve the interpretation for the use of glazing was won by Heikki sites visually and reduce the heat island effect resulting Naulapaa from Finland for his cross between a motorbike from large areas of concrete and asphalt.
and an open-top sports car.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005
