Directors and advisers Sir Robin Saxby Warren East Tim Score Tudor Brown Mike Inglis Mike Muller Mark Templeton Sir Robin Saxby age 59 Tudor Brown age 47 Simon Segars age 38 Chairman Chief Operating Officer Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales Sir Robin Saxby was involved in founding ARM and Tudor Brown was one of the founders of ARM.
Simon Segars joined the board in January 2005.
He joined the Company full time in February 1991 as Before joining the Company, he was Principal was appointed Executive Vice President, Worldwide President and Chief Executive Officer, becoming Engineer at Acorn Computers, where he worked Sales in January 2004.
He was previously EVP of Chairman in October 2001.
Prior to ARM, he was on the ARM R&D programme.
At ARM, he was Engineering.
He joined ARM in early 1991 and has with ES2, Motorola Semiconductors and Henderson Engineering Director and Chief Technical Officer from worked on most of the ARM CPU products since then.
He has also served as 1993: in October 2000, he was appointed Executive He led the development of the ARM7 and ARM9 Chairman of the Open Microprocessor Initiative Vice President, Global Development and in October Thumb families.
He holds a number of patents in Advisory Group, which advised on collaborative R&D 2001, he was appointed to the board as Chief the field of embedded CPU architectures.
He is a activity within Europe.
He holds a BEng in Electronics Operating Officer.
He is a non-executive director non-executive director of Plastic Logic Limited.
and is a chartered engineer, Hon FIEE and FREng.
He of ANT Software Limited.
has received an honorary doctorate from the University Peter Cawdron age 62 of Liverpool where he is a visiting professor, has Mike Inglis age 46 Senior independent non-executive director honorary doctorates from Loughborough University Executive Vice President, Marketing Peter Cawdron joined the board in March 1998. and the University of Essex and has received the Mike Inglis joined ARM as Executive Vice President, He has agreed to remain on the board for a further Faraday Medal of the IEE Institute of Electrical Marketing in June 2002 and was appointed to the period of up to a year and will step down before the Engineers.
He was knighted in the 2002 New Years board in August that year.
Before joining ARM, he led 2007 AGM.
From 1983 to 1997 he worked for Grand Honours List.
He currently serves as Deputy President the UK Communications and High Technology team Metropolitan plc, where he served as Group Strategy of the IEE, where he is also a trustee and will at A. T. Kearney Management Consultants and held a Development Director.
He was previously Chief become President of the IEE in October 2006. number of senior operational and strategic marketing Financial Officer and a director of DArcy-MacManus & He is a non-executive director of Glotel plc.
He previously worked in Masius Worldwide, Inc. and before that a member of marketing, design and consultancy with Texas the corporate finance team at S. G. Warburg & Co. Ltd. Warren East age 44 Instruments, Fairchild Camera and Instruments He qualified as a chartered accountant at Peat, Chief Executive Officer and BIS Macintosh.
He gained his initial industrial Marwick, Mitchell & Co. in 1966.
He is Deputy Warren East joined ARM in 1994 to set up ARMs experience with GEC Telecommunications.
He is Chairman of GCap Media plc and is a non-executive consulting business.
He was Vice President, Business a non-executive director of Superscape Group plc.
director of the following UK listed companies: Compass Operations from February 1998.
In October 2000 he He is a chartered engineer and a MCIM.
Group plc, The Capita Group plc, Punch Taverns plc, was appointed to the board as Chief Operating Officer Johnston Press plc and ProStrakan Group plc.
and in October 2001 was appointed Chief Executive Mike Muller age 47 Officer.
Before joining ARM he was with Texas Chief Technology Officer Doug Dunn age 61 Instruments.
He is a chartered engineer, FIEE and Mike Muller was one of the founders of ARM.
Before Independent non-executive director a Companion of the Chartered Management Institute.
joining the Company, he was responsible for Doug Dunn joined the board in December 1998.
He He is a non-executive director of Reciva Limited.
hardware strategy and the development of portable was previously President and Chief Executive Officer products at Acorn Computers.
He was previously at of ASM Lithography Holding N. V. until his retirement Tim Score age 45 Orbis Computers.
At ARM he was Vice President, in December 2004.
Before joining ASML, he Chief Financial Officer Marketing from 1992 to 1996 and Executive Vice was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer and President, Business Development until October 2000 Consumer Electronics Division of Royal Philips director in March 2002.
Before joining ARM, he was when he was appointed Chief Technology Officer.
In Electronics N. V. and a member of the board.
He Finance Director of Rebus Group Limited.
He was October 2001, he was appointed to the board.
was previously Managing Director of the Plessey previously Group Finance Director of William Baird and GEC Semiconductor divisions and held several plc, Group Controller at LucasVarity plc and Group engineering and management positions at Motorola.
Financial Controller at BTR plc.
He is a non-executive He was awarded an OBE in 1992.
He is a nondirector of National Express Group plc.
executive director of ST Microelectronics N. V. Soitec S. A. and LG.
Philips LCD Co. Ltd. 16 ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 Simon Segars Peter Cawdron Doug Dunn Lucio Lanza Philip Rowley John Scarisbrick Jeremy Scudamore Lucio Lanza age 61 John Scarisbrick age 53 Mark Templeton age 46 Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Non-executive director Lucio Lanza joined ARM as a non-executive director in John Scarisbrick joined the board in August 2001.
Mark Templeton joined ARM as General Manager, December 2004 following ARMs acquisition of Artisan.
He had previously worked for 25 years at Texas Physical IP Division in December 2004 as a result He was previously a director of Artisan, from 1996, Instruments TI in a variety of roles including as Senior of ARMs acquisition of Artisan.
He relinquished his becoming Chairman in 1997.
He is currently Managing Vice President responsible for TIs $5 billion ASP chip executive role in October 2005 and remains on the Director of Lanza techVentures, an early stage venture business, President of TI Europe and leader of the team board as a non-executive director.
He co-founded capital and investment firm, which he founded in that created TIs DSP business in Houston, Texas.
Before Artisan in 1991 and was President and Chief January 2001.
In 1990, he joined US Venture Partners, joining TI, he worked in electronics systems design Executive Officer for 13 years.
He has been a venture capital firm, as a venture partner and was roles at Rank Radio International and Marconi Space instrumental in driving growth in the IP market a general partner.
From 1990 to 1995, he was an and Defence Systems in the UK.
He is Chief Executive through a combination of technical and business independent consultant to companies in the Officer of CSR plc, Chairman of Cambridge Positioning innovations.
His vision of developing an open semiconductor, communications and computer-aided Systems Ltd and a non-executive director of community of resources for IC designers including design industries, including Cadence Design Systems, SonIM Technologies Inc. and Intrinsity Inc. foundries, EDA vendors, design service companies Inc. and, from 1986 to 1989, was Chief Executive and IP providers has proven to be a significant Officer of EDA Systems, Inc.
He is also on the board Jeremy Scudamore age 58 contribution to the IC design and manufacturing of directors of PDF Solutions, Inc. a provider of Independent non-executive director industries.
Before co-founding Artisan, he held technologies to improve semiconductor manufacturing Jeremy Scudamore joined the board in April 2004. executive positions with Silicon Compiler Systems yields.
He holds a doctorate in electronic engineering He was Chief Executive Officer of Avecia Group and Mentor Graphics.
formerly the specialty chemicals business of Zeneca until April 2006 and previously held senior Philip Rowley age 53 management positions both in the UK and overseas Independent non-executive director with Zeneca and ICI.
He has been a board member Philip Rowley joined the board in January 2005.
He of the Chemical Industries Association and is is President and CEO of AOL Europe, the interactive Chairman of England's North West Science Council.
services, web brands, internet technologies and He was also a member of the DTI's Innovation e-commerce provider.
He is a qualified chartered and Growth Team for the Chemical Industry and accountant and was Group Finance Director of Chairman of the Innovation Team.
Prior to that his roles included Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of EMI Music Worldwide.
ARM Holdings plc Auditors Stockbrokers Registrars Depositary Legal advisers Secretary and  Morgan Stanley & Co. Lloyds TSB Registrars The Bank of New York UK Law registered office LLP International Limited The Causeway 101 Barclays Street Linklaters Patricia Alsop 1 Embankment Place 25 Cabot Square Worthing New York One Silk Street 110 Fulbourn Road London WC2N 6RH Canary Wharf West Sussex BN99 6DA New York 10286 London EC2Y 8HQ Cambridge CB1 9NJ United Kingdom London E14 4QA United Kingdom United States of America United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 870 600 3984 US Law Registered number Hoare Govett Limited Davis Polk & Wardwell 2548782 250 Bishopsgate 99 Gresham Street London EC2M 4AA London EC2V 7NG United Kingdom United Kingdom ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 17 Corporate governance UK reporting Compliance with the Combined Code Before each meeting, the board is furnished with information in a form The Group complies and complied throughout 2005 with the Combined and of a quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties concerning the Code, with the exception only that the board does not comprise a state of the business and its performance.
The ultimate responsibility majority of independent non-executive directors.
The board has considered for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and the the overall balance between executive and non-executive directors and quarterly reports, and for ensuring that they present a balanced believes that the number of executive directors is fully justified by the assessment of the Groups position, lies with the board.
The board contribution made by each of them.
To increase the size of the board delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing the Group to the further to meet this particular provision is not considered appropriate.
executive committee and has a number of other committees, details of which are set out below.
Composition and operation of the board The board currently comprises six executive directors, six independent During 2005 the formal board evaluation undertaken during 2004, with non-executive directors, one other non-executive director and the the assistance of external consultants, was reviewed and updated with Chairman.
The executive directors are the Chief Executive Officer, the assistance from the Company Secretary.
This review covered board Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Technology performance, processes, committees, composition, skills and director Officer, the Executive Vice President, Marketing and the Executive Vice induction.
The overall conclusion was that the board works well and its President, Worldwide Sales, all of whom play significant roles in the committees operate properly and efficiently.
Various recommendations day-to-day management of the business.
Six of the non-executive resulted from the evaluation which will be reviewed and acted upon directors are regarded by the board to be independent in character by the board in 2006, as appropriate.
It is intended that there will be and judgement based on both participation and performance at board a further review and update by the board each year with probable and committee meetings.
There are no relationships or circumstances involvement of external consultants every three years.
The Group has which are likely to affect the judgement of any of them.
Mark a commitment to training and all directors are encouraged to attend Templeton relinquished his executive role in October 2005 and remains suitable training courses.
During 2005 the executive directors attended on the board as a non-executive director.
The non-executive directors anti-trust and sexual harassment training courses.
A full, formal provide a blend of experience and considerable knowledge to the induction programme is arranged for all new directors, tailored to their boards deliberations.
Peter Cawdron, who is the Senior Independent specific requirements, the aim of which is to introduce them to key Director and the financial expert, has extensive knowledge of UK public executives across the business and to enhance their knowledge and group issues and a strong financial background.
Doug Dunn and Jeremy understanding of the Group and its activities.
Scudamore both have experience of running large companies in allied industries.
Lucio Lanza and John Scarisbrick both have a broad The main channel of communication with shareholders continues to understanding of the Groups technology and the practices of major USbe through the CEO, the CFO and the VP Investor Relations, although based technology companies.
The share options held by Lucio Lanza the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other non-executive were granted prior to the Groups acquisition of Artisan and no further directors remain willing to engage in dialogue with major shareholders options have been or will be granted to him since he joined the ARM at any time.
Philip Rowley has a strong financial background and knowledge of internet technologies and e-commerce.
The board has adopted guidelines for individual directors to obtain independent professional advice at the Group's expense in appropriate The board had seven scheduled meetings during 2005 each of which circumstances and all members of the board have access to the advice was attended by all the directors, with the following exceptions: of the Company Secretary.
January Mike Muller and John Scarisbrick May and November Peter Cawdron Executive committee July Tudor Brown The executive committee is responsible for implementing the strategy December Mike Inglis and Simon Segars approved by the board.
Among other things, this committee is responsible for approval of standard licence agreements, ensuring that There is a procedure in place for additional meetings or conference calls the Groups budget and forecasts are properly prepared, that targets are on any pertinent issues to be organised as necessary during the year.
met, and generally managing and developing the business within the In addition, the Chairman held two meetings with the non-executive overall budget.
Variations from the budget and changes in strategy directors without the executives present and the non-executive require approval from the main board of the Group.
The executive directors met on one occasion without the Chairman being present.
committee, which meets monthly, comprises the executive directors excluding the Chairman and the directors of ARM Limited and The board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims and meetings are attended by the Company Secretary and other senior ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place operational personnel, as appropriate.
for it to meet its objectives.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, which includes the approval of major business Audit committee matters, policies, operating and capital expenditure budgets, and The audit committee has written terms of reference which are ensuring high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
published on the corporate website at www.
The committee The board is also responsible for sanctioning unusual commercial has responsibility for, among other things, monitoring the integrity arrangements such as atypical licence agreements and investments.
of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, and 18 ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained Lanza.
The nomination committee met on two occasions with all in them: reviewing the Companys internal controls and risk members present, with the exception of Peter Cawdron for the management systems: making recommendations to the board in November meeting.
The Committee considers the roles and capabilities relation to the appointment, remuneration and resignation or dismissal required for each new appointment, based on an evaluation of the of the Groups external auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external skills and experience of the existing directors.
In relation to the auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the appointment of new directors, including Philip Rowley in January 2005, audit process: developing and implementing policy on the engagement the services of external search consultancies are generally used.
The of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and considering terms of reference of the nomination committee are published on the compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards, the Listing Groups website www.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Internal control risk management The board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the The committee also keeps under review the value for money of the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk audit and the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board has services provided by the auditors.
The committee has discussed with reviewed the system of internal control, including internal financial the external auditors their independence, and has received and controls, which has been in place for the year under review and up to reviewed written disclosures from the external auditors as required by the date of approval of the annual report.
Such systems are designed to the Auditing Practices Boards International Standard on Auditing ISA manage rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a fast-moving, highUK and Ireland 260 Communication of audit matters with those technology business and can, therefore, provide only reasonable and charged with governance, as well as those required by the US not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Independence Standards Boards Standard No.
1, Independence discussions with audit committees.
To avoid the possibility of the The Companys risk review committee consists of the Chief Technology auditors objectivity and independence being compromised, the Groups Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller and the tax consulting work is carried out by the auditors only in cases where Company Secretary.
The committee receives and reviews quarterly they are best suited to perform the work.
In other cases, the Group reports from business unit managers and corporate functions and its has engaged another independent firm of accountants to perform tax findings are considered and challenged by the executive committee.
The Group does not normally award general consulting The committee is responsible for identifying and evaluating risks which work to the auditors.
From time to time, however, the Group will may impact the Groups strategic and business objectives and for engage the auditors to perform work on matters relating to human monitoring the progress of actions designed to mitigate such risks.
The Group may also seek professional The risk review committee reports formally to the executive committee advice from another firm of independent consultants or its legal advisers.
once a year and, in turn, the executive committee reports to the board once a year.
In addition, during 2005, the Company set up a compliance The current audit committee comprises Peter Cawdron Chairman, Doug committee consisting of the General Counsel, the Chief Operating Dunn, John Scarisbrick, Jeremy Scudamore, Philip Rowley, who joined the Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the EVP Worldwide Sales, the EVP committee on his appointment as a director on 4 January 2005 and Human Resources, the Director of Quality, the Director of IT and the Lucio Lanza who joined the committee on 16 February 2006.
The committee oversees compliance throughout Cawdron is the financial expert as defined in the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 the business with all appropriate international regulations, trading and Philip Rowley is also qualified to fulfil this role.
The committee met on requirements and standards, including oversight of financial, two occasions during 2005 with all members present, with the exception employment, environmental and security processes and policies.
of John Scarisbrick for the January meeting.
The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary attend The Company appointed a disclosure committee in 2003, in compliance all meetings in order to ensure that the information required by the with the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002.
The committee, which comprises the audit committee for it to operate effectively is available.
Representatives Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller, of the Groups external auditors meet with the audit committee at least the General Counsel, the VP Investor Relations and the Company Secretary, once a year without any executive directors being present.
is responsible for ensuring that disclosures made by the Company to its shareholders and the investment community are accurate, complete and Remuneration committee fairly present the Companys financial condition in all material respects.
A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report on page In addition, there is a series of interconnected meetings that span the 25.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are Group from the weekly management meeting chaired by the Chief published on the Groups website www.
com Executive Officer, and the weekly business review meeting chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, the purpose of which is to monitor and Nomination committee control all main business activities, sales forecasts and other matters The nomination committee leads the process for board appointments requiring approval that have arisen within the week, to the board and makes recommendations to the board in relation to new meetings of the Group.
Each month there are customer satisfaction and appointments of executive and non-executive directors and on board process review meetings attended by managers representing different composition and balance.
It is chaired by Sir Robin Saxby, and the other functions across the Group to review key performance indicators such members are Peter Cawdron, Doug Dunn, John Scarisbrick and Lucio as revenues, orders booked, costs, product and project delivery dates ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 19 Corporate governance UK reporting continued and levels of defects found in products in development.
The outputs through various initiatives.
These include monitoring resource of the weekly business review meeting and the monthly operations consumption and waste creation so that targets set for improvement are meeting are reviewed by the executive committee which, in turn, realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing controls continue to operate raises relevant issues with the board.
These processes for identifying, satisfactorily and working with suppliers to improve environmental evaluating and managing the significant business, operational, financial, management along supply chains.
Energy usage and resource compliance and other risks facing the Group have been in place for the consumption data is published in the Groups corporate social year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report responsibility report on its website.
They accord with the guidance on internal control issued in September 1999 by the Internal Control Working Party Health and safety of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Although ARM operates in an industry and in environments which are considered low risk from a health and safety perspective, the safety of As required by the Combined Code, the audit committee has considered employees, contractors and visitors is a priority in all ARM workplaces whether it would be appropriate for the Group to have its own financial worldwide.
Continual improvement in safety management systems is internal audit function and has concluded that, taking account of its achieved through detailed risk assessments to identify and eliminate relatively small number of employees and a high degree of centralisation potential hazards and occupational health assessments for employees.
in the way the business is run, this is not appropriate at present.
The UK offices are covered by a health and safety committee, fire The committee has confirmed this view to the board.
The Group does, wardens and first aiders.
Each year the GoodCorporation verification however, have an operational internal audit function that audits the ensures that the criteria in its charter are met.
The UK offices are also Groups business and product project management processes.
These audited by the British Safety Council, and the Company achieved three processes are documented, maintained and continuously improved, for stars in the 2004 audit.
Other offices around the world have similar effectiveness and efficiency.
In addition, they are audited externally by cover dependent on local needs, practices and customs and operate independent auditors for compliance with ISO 9001:2000. to a global health and safety policy standard.
Corporate social and ethical policies Relationships with shareholders While the Group is accountable to its shareholders, it also endeavours The board makes considerable efforts to establish and maintain good to take into account the interests of all its stakeholders, including its relationships with institutional shareholders.
The Group has a regular employees, customers and suppliers and the local communities and dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year other than environments in which it operates.
The Chief Financial Officer takes during close periods.
The board also encourages communication with responsibility for matters relating to corporate, social and ethical policies private investors and part of the Groups website is dedicated to and these matters are considered at board level.
A corporate social providing accurate and timely information for all investors including responsibility report is on pages 21 to 22 of this report and also on the comprehensive information about the business, its Partners and products, Groups website www.
The Companys Code of Business including all press releases.
A new role of VP Investor Relations was Conduct and Ethics is available on the Group's website www.
At present, around 20 analysts write research The Group also operates a whistle-blowing policy which provides for reports on the Group.
The Group publishes telephone numbers on its employees to have access to senior management to raise concerns in website enabling shareholders to listen to earnings presentations and strict confidence about any unethical business practices.
audio conference calls with analysts.
Members of the board, including some of the non-executive directors attend the annual analysts day As a company whose primary business is the licensing of IP, employees and develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders are highly valued and their rights and dignity are respected.
The Group through any direct contact that may be initiated by shareholders or strives for equal opportunities for all its employees and does not tolerate through analysts' and brokers' briefings and feedback from the Group's any harassment of, or discrimination against, its staff.
In 2003 ARM was financial PR advisers who obtain feedback from analysts and brokers named Employer of the Year in the UK National Business Awards.
All shareholders may register to receive Group also endeavours to be honest and fair in its relationships with its the Groups press releases via the internet.
customers and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries in which it operates.
The board actively encourages participation at the Annual General Meeting, scheduled for 25 April 2006, which is the principal forum for Environmental policies dialogue with private shareholders.
A presentation will be made outlining The Groups premises are composed entirely of offices since it has no recent developments in the business and an open question-and-answer manufacturing activities.
Staff make use of computer-aided design tools session will follow to enable shareholders to ask questions about the to generate IP.
This involves neither hazardous substances nor complex business in general.
With the exception of Development Systems products, the majority of products sold by the Group comprise microprocessor By order of the board core designs that are delivered electronically to customers.
The Group recognises the increasing importance of environmental issues and these are discussed at board level where the Chief Financial Officer takes responsibility for them.
The Groups environmental policy is Patricia Alsop Company Secretary published on its website.
An environmental action plan is implemented 20 ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility UK reporting ARM considers itself to be a good corporate citizen.
The Group strives Connecting with local communities to reduce the impact it makes on the environment and to increase its The Group aims to be a good corporate citizen of the communities in connections with the communities in which it operates.
Considerable which it operates and supports local initiatives and fundraising.
In the efforts are made to communicate effectively with the Groups UK, the focus has been on educational projects particularly for pupils shareholders, partners, suppliers and employees.
who are interested in mathematics, science, IT and business subjects.
This support is sometimes financial and sometimes in the form of The Group is a corporate member of the Institute of Business Ethics providing employees time and skills.
ARM has established relationships IBE and was one of the first members of the GoodCorporation, which with the local business community and is a founding member of The was founded in 2001 to help organisations to develop, manage and Learning Collaboration TLC within the Cambridge business community monitor their corporate responsibilities.
Based on principles set out by in the UK.
The TLC enables member companies to pool resources to the IBE, the GoodCorporation charter enables companies to measure collaborate to learn, improving the quality, availability and value of how effective they are in achieving these responsibilities.
ARMs training and related services.
commitment to the charter includes being verified against a 62-point charter standard covering the fair treatment and protection of its Supporting education employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, the community and the ARMs support for education stretches from financial sponsorship environment.
This independent verification process is repeated each of science IT-related education initiatives, donations of redundant year and, during 2005, the Group successfully retained its membership.
computer equipment to schools and education charities, working on In addition, ARM is listed on the FTSE4Good Index, is a member of extra-curricular engineering projects with school and college students in Business in the Community and takes part in its Business in the the Cambridge area and working on specific projects with students at Environment Index and Corporate Responsibility Index each year.
the Judge Institute, Cambridge Universitys business school.
The Group supports the Engineering Education Scheme, Young Engineers and The environment contributes to the funding to train the UK team for the International The Groups business focuses on designing IP which enables devices Maths Olympics.
ARMs University Programme engages universities to use less power and, as a result, to be more environmentally friendly.
worldwide, designing course material, providing technical seminars, Its activities do not produce harmful waste or emissions and the Ethical donating equipment and software and offering assistance directly to Investment Research Service EIRIS grades ARM as an environmentally students.
ARM has worked with a number of engineering schools low impact business.
Nevertheless, environmental performance is internationally, including Seoul National University, Carnegie-Mellon monitored to enable targets to be set, for example reducing paper US, Southeast University China, and the National Institute of usage and increasing the amount recycled and controlling carbon Technology Karnataka India.
In addition, the Group has relationships emissions through energy use.
with a number of UK universities.
The Chairman, for example, is a visiting professor at Liverpool University.
A document output study has been established to examine paper consumption within the Group and to consider how an extension of its Supporting good causes electronic document management systems might reduce the need for ARM encourages employees to support their local communities.
The Group can also demonstrate an increase in paper are school governors, some help children improve their reading skills, and packaging recycling and an improvement in the facilities in place to others support charities.
Employees at the Groups Austin, Texas office promote recycling of more materials.
Energy usage is monitored closely have, for example, helped with blood drives and have also collected to understand how it is used, which aids the setting of new targets.
food and toys for underprivileged families.
The Group doubles the Renewable energy sources are also being investigated.
There are efforts of employees who raise money for approved charities by recycling bins for aluminium cans in the majority of the Groups offices matching the funds they raise with the exception of political donations and air conditioning systems run on non-ozone-depleting refrigerants.
Charities for cancer research, conservation, The supply of company cars is discouraged and in a Group of over 1,300 to support sufferers of heart disease and those with autism or terminal people, there are less than 30 company cars.
There is a sustainable illness have been some of the beneficiaries of this scheme.
In 2005, transport team within the business looking at ways in which the impact ARM matched donations made by employees to the leading national on the environment can be reduced.
Initiatives introduced so far include charities supporting those affected by the Asian tsunami.
encouraging employees to cycle to work through the provision of improved facilities at the Groups offices, or to share car journeys, or In 2005 ARM continued as a sponsor of the Princes Trust Technology use public transport.
Business travel and ways in which it can be Leadership Group and has participated in events targeted at widening reduced are measured, while still maintaining ARMs very effective the knowledge and understanding of technology and contributed partnership network, particularly through the provision of video expertise to the technology networking events.
The Group will continue to work closely with the British Safety Council in 2006 to establish ways to formalise our Connecting with employees environmental objectives and performance as well as implementing ARMs aim is to attract and retain the best people available by being recommendations made through working with The Carbon Trust.
The skills, knowledge and motivation of employees are crucial to ARMs success.
The Group promotes and supports individuals and teams through on-the-job and formal training, coaching and mentoring.
Every effort is made to keep employees well informed about the Company and matters that affect them.
This is done ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 21 Corporate social responsibility UK reporting continued through both formal and informal communications methods across all Health and safety offices worldwide.
The Group also carries out a regular, comprehensive, The safety of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority.
ARM global opinion survey to monitor employee views and to provide measures and analyses all accidents and near misses as part of its valuable input on how the Company operates.
The Employee Assistance continuous improvement in this area.
Despite the low-risk nature of its Programme helps staff and their families with issues such as care for operations ARM aims to provide a safe, secure and sustainable working children or elderly relatives, legal and health advice, and stress or other environment to all employees and stakeholders.
The Group is verified counselling.
by GoodCorporation each year to ensure that its health and safety requirements are met and in addition its UK offices are audited by the Equal opportunities British Safety Council.
In the UK, there is a health and safety committee The Group needs highly-qualified staff and does not see age, colour, and each office has fire wardens and first aiders.
Overseas offices have disability, ethnic origin, gender, political or other opinion, religion or the health and safety cover required by local legislation.
Health and sexual orientation as a barrier to employment.
If any member of staff safety is high on the agenda and there has been an increase in the becomes disabled, their needs and abilities are assessed with a view to amount of communication with employees on occupational health them continuing in their current role.
If this is impossible, every effort is issues and other health and safety issues through different media made to offer them alternative employment.
During 2005 health and safety training has been provided to line managers to assist in the development of a safety Benefits culture within the organisation.
Employees receive benefits including private medical healthcare: health, travel and life insurance: pensions 401k plan: sabbaticals: flexible working: stock options and a Save As You Earn share scheme.
The Group supports family friendly initiatives and offers a child care voucher scheme for UK tax payers.
Flexible working arrangements are available for all employees, regardless of whether they have children.
Understanding and acceptance of national and cultural diversity is encouraged by giving employees the opportunity to work in offices other than in their home country, where appropriate.
Accessibility The Group endeavours to provide access to all whether through building design to allow easy disabled access or through improving access to our website for those with visual impairments.
22 ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 Directors report UK reporting The directors present their annual report and audited financial multiprocessor and superscalar technology.
The Group is investing in statements for the year ended 31 December 2005. future physical IP development, including the Advantage and Metro physical IP libraries, to ensure technology leadership in this market.
In Principal activities and review of business addition, the Group will develop highly integrated software solutions The principal activities of the Group and its subsidiaries are the with the processor IP such as the TrustZone and Intelligent Energy licensing, marketing, research and development of RISC-based Management IEM technologies.
The nature of the global semiconductor industry is such that most of its business is conducted overseas and, The Group incurred R&D expenses of 80.3 million in 2005, to serve its customers better, the Group has sales offices around the representing 35% of revenues, compared with 54.7 million in 2004. world.
These include six offices in the US and offices in Shanghai and All R&D expenses have been charged to the income statement.
Beijing, PR China: Shin-Yokohama, Japan: Seoul, South Korea: Taipei, Taiwan: Kfar Saba, Israel: Paris, France: Munich, Germany: and Donations Bangalore, India.
Design offices are based in Cambridge, Maidenhead, During the year the Group made donations for charitable purposes Sheffield and Blackburn, UK: Sophia Antipolis, France: Leuven, Belgium: of 65,795 2004: 33,327.
The total amounts given for each such Aachen and Munich, Germany: Austin, Texas and Sunnyvale, California purpose were: in the US: and Bangalore, India.
More information about the business is Local Cambridge charities 2,814 set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 to 5, the Chief Promotion of education 21,199 Executive Officers review on pages 6 to 9, and the operating and Wider understanding of science, financial review on pages 10 to 15. maths and information technology 19,100 Medical research 2,100 Future developments Relief of poverty 9,488 The Groups stated objective is to establish a global standard for RISC Other 11,094 architecture and physical IP for the embedded microprocessor market.
The directors believe that to achieve this goal it is important to expand The Group does not make any political donations.
ARM employees are the number and range of potential customers for its technology.
The encouraged to offer their time and expertise to help charities and other Group intends to enter into licence agreements with new customers groups in need.
The Group operates a gift matching system for and to increase the range of new technology supplied to existing employee fundraising.
Relationships will continue to be established with third-party tools and software vendors to ensure that their products will operate Directors in the year with the ARM architecture.
As a result of its position as an emerging The following served as directors of the Company during the year standard in its industry, the Group is presented with many opportunities ended 31 December 2005: to acquire complementary technology or resources.
It continues to Sir Robin Saxby KBE Chairman review these opportunities and in October 2005, the Group acquired Warren East Chief Executive Officer Keil Elektronik GmbH and Keil Software Inc. independent providers Tim Score Chief Financial Officer of software development tools for the microcontroller market.
Tudor Brown Chief Operating Officer Mike Muller Chief Technology Officer Going concern Mike Inglis Executive Vice President, Marketing After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation Simon Segars Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales: that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in appointed 4 January 2005 operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they Mark Templeton executive director until 18 October 2005 then have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial non-executive director statements.
Peter Cawdron independent non-executive, Senior Independent Director, financial expert Dividends Doug Dunn OBE independent non-executive director The directors recommend a final dividend in respect of the year to Lucio Lanza independent non-executive director 31 December 2005 of 0.5 pence per share which, subject to approval Philip Rowley independent non-executive director and financial expert: at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2006, will be paid on appointed 4 January 2005 5 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at 31 March 2006.
This John Scarisbrick independent non-executive director final dividend, combined with the interim dividend of 0.34 pence Jeremy Scudamore independent non-executive director per share paid during the year, makes a total of 0.84 pence per share for the year 2004: 0.7 pence.
Election and re-election of directors In accordance with Article 79 of the Group's Articles of Association, Research and development R&D Mike Inglis and Peter Cawdron will retire by rotation at the Companys R&D is of major importance and, as part of its research activities, the Annual General Meeting AGM and will seek re-election at that Group collaborates closely with universities worldwide.
Peter Cawdron has served on the board since 1998 and product development for 2006 include the development of further lowhas agreed to remain as a director for a further period of up to one power, high-performance engines for both data and control applications, year to provide valuable continuity following the appointment of four such as the OptimoDE technology and ARM cores based on symmetric new directors since December 2004 see pages 16 to 17 for the directors biographies.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 23 Directors report UK reporting continued Directors shareholdings in the Company Annual General Meeting AGM The interests of the directors in the Companys ordinary shares of The AGM will be held at the Grange City Hotel, 8-14 Coopers Row, 0.05 pence, all of which were beneficially held, are disclosed in the London EC3N 2BQ, UK, on 25 April 2006 at 2pm.
A presentation will remuneration report on page 28. be made at this meeting outlining recent developments in the business.
The Group will convey the results of proxy votes cast at the AGM.
Substantial shareholdings Shareholders are invited to submit written questions in advance of the The directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the meeting.
Questions should be sent to The Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, issued share capital of the Company as at 24 February 2006: 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ.
Percentage of issued ordinary share capital A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Group will be proposed at the AGM.
Details of other resolutions to be Fidelity Investments 14.7% proposed at the meeting are set out in the circular which will be sent to Capital Group Companies 10.2% all shareholders together with the notice of AGM and proxy card.
Janus Capital Corporation 3.9% Legal and General Investment Management 3.6% By order of the board American Century Investments 3.5% Save for the above, the Company has not been notified, as at 24 February 2006, of any material interest of 3% or more or any non-material interest exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of Patricia Alsop Company Secretary the Company.
Disabled persons The Group has a strong demand for highly-qualified staff and, as such, disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment or career development.
In the event of any staff becoming disabled while with the Group, their needs and abilities would be assessed and the Group would, where possible, seek to offer alternative employment to them if they were no longer able to continue in their current role.
Employee involvement As the Group is an IP enterprise, it is vital that all levels of staff are consulted and involved in its decision-making processes.
To this end, internal conferences and communications meetings are held regularly which involve employees from all parts of the Group in discussions on future strategy and developments.
Furthermore, employee share ownership is encouraged and all staff are able to participate in one of the Groups schemes to encourage share ownership.
The Group has an informal and delegated organisational structure.
It does not presently operate any collective agreements with any trade unions.
Policy on payment of creditors The Groups policy is to pay suppliers before the end of the month following receipt of the invoice, unless terms have been specifically agreed in advance.
This policy and any specific terms agreed with suppliers are made known to the appropriate staff and to suppliers on request.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2005 were equivalent to 11 days purchases for the Group 2004: 26 days and nil days for the Company in both years.
24 ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 Remuneration report UK reporting Remuneration committee The remuneration committee has responsibility for determining and agreeing with the board, within agreed terms of reference, the Groups policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the individual remuneration packages for the executive directors including basic salary and annual bonuses, the level and terms of grants of options and awards and the terms of any performance conditions to apply to the exercise of such rights, pension rights and any compensation payments.
Where the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, the committee will make recommendations in relation to the remuneration of senior management.
The committee also liaises with the board in relation to the preparation of the boards annual report to shareholders on the Groups policy on the remuneration of executive directors and in particular the directors remuneration report, as required by the Companies Act 1985 as amended, the Combined Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The committee is chaired by Doug Dunn, and Peter Cawdron, John Scarisbrick and Jeremy Scudamore are members.
The committee met five times during 2005 and all meetings were attended by all the committee members, with the exception of the January meeting when John Scarisbrick was unable to attend.
Given their diverse experience, the four independent non-executive directors are able to offer a balanced view with respect to remuneration issues for the Group.
The committee has access to professional advice from external advisers, generally appointed by the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, in the furtherance of its duties and makes use of such advice.
During 2005, KPMG, Linklaters, Watson Wyatt, Deloitte & Touche and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, have provided advice or services to the committee.
KPMG provided advice on the new executive compensation framework, Linklaters provided legal services and Watson Wyatt provided pension advice to the Group during this period.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, Human Resources, normally attend for part of the remuneration committee meetings.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
During 2005 the committee undertook an extensive review of the pay and incentive structures for senior executives and has proposed some key changes for executive directors which are outlined below and are described in more detail in a circular which was sent to shareholders in March 2006 and is available on the corporate website at www.
The key changes proposed are: l New Deferred Annual Bonus Plan: the maximum bonus opportunity is to be increased from 100% under the current deferred bonus plan to 125% of base salary with compulsory deferral into shares of 50% of the bonus earned and an opportunity to earn an equity match of up to 2:1 measured against an EPS performance condition: l Long Term Incentive Plan: it is proposed that the comparator group for the TSR performance measure be changed from the FTSE 250 to the FTSE 350 to better reflect the Companys position within the index: and l Employee Equity Plan: it is proposed to cease granting options to all employees including executive directors other than in exceptional circumstances and introduce an all-employee share plan.
Details of the new proposals were sent to larger shareholders and other interested parties in October 2005 and a period of consultation has followed.
The committee believes that these proposals reflect good governance, bring the remuneration structure closer in line with UK market norms, increase alignment between remuneration and financial performance and strengthen the retention aspect of the deferred bonus.
The move away from options to shares for all employees will reduce dilution and the move from three plans to two for executive directors simplifies arrangements.
Remuneration policy The remuneration committee in its deliberations on the remuneration policy for the Groups directors seeks to give full consideration to the principles set out in the Combined Code.
The committee also monitors developments in accounting for equity-based remuneration on an ongoing basis.
The Group operates a remuneration policy and framework for executive directors designed to ensure that it attracts and retains the high-quality management skills necessary to achieve a high level of corporate performance, in line with the best interests of shareholders.
This policy seeks to provide rewards and incentives for the remuneration of executive directors that reflect their performance and align with the objectives of the Group.
These comprise a mix of performance-related and  remuneration.
The committee believes that a directors total remuneration should seek to recognise his worth in the external market and, to this end, operates a policy of paying base salaries which are in line with the market median, as part of a total remuneration package which is upper quartile.
The committee believes that this is justified, recognising that more than 50% of total potential remuneration is performance-related.
The committee obtains information about the external market from various surveys, including the Watson Wyatt High Technology and Executive Reward Surveys and the Deloitte & Touche Executive Directors Remuneration Survey.
The nature of the Groups development has meant that there has been a good deal of focus on the attainment of short-term objectives with a high level of variable remuneration.
In 2005, variable remuneration consisted of three elements: annual cash bonus, discretionary share options and conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
As described above, subject to approval at the 2006 AGM, this will reduce to two elements in future, both of which are performance-related and, as a result, more than half of each executive directors remuneration is targeted to be performance linked.
In 2003 a shareholding guideline was introduced under which executive directors and certain senior managers are required to ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 25 Remuneration report UK reporting continued build up a holding of shares in the Company over a period of five years.
The shareholdings may be built up of shares received under the Companys discretionary share option schemes and or the Long Term Incentive Plan and or the new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and, in the case of executive directors, the required holding is 100% of basic salary.
Incentive arrangements The remuneration committee aims to ensure that individuals are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the Group.
There is a strong bonus element to executive directors remuneration and for 2005 a bonus of up to 50% of basic pay could have been earned through the executive bonus plan if all targets were met plus an accelerator for performance in excess of targets and the ability to increase the bonus to 100% by deferring the entire bonus for three years.
Payment of bonus is subject to the achievement of revenue and profit targets set by the remuneration committee, which are directly related to the Groups financial results and ensure that the Groups short-term financial goals are met.
Small bonuses are payable to executive directors in respect of performance during 2005, as shown in the table on page 33.
Proposed new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Subject to approval at the 2006 AGM, the new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan will operate for 2006 under which 50% of any bonus earned will be paid in cash and 50% will be deferred into shares on a compulsory basis.
Voluntary deferral will no longer be possible.
Due to these changes and the fact that no further grants of options will be made except in exceptional circumstances the maximum bonus opportunity will increase to 125% of base salary including a personal performance multiplier which flexes the payment by 0.75 to 1.25, which is in line with current market bonus levels.
The bonus earned will continue to be subject to a revenue target with an EPS underpin but the calibration will be changed.
Under the 2005 bonus arrangement no bonus was payable at less than 90% of the revenue target and maximum bonus would have been paid at 100% of the revenue target with a 1% increase in bonus for every 2% above the revenue target.
Under the new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan no bonus is paid at less than 90% of the revenue target and maximum bonus will now be paid at revenues above the target.
In 2006 maximum bonus will be paid at 104% of target revenues.
The upper limit of the performance range will not exceed 110% of the target revenue.
At the end of the three-year deferral period the deferred shares will be matched subject to achievement of an EPS performance condition.
At EPS growth equal to the increase in the Consumer Prices Index CPI plus 4% per annum, the deferred shares will be matched on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 when EPS growth is in excess of CPI plus 12% per annum.
While the deferral can only be forfeited for gross misconduct, the match is subject to forfeiture for bad leavers.
Proposed new Employee Equity Plan Subject to approval at the 2006 AGM, the new Employee Equity Plan will operate for 2006, in place of the existing Employee Share Option Schemes.
The introduction of this plan reflects the shift in market practice away from options and towards free shares.
However, to enable the Group to respond to any future changes in market conditions, it is proposed that this plan provides the flexibility to grant either shares or options, with a currency conversion between the two to ensure that awards are of a similar value to employees and a similar cost to the Company.
Under this plan it is intended that free shares or options will be granted to employees on an annual basis up to a limit set for each grade and equivalent to grant values under the existing Executive Share Option Scheme.
In the three major employing countries and other countries as may be appropriate, the new Employee Equity Plan may involve the use of government approved plans to deliver awards in a tax efficient manner.
Existing option schemes It is intended that the grant of options under the existing share option schemes will cease once the new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and the new Employee Equity Plan are approved by shareholders.
In relation to existing grants of options, in line with practice among the Groups peers in the technology sector, there are generally no performance conditions attached to the issue or exercise of discretionary options under the existing schemes, except for those issued to executive directors where performance conditions based on real EPS growth apply.
Share options issued to executive directors prior to their appointment to the board of the Group do not have performance conditions attached to them.
However, discretionary options issued to executive directors after their appointment to the board of the Group have performance conditions attached to them.
Executive directors have not received options under the Approved Scheme and the Incentive Stock Option Scheme.
Under the Unapproved Scheme, share options with a value of up to five times base salary may be issued on the executive director joining the Group.
In addition, discretionary options with a value of up to two times base salary may be issued each year.
These discretionary options will vest after seven years, but may vest after three years from grant if the performance conditions are satisfied.
Performance conditions applicable to these options vary depending on the year of grant and details of these conditions are shown in the auditable information below.
The performance conditions applicable to the Long Term Incentive Plan are described in more detail below and are based on total shareholder return TSR, providing the link to performance against an appropriate peer group.
26 ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 These performance conditions were selected having regard to the position of the Group within its sector and the nature of the companies against which it competes to attract and retain high calibre employees.
The Committee believes that the performance conditions represent the correct balance between being motivational and challenging.
Pensions The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a Group personal pension plan, which is a money purchase scheme.
For the UK based directors, the rate of Group contribution is 10% of the executives basic salary 25% in the case of the Chairman subject to the Inland Revenue salary capping limits.
From April 2006 when the salary capping limits cease to apply, contributions will be calculated on full basic pay.
For Mark Templeton who is based in the US, the rate of Group contribution was 6% of his basic salary up to October 2005 when his status changed from executive to non-executive director.
Service agreements Executive directors have rolling service contracts that may be terminated by either party on one years notice.
The service contracts also terminate when executive directors reach age 65.
With the exception of the Chairman, these agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the Group on a full-time basis.
The agreements contain restrictive covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-competition, non-solicitation of the Groups customers, non-dealing with customers and non-solicitation of the Groups suppliers and employees.
In addition, each service agreement contains an express obligation of confidentiality in respect of the Groups trade secrets and confidential information and provides for the Group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as an executive director during the financial year are as follows: Director Date Sir Robin Saxby 31 January 1996 Warren East 29 January 2001 Tim Score 1 March 2002 Tudor Brown 3 April 1996 Mike Inglis 17 July 2002 Mike Muller 31 January 1996 Simon Segars 4 January 2005 Mark Templeton 18 November 2004 Where notice is served to terminate the appointment, whether by the Group or the executive director, the Group in its absolute discretion shall be entitled to terminate the appointment by paying to the executive director his salary in lieu of any required period of notice.
Non-executive directors During 2005, the Chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees each received a total fee of 33,000 per annum and the other non-executive directors each received a total fee of 30,000 per annum.
These fees were arrived at by reference to fees paid by other companies of similar size and complexity, and reflected the amount of time non-executive directors were expected to devote to the Groups activities during the year, which is between 10 to 15 working days a year.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the board and their term of appointment is three years.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other benefits.
No element of their fees is performance-related.
Share options held by Lucio Lanza were granted prior to the Groups acquisition of Artisan and share options held by Mark Templeton were granted prior to his change of status from executive to non-executive director in October 2005.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 27 Remuneration report UK reporting continued Performance graphs A performance graph showing the Companys TSR together with the TSR for the FTSE All-World Technology Index of 249 companies from 31 December 2000 is shown below.
The TSR has been calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The TSR for the Companys shares was -76% over this period compared with -42% for the FTSE All-World Technology Index for the same period.
140 ARM total return performance from 31 December 2000 to 31 December 2005 sterling 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 31 December 2000 31 December 2001 31 December 2002 31 December 2003 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 ARM share price FTSE Global Technology Index The directors consider the FTSE All-World Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe and therefore reflects the global environment in which the Group operates.
In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the Groups customers, as well as companies which use ARM technology in their end products.
Directors shareholdings in the Company The directors beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, which excludes interests under its share option schemes, are set out below.
They are, therefore, treated as interested in all the shares held by this trust, being 5,000,000 ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004.
The shares that vested under the Long Term Incentive Plan on 1 February 2006 were transferred from the Trust reducing the number that the executive directors are treated as being interested in to 1,201,438 ordinary shares.
The executive directors also have interests in dividend shares that could be awarded under the Long Term Incentive Plan, the amount of which will depend on the extent to which the performance criteria are satisfied and the dividends declared during the performance period.
28 ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 Auditable information The following information has been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP, as required by Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme with performance conditions attached.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme which are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum from first anniversary, 50% maximum from second anniversary, 75% maximum from third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
For options granted before January 2003, the performance condition is that the Group must achieve average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% over a performance period of three years from the start of the financial year in which the options were granted the performance period.
For options granted in 2003 under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the Group achieves average real EPS growth of 9.3% over the performance period.
If average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% is achieved over the performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years.
Where the average real EPS growth over the performance period is between 9.3% and 33.1%, the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis.
As described in more detail below these options vested on 1 February 2006.
For options granted in 2004, 2005 and 2006 under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the Group achieves average real EPS growth of 12.5% over the performance period.
Where the average real EPS growth over the performance period is between 12.5% and 33.1%, the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis.
The performance conditions applicable to the options granted on 30 January 2003 at an exercise price of 0.4375 were satisfied and the following options vested on 1 February 2006: Warren East 914,285: Tim Score 777,142: Tudor Brown 731,428: Mike Inglis 731,428: and Mike Muller 731,428.
30 ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 No director exercised any options during the year.
The exercise price is 132.5 pence and all are subject to performance conditions as follows: These options vest after seven years, but may vest after three years if the following performance condition is satisfied.
Where the Group achieves an average EPS growth of at least 12.5% greater than the percentage increase if any in the CPI over a performance period of three years from the start of the financial year in which options are granted, then 50% of the shares under option will vest three years from grant.
For an average EPS growth of at least 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the CPI over the performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years from grant.
Where the average EPS growth is between 12.5% and 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the CPI over the performance period, vesting increases on a straight-line basis.
Details of options held by directors under the Groups Save As You Earn option schemes are set out below: As at As at 31 1 January December Exercise 2005 Granted Lapsed 2005 price Earliest date Expiry Director Number Number Number Number of exercise date Sir Robin Saxby 15,771 15,771 0.5865 01 08 06 31 12 06 Warren East 15,771 15,771 0.5865 01 08 06 31 12 06 Tim Score 27,152 27,152 0.5865 01 08 08 31 12 08 Mike Inglis 15,771 15,771 0.5865 01 08 06 31 12 06 Options issued under this scheme are issued at a 15% discount to market value.
Long Term Incentive Plan A Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
Mark Templeton was conditionally awarded 162,794 shares as part of the 2005 LTIP grant, but these lapsed on his change in status from an executive to a non-executive director in October 2005, thus none were held at 31 December 2005.
Conditional awards will vest to the extent that the performance criteria are satisfied over a three-year performance period from 1 January of the year of award.
The performance conditions are based on the Companys TSR when measured against that of two comparator groups each testing half of the shares comprised in the award.
The first index comprises UK companies across all sectors FTSE 250 and the second comprises predominantly US companies within the Hi Tech sector FTSE Global Technology Index.
For each comparator group, the number of shares that may vest may be up to a maximum of 200% of the shares if the Companys TSR ranks in the upper decile, 50% will vest in the event of median performance and between median and upper decile performance vesting will increase on a straight-line basis.
Additional shares may vest to cover dividends paid by the Company during the performance period.
No shares will be received for below-median performance.
In addition, no shares will vest unless the committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company.
For 2006 awards it is intended that the first comparator group be changed from the FTSE 250 to the FTSE 350 to reflect the Company's position within the index.
The performance conditions applicable to the conditional awards granted on 25 July 2003 were satisfied to the extent of 175.9% plus dividend shares which vested on 1 February 2006, as follows: Market Conditional Vested Dividend Total value at award award shares award vesting Director Number Number Number Number Warren East 248,447 437,018 6,771 443,789 605,550 Tim Score 211,180 371,466 5,755 377,221 514,718 Tudor Brown 198,758 349,616 5,416 355,032 484,441 Mike Inglis 198,758 349,616 5,416 355,032 484,441 Mike Muller 198,758 349,616 5,416 355,032 484,441 Simon Segars 124,224 218,510 3,385 221,895 302,776 Total 1,180,125 2,075,842 32,159 2,108,001 2,876,367 The Companys register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Share prices The market value of the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2005 was 121 pence.
The closing mid-price ranged from 94.25 pence to 127.75 pence during the year.
Deferred bonus plan The existing deferred bonus plan was introduced in 2001 and enabled directors to double their annual bonus if payment is deferred for three years, and to receive 6% interest per annum on the deferred element.
There are no outstanding arrangements under this plan and, subject to approval of the new Annual Deferred Bonus Plan at the 2006 AGM, there will be no further operation of this plan.
Mark Templeton changed from being an executive director to being a non-executive director on 18 October 2005.
For Lawrence Tesler, 2004 fees are shown up to his date of resignation on 26 April 2004.
Remuneration for Simon Segars and Philip Rowley is shown from the date of their appointments on 4 January 2005.
All the executive directors receive family healthcare and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits in kind.
In addition, Tim Score has the use of a company car and Robin Saxby, Warren East, Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis, Mike Muller and Simon Segars receive a car and petrol allowance.
Simon Segars salary includes 33,345 of disturbance allowance and cost of living payments as he relocated to the US for part of the year.
It is the Companys policy to allow executive directors to hold non-executive positions at other companies and receive remuneration for their service.
Details of executives roles within other companies and their remuneration are as follows: Mike Inglis is a non-executive director of Superscape Group plc.
The Group holds 8.2% of the issued share capital of Superscape Group plc and more details about this investment are included in note 14 on page 54.
In this capacity, Mike Inglis received remuneration totalling 15,000 for the year to 31 December 2005 2004: 15,000 and holds options over 20,000 shares in Superscape Group plc at an option price of 33 pence which were granted on 7 January 2004.
The shares will vest in thirds over a three-year period provided that performance targets are met.
Tim Score became a non-executive director of National Express Group plc in February 2005.
In this capacity he received remuneration totalling 34,000 for the year to 31 December 2005.
Tudor Brown is a non-executive director of ANT Software Limited.
In this capacity he received remuneration totalling 20,000 for the year to 31 December 2005.
Simon Segars is a non-executive director of Plastic Logic Limited.
In this capacity he received remuneration totalling 10,000 for the year to 31 December 2005.
Warren East was appointed a non-executive director of Reciva Limited in 2006.
All the executive directors are accruing benefits under a money purchase pension scheme as a result of their services to the Group, contributions for which were all paid during the year.
Doug Dunn OBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 33
