Directors Report Principal activities and business review Supplier payment policy A detailed review of the Groups activities, the development of its The Groups operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms business and an indication of likely future developments are dealt with and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are on pages 16 to 20. conducted.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and The principal activity of the Group remains unchanged and is the conditions.
At 30th January 2005, the amount the Group owed its distribution of electronic, electrical and industrial products to the design, suppliers represented 33 working days purchases 2004: 36 working maintenance and repair sectors.
The Company is a holding company and does not have any trade creditors.
Profit and dividends The profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders was Research and development 39.9 million 2004: 32.6 million restated.
The Directors recommend The Groups research and development activities are restricted to the that a final dividend of 5.0 pence 2004: 5.0 pence per ordinary share be development of new or enhanced products for Akron Brass and are not paid on 22nd June 2005 to those shareholders on the register of significant in the context of the Group as a whole.
members at the close of business on 27th May 2004.
An interim dividend of 4.0 pence per ordinary share was paid on 22nd October 2004, making Charitable and political donations a total for the year of 9.0 pence 2004: 9.0 pence per ordinary share.
In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating certain items of stock to charitable organisations.
In addition, during the year the Group Acquisitions made charitable donations in cash of 38,000 2004: 24,000.
Further In February 2004 the Group purchased the business and certain details of the Groups charitable activities appear in the Social assets of GFE Manufacturing Inc. a supplier of lighting systems and Responsibility Report on page 26. water flow test equipment for the fire-fighting industry for a consideration of 2.6 million.
The Group continues its policy of not making contributions to political parties.
Further details of the acquisition are given in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
Employment The Group places great emphasis on optimising the contribution made Share capital by employees at all levels around the world.
A Group-wide Performance Details of changes in the issued share capital of the Company during the Review and annual Management Audit process are in their sixth year of year are set out in note 20 on page 58. operation.
The Group continues to develop new people development programmes.
During the year the management skills programme was At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company will be seeking enhanced with a custom made module in competency based authority to purchase its ordinary and preference shares.
Authorities were interviewing aimed at improving managers and supervisors selection previously granted at the Annual General Meeting in 2004, but expire at skills.
Access to the highly successful OnLine Learning Centre was the close of the forthcoming meeting.
increased to enable 4,000 employees to participate in the range of programmes it provides.
Directors The names and biographical details of the Directors who held office at the A formal job grading system exists across the Group to assist date of this report appear on page 32.
Sir Robert Horton and Sir Malcolm remuneration practices as well as career development and organisational Bates retired from the Board on 15th June 2004 and 28th February 2005 planning processes.
Employees are informed of the performance of the Group and a In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr Michael structured communication programme allows factors affecting their Lester and Mr John Hirst will retire at the forthcoming Annual General employment to be discussed.
Meeting of the Company and offer themselves for re-election.
Sir Peter Gershon, who was appointed during the year, will retire and offer Working in close co-operation with elected representatives from its himself for election.
Mr Hirst is an Executive Director and has a service European operating companies, the Groups European Works Council contract with the Company, further details of which are provided in the The Premier Farnell European Forum is in its fifth year of operation.
The Remuneration Report on page 39.
Sir Peter Gershon and Mr Michael Forum provides an arena for the exchange of relevant and appropriate Lester are Non-Executive Directors and do not have service contracts.
information and constructive dialogue between management and employees on European issues.
A similar forum, specific to the UK, has Following a formal Board evaluation process that was carried out during been negotiated and will meet for the first time in 2005.
The UK Forum has the course of the year, the Board considers that the performance of been established in accordance with the Information and Consultation of Mr Lester and Mr Hirst continues to be effective and that they each Employees Regulations 2004. continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, service from disabled persons, with regard to their particular aptitudes and contracts and interests in the Companys shares is given in the abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the employment of those who Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42.
The details of Directors become disabled during their employment.
Training, career development interests in the Companys shares form part of this report.
and promotion are, as far as practicable, identical for all employees according to their skills and abilities.
The Group consistently seeks to recruit, develop and employ throughout the organisation suitably qualified, capable and experienced people, irrespective of age, race, religion or sexual orientation.
Employees participation in the Groups performance is encouraged through the Groups UK savings-related share option scheme.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33
