Operating Review Human Resources Report At its heart Premier Farnell is essentially a The Group places strong emphasis on people business.
It is a business that is individual and team performance.
This is dependent upon ongoing and effective reinforced by pay for performance.
In 2004 relationships between our employees and our not only were field sales staff covered by customers and suppliers.
It is our employees incentive plans, but almost half of non-sales who translate our product and service offering staff had an element of variable, performance into reality every day by meeting and exceeding related, remuneration.
both customer and supplier expectations.
The key is the consistent delivery of our proposition An analysis of development needs highlighted in performance reviews provides the raw data through the appropriate behaviours and actions of all employees.
It is for this reason that the upon which two major training programmes are based.
During the year more modules were Group places so much emphasis on the need to have an appropriate talent base.
added to the Management and Supervisory Programme and over 1,500 man days of In 2003 the Group began a programme of training were delivered in 2004.
In addition,  the Premier Farnell OnLine Learning Centre essential to the provision of good service.
These now makes 26 programmes available to values, totally reliable, resourceful, intuitive 4,000 employees directly over their and with integrity, were identified by our personal computers.
This introductory phase was Another successful initiative incorporating the completed in 2004 and is being reinforced by new recruitment, appraisal and development OnLine Learning Centre was the creation this year of a consistent Group-wide induction processes designed to embed the requisite behaviours into the organisation.
process, the Premier Farnell Welcome Programme.
Members of the Human Resources function, together with a wide range of managers and Management continues to focus on reducing labour turnover, particularly in the typically high supervisors, have been trained in competency based interviewing techniques.
This is helping incidence areas of distribution centres and call centres.
During the year the labour turnover rate to ensure that only new recruits who can demonstrate behavioural patterns consistent was reduced by 11 per cent on a year on year basis.
This years target of achieving an with our core values are hired.
The introduction of these techniques in parts of the Group has 86 per cent retention rate at management and supervisory levels was exceeded.
It is our already demonstrated they can have a dramatic effect on labour turnover.
intention to improve further our performance in this area by setting ourselves the challenging Employees throughout the Group receive target of filling over 70 per cent of managerial feedback on their performance and over and professional vacancies from internal 60 per cent of employees are covered by the sources by 2007. annual Group Performance Review Process which serves three vital purposes: The Group is actively encouraging open communications at all levels.
During the year it ensures that employees are clear about their a bespoke diagnostic technique to measure responsibilities and that their objectives for the the degree of employee commitment and year are aligned with the business strategy.
engagement with the Company was piloted in seven departments.
This diagnostic enables it addresses the technical, professional and employees to express clearly their views on managerial development needs of each aspects of their working environment that employee.
For the first time, the identification aid or hinder performance.
Then, working of developmental needs has been augmented with local management, solutions to issues by the introduction of formal 360-degree raised are identified and implemented.
This enables participants result of these pilot exercises, we are now to receive direct feedback on how their making the diagnostic technique available behaviours are perceived by their peers and across the Group.
subordinates in addition to their manager.
Although restricted to some 60 managers this Building on the positive experience of working year, we intend to increase the number of with employee members of the Premier Farnell employees covered by this process European Forum established in 1999, the Group significantly over the next two years.
is establishing a UK Forum in accordance with the Information and Consultation of Employees performance reviews form the basis for Regulations 2004.
The UK Forum will meet for functional, regional and Group People Days the first time in 2005. a process for matching our skill base with the strategic needs of the business.
In 2004, one result of this annual process was the intercontinental transfer of three senior managers as part of our aim to build a truly global operation.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21
