Operating Review Industrial Products Division New markets for industrial products and TPC Wire & Cable systems are creating significant opportunities TPC Wire & Cable is a marketer and supplier of for growth.
high performance electrical and electronic wire, cable and connectors designed for heavy duty Sales strategy or harsh industrial environments.
We continue to pursue the opportunities presented by our first class range of products Our assets and many years of experience to expand our Our offices are located in Independence, Ohio sales operations into new markets.
with a warehouse facility in Mentor, Ohio.
In The Industrial Products Division is a group addition we have a sales office and warehouse of businesses supplying high performance We have successfully expanded into new in Mexico.
We operate in the United States, products to specialist industrial markets.
The geographies and have made significant Canada and Mexico and have a field-based Division accounts for 12 per cent of sales and progress in Asia where we recently appointed sales organisation working alongside a central, 16 per cent of operating profits.
The markets in a new distributor.
We also have which these businesses operate are distinct specialised teams focused on servicing and varied.
We are applying our expertise in fire control to particular customer segments.
the new area of vapour control and expanding Akron Brass our activities into the mining industry and sales Our market proposition  to the US Federal Government.
We offer our customers: and sale of high performance fire-fighting product innovation to ensure we are highly equipment for fire truck manufacturers, public Major wins responsive to their evolving needs fire services and industrial facilities.
Its products We continue to make good progress in the are designed to improve the safety and industrial market and are building our a range of products held in stock and efficiency of personnel and equipment engaged relationship with Exxon Mobil Corporation, to available for immediate delivery in the suppression of fire.
It sells through its own whom we have sold a second vapour mitigation complete ordering flexibility with products field sales force and distributors to customers system for their Chalmette, Louisiana, facility.
sold by the foot, metre or piece to meet their all over the world.
precise requirements Two major European truck manufacturers have Our assets converted to our roof turrets used on airport a choice of sales channels: orders can be Our offices, warehouse and manufacturing are emergency trucks instead of building their own.
placed by phone or online via EDI or located in Wooster, Ohio.
We also have a sales This represents an opportunity for us going eCommerce and distribution facility in Canada and a second forward.
on-site support from field-based engineers manufacturing facility in Washington, Illinois.
We who specialise in wire, cable and connectors Product range have a direct sales force operating throughout and work with customers to determine their the world and a worldwide distribution network.
The acquisition of GFE Manufacturing Inc. in specific needs and develop tailored solutions the first quarter of the year has extended our Our market proposition product range into lighting products and technical and product design assistance We offer our customers: enabled us to increase our penetration of a provided by a central products team.
a complete range of products which is Trends in our market continually being updated Industrial products and systems including The requirement to reduce production total service in the selection of the product remote controlled monitoring systems are downtime and lower overall maintenance costs best suited to the customers specific needs allowing us to develop opportunities in new continues to be the primary driver in our market.
and after sales support industries and new geographies.
While our traditional customer base in the US fast and efficient handling of product orders Our SaberJet nozzle which enables firefighters automotive and steel industries face economic and special requests to deliver a straight stream of water to tackle the challenges, the overall market conditions have web site access to detailed product base of a fire while gaining the personal improved during the year.
information protection of highly effective fog spray and our Mercury Quick Attack monitor, which is quick to New markets for our range of products and field support with on-site demonstrations, set up, delivers a high flow of water and can be services are developing in offshore drilling hands on product training, and left unmanned, both continue to sell well and platform construction, mining, utilities and the demonstration vehicles with the latest consolidate our position in our core market.
equipment on board technical assistance including product repair Building our capabilities seminars, repairs and rebuilding of equipment.
We have made significant investment this year in our new product development capability.
We Trends in our market have expanded our machine shop and added Market conditions in the US fire truck several new work centres to enable us to manufacturing sector remain stable, while increase capacity and improve flexibility in the demand from Europe and Asia is strong.
We have also restructured the marketing and engineering Our customers are increasingly using the departments in order better to meet the worldwide web as a source of information in the demand for product innovation.
process of specifying their requirements.
Web sites supported by international distributors are creating a globally competitive market.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19 Operating Review Industrial Products Division continued Sales strategy Product range Sales strategy We are focused on developing a range Our team of product managers is working to Despite unfavourable market conditions we of products with superior performance expand our capacity so that we can deal with have increased our sales and market share in characteristics that ensure they meet our more suppliers and develop new supplier both the automotive and the industrial customers requirements for longer-lasting, relationships in order to enhance further our maintenance markets through our focus on: safer products and long-term cost reduction.
This year we have added developing strategic partnerships with key 275 new products to our range, sales of which suppliers to ensure our products retain their At the core of our sales strategy is the accounted for 18 per cent of total sales.
performance advantage development of our team of experienced and knowledgeable people, which enables us to Custom mechanical connectors have been the ongoing recruitment of field sales offer customers design and technical expertise a growing segment for us.
We continue to executives to expand geographic reach and customised solutions to their specific expand our product offering and capabilities.
We are known in our industry for Sales have increased by 33 per cent this year.
strengthening our key account management our expertise and creativity in problem solving in order to support large multinational KENT for our customers.
We have recently added customers resources to our team in the Engineered KENT specialises in the sale and distribution of products aimed at professional customers in working with original equipment Products department.
the automotive aftermarket and industrial manufacturers to build our presence in We are expanding our operations into new repair markets.
this market geographies as the demand for our products maintaining our investment in developing the and services increases alongside the growth of Our assets skills of our selling teams through in-house We operate throughout Europe and have a industrial manufacturing in Central and South training programmes.
Sales in Mexico are up 40 per cent on field-based sales organisation of 350 people supported by office-based sales teams.
New markets We are expanding our business following the Reactivating customers who have not Our market proposition appointment of new distributors in Greece purchased during a twelve-month period has We offer our customers: and Hungary.
been an active goal throughout the year.
These technology led product solutions with a range accounts were targeted in a direct mail of 3,000 products held in stock We have identified a significant opportunity in campaign with special incentives and a follow the marine leisure market and have a developed high levels of customer service up sales call.
Over 400 accounts have been a full product range and catalogue targeted at reactivated and the resultant sales exceeded online material safety data sheets for all this sector.
products Major wins a choice of sales channels: orders can be New markets Trading relationships have been reached with a placed by phone or with our field-based sales We are expanding our business through the number of OEM customers across Europe to people.
Products are accessed by paper and development of new customers in offshore sell approved products in the aftermarket.
electronic catalogues drilling platform construction, mining, utilities and the shipbuilding industries.
an extensive programme of on-site customer Product range training.
We have this year improved our product Major wins development processes.
Sales from new TPC was awarded a General Services Trends in our market products accounted for 8.5 per cent of total Administration GSA contract under the The European Union has a stated objective to sales, with major contributions coming from the Federal Supply Schedule in 2003 to provide all reduce significantly the number of accidents in launch of a new windscreen adhesive and the Federal, State and Local Government facilities all countries through active traffic restrictions distribution of a new range of abrasives which with access to the entire TPC product range.
and passive vehicle design measures.
These offer considerable benefits over current Investment has been made in the new systems, have resulted in a downturn in the automotive market leaders.
which will enable the business to market repair market.
effectively to all government facilities and contractors.
Sales under the GSA are over Changes to European Block Exemption 200 per cent up on last year.
regulations relating to the original equipment manufacturers market has brought about significant changes in the structure of the market, with rapid consolidation of customers into larger economic units and multi-brand dealerships becoming commonplace.
20 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
