1 2 Talent Technology Total Service 29 Kevin Yapp, Established Farnell InOne as industry leaders in RoHS, Talented people are the key to Premier Over the last five years, Premier Farnell has Premier Farnell is an approved supplier of MRO 30 Premier Farnell is a service business.
It is the Premier Farnell aims consistently to offer 3 45 6 7 29 31 32 winning customer accolades for our user-friendly help.
30 Steven Webb, Farnell's future.
Last year the quality of our invested in leading edge information systems and electronics products to BAE SYSTEMS.
foundation on which customer loyalty is built.
service in line with the best available in our Continued alignment between the legal function and the business by business, and its readiness for the future, upon which to develop its business.
The Working together with them to develop a round markets.
This year we have launched a focusing on our customers and measuring performance.
31 Andrew Lewis, were materially improved by the many trip eTrading solution has provided us with a benefit of this investment is being recognised We ship over 6 million orders each year.
Each programme to set new standards in service Worked with the businesses to reduce Group inventories by 8.5 million in achievements of our senior leaders and their by customers, suppliers and technology controlled, customised environment with all order is like a relay race, with the order being for ourselves and for the industry.
32 Fabio Ferrari, Introduced a new range of abrasives teams across the Group.
Some of these the advantages of Premier Farnell's web site partners alike.
passed from sales order entry and product which has generated sales of 1.3 million and repeat business in a new achievements are listed here.
Although in its early stages of use availability, to warehouse pick accuracy, to We were delighted that a continuous product segment for KENT.
33 Steven Hopkins, Over the last two years within our business, it is already proving worked with my team to add over 80,000 new products to the Newark With a vision of leveraging product information forwarder on time delivery, to name but a few.
improvement auditor at one of our major 33 34 35 36 1 Matt Palmer, Secured contract renewals from Rolls-Royce plc and NUWPEC and InOne range.
34 James Garthwaite, Transformed many of the Groups as a strategic asset, Premier Farnell has gained beneficial in terms of process savings and the To deliver our service standards, we require customers recently reported that the spare tripled business from UK Atomic Energy Authority.
2 Rob Rospedzihowski, Created the internal and external corporate communications materials including this ability to view real-time information.
Premier huge benefits by creating a global product excellence in every leg of that race, and in the parts management systems that we run for blueprint for a Global Accounts business and won a Motorola Global Super Supplier report.
35 Philip Thomas, Increased the frequency of risk reporting to the repository across all InOne companies.
It is Farnell has been a supportive and effective handovers.
3 Rory Boyes, Achieved the strongest sales and profit growth in Australia for four executive team, improving the Companys risk control environment.
supplier to our business over the last twelve a prime example of innovative thinking within service, the more opportunities we unlock as years.
4 Simon Whitaker, Championed the Asia Service Improvement plan and leveraged 36 David Gaskin, Reduced average interest rate on the Groups main its industry.
months and we look forward to growing our Across the Group, we measure a variety of customers gain the confidence to rely on us.
both Farnell InOne and Newark InOne brands into Asia.
5 Joan Irving, Secured a borrowings from 6.6 per cent to 6.3 per cent.
service metrics that cover all aspects of our 9 55 per cent increase in supplier investment in joint marketing activity.
6 Marianne Culver, 8 By creating a clear data structure and global Kathy McKenzie, Commodity Lead, customers' experience.
This year, across our Achieved significant improvement in relationships with key suppliers, along with increased BAE SYSTEMS understanding of our compelling value proposition.
7 Diane Sweeney, Established a new data synchronisation, the InOne companies major businesses, Newark InOne in North supplier management approach that assures resource allocation is aligned and prioritised are now enabled to provide customers with America and Farnell InOne in Europe, according to the needs of our customers.
access to a global offering and identity across error rates have been reduced.
In print, on CD and Our Industrial Products Division also recognises in electronic channels, their ability to deliver information in a fast, flexible and effective the importance of service and measures it 10 11 12 13 14 closely: TPC Wire & Cable sets our internal manner results in a best-in-class solution that continues to evolve.
benchmark with the lowest error rate anywhere in the Group: and KENT achieved the greatest Dan Korsgaard, CEO, Stibo Catalog improvement in the Group, reducing its error rate by 57 per cent.
Premier Farnell has proved itself a flexible 40 15 3738 39 4142 partner with an excellent eProcurement 8 Brian Lewis, Achieved three inter continental transfers of senior managers, solution.
The fully customised web site provided symptomatic of a breakthrough in the Groups globalisation process.
for us is delivering clear benefit, enabling us 9 Hilary Wingfield, Developed and launched a new Performance Review to control spending better and allowing our Process and our first 360-degree reviews.
10 Matt Toogood, Led a staff to focus on their core job responsibilities As a preferred supplier to UK universities and programme in which each of our 5,000 employees spent three hours each rather than the ordering process.
Selecting the Research Councils, Premier Farnell has not considering how our core values improve our customers experience and hence BuckHickman InOne alongside Farnell InOne our business.
11Ken Palframan, Trained 75 per cent of key managers in only recognised the unique requirements of this 16 17 18 19 43 made perfect sense as the service from both 37 Paul Callaghan, Developed the plan to reduce 40 Peter Costello, All North America Europe and Asia Pacific in interviewing techniques to ensure that new sector but also worked closely in partnership can be integrated into the same procurement employees are aligned with our core values.
12 Joe Daprile, Provided 18 shipment defects by 20 per cent across all Europe and Industrial Products Division businesses with NUWPEC to develop this unique service Asia Pacific next year, building on the progress in our identified and entered new market segments solution.
training sessions across the Group covering contracts, data protection and offering that links Farnell InOne, CPC and intellectual property rights.
13 Raymond Kernagis, Completed 25 facilities European warehouses this year.
38 Chris Haworth, Drove generating sales and profit growth.
Fiona Digby-Grant, Head of Corporate BuckHickman InOne.
service levels at Farnell InOne to the highest level on record.
41 Tom Dietz, Led new market initiatives improvements projects identified by employees to improve working Commercial, UK Atomic Energy Authority environments across the Group, with a total spend of 250,000.
39 Tom Walkowiak, Created the team, vision and which contributed to record breaking sales for The state of the art bespoke Onecall web site commitment to achieve a breakthrough in service levels TPC in September 2004.
42 John Burton, 14 Ken Jochum, Controlled cost and improved service in the US healthcare is a one-stop shop solution.
It provides vendor scheme benefiting all North American employees.
with the Group Total Service project.
Improved KENT Europes cash collection 44 15 Bill Maurer, Completed the consolidation of all Europe and reduction cost efficiencies and a dedicated performance freeing up 0.6 million working Asia Pacific Business Units onto one back office system ORBIT.
43 Dan Peters, Successfully Onecall contact centre, demonstrating the 16 David Abbott, Led the CPC team through the integrated the 2.6 million acquisition of capabilities and flexibility of Premier Farnell as implementation of the ORBIT back office system, minimising GFE Manufacturing into Akron Brass and a true purchasing partner.
17 Paul Horton, Renegotiated the generated profits ahead of expectations.
David Johnson, Chairman, National Group global telecommunications contract, achieving an annual 44 Paul Barlak, Worked with Akron Brass on Universities Working Party on Electronic saving of $700,000 per annum.
18 Joanne Hutchinson, financial issues relating to the successful 45 46 47 48 Components NUWPEC Created a global programme management team, which has acquisition and integration of successfully delivered over 92 medium and large scale projects.
20 22 23 21 19 Tom Kartheiser, Launched a best practice initiative for IT service delivery across our global computer networks.
BuckHickman InOnes ability to provide a Premier Farnells deployment of Endecas 20 Stephen Paterson, Delivered a truly global customer tailored eProcurement solution, and fulfilment Search and Guided Navigation platform is relationship management capability that enhances customer using its local branch network, was key to world-class.
Premier Farnell uses Endeca to experience.
21 Graham Johnson, Delivered 87 per cent of them winning this supplier agreement.
Since bring together their exceptionally broad and core systems projects on time, the eCommerce service level 49 50 51 52 53 its implementation, the individual branch deep product catalogue and rich technical agreement at 99 per cent all under budget.
22 Robert managers have been working very closely with content to deliver unparalleled value through Knight, Rolled out a common web platform to 21 countries 24 25 26 27 28 our sites to suggest and help them manage the online channel.
and a world class search engine to 25 web sites.
their own tooling requirements and help prevent inappropriate purchasing.
Using Endeca, Premier Farnells customers get easy online access to over 2 million Using the solution developed by BuckHickman products, their attributes and related product InOne has given us vital management information, enabling the entire purchasing 45 Bernard J. Gizzi, Visited 18 cities in the US and met over 300 customers, suppliers and information to help us manage a diverse cost process for their demanding customer base.
Premier Farnell employees in first five months in the job.
46 Steve Canham, Delivered a strong centre.
This allows us to plan future efficiencies On the back-end Premier Farnell leverages 23 Gary Niemand, Launched the More Time, More Selling project that is increasing sales uplift in profits in the Marketing and Distribution Division, Europe and Asia Pacific, driven by and cost-down programmes.
Endecas flexible architecture to power their capability in Newark InOne branches.
24 Jim Nichols, Achieved double-digit growth in sales particularly strong growth outside the UK.
47 Neil Harrison, Led BuckHickman InOne through Howard Reed, Procurement Contracts online presence globally on a single, efficient in Newark InOne this year, while significantly improving gross margins.
25 Paul Tallentire, a difficult year and put in place a firm foundation for recovery.
48 Stephen Makepeace, Helped people across the Newark InOne business focus on gross margin, resulting in a fourth Delivered significant uplift in operating profits in Farnell InOne UK.
49 James Bell, Encouraged Manager, RWE Thames Water platform that will scale as their business quarter rate 1.8 per cent higher than the fourth quarter last year.
26 Rick Haning, Worked all the General Managers within Farnell InOne Southern Europe to share best practice.
with a team to reduce slow moving inventory by over $3 million.
27 Twyla Gray, Led the were up 11 per cent this year.
50 Robert Ainsworth, Led the project in the Marketing and Steve Gurney, Director of Sales Europe, Newark InOne West Region with California sales up 20 per cent.
28 Robin Dye, Partnered Distribution Division, Europe and Asia Pacific to improve gross profit.
51 Ferdinand Leicher, Endeca Technologies Inc. with key vendors like TYCO, Vishay, Tektronix and Fluke in the North East and Canada and Achieved highest sales ever in Farnell InOne Germany with 12 per cent growth in the year.
drove the region to exceed sales and profit plan.
52 Paul Jennings, Reduced controllable costs and improved cash flow in BuckHickman InOne branches through a reduction in stocks.
53 Andrew Verey, Grew sales in MCMs chosen segments by 14 per cent.
08 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 09 10 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 1 2 Talent Technology Total Service 29 Kevin Yapp, Established Farnell InOne as industry leaders in RoHS, Talented people are the key to Premier Over the last five years, Premier Farnell has Premier Farnell is an approved supplier of MRO 30 Premier Farnell is a service business.
08 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 09 10 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11
