Board of Directors & Senior Management Executive Directors Robert John Schofield Aged 54 Paul Thomas Aged 50 Joined the Group in 2001 taking responsibility for its Joined the Group in 2002 as Finance Director.
He was appointed Chief Executive this he served as Finance Director of Coors Brewers in January 2002.
Robert Schofield has extensive formerly Bass Brewers.
Previously, he was the Director manufacturing and operational experience gained at of Planning and Business Development in the retail United Biscuits plc where he ultimately served as division of Grand Metropolitan plc.
He is a Chartered Managing Director of United Biscuits UK, directing Accountant.
both the McVities and KP Foods businesses.
Non-executive Directors David Kappler Aged 59 David Felwick CBE Aged 61 Sharon Hintze Aged 61 Joined the Group on flotation in 2004 as Chairman.
Joined the Group on flotation in 2004.
Prior to this he Joined the Group on flotation in 2004, she is currently David Kappler was previously Finance Director of was Deputy Chairman of the John Lewis Partnership a non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc and a Cadbury Schweppes plc.
He is a Chartered and Chairman of the British Retail Consortium.
He was trustee of the Society of Genealogists.
She was formerly Management Accountant and is currently a previously Managing Director of Waitrose and is currently a non-executive director of Safeway plc and Senior Vice non-executive director of HMV Group plc, Chairman of Product of the Year Ltd, and Leckford President responsible for the Petcare strategic business Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc and Intercontinental Estate Ltd. unit at Nestl SA in Switzerland.
Prior to this Miss Hintze Hotels Group plc.
worked for Mars Incorporated and a number of its subsidiaries in the United States, the United Kingdom and Switzerland.
Ian McHoul Aged 46 Ian Ramsay Aged 66 Joined the Group on flotation in 2004 and is currently Joined the Group on flotation in 2004, Mr Ramsey the Group Finance Director of Scottish & Newcastle plc.
was formerly President of European Operations and He was previously the Finance and Strategy Director of President of Europe, Africa and the Middle East at the Inntrepreneur Pub Company Limited and prior to Bestfoods Europe.
Prior to this, he was Senior Vice that he spent 10 years with Courage Limited and its President of Finance and Human Resources.
parent company Fosters Brewing Group in a variety of roles.
Mr McHoul is a Chartered Accountant.
