Directors report The directors have pleasure in presenting the report and financial Directors responsibilities statements of Premier Foods plc and its subsidiaries for the year ended The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial 31 December 2005. year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Principal activities the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss, total recognised income and expense and cash ows of the Group for that period.
Premier Foods plc is a public limited company incorporated in England, The directors confirm that appropriate accounting policies have been used registered number 5160050, with its registered ofce at Premier House, and applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and Centrium Business Park, Grifths Way, St Albans, AL1 2RE.
estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements Details of its principal activities can be found on page 16. for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The directors are required to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless inappropriate to Business review presume that the Group will continue in the business, and have been properly The Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3, the Chief Executives prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and all applicable summary on pages 4 and 5 and the Business review on pages 16 accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for to 21 provide a review of the business during the year and possible maintaining adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable future developments.
accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Company and the Group as to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Financial statements Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets The audited financial statements are presented on pages 46 to 83. of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
profit and dividend The directors of the Group have taken all necessary steps to ensure that The profit on ordinary activities before tax for the year ended the Groups auditors are aware of all relevant information and none of the 31 December 2005 was 51.8m 2004: 2.3m.
The directors are directors are aware of any relevant information that has not been disclosed recommending a final dividend of 9.50p per share for the year ended to the Groups auditors.
The directors are responsible for maintaining the 31 December 2005.
Subject to shareholders approval, the final dividend integrity of financial information which includes the Annual Report, together will be paid on 7 July 2006 to members on the register as at 9 June 2006. with other financial statements, presentations and announcements on the Shares Groups website www.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from During the year, the ordinary share capital of the Company was increased legislation in other jurisdictions.
to 247,841,161 ordinary shares of 1p each, allotted as a result of the exercise of options under the Companys share schemes.
Details of share Directors indemnities movements during the year are set out in note 25 to the financial Article 225 of the Companys Articles of Association provides that every statements on page 73.
The Company has authority from shareholders to director, shall be entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the repurchase up to 10% of its own shares.
This authority was not used during Company against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities incurred the year to 31 December 2005, nor in the period up to the publication of by him in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of his duties this report.
The Board intends however to seek shareholder approval to and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers and or otherwise renew this authority at the Annual General Meeting.
in relation to or in connection with his duties, powers or ofce including Research and development without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing any liability incurred by him in defending any proceedings, civil or criminal, which relate to anything Research and development costs of 1.5m were incurred in continuing done or omitted or alleged to have been done or omitted by him as an operations during the year, relating to salaries paid in the new-product officer of the Company and in which decree or judgment is given in his development division.
favour or in which he is acquitted or in connection with any application Land and buildings under any statute for relief from liability in respect of any such act or omission in which relief is granted to him by the Court.
The directors are of the opinion that there is no significant difference between the book and market value of the land and buildings of the Group.
Substantial shareholdings Donations As at 20 March 2006, the Company has been notied, in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests No donations were made to political parties.
Details of charitable donations in the ordinary shares of the Company: can be found on page 37.
Number of % of issued Directors Notication received from ordinary shares share capital The present directors of the Company are listed on page 30 of the AXA Investment Managers UK Ltd 22,949,354 9.26% corporate governance report.
On 26 May 2005 both Mr Lyndon Lea Standard Life Investments UK 34,215,476 13.81% and Mr George Sewell resigned their directorships.
Fidelity International Limited 7,194,951 2.90% Details of the interests in the share capital of the Company of the directors Legal & General Group plc 12,469,549 5.03% in ofce as at 31 December 2005 are set out on page 42 of the directors remuneration report.
28 Premier Foods plc Employment policies A summary of the Groups employment policies is set out on in the corporate social responsibility report on page 34.
Creditor payment policy Premier Foods plc is a holding company and had no amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 December 2005.
The Groups creditor days outstanding at 31 December 2005 were 64 days 2004: 59 days of purchases, based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
The Group has a variety of payment terms with suppliers.
Payment terms for purchases under major contracts are agreed as per the contract negotiators.
Post balance sheet events There are no post balance sheet events.
Auditors  LLP has indicated its willingness to continue as auditors, accordingly a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985.
The reappointment of  LLP has been approved by the Audit Committee, who will also be responsible for determining their audit fee on behalf of the directors.
Going concern The directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Annual General Meeting business The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smitheld, London EC1A 9HQ on Thursday 11 May 2006 at 12.00 noon.
The Notice convening the AGM appears on page 89, together with details of the business to be considered, and full explanations of each resolution that is being proposed.
By order of the Board Andrew Astin Company Secretary Premier Foods plc Premier House Centrium Business Park Grifths Way St Albans Hertfordshire AL1 2RE Registered in England No.
5160050 7 March 2006 29 Premier Foods plc Directors report
