innovating 06 Premier Foods plc The Branston story Our approach to business challenges is different and rapid!
The factory fire at the end of 2004 and the resulting public concern about its ability to buy Branston in time for Christmas, reinforced our belief that Branston as a brand, had a unique place in the hearts of the British Nation!
Renowned for its tangy, sweet pickle and great taste, the brand had the ability to grow even further.
We are building on this by modernising and stretching into new areas outside its traditional base.
Weve had a busy year with exciting innovations: modern packaging for sweet pickle new jar shape, TV advertising for our squeezy range and a hugely successful launch of a relish range four exciting flavours, which gained brand leadership almost immediately.
Further research showed that the brand could expand even further and in the last quarter we successfully entered the beans and pasta markets.
An innovative approach was needed for success: the project was developed and launched in an amazing 11 week period.
New great tasting products were made and advertising created and aired.
We were so confident of our superior quality that we even asked the Nation to vote for the ating best tasting beans in our Great British Bean Poll.
750,000 votes were cast and Branston won with a staggering 76%!
The brand has grown to over 28m in the year as a result of bringing out the Branston!
07 Premier Foods plc Our strategy inspir!ng 08 Premier Foods plc The Loyd Grossman story Created and launched in 1995, the Loyd Grossman brand provides inspiration for mealtimes everyday in an ever increasing number of households.
Uncompromising in approach, this premium brand has gained a reputation for raising the bar in taste and quality developing a very loyal following.
Keeping the momentum of recipe and flavour innovation has been vital, with new seasonal variations pasta sauces and product launches into creamy Italian sauces, pesto and chutney markets.
Each product has the look, taste, aroma and unique twist that youd expect from Loyd Grossman.
Detailed understanding of our consumer base and their lifestyles has enabled us to take our innovative approach to food development into our consumer communications.
We tested some new ways of introducing new people to our brand and used these results to mould our advertising and sampling activities.
This enabled a further step-up in household penetration.
In 2005 weve seen the brand grow its household base by 500,000, sales by 22% and market share to 8.7% becoming the number 3 brand within the cooking sauce market.
Loyd Grossman Truly inspired eating!
inspir!ng 09 Premier Foods plc Our strategy refreshing 10 Premier Foods plc The Ambrosia story We acquired the Ambrosia brand from Unilever at the end of 2003 because we recognised it as an iconic British brand, loved by consumers for its unique creamy taste but in need of some nurturing to unlock its real growth potential.
Since then weve been busy developing and investing in the brand modernising and redesigning the packaging and launching new products to target snacking and out of home consumption and putting the brand back on TV for the first time in more than five years.
All of these plans and activities are underpinned by an in-depth understanding of the brand how people engage with Ambrosia emotionally it makes them feel good inside, what unique properties it has its creamy, filling and comforting, its inherent healthiness low fat and a good source of calcium so were confident of delivering against our vision of turning Ambrosia into an everyday delicious dessert.
Indeed were already starting to see the results of all this nurturing last year we sold 12% more Ambrosia than the previous year, our brand share was up 8% and the number of households buying Ambrosia in individual snack pots was up 12%.
Its making me feel good inside!
hing 11 Premier Foods plc Our strategy invsting 12 Premier Foods plc The Quorn story Through the acquisition in June 2005 of Quorn we are seeking to broaden the range of healthy eating options that we offer to consumers in one of the fastest growing food sectors.
Quorn products are unique, containing our own special ingredient called mycoprotein.
Mycoprotein is low in fat, high in fibre, has no cholesterol and is a great source of quality protein.
Quorn products have developed a reputation for good taste, health, convenience and nutrition.
Now with over 80 great tasting lines they are no longer just eaten by vegetarians in fact about 50% of all purchases are by people who simply want to eat more healthily.
Against this background, we have invested in getting people to understand the benefits of the brand and to taste it for themselves through exciting new product development, TV advertising and lots of sampling.
It seems that people are constantly surprised by Quorn with 420,000 more people buying the brand this year, sales up 8% and the brand breaking the 100m retail sales barrier.
nvsting 13 Premier Foods plc Our strategy driving 14 Premier Foods plc Operating efficiency Underpinning our brand management skills is a rigorous approach to cost control.
The production team is focused on plant optimisation, versatility as part of risk management and efficiency improvements in every aspect of what we do.
Strategic capital investment in projects supports these objectives as well as seeking to improve our environmental performance.
The pursuit of ever more rapid product changeover times allows us to react quickly to peaks in demand supporting promotional activity and provides the scale economies our strategy demands.
driving 15 Premier Foods plc Our strategy
