Board of directors Sir David John 67, became non-executive Chairman on Ian Gray 67, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director 1 March 1998.
He was non-executive Chairman of the BOC Group in January 1996.
He held a number of international management plc from January 1996 until January 2002 and is currently Chairman positions during his 25 years with Conoco, culminating in the of the British Standards Institution and Chairman of Balfour Beatty plc.
position of President of Dubai Petroleum.
He joined Amerada Hess Sir David is a member of the CBIs International Advisory Board, and in 1995 where he was Vice President of International Exploration is the Chairman of Premiers Nomination Committee.
Mr Gray is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He Azam Alizai 74, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director is a non-executive director of Mitra Energy.
His career has included appointments as Director of the Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the International Finance Simon Lockett 41, Chief Executive Officer, joined Premier in 1995 Corporation and Chairman of West Pakistan Industrial Development from Shell and has worked in a variety of roles for Premier, including Corporation and Sui Northern Gas Pipeline in Pakistan.
Mr Alizai the management of investor relations, as Commercial Manager is currently Chairman of Pakistan Petroleum Ltd, one of the major in Indonesia and as Country Manager in Albania.
He became producers of natural gas in Pakistan.
a member of the Premier Board on 9 December 2003 as Director of Operations.
Simon Lockett was appointed Chief Executive Robin Allan 46, joined Premier from Burmah Oil in 1986, working Officer with effect from 24 March 2005. initially as a geologist.
After technical and new venture roles he spent six years in South East Asia, initially managing Premiers Asian John Orange 63, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive existing and new venture business and later becoming Premiers director in February 1997.
He held a variety of senior international Country Manager in Indonesia.
He became a member of the Premier management and legal posts during his 30 years with the BP Group.
Board on 9 December 2003 as Director of Business Development.
Mr Orange is Premiers senior independent non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Scott Dobbie 66, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees.
He has a career background in stockbroking, as Managing Director of Wood Mackenzie and subsequently Chairman of NatWest Securities.
He is currently Chairman of the Securities and Investment Institute, The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and of Standard Life European Private Equity Trust.
He is also a Commissioner of the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
Mr Dobbie is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Tony Durrant 47, joined Premier in June 2005 as Finance Director.
After qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen, he joined Lehman Brothers in London, initially as an oil sector analyst.
He joined the investment banking division of Lehman in 1987 and since 1997 was a Managing Director and Head of their European Natural Resources Group.
In this role, he managed both client relationships and numerous transactions for a variety of European and North American clients.
He is a non-executive director of Clipper Windpower plc.
Ronald Emerson 59, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in March 2001.
He has held a number of senior positions in the banking sector, including senior roles at Bank of America, Nomura Bank and, most recently, with Standard Chartered Bank where he was Chief Executive of their Malaysia operations before becoming the Group Head of Corporate Banking.
Between 1997 and 1998 he was a Senior Advisor to the Bank of England, and between 1998 and 2000 he was a Senior Advisor to the Financial Services Authority.
Mr Emerson is Chairman of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee, and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He is a non-executive director of Ace Ltd, a Bermuda based, New York listed insurance company.
14 Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005
