Senior Management 15 1 4 2 5 3 6 1 Francis Patton Customer Services Director experience in the licensed retailing sector and before becoming Francis Patton, 42, is responsible for the Companys relationships with Operations Director was Regional Director for Punch Taverns and our key stakeholders: retailers, shareholders, employees, the media, the Retail Director of Bass plc.
This is done through the management of Human 4 Bill Walker Field Operations Director Central Resources, external agents for PR IR, internal communication, retailer Bill Walker, 44, shares responsibility with Andrew Thompson and relationships and management of the frontline helpdesk.
When Punch Deborah Kemp for implementing the operational elements of the Pub Company was formed he became Commercial Director and as the Companys strategy consistently through a team of Regional Operational Company grew this role was split into Commercial and Customer Directors.
This involves developing and implementing business plans Services with him taking up his new role as Customer Services Director in based on growth opportunities, maximising profit streams of sales June 2003.
A graduate who joined Joshua Tetley in 1985, Francis gained margins, rental and machine income, controlling operational costs and extensive experience in operational roles with The Tetley Pub Company implementing divisional investment and acquisition plans.
Bill was before becoming Commercial Director of Vanguard Pubs and appointed Operations Director of the Group in March 2002.
Bill has an Restaurants, the leasing section of Allied Domecq.
MBA and over twenty years experience in retailing.
Prior to joining the 2 Deborah Kemp Field Operations Director South Group he had held the position of Retail Operations Director at First Deborah Kemp, 44, shares responsibility with Andrew Thompson and Quench Retailing Ltd, a division of Whitbread plc, since March 1998.
Bill Walker for implementing the operational elements of the Companys Prior to this appointment, he was a General Manager with overall strategy consistently through a team of Regional Operations Directors.
responsibility for the Spanish operations of Sears plc based in Madrid.
This involves developing and implementing business plans based on 5 Neil Grifths Property & Strategy Director growth opportunities, maximising profit streams of sales margins, rental Neil Grifths, 44 was appointed Property & Strategy Director with effect and machine income, controlling operational costs and implementing from June 2005, and is responsible for the strategic development of the annual investment and acquisition plans.
Deborah also has responsibility estate maximising profitability through acquisition, investment, rental for GRS, a managed house division with 70 core houses and 120 outlets growth and alternative use development.
Neil joined Punch in 2001 being held on temporary management for a variety of pub companies and has been responsible for building the Companys industry leading whilst they recruit new retailers.
Prior to this role Deborah held the acquisitions team.
Neil was previously with Warner Brothers where he position of Property and Development Director.
Deborah joined Punch was International Property Director responsible for pan-European Taverns in 1998 as Director of Investment, prior to which she gained multiplex cinema development.
Prior to that, Neil held senior positions invaluable experience as a Business Director with Bass Lease Company.
with Bass plc including Head of Property and board member of Her qualications include a BSc Hons Urban Estate Surveying degree.
Bass Leisure Entertainments as Commercial Development Director.
3 Andrew Thompson Field Operations Director North 6 Neil Preston Company Secretary Andrew Thompson, 53, shares responsibility with Bill Walker and Neil Preston, 45, is responsible for ensuring that the company meets all Deborah Kemp for implementing the operational elements of the our legal and regulatory requirements as a PLC.
He is a Fellow of the Companys strategy consistently through Regional Operational Directors Chartered Association of Certied Accountants and has held various in six regions, covering the north of England, north Wales and Scotland.
roles within Punch, including that of the Finance Director of Punch Group This involves developing and implementing business plans based on and Punch Retail now known as Spirit Group following the demerger growth opportunities, maximising profit streams of sales margins, rental in March 2002.
Prior to this he worked for Allied Domecq and started and machine income, controlling operational costs and implementing annual investment and acquisition plans.
Andrew has 30 years in the industry in 1986.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
