16 Directors report The Directors present their report and financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 20 August 2005.
Results and dividends The results of the Group for the period are set out in the Group Profit and Loss Account on page 36.
An interim dividend of 3.7 pence per share was paid to shareholders on 1 July 2005.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 7.6 pence per share payable on 26 January 2006.
This will bring the total dividend for the year to 11.3 pence per share.
Principal activity and review of the business The Groups main trading activity is the operation of public houses.
The Groups customers are its lessees and tenants known as retailers, who enter into a lease or tenancy agreement with the Group to operate pubs.
Through these agreements, the Group generates its income from three primary sources: sale of beer and other products to retailers, rent from retailers, and profit sharing arrangements with retailers for income from leisure machines.
Each of the Groups pubs is managed and operated by its retailer, enabling each pub to retain its distinct character.
A review of the years activities and future developments is included in the Strategic and operating review and the Financial review.
Directors and their interests The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 13 to 14.
Marc Jonas resigned from the Board on 22 September 2004.
The beneficial interests of Directors who held office at 20 August 2005 in the share capital of the Company are shown below.
None of the Directors has any interests in the shares of any other company in the Group.
At the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 25 January 2006, Giles Thorley, Fritz Ternofsky and Randl Shure will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
A statement of the Directors remuneration and their interest in share options of the Company is set out in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 22 to 33.
Substantial shareholdings As at 1 December 2005, the last practical date prior to the printing of this report, the Company has been notified of the following substantial interests representing 3% or more in the Ordinary shares of the Company.
AXA SA 16.15% Henderson Global Investors 9.91% Fidelity 7.14% M&G Investments 6.07% Lansdowne Partners Limited Partnership 3.81% Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.00% Political and charitable contributions During the year the Group made charitable contributions of 38,400 2004: 6,600.
The Group made no political contributions.
com 17 Disabled employees The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by handicapped or disabled persons.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion wherever appropriate.
The environment The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral to its business operation.
It is also committed to introducing measures to limit any adverse effects its business may have on the environment and will promote continuous improvement in accordance with best available techniques.
Employee involvement The total number of employees at the end of the period was 882.
The Group recognises the value of its employees and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment in which to work.
It places considerable importance on communications with employees which take place at many levels through the organisation on both a formal and informal level.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company and the Group operates an Inland Revenue Approved Share Incentive Plan, in which 327 employees in total participate.
Employees purchase shares either as a one-off amount or on a monthly basis, these are then held in trust for a period of three years at which point the company matches the total number of shares purchased.
Under the Inland Revenue approved scheme after a period of five years ie a further two years the shares are released to the employee free of tax and National Insurance.
Creditor payment policy and practice It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At 20 August 2005 the Company had Nil 2004: Nil days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Post balance sheet events On 1 December 2005, the Group announced the proposed acquisition of the Spirit Group, which is one of the UKs leading managed pub companies with an estate of 1,832 pubs located across Great Britain.
Further details are provided in note 31 to the financial statements.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going Concern The Directors consider that the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparation of the financial statements.
By order of the Board of Directors Neil Preston Company Secretary 1 December 2005 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
