CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ANNUAL REPORT 2005 01 2005 has been another year of considerable progress Nigel Green, Group Chief Executive, will retire Welcome.
2005 has been another year of considerable although profit improvement has been restricted by on 31st May 2006 after ten very successful years progress for the PZ Cussons Group.
leading the Group through a period of significant growth and change.
This successful result has been achieved despite the challenging trading conditions with the weak US dollar Alex Kanellis, currently Deputy Chief Executive, will and high oil prices impacting all our businesses.
succeed Nigel as Chief Executive on 1st June 2006.
In the year we have continued our growth strategy David Godwin will retire from the Board on 30th and our margin improvement programme.
Davids advice and work on behalf of the Group has been invaluable In particular: throughout this period of significant growth.
The milk factory in Nigeria is now in production.
The white goods venture with Haier in Nigeria is James Steel, currently head of Corporate Finance expanding rapidly.
at Arbuthnot Securities, will be appointed a nonThe brand purchases in the UK of Original Source executive director on 1st October 2005. and Charles Worthington are planned to grow in line with expectations.
Our strategic focus remains on growth in our key The new bar soap factory in Thailand is on schedule markets and margin improvement.
Additionally, we to be completed in October.
continue to place great emphasis on the development The restructuring of our Eastern European business of management and staff to ensure that we are best is progressing satisfactorily.
placed to take advantage of the growth opportunities The Chinese subsidiary has been sold.
In this respect I would like to thank all our staff, whose work and dedication have made In June 2005 shareholder approval was given for these results possible.
the enfranchisement of the A non-voting shares and the repayment of our preference shares by a reduction of share capital.
This exercise was considered by the board of directors to be an important step in ensuring that the company has a capital structure which is simple and attractive Anthony J Green to investors.
Chairman 01 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 02 GROUP STRUCTURE 04 HIGHLIGHTS 06 AN EXCITING FUTURE 08 MAJOR PROJECTS 10 BRANDS 12 PEOPLE 14 SUPPLY CHAIN 16 COMMUNICATIONS 18 EUROPE 20 AFRICA 22 ASIA 24 ACCOUNTS 02 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 GROUP STRUCTURE GROUP STRUCTURE ANNUAL REPORT 2005 03 Indonesia Thailand Australia Our international strategy.
The PZ Cussons Group Managing director: Managing director: Managing director: George Sotiropoulos Gordon Robinson Chris Davis operates in Africa, Asia and Europe.
We conduct Employees: 2,600 Employees: 990 Employees: 270 Locations: Head ofce Locations: Head ofce Locations: Head ofce our business in these regions according to our in Jakarta in Bangkok in Melbourne Activities: Manufacture and Activities: Manufacture and Activities: Manufacture international strategy.
marketing of soaps, toiletries, marketing of soaps, toiletries and marketing of household baby products, powders, and dishwashing liquids detergents, bar soaps shampoos and lotions and toiletries Selected markets.
Focusing on specic geographical markets, which have potential for future growth.
Understanding the needs and aspirations of local consumers and developing relevant quality, innovative products.
Ensuring the availability of these products via the establishment of first class distribution networks.
Greece Poland United Arab Emirates Managing director: Managing director: Country Manager: George Kostianis Stephen Murphy Huw Morris Employees: 200 Employees: 600 Employees: 10 Locations: Head ofce Locations: Head ofce Locations: Head ofce in in Athens in Warsaw Jebel Ali Freezone of Dubai Activities: Manufacture Activities: Manufacture and Activities: Marketing and and marketing of olive oils, marketing of detergents, soaps distribution of soaps and margarines and cooking fats and toiletries toiletries Nigeria Kenya Ghana Cameroun United Kingdom Chief executive: Managing director: Managing director: Managing director: Managing director: Panos Varelas Dimitri Papadimitriou Panos Mouchteros Richard Shepherd Chris How Managing directors: Employees: 520 Employees: 540 Employees: 140 Employees: 430 Costas Theodorakopoulos Locations: Head ofce Locations: Head ofce Locations: Head ofce Locations: Head ofce Soaps and detergents, in Nairobi in Accra in Douala in Manchester Ray Murphy Health and beauty, Activities: Manufacture and Activities: Manufacture and Activities: Manufacture and Activities: Manufacture and Tolis Loizos HPZ, Con Gendis marketing of soaps, toiletries, marketing of soaps, toiletries, marketing of toiletries marketing of soaps, toiletries Nutricima, Christos Giannopoulos medicaments and household cosmetics and pharmaceuticals and household products Distribution products Employees: 5,600 Locations: Head ofce in Lagos, manufacturing units in Ilupeju, Ikorodu and Aba Activities: Manufacture and marketing of soaps, detergents, toiletries, feminine hygiene products, pharmaceuticals, packaging materials, white goods and milk
