1 Tania fide Welzim 8 Richard Quarmby Financial manager Technical manager Tania is a chartered accountant with eight years A qualified chemical engineer with extensive experience experience in finance including six years in the mining in the mining industry.
Prior to joining Randgold Resources in April in 1997, playing a pivotal role in the development and 2004, she was an audit manager with  of the Syama, Morila and Loulo houseCoopers in both the UK and in South Africa.
Responsibilities include metallurgical development and evaluating technical and 2 David Haddon economic implications.
General counsel and secretary Qualified as an attorney in 1984.
He has overseen the 9 Adrian Reynolds administrative obligations of Randgold Resources since General manager - exploration and evaluation its incorporation and assumed secretarial responsibility Has 24 years experience in the mining industry and was when it listed on the London Stock Exchange in July part of the team that developed the Randgold Resources 1997.
He is a director of Seven Bridges Trading.
Leads the exploration team and manages the evaluation of early stage and development projects as 3 Paul Harbidge well as the compilation of technical audits, due diligences Exploration manager and feasibility studies.
He is a director of Morila SA and Geologist with over 12 years experience, mainly in West Somilo SA.
Africa having previously worked for Rio Tinto, Anglo American and Ashanti.
Joined Randgold Resources in 2000 and was appointed exploration manager in 2004.
10 Mahamadou Samak General manager - Mali 4 Bill Houston A professor of company law at the University of Mali, General manager - human resources Sam was instrumental in writing the Malian labour Has a masters degree in human resources management legislation.
He is the general manager of the Bamako and 25 years experience in human resources and office and a director of our Malian companies.
Joined Randgold in 1992 as group training and development manager, and headed 11 Ngolo Sanogo the group human resources function from 1996.
He is Financial controller - Mali a director of Morila SA and Seven Bridges Trading.
Has a masters degree in economics from the National School of Administration of Bamako.
Qualified as 5 Amadou Konta an auditor before joining BHP Mali in 1995.
Was General manager - Loulo appointed Randgold Resources Mali financial controller Has a degree in civil engineering as well as several in 2004. management and project management qualifications.
Was appointed mine foreman and superintendent at Syama mine by BHP and served as mine manager from 12 John Steele 1997.
In 2001, was promoted to construction manager General manager - capital projects for Randgold Resources in Mali and to Loulo general Gained extensive metallurgical and management manager in 2004. experience in 17 years with Rand Mines and Randgold & Exploration.
Upon acquisition of Syama in 1996, 6 Victor Matfield was appointed a director of the Malian company, Corporate finance manager Somisy SA, and general manager of the mine.
In 1998, A chartered accountant, he was appointed corporate assumed position of group general manager capital finance manager in 2001.
Prior to that, served as financial projects, overseeing construction of the Morila and Loulo manager of the Syama mine and as financial manager mines.
13 Lois Wark Corporate communications and cartography manager 7 Chris Prinsloo A member of the Randgold Resources team since its Group financial and commercial manager inception, Lois responsibilities include the coordination Commercial manager of the Randgold group since June of the groups communication and investor relations 1993 and since 1996, responsible for coordination of programme, the production of materials and presentations logistics and materials supply and the groups risk to the market, as well as the management and integration management and insurance portfolio.
Appointed financial of data captured in GIS, databases and various other director of Somisy SA in 2000 and group financial software packages.
