Directors and management Chairman of the audit committee and member of the remuneration committee Member of the audit committee Chairman of the remuneration committee 1 Philippe Litard 4 Bernard H Asher Chairman Senior independent non-executive Managing director of the Global Natural Resources Fund 1986 - 1998, he was an executive director of HSBC from 2000 to 2003.
Prior to July 2000, he was director Holdings plc and chairman of the HSBC Holdings of the Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the International subsidiary, HSBC Investment Bank plc.
His experience in corporate and of Lonrho Africa plc, vice-chairman of the Court of project finance with UBS, IFC and the World Bank extends Governors of the London School of Economics and of over 30 years, most of them in the minerals business the Legal & General Group plc and a director of Morgan and in Africa.
Now an independent consultant and a Sindall plc.
Is chairman of Lion Trust Asset Management promoter of mining and energy investments.
Appointed and senior independent director of Morgan Sindall.
Was a director in February 1998 and chairman in November appointed director of Randgold Resources in 1997 and 2004. senior independent director in 2003.
2 D Mark Bristow 5 Jean-Antoine Cramer Chief executive officer Non-executive Mark is a geologist with more than 20 years experience Was senior partner in Messieurs Cramer & Cie, a Geneva in the mining industry and holds a PhD in Geology from portfolio management company, also president of the Natal University.
In August 1995, he was appointed a Corporate Association of Geneva Investment Managers.
director and subsequently, chief executive of Randgold Lectures on various topics relating to politics and Resources where he has been instrumental in developing economics.
Was appointed a director of Randgold the company into a gold-focused mining and exploration Resources in 1997. business with a market cap of more than US$1 billion and a strong investor following.
He has also played a significant role in encouraging the emergence of the 6 Robert I Israel mining sector in the West African sub-region where Non-executive Randgold Resources has found and developed world Until April 2000, a managing director of Schroder & Co class assets and forged productive partnerships.
He Inc of New York and head of its energy department.
Is previously held board positions at Harmony Gold Mining now partner at Compass Advisers, LLP.
His experience Company, Durban Roodepoort Deep and Randgold & in corporate finance, especially the natural resources Exploration.
He is currently also a director of African sector, extends over 26 years.
Was appointed a director Platinum plc.
3 Roger A Williams 7 Aubrey L Paverd Chief financial officer Non-executive Roger Williams is a chartered accountant with 18 years Appointed 1995.
He brings 40 years of international experience in finance including nine years in the gold geological experience to the board.
He joined Randgold Resources in January 1997 when it was still a private company and president of exploration for Newmont in USA and from 1994 to 1999, was the group executive exploration at he has been part of the management team that has North Limited in Australia.
Is now an independent overseen the companys growth into a billion dollar market cap FTSE 250 company.
He was appointed consultant and a non-executive director of Compania finance director in April 2002. fide Minas Buenaventura.
