Human resources report SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND COMMUNITY among mining companies operating in Mali, in that they have never yet responded to calls for national strikes.
DEVELOPMENT The sustainable development and social responsibility MANPOWER strategy forms an integral part of the companys overall Human Capital business strategy and is implemented throughout all As the company develops and expands, every effort is offices, projects and operations.
made to employ excellent people.
Through leadership, a sense of ownership and interpersonal influence, these Efforts have been maintained during the year to enhance people are motivated to contribute to our success.
community relations and to promote and manage the social impact of the companys activities on the What needs to be done in Randgold Resources is communities surrounding its operations.
The operations defined by consultative strategic planning, which is carried out community development activities in close refreshed at regular intervals and is rolled down through cooperation with representative local community liaison the operations.
This strategy provides the foundation and development committees.
These committees for the long term plan including manpower plans, the included traditional leaders, non-governmental fundamental principles of our business, the frame work organisations, aid agencies and local and national for effective decision making and the actions required government officials.
of our employees, the initiating of change and improvements and, most importantly, a rallying point.
During 2005, funds in excess of US$1 million were spent It enables the business to organise its resources and on sustainable community development projects at optimise the application of its human capital.
Loulo, Morila and other areas in the countries in which the company operates, with a focus on basic community 2005 has been a year of consolidation in Randgold health, primary education, potable water supply and Resources leadership structure.
Only one additional food security.
position was created, that of manager: underground project, responsible for managing the underground In terms of building and maintaining effective development project at Loulo.
relationships with the governments of the countries in which it operates, regular meetings were held with The operational management at Loulo has, during a officials from Mali, Tanzania, Senegal, Ghana, Burkina very busy and stressful year, successfully selected and Faso and Cte dIvoire.
trained its respective teams to a point where first gold was poured in the third quarter of 2005.
This was The Randgold Resources financial contribution to the achieved while construction of the mine was continuing economies of the countries in which it operates, and and in an environment where a not inconsiderable portion particularly in Mali, is significant.
During 2005, a total of managements time was taken up in supporting and ultimately replacing the contractor.
of US$75 million was paid by way of staff salaries and wages, payroll taxes, duties, royalties and dividends.
Voluntary turnover of the companys staff, continues An amount of approximately US$231 million was paid to be below 1% per annum, despite the large increase to businesses for goods and services supplied to Morila in the number employed at Loulo which at December and Loulo, of which a sizable percentage went to Malian 2005 was 1 202. companies.
Amounts invested, that are directly attributable to Randgold Resources and its subsidiaries, Group training and development ie excluding 60% of Morila spend, are as follows: This year the focus has been on induction, safety, cyanide handling, the introduction of short interval scheduling and skills and management training.
Capital expenditure in Mali US$79 million Duties, taxes and royalties US$60 million All five of the companys MBA students and its three Payments to suppliers US$122 million post-graduate financial students qualified during 2005.
Exploration in West and East Africa US$22 million Twenty two employees attended technical training and six attended general management courses.
Total US$283 million The company continued its support of the Malian INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS Mining Industry University Scholarship scheme and Good industrial relations across the group continue to the Randgold Resources Scholarship Award scheme reflect the success of the Randgold Resources pact for earth sciences students at the University of with labour.
Randgold Resources employees are unique Senegal.
