Exploration review In 2005, exploration activities concentrated on the extension of known orebodies and identification of new orebodies both at existing and undeveloped sites.
In addition the company continued with its expansion of the African footprint strategy within the most prospective gold belts of both West and East Africa and now has operations in six countries, with a portfolio of 159 targets on a 2 groundholding of 20 006km.
Exploration key highlights: At Loulo, as well as the resource conversion work, exploration is focused on the next discovery.
At Morila, a regional exploration programme is underway to discover a second orebody.
Africa EAST AFRICA Kiabakari L Lake ake V Viictoria ctoria... the company Geita continued with Nyabigena its expansion of the Nyabirama African footprint strategy Tulawaka Buhemba and now has operations in six countries, with a portfolio of 159 targets on 2 Bulyanhulu 20 006km of groundholding.
Golden Ridge Golden Pride 10km WEST AFRICA S SENEGAL ENEGAL M MALI ALI B BURKINA F URKINA FA ASO SO G GHANA HANA C CTE DIVOIRE TE DIVOIRE Randgold Resources permits Randgold Resources licences JV licences Mines advanced projects 600km 24 Annual Report 2005 Randgold Resources In Mali South, a three dimensional exploration model Results include: FARC004 a broad intersection of is being developed enabling the identification of 78 metres at 1.60g t with 57 metres at 2.05g t and higher targets for drilling during the second quarter of 2006. grade inclusions of 7 metres at 6.43g t and 5 metres at In Senegal, a portfolio of 31 targets is being 4.87g t: FARC006 a broad intersection of 52 metres evaluated.
at 2.41g t with 28 metres at 3.49g t and higher grade In Ghana and Burkina Faso, exploration has inclusions of 6 metres at 11.3g t: FARC021 27 metres commenced on a new portfolio of permits.
at 4.14g t: and FARC022 92 metres at 1.69g t with higher grade inclusions of 11 metres at 5.55g t and In Tanzania, an agreement has been concluded with the government consolidating our groundholding in 6 metres at 3.22g t. Geologically the target is similar to Yalea in that a north-south striking shear has developed the Musoma region.
In the Mara district, conceptual targets are being drill tested.
at the contact between argillaceous quartzite and greywacke.
In summary, the company has a quality portfolio of exploration projects in West and East Africa.
At P64, a 1.5 kilometre plus 100ppb north-northwest soil anomaly characterises the target.
A programme of This reflects its business strategy of organic growth MALI WEST: Randgold Resources permits with LOULO REGION satellite deposits and gold targets Yatela Sadiola Baboto West M MALI ALI Baboto PQ10 L LOULO OULO Loulo 0 Sitakily Loulo 1,2.3 R REGION EGION P129 Yalea S Etruscan Yalea Sakola S Segala egala Axmin Loulo 0 L Loulo oulo T Ta abakoto bakoto P Per erm mit it P64 Sitakily Faraba Segala B Bena ena Sinsinko Yalea P Per erm mit it Tabakoto S Selou elou Boulandissou P Per erm mit it S SENEGAL ENEGAL 10km 25 km Randgold permits Gold targets through exploration and its primary objective of building seven follow-up RC holes for 1 097 metres has so far sustainable mining projects with significant returns.
Results include: P64RC05 a broad intersection of 81 metres at 1.75g t including MALI 4 metres at 12.60g t and 5 metres at 6.86g t: and Loulo P64RC06 a broad intersection of 71 metres at 1.67g t In addition to the resource conversion work and the including 14 metres at 5.45g t and 16 metres at 2.07g t. deep drilling at both the Yalea and Loulo 0 orebodies, Mineralisation is associated with strongly disseminated exploration has concentrated on the next discovery by pyrite, hosted in altered greywacke chlorite-silica- 2 evaluating a quality portfolio of targets within the 372km carbonate-iron.
Sitakily The Faraba target is associated with a four kilometre, Exploration has started at Sitakily, 21 kilometres east of north-south striking plus 100ppb soil anomaly.
Followup trench and RAB drilling have so far delineated Loulo.
Mineralisation is associated with porphyry 2.5 kilometres of bedrock mineralisation.
This in turn dykes which have intruded the high zone of folded has been followed up by a first phase reconnaissance metasedimentary rock.
Reconnaissance diamond drilling RC drilling programme covering an 800 metre strike.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2005 25 Selou Various alternative exploration outcomes have been The Selou area consists of three permits directly south evaluated through a combined scenario planning of the Loulo exploitation lease and work to date has decision tree approach to ensure that the stated identified two main targets: Sinsinko and Boulandissou.
exploration programme aims are achieved without compromising value-adding opportunities that may arise Sinsinko is underlain by a 1.75 kilometre north-south at various stages in the programme.
trending plus 30ppb soil anomaly and has been followed up by three lines of RAB drilling.
The results returned The flat geometry of a Morila-style orebody, especially a 25 metre wide anomalous halo plus 100ppb within as a blind or buried exploration target, limits the use of which six metres at 1.02g t, five metres at 1.23g t and conventional exploration geochemical or geophysical six metres at 1.20g t were returned.
The mineralisation target generation techniques.
In the search for a buried is associated with  the primary targeting tool will revolve around a haematite-silica alteration of a greywacke host.
RC regional diamond drilling programme.
drilling is planned as follow-up.
Morila region and southern Mali At Boulandissou, three RC holes were drilled 100 metres In the Morila region, outside the Morila mine lease, work apart, testing the extension of a north trending ironstone to date has not identified an orebody at surface.
However FOOTPRINT IN SOUTHERN MALI SENEGAL: RANDGOLD RESOURCES Morila exploitation lease PERMITS WITH DRILL TARGETS area: Drilling programme Mali Senegal Bambaraya:New trench intersections BBTR007: Madina 27.2m @ 1.67g t incl 18m @ 2.26g t BBTR008: 8m @ 0.3g t Morila Mine Makana JV Miko Kounemba Makana JV: A 200m by 6km Morila 50m soil sampling initiated at Makana JV East.
Partial soil sent to the lab for assays and results awaited Kanoumering Kalana Syama Sofia: Significant geochemical anomaly being evaluated Tomboronkoto 100km 20km Permits under application Exploration permits unit beneath a laterite plateau which locates within an additional conceptual drilling on three targets highlights the presence of gold mineralisation, alteration, overall eight kilometre shear corridor, anomalous in gold.
All three holes intercepted mineralisation, with best prospective lithologies and a structural framework similar results returned of 18 metres at 1.21g t, six metres at to Morila.
2.17g t and three metres at 3.18g t. Gold anomalism Generative and conceptual targeting continues with a and mineralisation in the RC holes is hosted in altered quartzite and associated with weak disseminated pyrite hyperspectral study being undertaken over Morila and and arsenopyrite.
The alteration patterns are dominated surrounding area with the aim of identifying spectral and by brecciation in association with silica, tourmaline and structural signatures associated with mineralisation.
Additional drilling is planned to test strike This will be incorporated with the results from remodelling extensions.
of geophysical data and lead to the development of a three dimensional exploration model and the identification Morila exploitation lease of targets for drilling in early 2006.
At Morila a two pronged exploration strategy has been developed with the objectives being i to pursue the Randgold Resources has adopted a more aggressive extensions in the main high grade payshoot as defined policy towards regional exploration, targeting and permit acquisition outside the immediate vicinity of Morila.
by the existing orebody and ii providing an assessment of the resource potential within the greater Morila lease Modifications to the focus and strategy of the generative area.
team in southern Mali has led to the acquisition of four 26 Annual Report 2005 Randgold Resources 1 Randgold Resources has adopted a more aggressive policy towards regional exploration.
2 The resource base at Loulo grew by 24% during the year.
new exploration authorisations and the identification of broad, low grade envelopes to narrow, high grade intercepts along the 3 400 metre anomalous corridor.
new areas for further applications.
Preliminary At present, the interhole spacing is 400 metres and reconnaissance exploration has commenced with remote between the best holes drilled in terms of results sensing interpretations, field and regolith mapping 44 metres at 2g t and six metres at 9.5g t, there is a together with regional soil sampling programmes.
combined strike of 1 600 metres untested.
At Tombo, a small low grade resource has been identified.
The company signed a second joint venture with OMRD on the Diamou and Seriba-Sobara permits to the BURKINA FASO northwest of Morila.
Exploration to date has concentrated In 2004 the company recommenced exploration in on the integration of previous results and a generative Burkina Faso with two permits, Danfora and Kiaka.
exercise which has resulted in the identification of 24 During 2005, a new countrywide generative study was targets.
Field work, which ranges from mapping and completed.
The results of this study revealed a major lithosampling to soil geochemistry and pitting, has been north-northeast structure on the eastern side of the implemented over eleven of these targets providing country called the Markoye Shear, which continues into information to assist with the planning of a RAB drilling Ghana and is highly prospective.
This major structure programme to be executed in February 2006. has associated northeast splays and six gold deposits BURKINA FASO: EXPLORATION FOCUS Randgold Resources permits Burkina Faso Bouroum Essakane 2.7Moz @ 1.6g t 0.45Moz @ 1.1g t Taparko 1.04Moz @ 2.6g t Samira 1.5Moz @ 1.5g t Bombore 1.1Moz @ 1.6g t Nakongo Tanema Kaibo Yibogo Youga 1.19Moz @ 2.1g t Basgana Kiaka Kampala Bourou BENIN Tiakane GHANA TOGO 200km SENEGAL advanced projects with an accumulated gold resource The Senegal portfolio consists of four permits covering of eight million ounces.
Eight new permits covering 2 2 2 025km consolidate the companys land position over 1 326km, within the Sabodala volcano-sedimentary the southern part of this fault system where there is belt in the east of the country.
The company has been good infrastructure and water supplies.
Early stage systematically evaluating a portfolio of 31 targets and during the course of the year three of these were reconnaissance work has started on these eight permits subjected to reconnaissance drilling, five were advanced, with remote sensing interpretations, geological and eight newly identified and seven rejected.
regolith traverses together with regional soil and stream sediment sampling.
At Bambaraya, further work has identified a wide zone At Kiaka, the first permit awarded, a three hole of iron carbonate alteration associated with mineralisation reconnaissance diamond drilling programme has been and new trenches 100 metres north and 150 metres southwest of the main zone have intersected completed along a two kilometre segment of an overall significant mineralisation BBTR04: six metres at 4.5 kilometre northeast trending mineralised structure 1.76g t, four metres at 5.48g t and 12 metres at 4.06g t: within the permit.
Results from the southern part indicate BBTR06: 12 metres at 2.34g t. a thin mineralised zone albeit with moderate to high grades.
To the north, where the zone is open along strike, a broad zone with generally a lower tenor of Infill drilling at Sofia has increased knowledge of the mineralisation has been outlined.
There is a variation in the mineralisation from Randgold Resources Annual Report 2005 27 Further reconnaissance drilling is planned to explore dismantled leaving only the buildings, later turned into the three kilometres still untested.
a military base which remains to this day.
GHANA A reconnaissance diamond drill programme was In Ghana, work continued on generating new regional completed on the Nyabigena South and Mobrama East targets.
As a result, three new permits have been licenses in the Mara region, to test the extensions of 2 granted, totalling 6 954km and an agreement has been mineralised structures hosting the North Mara mines.
2 concluded with a Ghanaian company, on a 92km permit No broad zones of deformation, alteration or mineralisation were intersected during this drilling resulting in located within the Yamfo Sefwi volcano-sedimentary belt, along strike from Newmonts Ahafo project.
these targets not meeting the companys criteria.
TANZANIA Two targets remain to be tested on the Nyabigena The companys big exploration success story in 2005 South permit: was Tanzania, where it has achieved the consolidation of its holdings across the Musoma Greenstone Belt and Barata mine, four kilometres along strike from Mughusi concluded the Tangold agreement, a joint venture with along the same major 110 trending regional shear.
the government of Tanzania to develop new mineral There is a 75 vertical metre shaft where two levels were developed along a 200 metre strike.
10 000 ounces of gold at 18g t were produced prior to the mine being abandoned due to flooding.
Nyabigena Nyakuba locates in the south of the permit on the Mara Mara Mara Nyabirama shear which hosts the Nyabirama mine and the new Gr Gre eenstone enstone Belt Belt L Lake ake Komarera plus 100 000 ounce deposit of Placer, plus V Victoria ictoria two old colonial mines Mara and Pontana.
Two trenches Buhemba had previously been excavated returning 6 metres at M Musoma usoma 2.3g t and 6 metres at 1.2g t associated with deformed G Gr re eenstone enstone B Belt elt and altered granodiorite.
However no further work was Old Kiabakari completed by Randgold Resources as the structure is Mine covered by thick Mbuga clays along strike from the trenches.
Two lines of RAB are planned to test the strike extent.
In the Musoma region previous workers have focused on former colonial mines and known gold showings which outcrop at surface: these were also the initial 50km Randgold Resources licences focus of Randgold Resources and in the majority of JV licences cases they were confirmed to be narrow and tight systems, aside from the old Kiabakari mine.
However, surface regolith cover is complex over large surface 2 deposits covering a 2 692km area of interest in the areas of the licenses with transported laterites, stripped profiles, recent lake sediments and volcanic ash which Kiabakari Maji-Moto region.
Included in the agreement are the Buhemba South and Kiabakari prospecting all impact on surface exploration.
With this in mind, the licences.
The latter incorporates the old Kiabakari company took a new approach where conventional mine and adds an advanced project to the companys exploration techniques proved to be ineffective.
detailed target generation study was executed incorporating interpretations of airborne geophysical The Kiabakari deposit was first discovered in 1893 and surveys and Landsat 7 scenes together with the integration of soil geochemistry, geology and regolith until the 1950s mining was limited to a few small open pits.
During the 1950s underground mining was mapping data.
This study resulted in the identification performed from a shaft developed to the 15th level of prospective structural corridors below complex transported regolith profiles on the Kiabakari East, 1 500 ft and mined to the 10th level.
Mining continued until August 1966 by which time approximately 300 000 Nyasirori, Nyati, Buhemba South, Mrangi and Seka ounces had been extracted at 6g t and this ranked licenses which have been tested with a 289 hole Kiabakari as the third largest gold producer in Tanzania.
The results of On closure of the mine the mill and headgear were which are driving follow-up work.
