Directors report The Directors submit their report and statement of accounts for to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be the year ended 31 December 2005. paid on 11 May 2006 to those shareholders whose names are on the register on 18 April 2006.
Principal activities and business review Rank is one of the UKs leading leisure and entertainment As part of the capital structure review the Board has considered the companies.
In 2005, leisure and entertainment activities included appropriate level of dividend payout for the ongoing Group.
It is the casinos, bingo clubs, and Hard Rock Cafes and global rights to the Boards intention to move to a dividend payout ratio of 50% of profit Hard Rock brand.
Rank operates primarily in the UK and North after tax 2.0 times dividend cover.
America, although it also has activities in continental Europe and other parts of the world.
Directors The current Directors of the Company are listed on page 27.
All On 23 December 2005 the Company announced that it had reached of them were Directors of the Company throughout the year save agreement to sell Deluxe Film, a lm processing and creative services for David Boden, Peter Gill, John Warren and Ian Burke who were business, to DX Holdings III Corporation, a subsidiary of MacAndrews appointed Directors with effect from 1 March 2005, 11 July 2005, & Forbes Holdings Inc.
The transaction completed on 27 January 2006 1 January 2006 and 6 March 2006 respectively.
Ian Burke was for consideration of $750m 420m.
The Board has confirmed that appointed Chief Executive on 6 March 2006 in place of Mike Smith 200m of the proceeds will be returned to shareholders via a share who will leave the Company at the end of March 2006.
will join the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 3 April 2006.
Peter Gill, John Warren a member of the Audit The Board remains committed to a sale of Deluxe Media however Committee, Ian Burke and Bill Shannon who will be a member an exit may take the form of a sale of the business in its entirety of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees with or the separate disposal of individual businesses or assets.
effect from his date of appointment will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for At an extraordinary general meeting held on 4 August 2005, a re-appointment.
John Warren and Bill Shannon do not have service resolution was passed approving amendments to the Companys agreements with the Company.
Both Peter Gill and Ian Burke have Articles of Association to facilitate termination of its registration service agreements with the Company which, during the period with the US Securities Exchange Commission the SEC.
The of 12 months following from their appointments on 11 July 2005 amendment to the Articles of Association included a provision and 6 March 2006 respectively are terminable on 24 months notice.
conferring upon Ranks Board the power to require Ordinary shares After that period they are terminable on 12 months notice.
The which are held directly or indirectly by US residents US Holders Company is satisfied that each non-executive Director is able to to be sold to reduce the number of such shareholders to below devote the necessary amount of time required to attend to the three hundred, as presently required by the SEC for termination Companys affairs.
Alun Cathcart will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting In order to avoid the costs of complying with SEC registration and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-appointment.
Alun Cathcart requirements for the financial year ended 31 December 2005 and has a service agreement with the Company terminable on 12 months to suspend its SEC reporting and other applicable US obligations, notice.
During the year Alun relinquished the role of Deputy Chairman the Company intends to commence exercising the compulsory of Belron International Limited.
He joined the Board of Emap plc in transfer provisions.
June 2005 and became Deputy Chairman on 24 February 2006.
The Board has identied the US Holders who will be required John Sunderland and Oliver Stocken will both be retiring from the to dispose of their Ordinary shares selected on the basis of relative Board at the conclusion of the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
size of holding and taking smallest holdings first in the current exercise of the compulsory transfer provisions and notices will be despatched Peter Jarvis served as a non-executive Director until 27 April 2005 to affected shareholders imminently.
Affected US Holders who do not and Ian Dyson was Finance Director until 24 June 2005. dispose of their shares within 21 days in accordance with the notice may have their shares compulsorily transferred by the Company.
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, together Subject to the price at which such shares are purchased being no with their remuneration and, where applicable, details of their service worse than the price reasonably obtainable in the market, the Company agreements, are shown in the Remuneration Report.
Biographical may itself purchase Ordinary shares from US Holders whose shares details of each Director are given on page 27. are being compulsorily transferred.
Human resources An analysis of turnover, profit, operating assets and net cash ow by The Company recognises that the contribution made by its employees business activity is given on pages 53 to 56.
The Groups continuing is crucial to the success of each of its businesses.
Substantial investment activities and businesses are reported on in the Operating and is therefore made in the training, development and motivation of staff Financial Review on pages 6 to 25. with particular attention to ensuring customer satisfaction through the consistent achievement of high standards of service and delivery of Result and equity dividends quality products.
The loss for the year after tax and minority interests was 209.7m 2004 15.0m loss.
Employee involvement in the direction and objectives of the business is encouraged through the use of incentive schemes to The Directors recommend a final dividend of 10.3p per Ordinary share focus employees on the key performance indicators of each business.
which, together with the interim dividend of 5.0p already paid, makes In addition, communication and consultation programmes exist at a total for the year of 15.3p per Ordinary share 2004 14.6p.
Subject site, company and Group level.
The Rank Group Plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 The Company believes it benets substantially from having a Fixed assets diverse workforce and therefore endorses the active application The Directors have considered the market value of land and buildings of equal opportunities policies and programmes to provide fair and are satisfied that a surplus over net book value exists but have and equitable conditions for all employees regardless of gender, not quantied the excess.
family status, religion, creed, colour, ethnic origin, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Payment of suppliers The Company and its subsidiaries agree terms and conditions for their In line with the Companys legal obligations in the appropriate business transactions with their suppliers.
Payment is then made on countries all reasonable adjustments are made to accommodate the these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the disabilities of any employees whether those disabilities arose before supplier.
Given the diversity of the Groups businesses and the widely or during their employment with Rank.
differing credit terms which apply in the various industries and territories in which they operate, the Directors consider that it is Health and safety not meaningful to disclose an average period of credit taken.
The Board receives regular reports on health and safety matters.
The Company has no trade creditors.
The Chief Executive has been nominated by the Board as the main Board Director responsible for health and safety across the Group.
significant shareholdings The Group requires each division to develop and implement its own At the date of this report the Company has been notied of the safety policy, organisation and arrangements, and to respond to its following interests over its Ordinary shares in accordance with particular health and safety risks.
The Board also requires an annual Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985: report from each division on the health and safety performance for the year.
FMR Corp and Fidelity International Limited 85,766,225 13.70% The Capital Group Companies, Inc 31,303,400 5.02% Environment Prudential Plc 31,025,051 5.00% The Groups policy is to encourage respect for the environment Legal & General Group Plc 29,917,337 4.97% and Rank adopts an environmentally responsible attitude in the HBOS Plc 26,629,046 4.26% fullment of its business objectives.
Close attention is paid to Deutsche Bank AG 25,282,245 4.04% energy and water conservation and recycling of waste material Aviva plc 19,270,367 3.08% where economically practical.
Charitable and political donations Corporate social responsibility Charitable donations made in the UK during the year amounted to The Companys risk assessment processes take account of the 269,000 2004 233,000.
The largest single donation was 220,000 signicance of social, environmental and ethical matters to the 2004 200,000 in favour of Responsibility in Gambling Trust.
Through these processes and the information thereby provided, the Board can identify and assess Overseas companies supported a variety of local and national if there are any significant risks to the Companys short and long charities and, in particular, Hard Rock Cafe International USA Inc. term value arising from social, environmental and ethical matters, donated approximately US$1,065,000 2004 US$550,000, continuing as well as opportunities to enhance value.
its focus on humanitarian and environmental causes.
The Company made no political donations in the year.
During 2005, the Group commissioned an independent review by GoodCorporation of Hard Rocks management practices Annual General Meeting regarding the communities and environment in which it operates, The 2006 Annual General Meeting will be held on 26 April and the and the treatment of its stakeholders, including customers, suppliers business to be transacted at that meeting will include, as a special and employees.
resolution, a proposal to adopt new Articles of Association.
The full text of the notice of the meeting, together with explanatory notes, Share capital is set out in a separate document which, for shareholders, is enclosed Details of the new Ordinary shares issued pursuant to the exercise with this Report and Accounts.
of options under Ranks share option schemes are set out in note 33 on pages 83 to 85.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, are willing to A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to continue in ofce and a resolution that they be re-appointed authorise the Directors to allot and grant rights over the unissued at a remuneration to be agreed by the Directors will be proposed share capital and to authorise the Directors to allot and grant rights at the Annual General Meeting.
over Ordinary shares for cash up to a maximum nominal amount representing 5% of the issued Ordinary share capital, without first By order of the Board making a pro rata offer to all existing Ordinary shareholders.
Pamela Coles A special resolution will also be proposed at the Annual General Secretary, The Rank Group Plc, Registered No.
3140769 Meeting to authorise the Company to purchase up to 15% of Registered Ofce: its Ordinary shares at or between the minimum and maximum 6 Connaught Place, London W2 2EZ prices specified in the resolution set out in the notice of meeting.
The authority would only be exercised by the Directors if they 15 March 2006 considered it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and if the purchase could be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The Rank Group Plc 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2005
