REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors submit their fifty-third Annual Report to the members to the Directors by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company, with the audited financial statements for the year held on 5 May 2005 to make such purchases up to a maximum ended 31 December 2005. of 72,500,000 shares, are given in Note 20 on page 40. Review of the activities and development A resolution seeking to renew this authority will be put to shareholders of the Groups business at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 4 May 2006.
The principal activities continue to be the manufacture and sale Directors of household and healthcare products.
Information regarding the Directors of the Company who were serving A review of the results for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on 31 December 2005 and those serving at the date of this report of the years activities appears under the Financial Review on pages is set out on page 15 in the separately published Shareholders 7 to 9 and in the income statement on page 20.
The Directors Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005.
Further biographical endorse the content of that review.
details of all Directors are available from the Companys website.
In July 2005, the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend of 18p During the year there were the following changes to the Board of per ordinary share 2004 16p.
The dividend was paid on 29 September Directors.
Ana Maria Llopis and Hans van der Wielen resigned at the 2005.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year conclusion of the AGM held on 5 May 2005.
Graham Mackay and of 21p per share 2004 18p, which, together with the interim Gerard Murphy joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors on dividend, makes a total for the year of 39p per share 2004 34p.
As Dr Murphys The final dividend, if approved by the shareholders, will be paid appointment was made subsequent to the date of the 2005 AGM, on 25 May 2006 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close he will offer himself for election at this years AGM.
Bart Becht and Peter Harf retire by rotation and, being eligible, In the view of the Directors, the Groups likely future development offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
will continue to centre on the main product categories in which George Greener has served on the Board for more than nine years it now operates.
and under the Combined Code, is therefore obliged to offer himself Research and development for re-election on an annual basis.
Dr Greener has advised that he The Group continues to carry out research and development in the will not be offering himself for re-election at the AGM in 2006 and search for new and improved products in all its categories and for accordingly will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
Direct expenditure on research A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the and development in 2005 amounted to 63m 2004 62m.
Company is shown in Table 1 at the end of this report.
Acquisitions and disposals Details of the Directors service agreements are given on page 15.
As detailed in Note 29 to the accounts, in October 2005 the Group entered into an agreement with Boots Group plc to purchase the Boots Corporate governance Healthcare International business.
Following regulatory clearance this The Company recognises the importance of high standards of transaction completed on 31 January 2006. corporate governance.
It understands, supports and has applied the principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, There have been no material disposals during the year.
as issued in July 2003, and has complied with the great majority Employees of the detailed provisions contained in the Code.
The ways in which During 2005, the Group employed an average of 20,300 2004 19,900 the Company applies these principles, and the few provisions with people worldwide, of whom 1,400 2004 1,300 were employed in which the Company does not consider that it is appropriate to the UK.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity comply, are set out in the appropriate sections of this Annual Report in employment: no applicant or employee receives less favourable and Financial Statements.
treatment on the grounds of nationality, age, gender, religion or The Board comprises eight Non-Executive Directors including disability.
The Group recognises its responsibilities to disabled persons Adrian Bellamy, the Chairman, who has the responsibility for managing and endeavours to assist them to make their full contribution at work.
the Board, and two Executive Directors, Bart Becht, the Chief Where employees become disabled, every practical effort is made to Executive Officer CEO and Colin Day, the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
allow them to continue in their jobs or to provide retraining in suitable The Company has adopted a Board structure which is similar to that alternative work.
of its key international competitor companies, the majority of which It is essential to the continued improvement in efficiency and are based in the USA.
The Board approves strategy, carries out an productivity throughout the Group that each employee understands advisory and supervisory role and accepts ultimate responsibility for the the Companys strategies, policies and procedures.
Open and conduct of the Companys business.
The CEO, together with the other regular communication with employees at all levels is an essential members of his Executive Committee, provides the day-to-day part of the management process.
A continuing programme management of the Company.
of training and development reinforces the Groups commitment The Board has identified Kenneth Hydon as the senior independent to employee involvement.
Non-Executive Director in accordance with provision A.
3.3 of the The Board encourages employees to become shareholders and to Combined Code.
The majority of Non-Executive Directors are participate in the Groups employee share ownership schemes, should independent, as recommended by the Combined Code.
Judith Sprieser they so wish.
Sharesave schemes across the world now give more stepped down as Chief Executive of Transora, the consumer goods employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company by e-commerce exchange, in March 2005.
The Board has always viewed means of regular savings.
Following the approval of shareholders at Ms Sprieser as independent.
Three of the Non-Executive Directors are the AGM held in May 2005, new Sharesave schemes were launched not considered to be independent for all purposes: Adrian Bellamy, worldwide during the Summer of 2005. as Chairman of the Board, Peter Harf, because of the shareholding he represents and George Greener, since he has served as a Director Share capital for more than nine years.
Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued, and of options and awards granted, during the year are set out in Note 20 to the accounts.
The Companys policy is to allow Executive Directors one external directorship.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, As described in the Chairmans statement on page 3 in the separately an exception has been made in the case of Colin Day and he has published Shareholders Review and Summary Financial Statement two external directorships, both on the boards of other FTSE100 2005 a rolling share buy back programme has continued throughout companies which is not in accordance with Code provision A.
Details of market purchases made, under the authority given The Board has made this exception on the basis that it is satisfied 2 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 that Mr Day will continue to be able to devote sufficient time Committees of the Board to the Company to fulfil his duties as CFO.
The Company has established three Committees of the Board, the terms of reference of which are available on the Companys The Articles of Association require that every Director will seek website and upon request.
re-election to the Board at least every three years, in line with provision A.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, chaired by Peter White, comprises three The Board meets a minimum of five times a year and will meet further Non-Executive Directors.
All members are independent Non-Executive as necessary to consider specific matters which it has reserved to itself Directors which complies with provision C. 3.1 of the Combined Code.
for decision, such as significant acquisition or disposal proposals or Kenneth Hydon has recent and relevant financial experience, having major financing propositions.
In 2005, there were five regular meetings.
been Financial Director of Vodafone Group plc until July 2005.
A statement of the Directors attendance at these Board meetings, Gerard Murphy was appointed to the Audit Committee in July 2005. and at meetings of Board Committees on which they served during The Committee monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the the year, is shown in Table 2 at the end of this report.
In compliance internal controls, compliance procedures and the Groups overall with Code provision A.
1.3 the Chairman holds a session with other risk framework including the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion of each formal Board It reviews the interim and full year financial statements before meeting without the Executive Directors present.
The Chairman and submission to the full Board and makes recommendations to the other Non-Executive Directors devote sufficient time to the Company.
Board regarding the auditors and their terms of appointment.
During the year the Board has carried out a formal evaluation of its It reviews and monitors the external auditors independence and performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors in objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The CFO and accordance with Code provision A.
The Board analysed responses other senior management attend by invitation.
The Groups external from all Board members to a detailed questionnaire.
Kenneth Hydon, as auditors and the Groups Vice President, Internal Audit attend the senior independent Non-Executive Director, conducted an evaluation meetings and have direct access to the Committee.
In evaluating of the Chairmans performance in conjunction with his Non-Executive its performance during the year, the Committee analysed responses Director colleagues with input from both Executive Directors.
from all Committee members to a detailed questionnaire.
The Nomination Committee has primary responsibility for reviewing Remuneration Committee the performance of individual Directors and in addition to this review The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Judith Sprieser, meets process, the Chairman carried out an evaluation of the performance of regularly to review remuneration policy for Directors and senior individual Directors by face-to-face, one-on-one interviews.
The Committee also has responsibility for making of the view that it is best placed to carry out such evaluations, without decisions on the Chairmans remuneration.
The Committee comprises the need to employ the services of an outside consultancy, and that this three members, of whom two are considered independent as defined is an appropriate and cost-effective procedure.
The performance of the by the standards of the Combined Code.
Accordingly the Company CEO, and of other members of the Executive Committee, is regularly does not comply with provision B.
reviewed by the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
Adrian Bellamy is not considered independent as he is the Chairman The Executive Committee presents an annual strategic review and of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
The Board is satisfied that the personal the Annual Plan to the Board for its approval.
Actual performance integrity and experience of Mr Bellamy makes him a highly effective against the Plan is presented to the Board at each of its regular member of the Board and the Remuneration Committee.
meetings and any changes to forecasts as a result of current Nomination Committee performance are reviewed.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating candidates All members of the Board receive timely reports on items arising for the approval of the Board to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors.
at meetings of the Board to enable them to give due consideration Upon recommendation of the Nomination Committee during 2005 to such items in advance of the meetings.
two new Non-Executive Director appointments were made to the Board: Graham Mackay on 25 February 2005 and Gerard Murphy Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate briefings on the Company on 20 June 2005. and its operations around the world when they are appointed to the Board.
They are encouraged to visit the Companys offices and factories, As and when vacancies arise on the Board, the services of an external whenever the opportunity presents itself, where they can be briefed search consultancy are employed to seek candidates for appointment.
on the local business operations.
The Board endeavours to hold one The Nomination Committee reviews each candidate as presented meeting each year at one of the operating units.
Full, formal and by the consultancy and all members of the Committee are involved tailored induction processes are put in place on appointment to the in the interview process before making their recommendations Board which retain flexibility to allow the new Director to have input to the full Board.
All members of the Board are given the opportunity to the induction process so that areas of particular interest to that to meet the recommended candidates prior to their appointment.
The Committee comprises the Chairman, who also chairs the All the Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is Committee, the CEO, the Deputy Chairman and the Chairs of both responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board believes this the Company complies with all applicable rules, regulations and membership is appropriate to the Group despite this not being in obligations governing the Companys operations.
A procedure exists compliance with Code provision A.
4.1, which requires a majority for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, of the members to be independent.
Adrian Bellamy is not considered in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
independent as he is the Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser, Peter Harf is not considered independent because of the shareholding he represents The members of the Executive Committee are appointed to the and Bart Becht is not considered independent because he is the CEO.
Committee by the CEO, who leads the Committee.
Internal control The Executive Committee manages the day-to-day operations of The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the the Company.
Individual Executive Committee members hold global Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, responsibility for specific operating functions including category and has established a control structure designed to manage the development, supply, finance, human resources and information achievement of business objectives.
The system complies with the services.
The three Area Executive Vice Presidents covering Europe, Smith Report guidance on internal control and provides reasonable, North America Australia, and Developing Markets are also members but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
3 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Continued Throughout the year the Group has had in place an ongoing process for circumstances the nature of the advice required may make it more identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks and opportunities timely and cost-effective to appoint the external auditors who already faced by the Group and the Board has performed a specific assessment have a good understanding of the Group.
Any significant information of internal control for the purpose of this Annual Report.
The Groups technology consultancy projects are put out to tender and the control environment is supported by a Code of Business Conduct and external auditors are excluded from this tender process.
a range of policies on corporate responsibility.
Other key elements The external auditors report to the Audit Committee on the actions within the internal control structure are summarised as follows: they take to comply with professional and regulatory requirements The Board and management the Board continues to approve strategy and with best practice designed to ensure their independence from and performs an advisory and supervisory role with the day-to-day the Group, including periodic rotation of the lead engagement audit management of the Company being undertaken by the Executive partner.
Details of non-audit services are set out in Note 3 on page 25.
The CEO and other Executive Committee members Social, environmental and ethical SEE matters have clearly communicated the Group vision, strategy, operating and reputational risk constitutions, values and business objectives across the Group.
The Board regularly considers and takes account of the significance of Organisational structure the Group operates three area management social, environmental and ethical SEE matters and their potential risks organisations, Europe, North America Australia and Developing to the business of the Company, including reputational risk.
The Board Markets and centralised functions covering category management, undertakes a formal review of such matters at least annually.
Additionally, supply, sales, finance and legal, information services and human the Boards Audit Committee undertakes regular review of the resources.
Throughout the organisation, the achievement of business arrangements for, and effectiveness of, risk management and internal objectives and the establishment of appropriate risk management and audits: SEE matters and reputational risks are included within this.
internal control are embedded in the responsibilities of line Executives.
The CEO is the Board member with specific responsibility for SEE Budgeting there is an annual planning process whereby detailed matters.
As part of established management processes, responsible operating budgets for the following financial year are prepared functions report directly to the CEO on a regular basis.
Key areas and are reviewed by the Board.
Long-term business plans are of control and performance are independently reviewed and verified also prepared and are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
by internal and external organisations, including Internal Audit, both as part of the Companys established management processes and Management reporting there is a comprehensive system of in support of its annual non-financial reporting which can be found management reporting.
The financial performance of operating on the Companys corporate website, at: www.
units and the Group as a whole is monitored against budget on a monthly basis and is updated by periodic forecasts.
Area The Board has concluded that there are limited material risks to and functional Executives also perform regular business reviews the Companys shortand long-term value arising from SEE matters with their management teams, which incorporate an assessment other than potential reputational issues common to enterprises with of key risks and opportunities.
Risk management as part of the ongoing risk and control process, The issues of potential reputational risk considered by the Board include: operating units review and evaluate risks to the achievement of Industry sector product safety risks: The household products and business objectives and the Board reviews those significant risks health & personal care sectors have a number of product and which might impact on the achievement of corporate objectives.
ingredient issues relating to concerns voiced over the long-term Mitigating controls, together with any necessary actions, are identified effects of household chemicals on human health and the environment.
To this end, key corporate risks include the ongoing The Company has comprehensive management processes in place to development of the new product pipeline, protection of intellectual ensure that our products are both suitable and safe for their intended property, financial and business controls in emerging markets and use.
Additionally, regulatory compliance and product safety issues are continuing recruitment and retention of high-quality management.
actively addressed by both national and regional industry associations, Operating unit controls each operating unit maintains internal including those in Europe and North America Australia.
For example, controls, which are appropriate to its own business environment.
the HERA Human and Environmental Risk Assessment project, Such controls must be in accordance with Group policies and established in 1999, is a voluntary industry programme of publicly include management authorisation processes, to ensure that available risk assessments on ingredients of household cleaning products all commitments on behalf of the Group are entered into after see: www.
As part of our commitment to make appropriate approval.
In particular, there is a structured process continual improvements in the environmental sustainability of our for the appraisal and authorisation of all material capital projects.
products and processes we have a number of programmes, above and beyond regulatory requirements, to systematically remove specific Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls is monitored ingredients from Company product formulas and packaging specifications regularly through a combination of management review, selfglobally.
Recent programmes include: the removal of nitro and assessment and internal and external audit.
The results of external polycyclic artificial musks from fragrances: the replacement of PVC and internal audit reviews are reported to and considered by the packaging where presently feasible : the replacement of formaldehyde Audit Committee, and actions are taken to address significant preservatives: the removal of NPEs Nonyl Phenol Ethoxylates APEs control matters identified.
The Audit Committee also approves Alkyl Phenol Ethoxylates from fragrances and surfactants: and annual internal audit plans and is responsible for performing removing monoethylene series glycol ethers from use as solvents the ongoing review of internal control on behalf of the Board.
in fragrances and cleaning products.
The Board confirms that reviews of the appropriateness and Supply chain risks: Most product and raw material supply chains effectiveness of the system of internal control throughout the present a number of potential reputational risks relating to: labour financial year have been satisfactorily completed in compliance with standards: health, safety and environmental standards: raw provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
In particular major risks have material sourcing: and the social, ethical and environmental been identified and ongoing monitoring procedures are in place.
performance of third-party manufacturers and suppliers.
The Companys Group policy in respect of non-audit services Global Manufacturing Standard GMS mandates minimum requirements provided by external auditors regarding employment arrangements labour standards and health, The Audit Committee and the CFO keep under review the safety and environmental management, in line with international independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Committee guidelines, for both the Company and its suppliers.
Management reviews the nature and level of non-audit services undertaken by processes in place include Group, Area and Regional monitoring and the external auditors each year to satisfy itself that there is no auditing of compliance with the GMS requirements, including the effect on their independence.
The Board recognises that in certain external audit of our third-party manufacturers.
4 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Product quality risks: Failures in product quality controls could The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements on the potentially lead to damage to the reputation of, and trust in, the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Companys brands.
The Company has established quality management Company will continue in business.
processes, including Group, Area and Regional Quality Assurance Going concern functions that work with and monitor product quality globally.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied that The Board believes that it receives adequate information and training the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue on SEE matters and associated potential reputational risks through its in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason annual review of such matters.
Further information on SEE matters is they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the available in the Companys annual Sustainability Report, available at: financial statements.
com Audit Corporate responsibility The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, state that: Information on the Companys management of corporate a so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit responsibility issues is provided on page 11 in the separately information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and published Shareholders Review and Summary Financial Statement.
b each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Relations with shareholders taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant The Board is committed to effective communication between the audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors Company and its shareholders.
The Executive Directors, with the are aware of that information.
Senior Vice President and the Manager, Investor Relations, meet regularly with institutional shareholders and financial analysts, in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Europe and North America, to discuss matters relating to the The Group has adopted IFRS for its financial reporting for the year Companys business strategy and current performance issues.
The ended 31 December 2005 as required by EU and UK legislation.
Board receives regular monthly reports from the CEO which include As required by IFRS 1, reconciliations of previously published United updates on the share price development, major buyers and sellers of Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP shares and on investor views, including analyst reports on the industry equity and net income to the equivalent IFRS numbers contained and specifically on the Company.
Feedback on presentations and in this Annual Report are presented in Note 27 on page 46, roadshow meetings with institutional investors is presented to the with explanations of the adjustments in Note 28 on page 47.
Executive Directors following twice-yearly roadshows in Europe and Charitable and political donations North America.
The Chairman is available to discuss governance and Donations to charitable organisations in the UK amounted to strategy with major shareholders should such a dialogue be 568,000 2004 496,000.
No political donations were made 2004 nil.
During the year the Chairman and the senior independent Non-Executive Director have met with shareholders in satisfaction of AGM Code Provision D. 1.1.
The Company believes that it is important that The notice convening the fifty-third AGM of the Company to be held it makes key Executives available, including the senior independent on Thursday, 4 May 2006 at 11.15 a. m. at The London Heathrow Non-Executive Director, if required, to discuss matters of concern with Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex UB3 5AN is contained its shareholders.
in a separate document for shareholders.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is used as the main Employee Share Plans opportunity for the Directors to communicate with private investors.
As referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 11, your Board is seeking approval for the adoption of a new Long-Term Policy on the payment of creditors Incentive Plan, further details of which appear in the Notice of AGM.
It is the Companys policy to follow the CBI Prompt Payers Code.
This policy requires the Company to agree the terms of payments with its Articles of Association suppliers, to ensure that those suppliers are aware of those terms and to A recommendation to amend Article 95 of the Companys Articles of abide by those terms.
Copies of the Code are available from CBI, Centre Association, to increase the amount of Directors fees being fees paid Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
As at 31 December to the Non-Executive Directors that may be paid from 750,000 per 2005 and 31 December 2004 the Company did not have any amounts annum to 1,000,000 per annum, is also to be proposed to shareholders due to its suppliers.
Further details appear in the Notice of AGM.
Directors responsibilities Auditors The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their the Auditors Reports set out on pages 16 and 50, is made with a willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities be reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial Other information statements.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 As at 1 March 2006 the Company had received the following notices to prepare financial statements for each year which give a true of substantial interests 3% or more in its ordinary share capital: and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the year, and of the profit or loss for the year.
JAB Investments BV: 111,105,415 shares 15.4% of the issued ordinary share capital.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 17 to 59 including the information on Directors remuneration Legal & General Investment Management Limited: 22,859,954 shares on pages 10 to 15, the Company has used appropriate accounting 3.2% of the issued ordinary share capital.
policies consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent MFS Investment Management: 22,038,694 shares 3.1% of the issued judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting ordinary share capital.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the By order of the Board financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure Elizabeth Richardson that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Company Secretary 103-105 Bath Road The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that reasonable Slough, Berks SL1 3UH procedures are being followed for safeguarding the assets of the Group, and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
20 March 2006 5 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Continued Table 1 Interests in the share capital of the Company The Directors in office at the end of the year had the following beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: 1 March 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Adrian Bellamy 14,130 14,130 12,770 Bart Becht 996,731 996,731 963,314 Colin Day 249,591 249,591 190,296 George Greener 3,041 3,041 2,701 Peter Harf 841,303 841,303 840,860 Kenneth Hydon 3,643 3,643 3,303 Graham Mackay 373 373 Gerard Murphy 178 178 Judith Sprieser 1,850 1,850 1,401 Peter White 2,041 2,041 1,701 Notes 1.
No person who was a Director or a member of a Directors family on 31 December 2005 had any notifiable share interests in any subsidiary of the Company.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Table 2 Attendance at meetings In 2005, there were five formal Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, four Remuneration Committee meetings one held by telephone conference in accordance with the Articles of Association and three Nomination Committee meetings.
In addition to the five formal Board meetings, there was one written resolution of the Board during the year not included in the table below.
Written resolutions are required to be signed by all Directors on the Board.
Attendance by individual Directors at Board meetings and at meetings of Committees on which they sit is given in the table below.
Number of meetings attended Note Board  Adrian Bellamy 543 Peter Harf 53 Bart Becht 53 Colin Day 5 George Greener a 5 1 Kenneth Hydon 53 Ana Maria Llopis resigned 5 May 2005 b 2 1 Graham Mackay appointed 25 February 2005 c 3 3 Gerard Murphy appointed 20 June 2005 d 2 1 Judith Sprieser 543 Peter White 53 3 Hans van der Wielen resigned 5 May 2005 e 1 1 Notes a George Greener resigned from the Remuneration Committee on 25 February 2005 and attended all meetings of the Committee prior to his resignation.
b Ana Maria Llopis resigned from the Board and the Audit Committee on 5 May 2005.
She attended all meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee prior to her resignation.
c Graham Mackay was appointed to the Board and the Remuneration Committee on 25 February 2005.
He attended three Board meetings of the four held and all meetings of the Remuneration Committee subsequent to his appointment.
d Gerard Murphy was appointed to the Audit Committee on 22 July 2005 and attended all subsequent meetings of the Committee.
He attended two Board meetings of the three held subsequent to his appointment on 20 June 2005. e Hans van der Wielen resigned from the Board and the Audit Committee on 5 May 2005.
He attended one Board meeting of the two held and all meetings of the Committee prior to his resignation.
6 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
