DIRECTORS REPOR T The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the members their report Going concern and the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2005.
The Directors have considered the Groups financial position and trading prospects and consider they have a reasonable expectation for Principal activities and business review stating that Redrow plc has adequate resources to continue trading for The principal activities of the Group are residential and commercial the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going property development.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Turnover and profit on ordinary activities before taxation are stated Substantial shareholdings at 781.0m and 141.1m respectively.
After providing for taxation As at 12 September 2005, the Company has been notified of the of 42.4m and paying an interim dividend of 5.7m, the Directors following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: recommend a final dividend of 11.5m and the transfer of the balance of No.
of % of issued 81.5m to reserves.
Name shares held share capital A detailed review of the Groups activities during the year and of its prospects is contained within the Chairmans statement, Chief Stephen Peter Morgan 13,685,155 8.6 Executives Operational review and Finance Directors Financial review.
FMR Corp. and its direct and 6,496,521 4.0 indirect subsidiaries and Fidelity Statement of Directors responsibilities International Limited FIL and The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare its direct and indirect subsidiaries financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair Lloyds TSB Group plc 6,349,371 4.0 view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end Legal & General Group plc 5,488,182 3.4 of the financial year and of the profit of the Group for that period.
Mirabaud Investment 5,308,760 3.3 In preparing the financial statements the Directors ensure that suitable Management Limited accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, that The Egerton European 4,878,344 3.1 reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made Dollar Fund and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements on the Directors going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The Directors are listed together with their biographical details on pages Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible 30 and 31. for maintaining adequate accounting records, and are also responsible In accordance with Article 84 of the Articles of Association, for taking such steps and instituting and maintaining such systems and R B Jones, N Fitzsimmons, C E Lewis and B Duckworth will retire by controls as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
As part of the Boards annual evaluation The maintenance and integrity of the Redrow plc website is the process, each Director underwent formal performance evaluations which responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the Auditors included looking at the individuals effective contribution.
The Board is does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the conscious of the need progressively to refresh its membership as regards Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have Non-Executive Directors and acknowledges the particular importance of occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented this once a Non-Executive Director has served more than six years since on the website.
the date of their first election.
This is taken into consideration when considering the individuals effective contribution.
As a result of the Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of evaluation process, the Board confirms that N Fitzsimmons and financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
C E Lewis, who stand for re-election as Executive Directors and R B Jones and B Duckworth, who stand for re-election as Non-Executive Directors, continue to be effective and demonstrate the appropriate commitment to their roles.
DIRECTORS REPORT 32 The Executive Directors have formal service agreements.
Save As You Earn scheme was administered via a Qualifying Employee Termination of their employment may be effected by twelve months Share Ownership Trust QUEST.
notice given by either party.
Creditor payment policy The Non-Executive Directors have fixed term service agreements The Group values its relationships with suppliers and sub-contractors.
outlining their duties and responsibilities.
It is the policy to agree credit terms prior to commencement of trading.
Subject to any items of genuine dispute, it is policy to pay creditors The Board acknowledges that if a Non-Executive Director serves more within the terms agreed.
At June 2005 the Group had 38 days purchases than nine years since first election, then that Non-Executive Director outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers and sub-contractors will be subject to annual re-election and that the length of tenure on 2004: 38 days.
The Company had nil days purchases outstanding in the Board will be a relevant factor in determining their independence.
respect of payments to suppliers 2004: nil.
No Non-Executive Director has currently served more than nine years.
Research and development R B Jones and J Martin will have served nine years at the date of the The Group has a centralised Product Development Team charged with 2006 Annual General Meeting.
identifying and evaluating new construction techniques and products.
Directors interests Environment There were no material related party transactions which require Redrow recognises its responsibilities to the community as a whole disclosure.
and has adopted an environmental strategy which is a core part of the Groups objectives.
Further details are provided in the Corporate Social The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are given Responsibility review on pages 24 to 29. in the Remuneration report on pages 45 to 47.
Auditors Charitable and political donations A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors will The Group made no political donations but paid 60,000 in charitable be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 9 November 2005. donations during the year being 22,000 in respect of National charities and 38,000 in support of local charities.
The Group and its employees Purchase of the Companys own shares are actively involved in fund-raising activities for specific charities.
Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting seeks authority from Shareholders for the Company to purchase Employees up to 15,916,236 ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount Redrow places considerable importance on the provision of training and of 1,591,624, which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the development: training@redrow, a purpose built in-house training facility Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2005.
The authority at Tamworth, offers over 40 different courses and delivers circa 4,000 will expire at the end of next years Annual General Meeting and the training days per annum.
resolution specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be bought.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate The Group supports the employment of disabled persons wherever gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company will be possible through recruitment and by the retention and retraining of taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
those who become disabled during their employment.
Notice of Annual General Meeting The Directors recognise the importance of good communications with Pages 71 to 74 set out the Notice of Annual General Meeting and employees.
Companies within the Group are encouraged to make their details the resolutions proposed together with explanatory notes.
employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting their respective companies and the Group.
This is assisted through the By order of the Board medium of regular management meetings and staff publications.
G A Cope Company Secretary Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related and 12 September 2005 other employee share schemes.
In the year ended 30 June 2005, the 33
