Approval of significant policies, including Redrows Health & Safety Governance framework policy: and The Board of Redrow plc is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance.
Under the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK 10. Review of overall Corporate Governance arrangements.
Listing Authority, the Company sets out details below of how it has Board papers are distributed in advance of the meetings to allow applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code adequate time for review and preparation and include key strategic, published in July 2003. operational and financial information.
The Directors have considered the contents and requirements of the Combined Code and believe that the Company is substantially Board structure compliant.
Within this section on Corporate Governance, the Directors The Board considers that it is of a size and has a balance of skills, have identified those provisions with which it does not comply with the knowledge and experience that is appropriate for its business.
Combined Code and sets out the reasons for not doing so.
The combination within the Executive team of the Chief Executive, Executive Deputy Chairman and Group Finance Director, together with The Board of Directors the local operational knowledge and experience provided by each of the The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, six three Regional Chairmen, provides the Board with an appropriate view Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
of the detail of the business.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a depth All directors submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals of not of experience and understanding from outside the Group.
more than three years and are subject to re-election at their first annual Under the Combined Code, at least half the Board, excluding the general meeting after appointment.
Chairman should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Group does not comply with this provision.
In the period following The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and this the publication of the Combined Code in 2003, the Board has responsibility is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the considered a variety of changes that would lead to compliance and has Board.
The Chief Executive leads the business and is responsible for continued to keep the matter under review.
A reduction in the number managing it within the authorities delegated to him by the Board.
of Executive Directors on the Board is not considered appropriate at this The Board meets on a monthly basis and has a formal schedule of point as the Board feels it would have a detrimental effect upon its matters specifically reserved for its decision.
The matters reserved performance given its current balance of skills, knowledge and include: experience.
An increase in the number of independent Non-Executive Directors to match the number of Executive Directors is also not felt to 1.
Approval of Redrows long term objectives and strategy: be appropriate at the current time because it might lead to a large and 2.
Approval of the annual report and accounts, preliminary and unwieldy Board structure.
interim financial statements, trading updates and the Non-Executive Directors are able to meet the Chairman separately from recommendation of dividends: the Executive Directors if they so wish.
Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or practices: Independence The Board considers each of its Non-Executive Directors to be 4.
Any changes relating to capital structure: independent, with the Chairman having been independent upon his 5.
Approval of treasury policies: appointment in July 1997.
Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and has been an employee of the Group within the last five years: risk management: has, or has had within the last three years, a material business 7.
Approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, significant land relationship with the Group either directly, or as a partner, purchases or contracts: shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such a relationship with the Group.
Changes to the size, structure and composition of the Board: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 34 International Chairman of King Sturge, international property conducted through a Board discussion against a questionnaire setting out consultants with whom the Group from time to time undertakes key topics and headings.
As a result of this formal review, some minor business, this is not regarded by the Board or by Malcolm King changes were adopted in respect of Main Board meetings.
as material to either party and therefore does not affect his independent status: Relationship with shareholders The Group announces its financial results half yearly and immediately has received or receives remuneration from the Group apart following their publication undertakes formal presentations to equity from the directors fee, or participates in any of the Groups analysts.
These presentations are available on the Companys website.
performance related pay schemes, or is a member of the Groups Following the results announcement, the Chief Executive and Group pension plan: Finance Director meet institutional shareholders and feedback from has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors these meetings is independently collected and disseminated to the or senior employees: Board.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director also attend meetings with a sample of institutional shareholders or holds cross directorships or has significant links with other where requested to do so, to ensure that contact is maintained to directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: understand any issues or concerns of major shareholders.
In addition to represents a significant shareholder: or the results presentations, the Group publishes a trading update before has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date entering its closed periods.
The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place at a venue close to Jim Martin is the Senior Non-Executive Director.
the Groups Head Office, and formal notification, through the Annual Report and Accounts, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days Professional development and Board evaluation in advance.
The AGM represents an opportunity for shareholders to The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and good table questions formally during the meeting and informally afterwards to training are important requirements across the Group.
The Board the Companys Directors.
receives regular presentations and briefings from those responsible for Redrows website, www.
co. uk, gives access to current financial key Group disciplines.
In addition, the Board maintains close and corporate information.
relationships with the local management teams, for example through site visits and regional meetings attended by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Performance evaluation of all Directors is undertaken as part of the Groups structured appraisal process.
All Executive Directors have an annual appraisal conducted by the Chief Executive at which performance against personal objectives is reviewed, having received input from the Board generally.
The Chairman conducts the annual appraisal of the Chief Executive and the Senior Non-Executive Director undertakes the performance evaluation of the Chairman, in both cases having received feedback from their fellow Directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive review the performance of each Non-Executive Director individually.
This appraisal process is part of a broader continuous assessment programme to ensure performance is maintained at a high level.
The Board undertakes a formal annual review of its own effectiveness.
This internal review during the financial year ended June 2005 was 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Board and Committee composition and attendance The following table sets out the number of meetings held in the year ended 30 June 2005 for the Board and its Committees together with the attendance record of each Director.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Environmental Committee Committee Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Total number of meetings in 2004 05 12 4 7 2 2 Robert Jones 10 12 2 2 2 2 Neil Fitzsimmons 11 12 2 2 Paul Pedley 12 12 David Arnold 12 12 Barry Harvey 11 12 Colin Lewis 11 12 John Tutte 12 12 Jim Martin 10 12 3 4 6 7 2 2 Brian Duckworth 11 12 3 4 6 7 2 2 Malcolm King 11 12 4 4 7 7 2 2 The terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Redrow website or on request from the Company Secretary.
The following table sets out the membership of the Board Committees as at 30 June 2005.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Environmental Committee Committee Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Robert Jones Non-Executive Chairman C M Neil Fitzsimmons Chief Executive M Jim Martin Senior Non-Executive Director C M M Brian Duckworth Non-Executive Director M M C Malcolm King Non-Executive Director M C M Key C - Chairman M - Member CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 36 The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committee, is a qualified accountant and is the Non-Executive Committees and is a member of the Executive management team: all Chairman of another FTSE listed company.
He is also involved with a number of private companies as Chairman where close monitoring of Directors have access to his advice and services.
The appointment and financial issues is expected by shareholders.
In addition, Brian removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Duckworth, a member of the Audit Committee is a qualified accountant In certain circumstances, Board committees and individual Directors who has previously been Director of Finance of Severn Trent Water may wish to take independent professional advice in connection with Limited.
The Board therefore believes that the Audit Committee has their responsibilities and duties and, in this regard, the Company will the appropriate level of experience to fulfil its terms of reference.
meet the reasonable costs and expenses incurred.
The Audit Committee meetings in the year ended June 2005 included Nomination Committee Report consideration and review of the following: The Nomination Committees terms of reference include reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, leading the process for 1.
Interim and full year financial results including 2004 Annual Report Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board with and Accounts: regard to any changes.
Internal audit plans and the effectiveness of the function: 3.
Results of 2004 external audit and the 2005 external audit plan and The principal business of the Committee during the year was to consider associated audit fees: the appointment of a new Chief Executive following Paul Pedleys 4. Review of independence and objectivity of external Auditors decision to relinquish this post.
The Committee considered the qualities including the adoption of a formal policy on non-audit work: and skills required for this critical position and the options available, 5.
Scope, effectiveness and quality of the systems of internal control, both internal and external, to fill the post.
After a thorough review, the including a company visit to provide background to financial and Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of commercial control processes: Neil Fitzsimmons as Chief Executive.
Neil had held the position of 6.
Progress on the implementation of International Financial Group Managing Director for almost two years.
He had previously been Reporting Standards: and Group Finance Director and had an intimate knowledge of Redrow and the sector in general.
His appointment had the unanimous approval of 7. Review of Audit Committee effectiveness.
Audit independence The Committee also considered the opportunities offered by the  LLP PwC were appointed Auditors in 2003 willingness of Paul Pedley to continue to hold an executive position in having succeeded  who were appointed in 1987. the Company, reporting to the Chief Executive.
Since there were clear The current audit partner was appointed following the conclusion of the benefits to be obtained by harnessing Pauls experience and qualities, the 2004 audit.
The fees relating to non-audit services provided by PwC are Committee recommended to the Board his appointment as Executive disclosed in Note 2 to the Accounts, summarised according to the Deputy Chairman.
A clear job description setting out the different types of work undertaken and are 34,000.
The main area of responsibilities of this position was drawn up and Pauls appointment non-audit work relates to advice provided to the Company by PwC in was unanimously approved by the Board.
their capacity as Scheme Actuary of the Redrow pension scheme.
Audit Committee Report In addition, some small costs were incurred during the year in respect of The Audit Committees terms of reference include the appointment, advice provided in connection with the implementation of International re-appointment and removal of the external Auditors, liaison with the Financial Reporting Standards.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the external Auditors and review of their objectivity and independence, the nature of the work and the level of fees related to non-audit work review of the Groups financial results, internal audit programme and its undertaken and has concluded that their involvement does not affect internal control and risk management systems.
the Auditors objectivity or the independence of the audit.
In order to safeguard the independence of the Auditors, appointments in respect of Under the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board should satisfy non-audit work are governed by a policy on such work and require the itself that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Jim Martin, Chairman of the Audit prior approval of the Audit Committee.
37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Defined authorisation levels established over key areas such as Internal control land purchase and the placing of orders and contracts.
The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for monitoring their A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance and reviewed effectiveness.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and at each of the Main, Executive, Regional and subsidiary managing significant risks.
However in reviewing the effectiveness of company board meetings.
Annual budgets are set and monthly internal control, such systems can only provide reasonable but not forecasts prepared, with actual performance compared against absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the annual budget and updated forecasts.
Key business activities including land acquisition, product design, The Groups systems provide weekly updates on key statistics in procurement and information technology are controlled by the relation to sales and production.
In addition, daily statements of Executive Directors.
All activity is organised within a defined structure a reconciled cash position identifying significant payments are with formal lines of responsibility, designated authority levels and a prepared.
In addition to the above, Redrow has an Internal Audit function.
A formalised reporting structure is established within Redrow.
The Internal Audit Manager reports to the Group Finance Director but The Executive Directors and the Company Secretary meet monthly to maintains regular contact with the Audit Committee Chairman and discuss the Groups key issues, risks and opportunities.
Similarly, each attends Audit Committee meetings.
The annual work programme of Region holds a Board Meeting, chaired by the Regional Chairman and Internal Audit is approved in advance by the Audit Committee and attended by the Managing Directors of the relevant companies.
commented upon by the external Auditors.
This programme includes These Managing Directors chair a monthly board meeting of their own time for unscheduled visits to companies within the Group.
The Internal Audit function updates the Audit Committee on this The Board has reviewed the Groups operations and processes and has work at their meetings.
All reports are distributed to the Board as well identified risk areas which have been assessed for their potential impact as to the external Auditors and any outstanding control weaknesses are and internal controls in relation to those risks have been assessed.
The Executive Board through its regular meetings reviews the areas of risk on an ongoing basis and considers whether the internal controls identified in relation to those risks are appropriate.
This procedure also takes place at Regional Board Meetings on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee also reviews its assessment of risk at twice yearly meetings.
The key features of the Groups internal controls are as follows: A Policy and Procedures Manual covers all the significant aspects of the Groups operations and describes the systems and controls that are to be applied.
The Manual is reviewed and updated regularly with amendments being approved by an Executive Director.
The Board asks each Director of its operating subsidiaries to complete an annual statement on Corporate Governance and related party transactions.
This statement is designed to provide assurance that Group policies and procedures are being implemented and are being complied with in all material respects.
