CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW The primary objective of Redrow is to deliver value to shareholders but we place an increasing emphasis on doing this in a way that recognises our responsibilities to all other stakeholders.
The Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee is the committee of the Main Board responsible for monitoring Redrows Corporate Social Responsibility CSR activities.
The terms of reference for the Committee are published on our website, www.
Redrows Corporate Social Responsibility Charter is also published on our website.
It sets out our key aims in terms of improving the sustainability of our business and our relationship with stakeholders.
These focus on our employees, especially their health and safety, our customer service, suppliers and subcontractors and our overall Brian Duckworth environmental performance.
By September 2006, Redrow will publish a Non-Executive Director Sustainability Policy that will encapsulate our strategy towards sustainable development.
Chairman of Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee Employees We continue to recognise that the Redrow Team is fundamental to the continued success of the business.
Our objective is to make Redrow an employer of choice so as to improve the quality of the team and reduce the level of staff turnover which can often result in inefficiencies and increased costs.
We endeavour to offer competitive pay and benefits packages, maintain an open and honest relationship with employees and we continue to invest in the personal development of our employees, primarily through our in-house training centre, training@redrow.
During the year to June 2005, 885 individual employees received training and the team ran 66 individual courses.
These primarily focused on making sure all new employees received a proper induction.
We also have programmes to ensure new Directors to Redrow understand their role and responsibilities to develop the people skills of line managers to get the best out of their teams and to enhance the abilities of our Sales Consultants and Site Management Teams to perform their roles more effectively.
As reported last year, we have adopted a formal whistleblowing procedure that provides employees with a means of informing the Board, and independent Non-Executive Directors if necessary, of any issues of concern that they feel unable to raise with line management.
In addition we have a formalised grievance procedure in place available to all employees.
The wellbeing of our employees is important to Redrow and in August 2005, we introduced an Employee Assistance Programme.
This provides a confidential external counselling service for our employees to discuss issues that may be causing them concern regarding either their work or home life.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 24 Redrow recognises the importance to the industry as a whole of In addition, in 2005, we will be involved in an industry pilot scheme to attracting new people.
In addition, we believe that by having more introduce an alternative apprenticeship to allow more young people to qualified people in the workforce, we will be able to deliver improved learn a trade.
quality, more quickly and more safely.
Redrow will be introducing its Finally, we believe it is important to heighten the interest of children own Assistant Site Manager Development programme in the Autumn in our industry.
We have continued to invite schools to spend a day of 2005 that incorporates the specific aim of them achieving a National on site to learn about our activities and have continued to develop our Vocational Qualification NVQ.
The second module in this pack As well as the progress we have made within Redrow in this important was released in January 2005 and is aimed at school children aged 12 to area, we are also playing a leading role in industry initiatives.
16 to follow on from the first module for 9 to 11 year olds.
These are In particular, we are part of the Major Home Builder Group skills available on the Redrow Learning Web at www.
initiative with  that was announced in November 2004 in response to the Barker Report that aims to increase the number of qualified people in the industry.
In July 2005 we wrote to our subcontractors informing them that Redrow expects them to have the relevant Construction Skills Certification Scheme CSCS card or equivalent by December 2007 in order to lead to a qualified workforce by December 2010.
We have encouraged all relevant employees within Redrow to obtain their job related CSCS card and we are working with  to develop a new and relevant qualification for site managers in the housebuilding industry.
We encourage all our operating companies to recruit trade apprentices into their teams and during the year we employed 57 apprentices across our sites.
George Cronin, Managing Director, Redrow Homes Eastern Ltd, presents Gavin Sadler with the Apprentice of the Year award for Pupils at Hawarden High School, working on a project sourced the Southern Region from the Redrow Learning Web 25 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW In the coming year, the Health and Safety Team will be delivering a new training course on environmental management to our site based teams.
This will focus upon our activities on site and their impact on the environment.
It covers such important areas as protection of watercourses.
They will also continue to work with the Product Development Team to improve our product in terms of design and specification to reduce Health and Safety issues arising both during the construction process and beyond.
As a result of this proactive approach and the support of the Redrow Team and our suppliers and subcontractors, we delivered further improvements in the Health and Safety standards on our sites as demonstrated by our internal measurement of performance which is monitored by our professional in-house team.
The average score in 2005 improved by 44%.
In addition, the Groups Accident Incidence Rate reduced by a further 10% during the last year and is 10% below the Health and Safety Executives sector figures.
The number of injuries reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR fell by 10% to 72.
We will continue to target further improvements in our accident statistics in the Design a poster competition in support of Institution of Occupational Safety and Healths European Week for Safety and Health at Work IOSH coming year.
In terms of Health and Safety Executive action, as in the previous year, there was one prohibition notice issued in the year.
No prosecutions were made and no enforcement notices issued.
Health and Safety Health and Safety receives a high priority in Redrow and we have a Our Health & Safety Team plays a very active role in educating separate Health, Safety and Environmental Policy which is issued to all children about the dangers of building sites and, during the last year, we new employees.
We are playing an active role in developing the Home continued our policy of giving talks to schools regarding site safety with Builders Federation Health & Safety Charter and are pleased to report over 3,500 children attending these presentations.
At one event, that in 2005, all our operating companies once again received British promoted jointly with the Borough of Crewe and Nantwich, more than Safety Council awards.
We were also pleased to be awarded a Silver 360 primary school children attended presentations over 3 days.
Award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents In 2004, we supported the Institution of Occupational Safety and RoSPA to follow on from the Bronze Award last year.
We work Healths European Week for Safety and Health at Work by sponsoring a closely with the Health and Safety Executive and have played a competition for children to design a poster relating to safety on prominent role in their Safety & Health Awareness Days campaign in construction sites.
a number of areas in which we operate.
We will be publishing a more detailed report on Health and Safety in We operate our own safety training scheme known as St-Cred.
the year on our website at www.
Through this programme, we delivered some 500 equivalent days Customer service training in the year.
In total, 500 employees received St-Cred training The Barker Report set challenges for our industry in terms of customer in the year.
In addition we rolled out a major new DVD-based service.
We introduced new procedures in July 2004 aimed at improving programme, Work Safe Home Safe, aimed at educating both our own performance in this area of our business.
These procedures require our staff and subcontractors about the major causes of accidents on site and senior management to contact each Redrow customer to obtain the ways they can be avoided.
These professionally produced DVDs feedback on the service they have received and surveys are sent to all used members of our own team and subcontractors to identify risk areas and the means to mitigate risk.
customers to gain more detailed information on the product and their CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 26 buying experience.
During the year, 32% of our customers provided Many features of the Debut product are aimed at improving returns received in the year to June 2005.
77% would recommend sustainability: these include the use of Modern Methods of Construction such as lightweight steel frames, using inert materials that Redrow and 78% considered their buying experience to be satisfactory can be recycled and improved energy and water efficiency in the or better.
These compare with targets of at least 75% and 85% completed home.
Materials used on Debut are either rated A or B from respectively set in the Barker Report.
the BRE Green Guide to Specification.
Using the Standard Assessment During next year, we will be looking at ways of improving our sources Procedure SAP rating that measures the energy running costs of our of feedback from our customers to assess ways of developing our service.
new homes, Debut homes generally deliver ratings of between 104 and We will be undertaking focus group research of customers and 110, which is well in excess of ratings delivered by most new homes in non-customers to improve our understanding of their product and the UK.
service expectations and we will be reviewing our procedures in response to this feedback.
Sustainable development The Redrow Product Development Team comprises a Director, supported by three other staff and reports directly to the Executive Directors.
Whilst the Team is responsible for all aspects of developing our product, it takes into account sustainability issues in formulating changes to the product.
This team has played a prominent role in developing our new Debut product which delivers enhanced sustainability performance as measured using the Building Research Establishment BRE Eco-Homes classification.
We have set ourselves the objective of delivering 2,000 Debut homes per annum within 5 years and thereby Redrow will be looking to deliver a significant number of new homes targeted at achieving an Eco-Homes Excellent rating under the Building Research Establishment BRE classification to improve the sustainability of the housing stock.
We believe all The BRE Eco-Homes Excellent certificate Debut sites should be able to secure at least a Very Good rating under achieved for the Debut development at Rugby this classification.
The Debut developments incorporate communal heating and hot water generation using high efficiency, low Nitrous Oxide burners reducing flue gases.
Both internal and external low energy light fittings are a feature of Debut developments.
As regards water efficiency measures, in addition to our standard dual flush feature on toilets, Debut homes have flow restrictors on taps.
They also incorporate the provision of waste recycling facilities for the owner, both in their home and on the development as a whole which can be tailored to suit the needs of individual local authorities.
To encourage reduced reliance on the car, Debut developments provide cycle storage facilities for our customers.
The Debut product delivers enhanced sustainability in terms of Eco-Ratings 27 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW We maintain our commitment to brownfield development with over 70% of legal completions on such sites last year.
In addition, in excess of 70% of our owned land bank as at June 2005 is brownfield land.
As part of our continuing commitment to sustainable development we are participating in and have reached Stage 3 of the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and English Partnerships Design for Manufacture Competition that seeks to deliver sustainable and affordable new homes using Modern Methods of Construction.
The Product Development Team continues to assist in the roll out of Stamford Brook, Altrincham, a development in partnership with the National Trust our waste management procedures across our sites and will be developing benchmark criteria from the collection of data on six current developments against which to assess our performance in this Redrow recognises the importance of energy efficiency and we continue area.
This will provide a meaningful way to measure reductions in the to specify only AA or AB rated appliances in our new homes.
During the next 12 months, we intend to From July 2005 we have been monitoring the average SAP rating of our pilot our new Environmental Management System, developed to new homes and we are also undertaking the training of our Sales Teams embrace many of the requirements of ISO14001, on three sites so as to to improve their understanding of SAP ratings and the energy ensure it provides an effective means to manage our on-site activities in efficiency benefits of Redrow homes.
At Stamford Brook, Altrincham, an environmentally sensitive way.
This pilot will then provide feedback we are working with Leeds Metropolitan University in the use of from which we can roll out an effective system across all our sites.
building techniques that improve the energy efficiency of new homes to We take into account sustainability issues in the procurement of deliver performances significantly in excess of current requirements.
Redrow is one of the very few housebuilders to be a member New homes on this site are achieving air tightness significantly in of the WWF Global Forest and Trade Network GFTN.
Whilst we excess of current regulations, thereby reducing heat loss and improving specify that all our timber must come from certified sources, GFTN thermal efficiency.
The Product Development Team will begin requires us to increase the proportion of timber from Forest Stewardship investigating more advanced technologies to reduce energy use as part Council FSC certified sources.
Our proportion of timber from these of our involvement in the test house project with the School of the sources was 33% in 2004.
Redrow is working with this organisation to Built Environment at Nottingham University.
improve our performance in this environmentally sensitive area to Redrow remains committed to enhancing the environment through increase the proportion of timber procured from FSC certified sources.
the planting of trees and shrubs on its sites as well as preserving wildlife habitats.
At Stamford Brook, Altrincham, we will be restoring watercourses and woodlands as part of the development, as well as providing waste recycling facilities for homeowners and composting facilities on selected plots.
Across our operating companies the number of sites incorporating elements of Sustainable Urban Drainage continues to increase.
Redrow recognises the need to consult with the communities in which we wish to develop where our activities are likely to have a significant impact on their environment.
For example, we are currently working with BAE SYSTEMS to promote the remediation and development of a major brownfield site at Bishopton near Glasgow.
As part of this process, we are involving the local community in a public consultation Sustainable urban drainage system at Masterton Park, Dunfermline exercise and have set up a liaison committee so that the local CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 28 community can communicate its views and we can advise them of our We encourage our employees to be involved in projects that benefit proposals as the scheme progresses through the planning process.
During 2005, we have played a part in the DangerPoint project being co-ordinated by North Wales Police and involving other Investing in the community leading companies in the area.
This project will provide a dynamic During the year, Redrow has continued its investment into the safety education centre through the creation of various environments communities in which we operate.
We do this through the provision of for children in North Wales and the North West.
Working with some facilities for the community with financial contributions for and the of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have provided a facility that direct provision of such benefits as affordable housing, public open interactively highlights safety issues to prevent accidents and injuries in space and play areas, education and public art.
Redrow is also involved in the community in other ways.
In addition to Summary our work in the very important area of site safety, in 2005 we have As highlighted in this report, Redrow has undertaken a number of continued our involvement in the Schools Partnership Programme with initiatives during the last 12 months to improve the sustainability of its the National Trust.
A total of 35 partnerships have been launched activities and to enhance its CSR strategy.
Redrows Debut product sets involving 70 schools with some 5,000 children participating, to new standards in the delivery of more sustainable quality homes on a which Redrow has provided 150,000 worth of support over the last large scale and we have defined objectives relating to the roll out of this three years.
We have continued our work with Business in the new product.
This report also identifies further initiatives we intend to Community and in March 2005, as one part of this involvement, a take during the coming year as we look to heighten awareness of team of Redrow volunteers, with support from our suppliers and environmental and sustainability issues within our business.
subcontractors, were involved in transforming accommodation at Plas Bellin Hall for homeless families on behalf of the Save the Family charity in North Wales.
Each of our operating companies has adopted a local charity organising events and functions to raise funds.
Over the last 12 months Redrow companies have directly donated 60,000 and a further 65,000 has been raised through organised events.
Redrow is also pleased to be a member of the Business in the Community PerCent Club that recognises businesses which have contributed at least one percent of their annual pre-tax profits to the community.
Brian Duckworth Non-Executive Director Chairman of Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee Redrow volunteers at Plas Bellin Hall, North Wales The finished home area at the DangerPoint project, Talacre, North Wales 29
