20640 NewP1 25. qxp 10 3 06 10:57 Page 18 18 Business overview Elsevier 7,300 employees Sales in 180 countries www.
com Elsevier is a world leading provider of scientific, technical and health information for professional users.
These include scientists and researchers, doctors, nurses and health practitioners, academics and students.
Elseviers 20,000 products and services include print and online journals, books, CDs, databases and portals.
Elseviers innovative electronic products include its ScienceDirect platform, the Scopus database, the award winning scientific web search engine Scirus, and MD Consult.
Its world-renowned publications include Grays Anatomy, The Lancet, Tetrahedron and Cell.
LexisNexis 13,400 employees Sales in 100 countries www.
com LexisNexis is a global provider of authoritative legal, tax, regulatory, public records, news and business information solutions, both online and in print.
LexisNexis uses new advanced technology to allow law firms and businesses to customise products to the specific information needs and language of a country, jurisdiction or market, with seamless searching and linking.
LexisNexis works with legal and business professionals across six continents, providing information solutions through some of the worlds most respected and authoritative imprints, such as Martindale-Hubbell, Butterworths, Tolley, Juris Classeur, Matthew Bender, Abeledo-Perrot, Orac and LexisNexis.
Harcourt Education 5,400 employees Sales in 154 countries www.
com Harcourt Education is a leading publisher serving the pre-Kindergarten to Grade 12 school, assessment and trade publishing markets in the US, and primary and secondary school markets internationally.
Its businesses provide a variety of books, print and electronic learning materials as well as professional development and assessment programmes.
In the US, Harcourt Education encompasses Harcourt School Publishers, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, and Harcourt Achieve, Professional and Trade Publishers.
Its testing business, Harcourt Assessment, serves both the schools assessment and clinical testing markets.
Reed Business 10,200 employees Sales in 164 countries www.
com Reed Business is a leading global business-to-business publisher and exhibition organiser, providing magazines, exhibitions, conferences, online media, directories and marketing services to business customers across six continents.
Reed Business Information has a portfolio including leading brands such as Variety, EDN and Interior Design in the US: Community Care, New Scientist, Estates Gazette, totaljobs.
com and Kellysearch in the UK: Elsevier, Boerderij, and Distrifood in the Netherlands.
Reed Exhibitions manages 460 events globally in 52 industries, bringing together 90,000 suppliers and 5.5 million buyers each year.
Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 19 Products include Scopus.
The worlds largest abstract and citation database of research literature.
Subscription driven online sister Evolve.
A portal site with more than 400,000 It indexes the bibliographic information of publication to the leading medical journal whose registered users providing access to vital texts, 15,000 titles from 4,000 different publishers archive dates back to 1823. tools and resources for nursing students in the US.
and covers all scientific disciplines.
Products include Know Your Customer.
Leading US online directory of provide important fraud detection and identity Applied Discovery.
Leading electronic discovery legal services, provides information on more than authentication services to law enforcement, homeland services enable clients to search, organise, react 440,000 lawyers and their services.
security, commercial and legal customers.
Recently adopted basal programme Versant.
Telephone and internet delivered Holt Social Studies.
Leading basal programme for Grades 15 in Texas schools, the programme language skills tests provide evaluations of for US Grades 612. will be used by over 400,000 students.
speaking and listening proficiency in minutes.
The entertainment and media industrys totaljobs.
One of the UKs leading job boards, XpertHR.
Industry leading portal site providing premier source of business information celebrated visited by one million job seekers every month.
data, legal information and news to HR professionals.
