26 Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 Executive directors Directors 1 Sir Crispin Davis 56 Chief Executive Officer since 1999.
Knighted in 2004 for his services to the information industry.
Non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier was Chief Executive Officer of Aegis Group plc.
From 1990 to 1993 was a member of the main board at Guinness plc and Group Managing Director of United Distillers.
Spent his early career with Procter and Gamble.
2 Mark Armour 51 Chief Financial Officer since 1996.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in 1995, was a partner in Price Waterhouse.
3 Gerard van fide Aast 48 Chief Executive Officer of the Reed Business division since 2000.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier was Vice President and General Manager of Compaqs Enterprise business in Europe, Middle East and Africa.
4 Erik Engstrom 42 Chief Executive Officer of the Elsevier division since 2004.
Non-executive director of Eniro AB.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier was general partner at General Atlantic Partners.
Before that was president and chief operating officer of Random House.
Board Committee Membership Began his career as a consultant with McKinsey.
Audit Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV 5 Andrew Prozes 60 Chief Executive Officer of the Nominations Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV LexisNexis division since 2000.
Non-executive director of Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc Corporate Governance Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC and Cott Corporation.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier was an Reed Elsevier NV Executive Vice President with the West Group, part of the Thomson Corporation and prior to that Group President of All of the executive directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Southam Inc. Mrs Dien fide Boer-Kruyt is a member of the supervisory board of Reed Elsevier NV.
All of the other non-executive directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 27 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 6 Patrick Tierney 60 Chief Executive Officer of the 11 David Reid 59 Appointed 2003.
Non-executive Harcourt Education division since 2003.
Prior to joining chairman of Tesco PLC, having previously been executive Reed Elsevier was chief executive officer of Thomson deputy chairman until December 2003, and finance Financial, part of the Thomson Corporation.
Non-executive directors 12 Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 63 Appointed 7 Jan Hommen 62 Chairman since 2005.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Non-executive of the supervisory board of TNT NV and Academisch chairman of Aviva PLC and Aegis Group plc, a Ziekenhuis Maastricht, a member of the supervisory board non-executive director of BG Group plc and a member of of Koninklijke Ahold NV and ING NV.
Is also Chairman of the supervisory board of ABN-AMRO NV.
Member of the the supervisory board of TIAS, business school of the House of Lords since October 1999.
Was chairman of University of Tilburg.
Was vice-chairman of the board of KPMG Worldwide until 1999, having joined KPMG in 1966. management and chief financial officer of Royal Philips Electronics NV until his retirement in 2005.
Senior independent non-executive director and Chairman of 8 Dien fide Boer-Kruyt 61 Appointed 2000.
Chairman of Management of the supervisory boards of Sara Lee fide a subsidiary of Consulting Group PLC and a non-executive director of Sara Lee Corporation, Imtech NV and Allianz Nederland Smith & Nephew PLC.
Is also chairman of Lanxess AG and Group NV.
serves on the boards of TNT NV, Deutsche BP AG, HOYER GmbH and Biesterfeld AG.
Formerly a director of The 9 Mark Elliott 56 Appointed 2003.
General Manager British Petroleum Company plc where he spent 27 years, IBM Global Solutions.
Held a number of positions with latterly as Chief Executive of BP Oil International.
IBM, including Managing Director of IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Served on the board of IBAX, a hospital 14 Strauss Zelnick 48 Appointed 2005.
Founder of software company jointly owned by IBM and Baxter ZelnickMedia Corporation in 2001.
Chairman of Columbia Healthcare, and as chairman of the Deans Advisory Music Entertainment Inc, Direct Holdings Worldwide LLC council of the Kelly School of Business, Indiana University.
Prior to founding ZelnickMedia, he 10 Cees van Lede 63 Appointed 2003.
Chairman was President and Chief Executive Officer of BMG of the supervisory board of Heineken NV and a member Entertainment from 1998, and before that President and of the supervisory boards of Air Liquide SA, Akzo Nobel NV, Chief Executive Officer of BMG Entertainment North Royal Philips Electronics NV and Air France-KLM, and a America.
Has served as the Chief Executive Officer of non-executive director of Sara Lee Corporation.
Was Crystal Dynamics and as the President and Chief chairman of the board of management of Akzo Nobel NV Operating Officer of 20th Century Fox.
until his retirement in May 2003.
