32 33 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STATEMENT CHANGES IN EQUITY Attributable to equity holders of the parent Foreign Share currency Other nonYear ended Year ended premium translation distributable Retained Minority 31 Dec 2005 31 Dec 2004 Share capital account reserve reserves a earnings interests Total equity m m m m m m m m m Pro t before tax 38.7 4.9 Balance at 1 January 2004 39.4 44.4 22.7 77.4 0.6 16.9 Adjustments for: Loss attributable to equity holders 2.4 2.4 Net finance costs 8.6 2.4 Pro t attributable to minority interest 0.1 0.1 Share of loss on joint venture and associate 3.7 Currency translation differences 8.3 0.1 8.4 Depreciation charge 25.6 29.7 Sale of shares held in ESOP 2.1 2.1 Loss on disposal of xed assets 0.3 Share based payments 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 3.8 1.4 Placing and Open Offer 9.9 112.7 122.6 Impairment of xed assets 3.2 Issue costs on Placing and Open Offer 3.6 3.6 Decrease in provisions 5.7 5.6 Balance at 31 December 2004 49.3 153.5 8.3 22.7 77.5 0.6 93.7 Operating cash ows before movements in working capital 71.3 29.9 Pro t attributable to equity holders 44.5 44.5 Increase in trade and other receivables 17.0 1.0 Pro t attributable to minority interest 0.3 0.3 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 23.8 7.9 Currency translation differences 13.3 0.1 13.2 Redemption of preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Cash generated from operations 78.1 21.0 Share based payments 0.8 0.8 b Acquired in year 0.2 0.2 Interest paid on finance leases 1.0 0.5 Liquidation of subsidiary 0.6 0.6 Interest paid on credit facilities 5.5 2.8 Tax paid 2.6 1.6 Balance at 31 December 2005 49.2 153.5 5.0 22.6 32.3 152.8 a Other non-distributable reserves includes 29.2 million arising from the Scheme of Arrangement undertaken in 2003, partly offset by 6.5 million relating to merger Net cash ows from operating activities pre Chapter 11 payments 69.0 16.1 reserves and 0.1 million to the redemption of preference shares.
b During the year the Group acquired the minority interest of subsidiaries in South Africa and Italy.
Settlement of liabilities under Chapter 11 27.8 Net cash in out ows from operating activities 69.0 11.7 Investing activities Purchase of subsidiary undertakings net of cash acquired 16.7 162.9 Investment in joint venture 0.1 Sale of tangible xed assets 0.2 0.6 Purchase of tangible xed assets 17.5 5.3 Interest received 2.2 1.7 Cash out ows from investing activities 31.9 165.9 Financing activities Net proceeds from issue of loans 56.5 Repayment of loans 39.4 1.6 Payment of principal under finance leases 8.1 7.7 Net proceeds from issue of equity shares 122.2 Sale of own shares held by ESOP 2.0 Cash out in ows from nancing activities 47.5 171.4 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 10.4 6.2 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 82.3 85.0 Effect of exchange rate uctuations on cash held 2.2 3.5 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 74.1 82.3 34 35 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS Amendments to IAS 39: Financial Guarantee Contracts applicable the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
A cash generating unit Contingent rentals include rent increases based on future in ation 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006.
The is the smallest identi able group of assets that generates cash in ows indices or non-guaranteed rental payments based on centre turnover Regus Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
impact on the Groups financial statement of the initial application that are largely independent of the cash in ows from other assets or or pro tability and are excluded from the calculation of minimum lease of this standard is the requirement to recognise the fair value of the groups of assets.
Contingent rentals are recognised in the income statement Basis of preparation guarantees given to landlords.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company Goodwill, assets that have an inde nite useful life and intangible assets and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity Basis of consolidation that are not yet available for use were tested for impairment as at Non-recurring items account the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when 31 October 2005, even though no indication of impairment existed.
Non-recurring items are those signi cant items, which are separately The parent company financial statements present information about the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain bene ts from its Calculation of recoverable amount understanding of the Groups financial performance.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently The recoverable amount of relevant assets is the greater of their net which may give rise to non-recurring items are restructuring, The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated integration costs and onerous commitments.
by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company statements from the date that control commences until the date that discount rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value Property, plant and equipment has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in control ceases.
of money and the risks speci c to the asset.
For an asset that does not Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 60 to 62. generate largely independent cash in ows, the recoverable amount is depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated Associates are those entities in which the Group has signi cant determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, in uence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
as follows: been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of Intangible assets financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity Intangible assets acquired separately from the business are capitalised Fixtures and ttings: Over the shorter of the lease term and 10 years at 1 January 2004 for the purposes of the transition to Adopted IFRSs.
accounted basis, from the date that signi cant in uence commences at cost.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a Furniture: 10 years The principal exception is that, as more fully explained below, financial until the date that signi cant in uence ceases.
When the Groups business are capitalised separately from goodwill if their fair value Of ce equipment and telephones: 5-10 years instruments accounting is determined on different bases in 2005 and share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Motor vehicles: 4 years 2004 due to the transitional provisions of IAS 39. carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is Computer hardware: 3-5 years discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
estimated useful life of the assets as follows: With effect from 1 January 2005 the Group changed its estimate of accounting policies that have signi cant effect on the financial the useful economic life of furniture from a period of five years to ten statements and estimates with a signi cant risk of material adjustment Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Brand 20 years years.
This re-li ng of furniture has reduced depreciation of furniture in the next year are discussed in note 28.
Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The Computer software 3-5 years in the period by 2.4 million to 8.8 million.
Asset lives have also been consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the Customer lists 1-2 years changed for computer hardware, software and telecoms for which The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis.
total recognised gains and losses of jointly controlled entities on an there was no impact in 2005.
It is not practical to estimate the future equity accounted basis, from the date that joint control commences Amortisation of intangible assets is expensed through administration impact of this change in accounting estimate.
Transition to Adopted IFRSs until the date that joint control ceases.
expenses in the income statement.
The Group is preparing its financial statements in accordance with Revenue Adopted IFRS for the first time and consequently has applied IFRS 1.
Goodwill Leases Revenue from the provision of services to customers is measured An explanation of how the transition to Adopted IFRSs has affected All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase Plant and equipment leases for which the Group assumes substantially at the fair value of consideration received or receivable excluding the reported financial position, financial performance and cash ows method.
Goodwill represents the difference between cost of all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classi ed as finance sales taxes.
of the Group is provided in note 29. acquisition over the share of the fair value of identi able net assets leases.
All other leases, including all of the Groups property leases including intangible assets of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture are categorised as operating leases.
Workstations In addition to exempting companies from the requirement to restate at the date of acquisition.
Workstation revenue is recognised when the provision of the service is comparatives for IAS 39, IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from Finance leases rendered.
Amounts invoiced in advance are deferred and recognised the full requirements of IFRSs in the transition period.
The following Positive goodwill is stated at cost less any provision for impairment Plant and equipment acquired by way of a finance lease is capitalised as revenue upon provision of the service.
exemptions have been taken in these financial statements: in value.
An impairment test is carried out annually.
Positive goodwill at the commencement of the lease at the lower of its fair value and is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception.
Future Customer service income  Business combinations Business combinations that took place testing.
payments under finance leases are included in creditors, net of any Service income including the rental of meeting rooms is recognised prior to transition date have not been restated.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned on a monthly basis as services are rendered.
In circumstances Impairment between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding where Regus acts as an agent for the sale and purchase of goods to  Cumulative translation differences Cumulative translation The carrying amounts of the Groups assets other than deferred liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement over customers, only the commission fee earned is recognised as revenue.
differences for all foreign operations have been set to zero at tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on 1 January 2004. whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication the remaining balance of the liability.
Management and franchise fees exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Fees received for the provision of initial and subsequent services are The Group adopted IAS 39 with effect from 1 January 2005.
IAS 39 Operating leases recognised as revenue as the services are rendered.
Fees charged has not had any impact on the accounts.
For goodwill, assets that have an inde nite useful life and intangible Minimum lease payments under operating leases are recognised in for the use of continuing rights granted by the agreement, or for other assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
services provided during the period of the agreement, are recognised Adopted IFRSs not yet applied estimated at each balance sheet date.
Lease incentives and rent free periods are included in the calculation as revenue as the services are provided or the rights used.
The following adopted IFRSs were available for early application but of minimum lease payments.
The commencement of the lease term is have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements: An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of the date from which the Group is entitled to use the leased asset.
The Employee bene ts an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease, together with The Groups contributions to fide ned contribution plans and other IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure applicable for accounting Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
any further periods for which the Group has the option to continue to paid and unpaid bene ts earned by employees are charged to the periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The impact on the lease the asset and when at the inception of the lease it is reasonably income statement as incurred.
Groups financial statement on the initial application of this standard is Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are certain that the Group will exercise that option.
not expected to be signi cant as the applicable requirements of this allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated standard are similar to the disclosure requirements of IAS 32, which to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of has already been adopted by the Group.
