"12 13 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Financial Review 6, 1, "" 7"", - "" -, 6 ""7 { x]{x { ] x n]x 1 x ]xx 1 n STEPHEN GLEADLE 6, "" 1 9, 6 7 { x { x]x x n x x]n 1 consequence, despite being pro table, the Group has a net INTRODUCTION As a percentage of revenue, administrative expenses before tax credit for the year to 31 December 2005."
However, on 2005 saw strong pro t growth driven by the full year impact non-recurring items have fallen slightly to 14.0% of revenue a cash tax basis the Group paid 2.6 million of tax across a of the HQ acquisition in 2004 and further strengthening of the 2004: 14.2%.
This represents approximately 7% underlying business.
NON-RECURRING ITEMS The three key operational drivers all improved.
The weighted Results for the year include net non-recurring costs of As at 31 December 2005, the Group had 270.2 million of tax average number of workstations increased by 32% to 78,657 4.9 million 2004: 8.6 million.
In 2005 these costs primarily losses to carry forward against future overseas corporation tax which includes the full year impact of HQ.
At the same time relate to the integration of HQ.
In 2004 they primarily relate liabilities, of which 172 million are in the US.
Moving forward average occupancy increased from 75% to 78% and average to impairment of xed assets and provisions on onerous leases.
the cash tax rate will rise as losses across the Group are revenue per occupied workstation REVPOW increased by progressively utilised.
The accounting rate will stay low or 8% from 7,001 to 7,551.
This results in an increase in our PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS negative as tax losses are fully recognised through the pro t key indicator REVPAW of 12% from 5,251 to 5,890.
Pro t from operations was 47.3 million 2004: 1.2 million, and loss and then are expected to rise rapidly towards a representing a margin of 10.2% 2004: 0.3%.
normalised rate from scal year 2007 08.
Against a relatively xed cost base these factors have contributed to a 46.1 million increase in pro t from operations SHARE OF OPERATING LOSS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATE EARNINGS from 1.2 million in 2004 to 47.3 million in 2005.
In the year ended 31 December 2005, the share of joint Basic EPS for the year rose to 4.5p 2004: 0.3p loss.
This is venture losses attributable to Regus reduced to 0.2 million based on weighted average number of shares of 984,792,040 REVENUE AND CENTRE CONTRIBUTION 2004: 0.7 million as they bene ted from better trading 2004: 859,702,000.
Revenue for the Group rose 48% to 463.3 million 2004: CASHFLOW 312.2 million and centre contribution before non-recurring Our UK associate reported 0.5 million pro t after tax Strong operating cash ow is a prime feature of the Group.
items increased 117% to 117.1 million 2004: 54.0 million.
2004: 7.1 million loss on a restated International Financial Driven by the improvement in pro t from operations, operating Reporting Standard IFRS basis in the 12 month period ended cash ow increased by 57.1 million to 78.1 million 2004: This year-on-year movement can be analysed as follows: 31 December 2005.
Our 42% shareholding resulted in a 21.0 million.
0.2 million pro t 2004: 3.0 million loss being credited to Centre our Group pro t and loss account.
Improved pricing and cost Revenue contribution % of The Groups cash ow statement has been summarised below.
savings contributed to this performance.
m m revenue 2004 312.2 54.0 17 2005 2004 a FINANCING COSTS Growth in mature business 31.9 31.3 m m Financing or interest costs can be summarised as follows: Full year impact of centres Operating cash ow 78.1 21.0 added in 2004 principally HQ 111.4 30.9 Tax and net interest paid 6.9 3.2 2005 2004 Centres added in 2005 10.8 0.1 Maintenance capex 6.4 3.0 m m Centres closed 3.0 1.0 Free cash ow 64.8 14.8 Interest payable 5.6 2.9 2005 463.3 117.1 25 New centre openings 11.1 2.3 Interest receivable 2.2 1.3 Acquisitions and investments 16.8 162.9 Finance lease interest 0.9 0.5 a The mature business fide ned as those centres owned and operated at Financing 47.5 171.4 Deferred nancing fees 4.3 0.3 least 12 months prior to the start of the financial year.
Other 2.4 23.7 Total 8.6 2.4 Change in cash 8.2 2.7 The mature business, fide ned as those centres owned and Opening cash 82.3 85.0 Net interest payable has risen following the arrangement operated at least 12 months prior to the start of the financial Closing cash 74.1 82.3 of a US $155 million loan facility in August 2004 to fund the year, increased revenue by 31.9 million driven by occupancy acquisition of HQ.
This has been partially offset by increasing and price.
This revenue increase was almost completely re ected The strong cash performance has enabled the Group both to interest receivable following the Groups strong cash generation, in contribution gains supported both by a fall in depreciation invest in growth and repay debt early.
Speci cally, during the which has driven the average free cash balance up from and the full year effect of cost savings achieved in the mature year 24 new centres were opened at a cost of 11.1 million.
40 million in 2004 to 55 million in 2005. business following the integration of HQ.
In addition a further 11 businesses 35 centres were acquired for a total cash consideration of 16.8 million.
In addition Underlying finance lease costs have fallen year on year by Centres added in 2004 principally the HQ acquisition 39.4 million of the term debt and 8.1 million of debt associated 0.8 million after taking account of a one-off adjustment of contributed a further 111.4 million of revenue and 30.9 million with finance leases was repaid.
This is consistent with the net movement of contribution.
This was due to both underlying improvements of finance leases.
in the performance of these sites and the impact of accounting Following the above the Groups net cash position can be for them for a full 12 months.
New centres added in 2005, both analysed as follows: Deferred nancing fees relate to the loan arrangement costs organic and by acquisition, contributed a further 10.8 million with respect to the US $155 million facility mentioned above.
of revenue and a small loss of contribution of 0.1 million.
This 2005 2004 Following the accelerated repayment of the loan and in loss re ects start up costs and low rates of occupation when m m anticipation of the repayment of the remainder early in 2006 new centres are opened.
Cash balance 74.1 82.3 the Group has written off the remaining deferred nancing Term loan 22.5 55.8 fees consistent with the effective rate method.
Taking all this together contribution margin improved from 17% Other loans and overdrafts 7.4 8.3 to 25%.
Finance leases 8.2 13.2 TAXATION Net funds 36.0 5.0 As the business performance has strengthened, it has become ADMINISTRATION EXPENSES BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS necessary to recognise in the pro t and loss account a greater Note: Of the cash balance, 19.1 million in 2005 and 18.1 million in 2004 Administration expenses before non-recurring items have proportion of the value of the tax losses that the Group holds.
served as collateral against certain obligations of the Group.
increased by 20.7 million to 64.9 million.
The full year effect Accordingly in 2005, 15.0 million has been credited to the of HQ together with other acquisitions contributed 11.0 million pro t and loss account, which has correspondingly increased of the increase.
A further 3.3 million relates to the cost of the deferred tax asset in the balance sheet.
This has been enhancing our business support functions and 6.4 million partially offset by an 8.9 million 2004: 0.9 million tax STEPHEN GLEADLE was spent on growth related activities.
charge which resulted in a net tax credit of 6.1 million 2004: CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 2.6 million to the pro t and loss account.
Therefore as a 20 March 2006 14 15 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Roger Orf Chairman John Matthews Chairman Martin Robinson Chairman BOARD OF DIRECTORS Martin Robinson Martin Robinson Roger Orf Stephen East Roger Orf Stephen East Stephen East MARK DIXON STEPHEN GLEADLE JOHN MATTHEWS ROGER ORF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CHAIRMAN INDEPENDENT SENIOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Chief Executive and Founder, Mark 46 is one of Europes Stephen 47 joined Regus as Chief Financial Of cer on John 61 joined Regus in 1995 as a non-executive director and Roger 53 was appointed a non-executive director of Regus best-known entrepreneurs.
Since founding Regus in Brussels 31 October 2005.
Stephen was Group Financial Controller of was appointed Chairman in July 2002.
He is currently Chairman in 1998 and he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Roger in 1989, he has achieved a formidable reputation for leadership Tarmac plc, after which he was Finance Director of Synstar plc of Crest Nicholson plc and an independent director of Center is Head of European Property Investments for Citigroup.
Prior to Regus he established businesses in and of lastminute.
Stephen replaced Rudy Lobo Parcs UK Group plc, Diploma plc, Rotork plc and SDL plc.
He was formerly Head of European Operations for Lone Star, the retail and wholesale food industry.
Recipient of two major who has held the post since October 2003.
Rudy has taken A Chartered Accountant, he was previously Managing Director an investment company.
Prior to this, Roger made investments awards for enterprise, Marks vision of the future of work has up the role of Chief Operating Of cer.
Stephen is a Chartered of County Natwest and Deputy Chairman as well as Deputy for his own account, managed investments on behalf of Apollo revolutionised the way business approaches its property needs.
Chief Executive of Beazer plc, the international aggregates, Real Estate Advisors and was in charge of Goldman Sachs construction and housing group.
John is Chairman of the European real estate department.
RUDY LOBO STEPHEN EAST MARTIN ROBINSON CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Rudy 50 joined Regus in 1992 as Chief Financial Of cer Stephen 48 was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Martin 43 joined the Board of Regus in August 2002 and is and reassumed the role in October 2003.
In October 2005 director on 11 March 2005.
Stephen was formerly Finance Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Martin is Chairman he relinquished this role to Stephen Gleadle and took up the Director of MEPC plc and is currently Finance Director at of Holmes Place and is also a Director of the Supervisory Board role of Chief Operating Of cer.
In this role, he is responsible Woolworths Group plc.
Prior to that he had run his own of EuroDisney SCA.
He has held senior management positions for commercial operations, human resources and for directing consultancy business and held senior positions with Redland with Scottish and Newcastle plc and Sara Lee Corporation Regus IT and e-business strategy.
Rudy is also a Director and PLC.
He is a non-executive director of Star Energy Group plc.
and worked as a Management Consultant for four years with Trustee of the charity Great Causes Ltd.
Previously, Rudy was He has been appointed as a member of the Audit, Remuneration McKinsey & Co Inc. Head of Finance and Group Company Secretary of Medicom and Nomination Committees.
Stephen is a Chartered Accountant International Ltd, a publisher of medical journals.
Rudy is a and Deputy President of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
16 17 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report and the audited financial exible working practices which give us the edge in retaining POLICY AND PRACTICE ON PAYMENT OF CREDITORS statements of Regus Group plc for the year ended experienced and well trained staff and allows us to align our The Group does not follow a universal code dealing speci cally 31 December 2005. team members hours to the evolving needs of the business with payments to suppliers but, where appropriate, our practice and our customer requirements.
is to: PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW The Group is the worlds leading supplier of global of ce Equal opportunity Agree the terms of payment upfront with the supplier outsourcing solutions.
The Groups trading results are set out in The Group endorses and supports the principal of equal Ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms the financial statements on pages 30 to 33.
Details of the Groups employment opportunity.
It is the policy of the Group to provide of payment future prospects and review of operations are described in equal employment opportunity to all quali ed individuals, which Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and ensures that all employment decisions are made, subject obligations.
Operational and Financial Review on pages 2 to 13. to legal obligations, on a non-discriminatory basis.
Due consideration is given to the recruitment, promotion, training At 31 December 2005, the number of creditor days outstanding RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS and working environment of all staff including those with for the Group was 27 days 2004: 35 days and the Company, Pro t for the year before tax was 38.7 million 2004: 4.9 million disabilities.
It is the Groups policy to encourage the training nil days 2004: nil days.
loss, which after adding back non-recurring items of 4.9 million and further development of all its employees where this is of 2004: 8.6 million amounted to a pro t of 43.6 million 2004: bene t to the individual and to the Group.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a HEALTH AND SAFETY reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining adequate resources to continue in operational existence for high standards of health and safety.
This means taking all the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS reasonable and practicable steps to safeguard the health, safety the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts on pages The directors who held of ce since the last Annual Report were: and welfare of our employees, customers, visitors and other 30 to 62. persons who may be affected by our activities.
The effective Executive directors management of health and safety is a legal issue and it is also SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS Mark Dixon business critical as it effects reputation, investor con dence, As at 20 March 2006, the Company has been noti ed of the Rudy Lobo supplier relationships, staff morale and overall pro tability.
following interests held in more than 3% of the issued share Stephen Gleadle appointed 31 October 2005 capital of the Company.
In order to meet these responsibilities the Group: Number of % of issued Non-executive directors ordinary shares shared capital John Matthews Assesses the risks to health and safety Holder Roger Orf Implements safe systems at work a Maxon Investments BV 331,958,286 33.71 Martin Robinson Provides information, instruction and training Merrill Lynch Investment Stephen East Establishes and maintain emergency procedures Managers UK 91,167,220 9.26 Regularly reviews health and safety policies and procedures.
Artemis Investment Managers 81,718,211 8.30 Biographical details for all current directors are shown on Standard Life Investment pages 14 and 15.
We are proactive in our approach to health and safety by Management 66,761,400 6.78 monitoring proposed changes in legislation and implementing M & G Investment Management 60,958,778 6.19 Details of the directors interests and shareholdings are given policies accordingly.
Morley Fund Management 30,233,099 3.07 in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 27.
THE ENVIRONMENT a Mark Dixon owns the 100% interest in Maxon.
CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Group does not operate in a business sector which causes The Board recognises its responsibilities in respect of social, signi cant pollution but the Board recognises that the business AUDITORS environmental and ethical SEE matters.
The directors does have an impact on the environment.
The Board is In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, continually monitor risks to its businesses, including SEE committed to managing and improving the ways in which a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as risks, which may impact the Groups short and long term our activities affect the environment by: auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming value.
During 2005 no signi cant risks were identi ed.
Optimising the use of energy with over 700 locations it PEOPLE AND CULTURE is important that we continually identify ways to improve Employee involvement energy ef ciency across all our operations.
We have On behalf of the Board It is the Groups policy to communicate with all employees and implemented certain initiatives to reduce our energy use.
to encourage employees to contribute to the management of These include, among others, resetting boiler controls, TIM REGAN the business.
Communication with employees is carried out amending time settings for air conditioning and using timing COMPANY SECRETARY through the Companys intranet, employee newsletters, brie ng switches for hot water supply.
20 March 2006 meetings conducted by senior management and formal and informal discussions.
Interim and Annual Reports are available Encouraging the re-use and recycling of paper and toner to all staff.
Informal communication is further facilitated by the cartridges, mixed of ce paper, packaging, bottles, Groups regional organisational structure.
aluminium cans and plastic cups.
The workplace POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS Empowered employees are key to delivering value for the The Group made no charitable donations during the year organisation.
Clear accountabilities have been established and 2004: nil.
It is the Groups policy not to make political reward strategies have been aligned with financial and nondonations either in the UK or overseas.
In our centres we operate 18 19 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board has delegated authority to the Remuneration INDEPENDENCE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board is committed to high standards of corporate Audit Committee Committee to set the remuneration policy for directors and The Chairman is not deemed to be independent because he governance and has applied the principles of corporate Roger Orf Chairman senior management.
The Nomination Committee recommends has been a non-executive director for more than ten years.
All governance recommended in Section 1 of the Combined Code Martin Robinson the appointment of Board directors and has responsibility of the other non-executive directors who have served during published in July 2003 the Combined Code and applicable Stephen East for succession planning at Board level.
The various Board the year are considered to be independent.
The non-executive to all reporting periods beginning after 1 November 2003.
Committees have authority to make decisions in their areas of directors bring wide and varied commercial experience to The Board has delegated the responsibility for applying an expertise.
They are appointed for COMPLIANCE WITH THE NEW COMBINED CODE effective system of internal control and compliance, accurate an initial three year term, subject to election by shareholders The Company has complied with the provisions set out in external financial reporting, ful lling its obligations under law Matters reserved for the Board are considered by the Board at the first AGM after their appointment.
section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended and the Combined Code, and managing the relationship with and no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
31 December 2005, with the exception of the following: the Companys external auditors to the Audit Committee.
The There are well documented procedures and controls, including TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Committee consists entirely of non-executive directors.
a schedule of matters that require the Boards speci c approval.
Appropriate training is made available for all new directors to Provision D. 1.1 The senior independent non-executive This provides the framework for decisions to be taken by the assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Subsequent director, Roger Orf does not have regular meetings with The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year with Board and those that are delegated to Committees of the to joining, Stephen Gleadle completed a formal induction major external shareholders.
However he is available to representatives of the external auditors.
At the request of the Board.
All capital expenditure projects over 1 million require programme including centre visits and meetings with senior meet them as requested.
Chairman, the Chief Financial Of cer, the Company Secretary Board approval.
Training is provided on and the Head of Internal Audit attend each meeting.
an ongoing basis to meet particular needs with the emphasis THE BOARD The Chairman and Company Secretary are responsible for on governance and accounting developments.
During the The Board is chaired by John Matthews.
At the year-end the ensuring all directors are properly briefed on issues arising at year the Company Secretary, Tim Regan, provided updates Board consisted of three executive directors and four nonSUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE: Board meetings and that they have full and timely access to to the Board on relevant governance matters, whilst the Audit executive directors.
Biographical details of the directors are relevant information.
Committee regularly considers new accounting developments set out on pages 14 and 15.
Financial Reporting provide support to the Board through presentations from management and the external by monitoring the integrity of and ensuring that the All directors, both executive and non-executive, are encouraged auditors.
The Board programme includes presentations from DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES published financial statements of the Group and any to request inclusion of any unresolved concerns that they may management at every meeting which, together with site visits, There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman formal announcements relating to the Companys financial have in the Board minutes.
increases the non-executive directors understanding of the and the Chief Executive.
John Matthews is responsible for performance comply fully with the relevant statutes and business and sector.
leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring accounting standards.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the its effectiveness.
He ensures effective communication with Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that PERFORMANCE EVALUATION shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major Internal control and risk systems review the Board procedures, corporate governance and regulatory During 2005, a formal annual performance evaluation has been shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the noneffectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk compliance are followed and complied with.
Should a director conducted in respect of the Board and its Committees by means executive directors and constructive relations between the management systems.
request independent professional advice to carry out his duties, of an internally produced written questionnaire.
The results of executive directors and non-executive directors.
He ensures such advice is available to him at the Companys expense.
these evaluations were presented to the Board and actions to that the Chief Executive develops a strategy which is supported Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal improve the effectiveness of the Board and the Committees by the Board as a whole.
Mark Dixon is responsible for audit programme ensuring that the internal audit function The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually and were agreed and have been implemented accordingly.
Fellow formulating strategy and for its delivery once agreed by the is adequately resourced and free from management appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the directors directors conducted a performance evaluation of each of Board.
He creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation restrictions, review and monitor responses to the findings and senior management in the event of a claim being brought the directors.
The results of this process were collated and and objectives to ensure the successful delivery of key targets, and recommendations of the internal auditors.
against any of them in their capacity as directors and of cers presented by the Chairman in one to one meetings.
Evaluation and allocates decision making and responsibilities accordingly.
of the Chairmans performance was collated by Roger Orf.
External audit oversee the relationship with the The Chairman participates in investor meetings and makes external auditor including but not limited to approval of ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS RE-ELECTION OF THE BOARD himself available for questions, in person, at the time of major their remuneration, approval of their terms of engagement, There were five scheduled Board meetings during 2005 and All directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders announcements.
This direct contact, together with feedback assessing annually their independence and objectivity.
seven additional meetings to consider matters, which were at least every three years and directors appointed during the from management and from the Companys two in-house time critical and not appropriate to be dealt with by way of period are required to seek re-election at the next AGM.
brokers Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and Credit Suisse Employee concerns the Committee reviews the written resolution.
First Boston, is used to brief the Board.
The Board considers Companys arrangements under which employees may Non-executive directors are subject to the re-election it appropriate for the Chairman to be the main conduit with in con dence raise any concerns regarding possible The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and requirements and serve the Company under letters of investors, rather than the senior independent non-executive wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The individual attendance by the directors are shown below.
appointment, which have an initial three year term.
The Chairman regularly updates the Board and Committee ensures that these arrangements allow particularly the senior independent non-executive director on proportionate and independent investigation and Main Audit Remuneration Nomination COMPANY SECRETARY the results of his meetings and the opinions of investors.
On appropriate follow up action.
Board Committee Committee Committee The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, is responsible for advising this basis, Regus considers that the senior independent nonTotal meetings 12 3 5 2 the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
executive director is able to gain full awareness of the issues THE FULL TERMS OF REFERENCE CAN BE FOUND ON Executive The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a and concerns of major shareholders.
COM Mark Dixon 11 matter reserved for the Board.
policy, all directors have a standing invitation to participate in a Stephen Gleadle 2 meetings with investors.
Rudy Lobo 11 BOARD COMMITTEES AND TERMS OF REFERENCE External auditors KPMG Non-executive The Board has delegated certain of its governance ROLE OF THE BOARD The Committee advises the Board on the appointment, b John Matthews 10 1 1 2 responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration The Board considers that its primary role is to provide leadership re-appointment, removal and remuneration of external auditors.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to and to develop a coherent long term strategy for the Group.
KPMG Audit Plc were the Companys auditors for the year Martin Robinson 11 3 5 2 all of the Board Committees and minutes of meetings are The Board approves the corporate plan and the annual budget ended 31 December 2005.
For 2006, the Committee has c Stephen East 9 1 4 1 circulated to all Board members.
The terms of reference of and reviews performance against targets at every meeting.
recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint these Committees have been documented and approved Through the Audit Committee, the directors ensure the integrity KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys auditors be proposed at the a Appointed 31 October 2005. by the Board.
of financial information, the effectiveness of financial controls b Resigned from Audit and Remuneration Committees 11 March 2005.
The Committee will continue to keep under review c Appointed 11 March 2005. and the internal control and risk management system.
the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the effectiveness of the audit process and the rotation of the lead audit partner.
20 21 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Committee also meets independently with the Companys Remuneration Committee The Company has had procedures in place throughout the To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy auditors and with the Head of Internal Audit to informally discuss Martin Robinson Chairman year, and up to 20 March 2006, the date of approval of this to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and matters of interest.
Roger Orf Annual Report, which is in accordance with the Internal Control staff of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
Stephen East Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Policy on non-audit services High standards of business ethics and compliance with laws, The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 22 to 27.
The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups strategic regulations and internal policies are demanded from staff at the Companys auditor is monitored by and, above certain direction.
Country and regional strategic objectives, quarterly all levels.
thresholds, requires prior approval from the Committee to Disclosure Committee plans and performance targets for 2006 have been set by the ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair The Disclosure Committee comprises Rudy Lobo Chairman, executive directors and are regularly reviewed by the main The following key mechanisms were available to the their independence or objectivity.
During the year, KPMG Mark Dixon, Stephen Gleadle, Tim Regan and Robert Blyth Board in the context of the Groups overall objectives.
Board at various times during the year in the conduct of performed due diligence work on certain acquisitions.
KPMG Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee meets as required its review of internal controls: is prohibited from providing services that would be considered to deal with all matters concerning public announcements of There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and to jeopardise their independence such as book keeping services, the Company and the Companys compliance with disclosure managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks An ongoing process, through Board meetings, senior valuations and system design.
and their financial implications are appraised by the responsible management meetings and divisional reviews as well as other executives as a part of the budget process and these are management meetings, for the formal identi cation of signi cant Nomination Committee DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS endorsed by regional management.
Key risks are reported operational risks and mitigating control processes.
John Matthews Chairman Regus reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with to the Board and the Audit Committee.
The appropriateness Martin Robinson the interim results announced normally in September and the of controls is considered by the executives, having regard to A series of internal audit reviews of country regions covering Roger Orf preliminary final results announced normally in March.
There cost bene t, materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
the financial, operational and overhead functions.
These Stephen East are programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks are regularly reviews are based on the identi ed risks.
The findings and Of cer to give presentations of these results to the Companys considered by the Board and are formally reviewed and recommendations of each review are reported to management institutional shareholders, analysts and media in London and approved by the Board annually.
SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE: other locations.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Of cer maintain a close dialogue with institutional shareholders on the The control framework and key procedures, which were System of reporting the effectiveness of key financial, Board appointment and composition to regularly Companys performance, governance, plans and objectives.
in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, operational and compliance controls.
This is based on a review the structure, size and composition of the Board These meetings also serve to develop an ongoing understanding comprise the following: comprehensive internal control self-assessment questionnaire and make recommendations on the role and nomination of of the views and any concerns of the Companys major collated and reviewed by Internal Audit.
Results and action directors for appointment and reappointment to the Board shareholders.
The non-executive directors are given regular The Board normally meets every six months together with plans are reviewed by senior management and summarised for the purpose of ensuring a balanced Board in respect of updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders and certain other senior executives to consider Group financial for the Board.
the Chairman is available to meet with these shareholders on performance, business development and Group management request.
The principal communication with private shareholders issues.
The directors and of cers of Group subsidiaries Board Committees to make recommendations to is through the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the AGM.
comprise executives with appropriate functional responsibilities.
the Board in relation to the suitability of candidates for Executives of key operating companies meet regularly to membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
AGM manage their respective businesses.
The appointment and removal of directors are matters The AGM is held normally in May in London and is attended, reserved for the full Board.
other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Country and regional budgets, containing financial and operating Board.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given targets, capital expenditure proposals and performance Board effectiveness to assess the role of Chairman and the opportunity to meet the directors informally afterwards.
indicators, are reviewed by the Group executive and must Chief Executive and make appropriate recommendations to support regional business strategies.
The consolidated Group the Board.
Notice of the AGM, together with any related documents are budget is approved by the Board.
mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Board performance assist the Chairman with the annual meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each issue.
Operational and financial reports are prepared and distributed performance evaluation to assess the overall and individual The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against to the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual results are reviewed performance and effectiveness of the Board.
each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, against budget and explanations are received for all material are announced to the meeting following voting by a show movements.
The senior management team are integrally Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic issues of hands.
involved in the business and to this extent regularly discuss and and commercial matters affecting the Company and to address issues and opportunities with regional and functional keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation teams.
Formal business review meetings, chaired by Mark Dixon, to enable it to compete effectively.
are held with the regional teams and functional heads on a FINANCIAL AND OTHER INFORMATION IS MADE AVAILABLE ON monthly basis.
COM THE FULL TERMS OF REFERENCE CAN BE FOUND ON WWW.
COM INTERNAL CONTROL There is a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal of investment, capital expenditure and asset disposals.
control operating throughout the Group and for reviewing its The Committee meets as required and met during the year to effectiveness.
Key policies and control procedures including finance, consider the appointment of a new Chief Financial Of cer to operations, and health and safety are documented in manuals replace Rudy Lobo.
Spencer Stuart were appointed to provide No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance having Group-wide application.
These are available to all staff assistance in the search and selection procedure of a suitable against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is on the Groups intranet system.
Following a rigorous selection process the Committee designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to recommended to the Board the appointment of Stephen Gleadle achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable The Groups internal audit remit is to report to the Audit who was duly appointed on the 31 October 2005. assurance that potential problems will normally be prevented Committee on the Groups worldwide operations.
Its resourcing or will be detected in a timely manner for appropriate action.
programme of work and findings, including any material control issues and resultant actions, are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
22 23 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 REMUNERATION REPORT The report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee COMPLIANCE WITH THE BEST PRACTICE PROVISIONS BASIC SALARY AND BENEFITS ViLiiivi` `iv ViL i` the Committee of Regus Group plc and approved by the In accordance with the Boards commitment to maintaining The Committee establishes salaries and bene ts by reference Vi Board of Regus Group plc.
The report complies with the UK high standards of Corporate Governance, the Committee has to those prevailing in the employment market generally for Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and, in complied during the year with all remuneration related aspects executive directors of companies of comparable status and i`Vi 6 LiVi compliance with such regulations, a separate resolution of the Code during the year.
-ii i `i approving this report is being put to shareholders at this years AGM.
REMUNERATION POLICY Each executive director receives a salary, which re ects his The principal objective of the Committees remuneration policy responsibilities, experience and performance.
Salaries are, ` L Information relating to the emoluments and pension is to provide remuneration packages that will attract, retain and reviewed annually in the context of individual and related contributions of the directors, directors interests in the motivate people of the highest calibre and experience needed business performance.
Any increases in basic salary are Companys shares and under Employee Share Plans has to shape and execute the Companys strategy and to deliver effective from 1 January in each year.
The salaries of the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Of cer UNAUDITED INFORMATION The guiding principles which the Committee has regard to and and Finance Director will be 471,814, 253,000 and 231,000 MEMBERSHIP AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE REMUNERATION balances as far as is practicable, in determining policy and respectively effective from 1 January 2006.
This equates { x n COMMITTEE objectives for 2005 and future years are: to an increase of 10% for each executive director based on The members of the Remuneration Committee throughout their salaries as at 31 December 2005.
It is the opinion of the the year were the Companys independent non-executive to ensure that it maintains a competitive package of total Fixed compensation comprises salary, bene ts and pension Remuneration Committee that such rises were necessary to directors, Roger Orf, Stephen East and, the Chairman of the compensation, commensurate with comparable packages contributions.
Variable compensation comprises the annual re ect the performance of the individuals and the additional Committee, Martin Robinson.
available with other similar companies operating in similar bonus paid in relation to the year ended 31 December 2005 responsibilities undertaken by them during the year.
markets the Comparator Group : and the expected value of the long term incentive plan The Committee met five times during the year.
Bene ts comprise a company car or allowance, fuel, private to make a signi cant percentage of potential maximum medical insurance and a living allowance for the Chief Executive.
The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations reward conditional on short and long term performance: The main elements of these packages and the performance to the Board on the compensation of senior executives and conditions are described below.
ANNUAL BONUS SCHEME determining, within agreed terms of reference, the speci c to ensure that the interests of the executives are closely Overview remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
aligned with those of the Companys shareholders through The Remuneration Committee will continue to review the policy The Committee believes rmly in the financial effectiveness the provision of share incentives: on an annual basis to ensure that it is in line with the Companys of short term incentives.
Accordingly, every employee in the The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee objectives and shareholders interests.
Group participates in some form of incentive scheme.
responsibility to: to link reward to the satisfaction of targeted objectives which are the main drivers of shareholder value: and Non-executive directors are remunerated with fees, set at levels Old Policy Make recommendations to the Board in respect of that are suf cient to attract and retain their services and are Up until 2004 executive directors were eligible to participate in remuneration policy for the executive directors and the to be sensitive in determining executive directors in line with market rates.
The non-executive directors do not the annual bonus plan and the Regus Super Bonus Plan with Groups other senior management.
remuneration to pay and employment conditions around receive any pension or other bene ts, other than out of pocket a maximum bonus potential of 140% of salary.
expenses, nor do they participate in any bonus or share option set out in the circular to shareholders prior to the 2005 AGM, Approve any new service agreement entered into between schemes.
the Super Bonus Plan has been discontinued during the 2005 the Group and any executive director.
In order to achieve the above policy, the Committee sets the financial year following the introduction of the CIP.
xed elements of the executives compensation package at Martin Robinson and Roger Orf have chosen until further Make recommendations to the Board on the implementation a conservative level, taking into account the median level of notice to use the whole of their directors fees net of tax to New Policy of the Groups performance bonus schemes and share salaries in the Comparator Group.
This is balanced with the purchase Regus shares in the open market on a quarterly With effect from and including the 2005 financial year, maximum schemes.
opportunity for overall compensation packages to be in the basis.
In addition, John Matthews has chosen to use part of individual bonuses payable to executive directors and senior upper quartile of the Comparator Group dependent upon his fees 90,000 less tax to purchase Regus shares in the management have been reduced and are now capped at 100% The Committee has appointed Halliwell Consulting, an the degree to which the associated stringent performance open market.
of basic annual salary of which a maximum 50% can be taken external consultancy which has wide experience of executive conditions attached to the short and long term incentive as cash and 50% is deferred to purchase Investment Shares remuneration in UK listed companies, to advise in developing schemes have been satis ed.
SERVICE CONTRACTS in Regus Group plc.
These shares are awarded under the CIP its performance related remuneration policy.
Halliwell Consulting Details of contracts currently in place for directors are as follows: with the opportunity of an additional award of Matching Shares has no other connection with the Company.
The tables below illustrate the balance between xed and released after a three year period, subject to certain conditions.
Notice period performance related variable compensation and the total and provision for The Committee has also sought advice from the Companys expected value of the remuneration package for each executive Date of contract Term compensation For the year ended 31 December 2005, the executive directors solicitors, Slaughter and May, in connection with the terms of director for the year ended 31 December 2005 Stephen Executive satis ed the stretching EBITDA targets in full.
As such the service contracts for executive directors, other members of Gleadles employment having commenced on 31 October 2005 : Mark Dixon 28 02 05 12 months total bonus payable will be 100% of salary.
In reporting the senior management and in relation to the operation of the Rudy Lobo 04 03 05 12 months calculation of awards, the Committee is mindful of the Mark Dixon Rudy Lobo Stephen Gleadle Regus Group plc Co-Investment Plan the CIP described Stephen Gleadle 19 10 05 12 months commercial sensitivity of the structure of the Groups bonus Chief Executive Of cer Chief Operating Of cer Chief Financial Of cer later in this report.
% % % Non-executive arrangements and considers that more detailed disclosure is Fixed 57.61 53.72 10.26 John Matthews 02 10 03 3 years 6 months inappropriate in the circumstances.
As stated above, 50% of Directors are not permitted, under Regus Group plcs Articles Variable 42.39 46.28 89.74 Roger Orf 02 10 03 3 years 6 months the total bonus payable will be paid in cash and 50% will be of Association, to vote on their own terms and conditions Martin Robinson 02 10 03 3 years 6 months used to purchase Investment Shares.
However, at the time of of remuneration.
Stephen East 11 03 05 3 years 6 months the drafting of this report, the award of Investment Shares and associated Matching Shares has not been made due to the The members of the Remuneration Committee attend the REMUNERATION PACKAGES Company being in a close period.
The Committee will provide Companys AGM and are available to answer shareholders The remuneration for executive directors during the year full details of the award and relevant performance conditions in questions about directors remuneration.
comprised a basic salary, a bene t package, an annual its Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2006. performance based short term incentive award paid partly in cash and partly in shares and participation in the Companys share incentive arrangement, the CIP.
