AR 2005. qxd 2 8 05 11:52 am Page 4 DIRECTORS Sir David McMurtry to his role as Chairman and Chief Pennsylvania State University.
Before joining CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng Executive, Sir David also has responsibility Renishaw Inc as President in 1985, he was Chairman and Chief Executive, age 65, was for group technology.
the Director of Engineering at Sheffield employed by Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, for Measurement, USA.
Ben was appointed to 17 years, latterly holding the positions of John Deer the Board of Renishaw plc in 1987.
He Deputy Chief Designer and Assistant Chief Deputy Chairman, age 67, trained as a serves on various metrology committees of Engine Design of all Rolls-Royce engines mechanical engineer and worked for Rollsand other professional associations and is manufactured at the Filton, Bristol, works.
Royce plc, Bristol, from 1960 to 1974.
He responsible for group marketing, international After inventing the original probe in the early was Managing Director of Renishaw from operations and human resources.
1970s, Sir David founded Renishaw in 1974 to 1989, primarily involved in the 1973 with John Deer and joined Renishaw commercial direction of the Group, with Allen Roberts, FCA in 1976.
His CBE was awarded for particular emphasis on marketing and the Group Finance Director, age 56, is a Fellow services to Science and Technology and establishment of the Groups wholly-owned of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in he was appointed a Royal Designer for subsidiaries in USA, Ireland, Japan, England and Wales.
Before joining Industry RDI in 1989.
He is a visiting Germany, France and Italy.
John and Sir Renishaw in 1979, he was employed for Professor of Huddersfield University and David McMurtry were members of the four- 11 years by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. has been awarded an honorary Doctorate man team of Renishaw engineers honoured He was appointed a director in 1980. of Engineering at the University of with the MacRobert Award in 1987.
John is Allen heads group finance, business Birmingham and honorary degrees of responsible for group manufacturing and systems and Wotton Travel and is the Doctor of Engineering at Heriot-Watt group quality and is chairman of the company secretary.
Sir David overseas marketing subsidiaries.
Geoff McFarland is a Chartered Engineer, a Fellow of the Ben Taylor Group Engineering Director, age 37, Institute of Mechanical Engineers, a Fellow Assistant Chief Executive, age 56, has graduated with a BEng in computer aided of the American Society of Manufacturing been involved in the field of metrology mechanical engineering at Heriot-Watt Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal all his working life, after graduating in University, where he subsequently worked Academy of Engineering.
In addition mechanical engineering and design from for several years as a research associate.
04 RENISHAW ANNUAL REPORT 2005 AR 2005. qxd 2 8 05 11:52 am Page 5 From left: Sir David McMurtry, Geoff McFarland, Allen Roberts, Ben Taylor, Terry Garthwaite, Joe McGeehan, David Snowden and John Deer After working briefly in the high-volume which has formed the basis of international David Snowden, FCA manufacturing electronic sector, Geoff standards.
He is a Fellow of the Institution Non-executive director, age 68, was a joined Renishaws research and of Electrical Engineers and a Fellow of the partner at KPMG for 25 years, latterly development facility in Edinburgh in 1994, Royal Academy of Engineering.
Joe was acting as Senior Partner for KPMG in South before moving to Renishaws headquarters appointed as a director in January 2001.
David was an audit partner covering to become Director and General Manager a wide range of businesses and was also of the CMM Products Division.
Geoff was Terry Garthwaite, FCA regional partner in charge of insolvency appointed to the Board in July 2002.
He The senior independent non-executive work for ten years.
Since his retirement heads the group engineering function and director, age 58, is a chartered accountant, from KPMG in 1993, David has been a is also responsible for group patents.
who, after qualifying, joined Price director and corporate adviser to a number Waterhouse, London.
Following 12 years of private companies.
David was appointed Joe McGeehan, CBE, FIEE, FREng working at Foseco Minsep plc, a specialty a director of the Company on 1st July 2003 Non-executive director, age 59, is chemical company, Terry joined the and is the chairman of the remuneration Managing Director of Toshiba Research specialist multinational engineering group, and nomination committee.
Ltd: Telecommunications Research Senior plc as Group Finance Director.
After obtaining the Whilst at Senior he was also responsible for degrees of BEng and PhD in electrical and investor relations and chaired the groups Audit committee: electronic engineering from the University of tax and treasury committee and the UK Terry Garthwaite Chair Liverpool, he spent several years involved pension funds.
Terry is a non-executive Joe McGeehan in industrial research before entering director of Brammer plc and Wilmington David Snowden academia.
Since 1985, he has held a Group plc.
He was appointed a director of number of senior positions at the University Renishaw plc on 1st July 2003 and is the Remuneration and nomination of Bristol.
In 2003 he was awarded the chairman of the audit committee.
committee: degree of DEng by the University of David Snowden Chair Liverpool for his major contribution to Terry Garthwaite mobile communications research, much of Joe McGeehan 05
