Report of the Directors B D McGowan Chairman Directors Aged 61.
Appointed Mr R Payne, finance director, and Mr E Brown, an executive director, resigned from the board on 9 September 2005 a director in October 1996 and non-executive and 5 January 2006 respectively.
Chairman of UMECO plc and Catalyst Corporate Finance UK Limited.
All directors submit themselves for re-election once every three years.
The directors retiring by rotation will be Formerly chief executive of Williams plc and Mr D Flynn and Mr P Long, who are eligible and offer themselves for re-election at the 2006 annual general meeting.
chairman of House of Fraser plc.
Details of Mr Flynns contractual arrangements with the company are set out in this report.
As a non-executive D R Flynn Chief Executive director, Mr Long has made a major contribution to the board and to the audit and remuneration committees on which Aged 56.
Appointed a director and chief executive in April 2005.
He was previously chief executive he sits.
During 2005, Mr Long additionally took on the role of chairman of the pension trustee company in which of Aegis Group PLC, having joined the board as a capacity he has contributed extensively through a challenging period.
The board sees his continued involvement non-executive director in 1999.
Prior to this, he as important to the overall effectiveness of the board.
Mr Long does not have a service contract with the company.
spent 13 years with the News Corporation Limited in the UK and Australia, latterly as managing Mr D Tatton-Brown and Mr A Macfarlane were appointed to the board on 14 July 2005 and 8 August 2006 respectively director of News International Plc.
Before joining News Corporation Limited he was with ICI for ten and under the companys Articles of Association offer themselves for election at the 2006 AGM.
The terms of years working in Australia and Hong Kong in Mr Macfarlanes contract were approved by the remuneration committee and details are set out in the remuneration various management roles.
A E Macfarlane Chief Financial Officer Mr P Mason has informed the board that he wishes to resign at the end of the AGM and therefore will not be seeking Aged 49.
Mr R Spinney has served on the board for nine years and therefore he will be resigning at the end of the a director in August 2005.
A non-executive AGM and will not be seeking re-election.
He was previously group finance director of Land Securities Group plc.
Prior to that he was chief financial officer of Notice of annual general meeting Bass Hotels and Resorts.
The notice of the AGM and information on the proposed Performance Share Plan are set out in a separate document I Harley Non-Executive Director that accompanies this annual report.
A director of British Energy plc and Remploy Limited.
Past president of the New holding company Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Formerly chief As explained in the Financial Review on page 27, a new holding company was established in June 2005.
For the executive of Abbey National plc.
An independent purposes of this report, no distinction is made between the period before and after the introduction of the new non-executive director.
Board committees Chief executive of First Choice Holidays PLC.
Following the introduction of the Code of Corporate Governance by the Financial Reporting Council on 23 July 2004, Formerly chief executive of Sunworld Limited.
the board reviewed its procedures and practices and, in particular, updated the terms of reference of the board An independent non-executive director.
The principal board committees are as follows: P Mason Non-Executive Director Aged 46.
Chief executive of Somerfield Limited and formerly Audit committee president of Levi-Strauss & Co. Europe.
The terms of reference of the committee reflect the Smith Guidance which is appended to the Combined Code.
The report Formerly president and managing director of Asda of the audit committee is set out on pages 36 to 39.
Its members are Mr Harley chairman, Mr Long, Mr Mason and Wal-Mart UK and chief executive of Matalan plc.
Mr Tatton-Brown, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Appointed a director Nomination committee in November 1997.
Chairman of Hanover This committee is responsible for recommending board appointments.
Its terms of reference reflect the Higgs Guidance Real Estate Investment Management Limited, a Crown Estates Commissioner and a non-executive which is appended to the Combined Code.
Its members are Mr McGowan, Mr Flynn, Mr Harley and Mr Spinney.
director of Homestyle Group plc, Fuller, Smith & Turner plc, Kennington Oval Limited and Remuneration committee Rockspring Property Investment Managers Limited.
Formerly chairman of Hammerson plc.
The terms of reference of the committee reflect the Higgs Guidance.
The Remuneration Report is set out on The senior independent non-executive director.
The members of the remuneration committee are Mr Spinney chairman, Mr Long and Mr Mason, D Tatton-Brown all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Non-Executive Director The terms of reference of the committees may be found on the companys website, www.
Group finance or if a hard copy is required by application to the company secretarys department at the companys head office.
director of Kingfisher plc, having been previously finance director of B&Q plc.
He was previously chief financial officer of Virgin Entertainment Group.
R Ward-Jones Secretary 28 Rentokil Initial plc Report of the Directors New Team Belgrave House, London Paul Mason Ron Spinney Andrew Macfarlane Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Ian Harley Peter Long Chief Financial Director Non-Executive Non-Executive Officer Director Duncan Tatton-Brown Director Brian McGowan Non-Executive Director Chairman Doug Flynn Chief Executive Report of the Directors continued Directors interests The interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the company, other than in relation to share options, on 1 January 2005, or their date of appointment if later, and 31 December 2005 are set out on page 51.
The only directors who have been granted share options in the year by the company are Mr Payne and Mr Brown, who served as executive directors, details of whose option holdings are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 49.
No director had any beneficial interest in the shares of any of the companys subsidiaries on those dates.
The interests of the directors and their families in the company and its subsidiary companies during the period from the end of the financial year to 29 March 2006 have not changed.
Directors indemnity and insurance The company has granted indemnities in favour of its directors as is permitted by the Companies Audit Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004.
It has also purchased cover for the directors against liabilities arising in relation to the company, as permitted by the Companies Act 1985.
Interests of directors in contracts During 2005, no director had any material interest in any significant contract to which the company or any subsidiary was a party.
Interest in share capital On 29 March 2006, the following were registered as being interested in the companys issued share capital.
The disclosed interests of 3% and above total 26.72% March 2005: 27.41%.
Franklin Resources Inc. 14.03% Fidelity International Ltd 5.03% Britel Fund Trustees Ltd 4.01% Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 3.65% Employees The company attaches considerable importance to keeping its employees informed of matters affecting their jobs and the progress of the business.
As well as the companys intranet there is a UK magazine and a number of other in-house publications in the UK and other countries covering local and divisional matters.
In Autumn 2005 a global e-zine was introduced, which is available to all employees via the companys intranet and also through the internet on the companys website.
Employees have frequent opportunities to meet and have discussions with their managers.
Senior executives from the UK make regular visits overseas for meetings with managers and staff.
A European Forum has been established under the European Works Council Directive as a means of informing, communicating and consulting with employees across Europe which currently covers employees in all current member countries of the European Union, Norway and Switzerland.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of Rentokil Initial that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with those of other employees.
Post balance sheet events Post balance sheet events are shown in note 37 to the accounts on page 113.
Policy in relation to payment of suppliers Rentokil Initial has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers in various countries.
These are either negotiated along with other contract terms or conform to standard terms applied either by the relevant group company or by the supplier.
It is the companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with either negotiated or standard terms, provided that the relevant invoice is properly presented and is not the subject of dispute.
30 Rentokil Initial plc Report of the Directors At 31 December 2005 the trade creditors of the group represented 58 days of annual purchases and the UK businesses trade creditors represented 59 days of purchases: UK trade debtors represented 54 days of turnover.
During the year the parent company did not have any trade creditors.
Corporate social responsibility The company takes account of social, environmental and ethical considerations when managing the business and when contemplating new activities.
In 2002 the board adopted a range of corporate social responsibility CSR policies.
In addition to the existing policies and procedures in respect of the environment and health and safety, they comprise policies on ethics, the fundamental rights of employees, equal opportunities and diversity, employee remuneration, training and employee development, job security and wealth creation, relationships with customers and suppliers and community involvement.
Following the resignation of Mr Brown on 5 January 2006, the chief executive, Mr Flynn, became the director responsible for corporate social responsibility matters.
We regularly review our progress on CSR as part of the boards agenda.
We believe we have made good progress on raising the profile of corporate responsibility issues but recognise that we still have a long journey to make in the arena of CSR.
Nevertheless, an important step has been the improved quality in our submissions to the major worldwide CSR indices.
In our submission for the 2004 Business in the Community BitC Corporate Responsibility Index, we achieved a ranking of 91st the first time we have been included in the top 100 companies.
Similarly, our 2005 submission to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI improved in both the quality and the scope of our content, to the extent that for the first time we have been included in the DJSI being ranked in the top ten support services companies out of the 70 worldwide companies included in this sector of the DJSI World Index.
Our attention over the year has been to focus on those CSR matters that represent business-critical issues.
Our global procurement team has improved its evaluation of major suppliers, including the extension of supplier screening to incorporate relevant aspects of their handling of social and environmental issues.
Similarly, towards the end of the year, additional guidance was distributed to operating companies worldwide to improve the practical understanding of the company's policies on ethical business conduct.
In countries around the world, Rentokil Initial businesses compete predominantly with local companies of varying size and sophistication.
As an international company Rentokil Initial has a particular duty to ensure that its corporate ethical standards have practical application.
The guidance circulated last year was intended to reinforce the prominence of the company standards and to provide more specific guidance that will facilitate better measurement of compliance.
In an equally important area, human resources teams in key business areas have focused on the need to develop basic skills for front-line staff, developing programmes with bodies such as the Learning Skills Council in the UK to improve literacy and numeracy and the use of English as a second language, as well as advanced vocational qualifications.
The company's third annual CSR report will be available in early May 2006 in the CSR section on the companys website, www.
com, as is other information on CSR including copies of policies and good practice guides.
The examples of corporate responsibility actions given within the annual CSR report for 2005 will illustrate the extent to which the various parts of Rentokil Initial have taken on board the CSR issues relating to their business.
In our web-based CSR report for 2004 available on the website we identified the key challenges we believed we faced in the CSR arena.
Since that time, we have regularly reviewed all areas of impact, including those where we believe we have significant opportunities to make positive impacts, especially with our workforce and community stakeholders.
Any shareholder without access to the website who would like to have further information on CSR matters should contact the company at the address shown on the inside back cover of this report.
Over the last year, we continued to take action through our management processes in relation to the following risks: health and safety occupational road risk : environmental operational impact on the community through the further development of non-toxic pesticide procedures : workplace developing integrity of service delivery through employee development with the development of basic skills training in UK Cleaning and in South Africa : marketplace maintaining fair and open dealings with customers and suppliers and securing best value bought-in products or services to the standards required through the enhancement of procurement management systems and community various initiatives.
Rentokil Initial plc Report of the Directors 31 Report of the Directors continued We will continue to focus attention on areas where our impact on our stakeholders is most beneficial by: delivering an improved and more secure environment for our employees, customers and the communities in which they and we operate: providing strong and developing career opportunities for all our employees, based on merit: and operating ethically as an international business to the benefit of the customers and suppliers in the communities where we operate.
Delivering against each of these has to be set against meeting our shareholders expectations and our being satisfied that a good business case exists for the promotion of corporate responsibility initiatives.
The directors believe firmly that behaving responsibly is key to protecting and enhancing the reputation and value of our brands for the benefit of all stakeholders.
The company views the processes in place to manage risk and to motivate and incentivise managers described in the report as equally relevant to an analysis of social, environmental and ethical matters.
The ongoing evaluation of systems and procedures is intended to ensure that the management system including the internal control framework is effective in ensuring that issues of a social, environmental or ethical nature are identified and acted upon.
The companys internal control verification systems cover corporate responsibility matters to ensure that businesses report periodically on their progress towards compliance with the companys CSR policies.
Research and development The company invests in an active programme of research and development in support of its major international business streams.
This programme includes the conception, design, testing and manufacture of new products to enhance the quality and safety of the companys services and minimise their environmental impact.
Where appropriate, work is sponsored at universities with expertise in specific relevant areas.
The companys total research and development spend in 2005 was 3.0 million 2004: 2.9 million.
Principal activities A description of the companys activities is given on the inside front cover.
Review of the year and future developments The review of the companys affairs and comments on future developments are set out on pages 1 to 21.
Dividends An interim dividend of 2.13p per share, amounting to 38.5 million, was paid on 28 October 2005.
The board recommends the declaration of a final dividend of 5.25p, amounting to 94.8 million adjusted for the waiver of dividend in respect of the shares held by the trustees of the Rentokil Initial Employee Share Trust, payable on 2 June 2006.
The total distribution for 2005 would then be 7.38p per share 2004: 6.71p amounting to 133.3 million.
Consolidated accounts The consolidated profit before taxation for 2005 was 190.1 million the tax on this was 51.5 million.
Dividends declared and recommended out of 2005 profits amount to 133.3 million.
Net consolidated capital employed is negative 659.6 million compared to negative 784.0 million last year.
Financial instruments The companys financial risk management objectives and policies are set out within the Financial Review on pages 22 to 27, which includes the policy for hedging forecasted transactions for which hedge accounting is used.
The Financial Review and notes 22 to 24 to the accounts also detail the companys exposure to price, credit and liquidity risks.
The company is not materially exposed to cash flow risks arising from cross-border trading transactions.
Corporate governance The company complies with the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council on 23 July 2003 the Combined Code save insofar as an explanation of a failure to do so is given below.
The following specific disclosures are now made in accordance with Schedule C to the Combined Code.
32 Rentokil Initial plc Report of the Directors 1 Effective board The board is responsible to shareholders for the overall direction and control of the company and specifically reserves certain matters for its consideration such as approval of the companys financial statements, major capital expenditure and major acquisitions and disposals in the standing board procedures and practices, which are reviewed annually.
The chief executive has delegated authority from the board to manage the company, subject to the strategic direction of the board.
He is also responsible for the achievement of the objectives set by the board and preparing an overall strategy for the company to achieve such objectives and the implementation of the overall strategy decided by the board through the management and organisation of the company.
The board meets routinely nine times a year and additionally when necessary and follows an agreed formal schedule of matters which are considered at individual meetings.
In 2005 the board met on 15 occasions, at which all directors were present, other than for Messrs Long, Spinney and Mason, who each did not attend three meetings, and Mr Brown, who did not attend two meetings.
2 Composition of the board Information on directors and membership of the boards committees is set out on page 28.
3 Board committees Details on the audit, nomination and remuneration committees are set out on page 28.
The nomination committee met twice in 2005 to consider the appointments of Mr Flynn as chief executive and Mr Macfarlane as chief financial officer.
The nomination committee has been involved in succession planning for non-executive directors.
4 Independent non-executive directors The board regards Messrs Spinney, Harley, Long, Mason and Tatton-Brown as independent non-executive directors within the tests set out in the Combined Code.
5 Further significant commitments of the chairman The external commitments of Mr McGowan have remained the same since his appointment as chairman in May 2004, although as referred to in the Remuneration Report on page 47 he reverted to the role of non-executive chairman from 1 May 2005 when Mr Flynn took responsibility for the day-to-day running of the company.
6 Performance evaluation The board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The directors completed detailed appraisals on matters relevant to board, committee and director performance.
A report was presented to and reviewed by the board.
The review was conducted internally but with the aid of a framework developed by external specialists.
Individual director evaluation showed that each director including those seeking re-election at the AGM in 2006 continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried out a performance evaluation of the chairman after taking account of the views of the executive directors.
The board intends to carry out further performance evaluations but will keep under review the method and frequency.
7 Dialogue with major shareholders The chief executive and chief financial officer hold regular meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders to discuss the companys strategy and financial performance.
The company has sought the views of major UK-based shareholders on how members of the board and, in particular, the non-executive directors should develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the company, with the result that the chairman and, if so requested, non-executive directors will make themselves available for discussions with shareholders at the time of the release of the preliminary results and on other occasions if specifically requested by shareholders.
8 Accountability and audit The audit committee assists the board on matters concerning accountability and audit, information on which is contained within the audit committee report on pages 36 to 39.
Rentokil Initial plc Report of the Directors 33 Report of the Directors continued 9 Going concern After reviewing group and company cash balances, borrowings and projected cash flows, the directors believe that the group and company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
10 Auditors independence The company has reviewed its relationship with its auditors,  LLP, and concluded that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of independence.
Consequently there are no plans to replace  LLP, whose re-appointment is proposed as set out in the notice of annual general meeting.
11 Exceptions to compliance with the Combined Code The board identified the following exception to full compliance with the Combined Code in 2005: the offices of chairman and chief executive were combined in the person of Mr McGowan following the stepping-down of Mr J C F Wilde as chief executive in July 2004.
The board believed that it was important that Mr McGowan should take on executive responsibilities to provide the necessary leadership for the company while an active search for a new chief executive was undertaken.
Mr McGowan reverted to his role of non-executive chairman when Mr Flynn took day-to-day responsibility for the running of the company on 1 May 2005.
Charitable and political donations Donations for UK charitable purposes in 2005 amounted to 254,000 and a further 45,000 was donated in other countries.
There were no payments to political organisations.
Payments are made to a wide range of charitable organisations both in the UK and overseas.
Encouragement is given to a matched giving scheme whereby the company matches donations made by employees.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the company will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 18 May 2006.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the directors to take responsibility for preparing the annual report, including the remuneration report, and the financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the group and of the profit and loss and cash flows of the group for that period.
In preparing these accounts, the directors are required to adopt suitable accounting policies and to apply them consistently, making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent and following applicable accounting standards.
These standards are: a UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP for the company: and b International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and implemented in the UK for the group.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Rentokil Initial plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Performance Share Plan The approval of shareholders is sought to the adoption of a performance share plan for executives, a summary of the terms of which is set out in the separate document containing the notice of annual general meeting which accompanies this annual report.
34 Rentokil Initial plc Report of the Directors Authority to make purchases of own shares Authority for the company to make purchases of its own shares of up to 181 million was obtained at an EGM of the company on 13 April 2005.
However, no purchases of its shares were made by the company in 2005.
The company intends to seek an authority to purchase up to 5% of its issued shares at the AGM on 18 May 2006.
The proposed authority is dealt with in resolution 8 contained in the notice of AGM.
If given, it will replace the existing authority.
The minimum price payable per share under the proposed authority in resolution 8 is 1p the nominal amount of each share and the maximum price exclusive of expenses is 5% above the average market price per share for the five business days immediately preceding any purchase.
In the event that the board uses this authority, purchases would be made only from funds not required for other purposes and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
No purchases would be made unless the board was of the opinion that it would result in an increase in earnings per share.
The board would also take into account the companys cash resources and bank facilities, the effect on gearing and other possible investment opportunities before deciding whether to exercise this authority.
Any purchase of shares pursuant to this authority would be made on market.
Shares purchased would be cancelled and would not be available for reissue.
Audit Committee Report and Remuneration Report The Audit Committee and Remuneration Reports, which have been adopted by the board, are set out on pages 36 to 39 and 40 to 51 respectively.
The Audit Committee Report includes a review of the internal control environment, risk assessment procedures and internal audit activity.
Recommendation The board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to the annual general meeting to be held on 18 May 2006 as set out in the accompanying document are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the company.
R Ward-Jones Secretary 29 March 2006 Documents available for inspection A copy, or a memorandum of the terms, of every service contract or letter of engagement between the company or any of its subsidiaries and any director of the company is available for inspection at the companys registered office during normal business hours on any weekday public holidays excepted until 18 May 2006 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Note regarding shares As at the close of business on 29 March 2006, there were options remaining to be satisfied by subscription for shares in the company in respect of 39 million shares, which represents 2.2% of the current issued share capital of the company.
This would represent 2.6% of the issued share capital of the company after the purchase and subsequent cancellation of both the remaining 181 million shares, which as at 29 March 2006 the company had authority to purchase under the authority referred to above granted on 13 April 2005 and the maximum 90 million shares which the company would then have authority to purchase under the authority being proposed in resolution 8.
Rentokil Initial plc Report of the Directors 35
