Electronic Security 2005 review Representing 11% of both group revenue and adjusted operating profit in 2005, revenue grew by 8.4% in 2005 to 262.7 million.
Operating profit fell by 7.0% to 35.8 million and, excluding one-off items of 1.4 million 2004: nil, adjusted operating profit of 37.2 million was 3.4% lower than last year.
The portfolio grew by 11.9% over the year largely due to acquisitions.
UK revenue was 6.6% higher than last year with increases recorded by both the Fire & Security and Systems sectors.
Operating profit for the UK Fire & Security sector grew in line with higher revenue but the Systems sector was curtailed by a shift in mix towards lower margin activity, which depressed margins, and by reorganisation costs.
Additional investment in sales and marketing also had a negative impact on profitability.
As a result, UK operating profit fell by 4.0%.
Revenue was up 5.7% in the Netherlands.
However, downward margin pressure, coupled with the costs of a productivity improvement programme and the implementation of a new IT system, resulted in operating profit falling by 20.8% compared to last year.
In France, revenue grew by 10.3% over last year but margins fell due to a shift in revenue mix and competitive pressures on pricing.
In addition, infrastructure investment resulted in higher costs and as a result operating profit fell by 9.3% year-on-year.
The Henry Chandler USA performed strongly with revenue up 57.6% over the prior year.
Operating profit rose by 14.4% Divisional Managing Director, City Link and Electronic Security despite increased investment in infrastructure and post-acquisition reorganisation costs.
Henry was a board member of Style 2006 preview Conferences when it was acquired as part of BET by Rentokil Initial in 1996.
He was appointed Electronic Security became a standalone division in September 2005, creating opportunities managing director of Rentokil Initials conferencing for a strong central senior management team to focus on driving both systems and service offerings.
Before joining Style he held a number of private sector management posts in It also facilitates the leveraging of competencies and industry leading propositions across the entire hospitality and services businesses.
Acquisitions will be a key priority in the UK, France and USA in 2006.
In the UK, the focus will be on integrating businesses acquired last year, strengthening the brand and service awareness and Michael Cooke Managing Director, City Link seeking to develop integration benefits through further acquisitions.
In France and the UK, acquisitions Aged 51.
Michael joined Rentokil in 1980 and will be targeted to achieve or deepen national coverage and in the USA to develop a stronger and has held various management positions within a number of the groups operating divisions in larger business in existing and adjacent markets.
The performance improvement programme in the the UK, Continental Europe, Africa and North Netherlands will continue in 2006, focusing on the effectiveness of the current service structure.
He was appointed managing director of City Link in 1998.
IT system is being rolled-out to increase customer relationship management and service capability.
Clive Hayton City Link Area Managing Director, Electronic Security 2005 review Aged 48.
Clive joined Rentokil Initial in 1996 City Link, the parcels delivery division, accounted for 5% of group revenue and 9% of adjusted when Shorrock was acquired as part of BET.
He was appointed head of Initial Electronic operating profit in 2005.
The division performed well in 2005.
Revenue was 10.7% higher than last year, Security Systems and in 2000 became managing aided by the introduction of enhanced marketing and sales activity.
In addition, changes in practices director of Initial Electronic Security Initial Fire and Security.
Clive was appointed area in the distribution hub and system have secured enhanced quality and performance capabilities.
managing director for all Electronic Security Operating profit was affected by substantial pressure on pricing within the market and by the impact in 2002. of taking back loss-making franchises and, as a result, was 4.3% lower than 2004 at 29.1 million.
Excluding one-off items of 0.7 million, adjusted operating profit grew by 1.4% over last year.
In October it was announced that the division will, over time, cease to operate on a franchise basis.
2006 preview A key focus in 2006 will be to buy back and integrate franchise activities.
Overall this will be a 2-3 year programme.
As this occurs, we will be better placed to capitalise on national business opportunities, economies of scale and operational efficiencies.
Development of the divisions sales and marketing strategy will continue in 2006 in order to build stronger and more integrated customer relationships, including further enhancements to systems, practices and procedures.
16 Rentokil Initial plc Operating Review New Opportunities Sorting Hub, Wednesbury Clive Hayton Michael Cooke Managing Director, Managing Director, Electronic Security City Link Henry Chandler Divisional Managing Director, City Link and Electronic Security
