Asia Pacific 2005 review 2005 marked a new era for Rentokil Initial in Asia Pacific with the creation of a new Asia Pacific division under the direction of regional managing director David Liu.
The region represents a significant opportunity for the group due to the emergence of strong economies with some of the fastest economic growth rates in the world.
The new division will allow the group to focus on developing its business and driving growth in Asia Pacific and will have responsibility for the groups full range of activities in the countries in which it operates.
In 2005 Asia Pacific accounted for 4% of group revenue and 7% of group adjusted operating profit.
The largest activity in Asia Pacific in 2005 was Textiles and Washroom Services, which represented 58% of revenue in 2005.
Pest Control represented 32% of 2005 revenue, Tropical Plants 7% and Facilities Services 3%.
Australia is the largest country of operation at 48% of revenue, followed by New Zealand at 15%, Malaysia at 10% and Indonesia at 8%.
David Liu The divisions revenue of 86.8 million rose 5.5% in 2005 over the previous year.
Increases were Regional Managing Director, achieved in most countries of operation.
Operating profit fell by 10.7%, largely due to a drop in Asia Pacific Aged 51.
David joined Rentokil Initial at the operating profit in the Australian washroom business which faced strong pressure from competitors.
beginning of November 2005 as regional managing director, Asia Pacific.
He previously headed Aegis Media, Asia Pacific, which has 2006 preview operations in 14 countries across the region.
Following the creation of the division in late 2005, building management infrastructure Prior to Aegis, David held positions with Saatchi and Saatchi, Bozell and McCann-Erickson in will be an important focus in 2006 and strong progress has already been made.
various markets across the Asia Pacific region.
Operationally, plans for 2006 include pursuing initiatives to improve operating efficiencies and strengthening sales and marketing efforts to increase market share.
We will look for suitable acquisitions to integrate into our existing activities.
Opportunities in new markets will also be explored, in particular India, China and Vietnam.
We will also seek opportunities to build higher margin businesses not currently respresented in Asia Pacific, such as electronic security.
20 Rentokil Initial plc Operating Review New Division Hong Kong Island David Liu Regional Managing Director, Asia Pacific
