Pest Control 2005 review In 2005, Pest Control accounted for 9% of group revenue and 20% of group adjusted operating profit.
Revenue increased by 2.2% over the prior year to 208.2 million.
Operating profit fell by 5.9% year-on-year to 66.7 million.
Adjusting for the impact of a one-off credit of 1.7 million, being the profit on the sale of surplus property partly offset by some reorganisation costs, adjusted operating profit fell by 8.3% to 65.0 million.
The portfolio ended the year 2.4% higher, with some 25% of this increase due to acquisitions.
The UK business, which is the subject of one of the groups major operational improvement programmes, saw revenue fall by 1.3%.
Operating profit declined by 15.9% due to lower revenue and, more particularly, higher investment in both sales and service capabilities as the business addresses customer termination levels and implements its turnaround.
There was some improvement in retention during the year, although customer terminations in the UK remain well above the divisions average.
Overall, the UK portfolio fell by 0.5%.
Revenue in continental Europe was 2.2% higher than last year.
Growth was recorded in many of the European markets, including France, Belgium, Spain and Portugal.
Revenue growth was achieved in Germany for the first time in four years.
However, revenue fell year-on-year in Norway, Italy, Switzerland and Sweden.
Operating profit grew overall in continental Europe by 0.4% over the prior year.
Revenue growth and solid cost control resulted in operating profit growth in Portugal, Belgium, the Netherlands, Ireland and Finland.
Operating profit fell in France and Germany, the Eliminating bird fouling Fouling by birds on new and old regions largest countries of operation, despite revenue growth.
In France this was due to margin buildings can be prevented relatively pressure arising out of greater competitor activity, increased investment in service expenditure easily by installing a wire spike system, aimed at reducing customer terminations and in direct selling.
Although higher investment in which prevents the birds perching on service in Germany impacted operating profit year-on-year, it is having a positive effect on ledges without harming them.
termination rates which fell during 2005.
The portfolio grew in the European markets as a whole during the year, with particularly strong growth in Spain due to acquisitions.
North America performed well in 2005.
Revenue was 16.5% higher than last year, aided in part by the full year impact of a 2004 acquisition in the USA which also helped to deliver a 24.0% increase in operating profit year-on-year.
The small Caribbean businesses grew in terms of both revenue and operating profit.
2006 preview In 2006 the division aims to improve performance by increasing its focus on customers, building on the investment in service quality and sales efficiency made in 2005.
A division-wide customer retention programme will seek to reduce customer termination rates through improved customer handling.
This includes improved administrative and response procedures and better staff training.
To enhance sales and marketing capabilities, a new website has been developed with improved functionality and expanded training and educational content.
com, is part of a wider programme to increase the divisions e-presence and was launched in March 2006.
Target marketing is also a priority for 2006 to support the divisions efforts to win business in the important food and pharmaceutical sectors.
The divisions presence in the USA has been significantly increased by the acquisition of J. C. Ehrlich Co. Inc. in the early part of 2006 and this new business will be integrated with the existing US pest control activities during the year.
Ehrlich is the fourth largest pest control company in the USA and was the largest independently owned one.
It had revenues of $124 million in 2005 and was acquired for a consideration of $142 million 80 million.
Rentokil Initial plc Operating Review 13
