Textiles and Washroom Services 2005 review The Textiles and Washroom Services division comprises the washroom, linen hire, garment rental, floorcare and wipers activities in the UK and continental Europe.
In 2005 the division accounted for 28% of group revenue and 39% of group adjusted operating profit.
Revenue for the year was up 1.8% at 639.8 million.
Operating profit fell by 15.5% to 114.7 million.
Excluding one-off items of 11.6 million 2004: 1.2 million, adjusted operating profit fell by 7.7% to 126.3 million.
The portfolio grew by 1.9% during the course of the year with new business wins broadly equivalent to terminations and a small increase from acquisitions.
Performance of the UK business continued to be impacted by the process of exiting the linen and workwear activities.
The complex and lengthy programme to separate UK linen and workwear from the washroom and dustmat activities, which are being retained, was completed in December.
This programme resulted in operational inefficiencies, due particularly to adverse route economics, and additional costs.
The closure of linen and workwear was announced in January 2006 and an exceptional impairment charge of 31.3 million has been recognised to write down the assets held in the business to their recoverable amount.
Overall, UK revenue declined by 5.2% year-on-year Henri Hendrickx Divisional Managing Director, in 2005 and adjusted operating profit fell by 27.9%.
Revenue for linen and workwear was essentially Textiles and Washroom Services unchanged but the operating loss increased to 9 million.
The revenue and operating profit of Aged 49.
Henri joined Rentokil when Hokatex Netherlands, part of BET, was acquired the retained washroom and dustmat activities were impacted by substantial restructuring and in 1996.
He was managing director of Initial investment to build a strong platform for future growth.
Hokatex from 1994 to 2001 and was appointed head of Initial Textiles and Washroom Services In continental Europe, market conditions remained challenging with the dual pressures of competition in Europe in 2001.
Prior to his time with Hokatex he spent 11 years in different management and weak economic performance in most markets constraining growth.
In spite of this background, roles with Ahold, Internatio Mller, KWW and revenue growth was achieved and for the year as a whole increased by 4.1%.
in the sales force is generating revenue growth in a number of businesses, notably the textiles businesses in Germany, Spain and the Czech Republic as well as the washroom units in Spain, Denmark, Finland and Portugal.
In French textiles the groups largest single business unit which accounted for 9% of total group revenue in 2005 revenue grew by 1% for the year.
Continental European operating profit declined by 9.7% year-on-year.
Profit was adversely impacted by the costs of reorganising the business and an asset impairment in Germany of 3.8 million.
The Austrian textiles business acquired during the first half of 2005 continues to perform well.
10 Rentokil Initial plc Operating Review New Structure Lingen, Germany Sylvia May Operator, Garments Christel Schulte Operator, Garments Henri Hendrickx Divisional Managing Director, Textiles and Washroom Services Textiles and Washroom Services continued 2006 preview As the largest division in profit terms, the performance of Textiles and Washroom Services will be vital to the overall success of the group in 2006.
The focus will be on progressing and completing the turnaround projects which commenced in 2005.
Broad themes for the year are improving customer retention through better response to customer needs and increasing the share of customer spend by range selling.
In the UK, having finally completed the separation of the washroom activities from the linen and workwear activities in December 2005, the focus in 2006 will be on integrating the newly combined washroom and dustmat businesses on to a new service platform.
It is envisaged that additional cash closure costs of 13 to 18 million will be incurred in 2006 in relation to UK linen and workwear.
It is anticipated that in cash terms these costs will be significantly offset by the sale of surplus property during 2006 and 2007.
Efficiency gains will be achieved in the washroom business by reducing the number of branches and by implementing route density and route optimisation systems.
This business will be the first in which new customer relationship management and other new systems are implemented and this is scheduled for completion in October.
The first phase of the performance improvement initiative in the French textiles business, which involved moving from a geographic structure to one organised around core processes, took effect from 1 January 2006. Business winning and keeping, service and delivery and processing are now under central leadership.
The next phase includes systems integration and rationalising the branch Garment folding Folding and packing newly laundered network.
A number of key management appointments will be made and action taken to reduce workwear for delivery to the customer, staff churn.
just part of a complete workwear management system offered by The integration of the washroom activities in continental Europe into the management structure of Initial Textiles in Europe.
the textiles business has now been substantially completed.
The new model will be fully operational in Austria, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Portugal, Spain and Sweden in the first quarter of 2006 and in France, Germany and Italy in the second quarter.
The expected benefits come from a greater opportunity to cross sell our products as well as an enhanced range of products and services in most markets, for example the introduction of mats into Scandinavia, should become apparent in the second half of 2006.
12 Rentokil Initial plc Operating Review
