A letter from the Chairman and CEO continued existing management.
Bonus plans and long-term incentives have been overhauled.
For the first time bonuses were included within challenging but achievable budgets for 2006.
No long-term incentive plan LTIP currently exists as the previous share option scheme was made redundant by the corporate restructuring undertaken in 2005 to create a new holding company for the group and re-establish distributable reserves.
Shareholder approval will be sought at the AGM for a new LTIP based on performance shares with performance hurdles split between total shareholder return and earnings per share.
We believe the new plan aligns the interests of shareholders and management.
Finally in the area of people and structure is the UK pension scheme.
This is an emotive issue which has attracted considerable attention both in general and specifically for Rentokil Initial in recent months.
The adoption of more conservative mortality assumptions saw the UK schemes deficit grow to 349 million, on an accounting basis, by the end of November.
We had one of the highest ratios of deficit to pension assets of any FTSE 100 company, one of the more generous defined benefit DB schemes and pension assets that were 80% invested in equities.
We agreed with the Trustees of the DB section of the UK pension scheme to take steps to protect pensions already accrued by active members, deferred pensioners and pensioners but also to close for further accrual in 2006 after a consultation period.
We injected 200 million into the scheme in December with a commitment to eliminate the deficit no later than 2012.
A programme of consultation with affected staff members is underway which we expect to complete by late summer.
Active members of the DB scheme will be offered membership of a defined contribution DC scheme.
The Trustees have also agreed to reduce the risk profile of the investments of the Mummies fide-bugged pension scheme significantly so as to limit the possibility of further deficits arising in the future.
Rentokil Pest Controls unique carbon dioxide bubbles eradicate The net result of the changes will be a modest annual saving to the company, all eligible UK staff destructive insect infestations in will be part of the same DC scheme which will be competitive within the UK market, past pension priceless historical artefacts safely, obligations will be much more secure, the long-term exposure to the company will have been without harming the objects or reduced and the investment risks will have been considerably reduced.
The last of our three areas is operations.
There is an array of issues: some affect our businesses broadly and some relate to the detailed, granular plans we are executing to turn our most challenged businesses around.
Our principal operational focus in 2005 was our work on these turnarounds.
Our success in this regard will have the most immediate effect on our performance.
The main turnaround plans are in UK pest control, UK washroom, French textiles and European washroom.
We have set targets for each in terms of revenue and or margin development over the next three years and we have every expectation of reaching them.
It is not just about turnarounds however.
All our businesses are capable of delivering higher revenue and profitability and in 2006 growth plans will be developed for each and every one of them and cascaded down into the businesses.
06 Rentokil Initial plc A Letter from the Chairman and CEO
