Tropical Plants 2005 review The smallest of the groups businesses, Tropical Plants represented 4% of group revenue in 2005 and 3% of adjusted operating profit.
Revenue for 2005 of 101.6 million was 6.5% ahead of last year.
Operating profit fell by 4.1% to 9.4 million.
Acquisitions helped the portfolio to grow by 9.2% during the course of 2005.
North America is the largest region accounting for over 58% of revenue.
Here, revenue grew strongly in 2005, up 10.3% year-on-year, largely due to the impact of acquisitions which added some 5.5 million to the contract portfolio.
Operating profit also grew with higher revenue and was 5.6% above last year.
The seasonally important fourth quarter was up on last year due to strong sales of holiday season decorations.
Margins were maintained, despite an increase in sales and marketing costs designed to promote further growth.
The portfolio grew due to acquisitions and a reduction in termination levels.
Andy Hobart Divisional Managing Director, In the UK, there was a marginal decline in revenue.
The portfolio grew slightly but customer Pest Control and Tropical Plants Aged 43, Andy joined Rentokil Initial in terminations increased over the prior year and are now the subject of a turnaround initiative.
December 2005 as divisional managing director, Pest Control and Plants.
He was Performance in continental Europe was mixed.
Overall, revenue was 2.7% higher year-on-year previously managing director of the RAC RBS largely due to acquisition-led growth in Belgium and the Netherlands.
In contrast, France, Germany, Joint Venture company, Lex Transfleet and prior to that held a number of senior Norway, Greece and Denmark reported lower revenue.
Operating profit for the region fell by 29.0% management positions within the BOC Group.
despite growth in Belgium and the minor businesses in Ireland and Finland.
This was largely a result Andy has a degree in Engineering Science from Oxford University and an MBA from of declines in Sweden and, in particular, Norway where lower revenue and a drop in margins due Harvard University.
to competitor activity caused a 50% drop in operating profit compared to last year.
Operating profit also fell in France due to lower revenue and increased investment in sales capacity, although this business is showing positive signs of a turnaround: margins have improved as a result of tight cost control and the portfolio has stabilised following a prolonged period of decline.
2006 preview In 2006 growth opportunities will come from better customer retention, efficiency gains and marketing initiatives, especially in the important US market.
A major marketing initiative has been introduced in the USA, the key themes of which are target marketing and customer segmentation, e-marketing, telemarketing, national accounts, customer satisfaction surveys and redevelopment of sales training.
Initiatives to reduce customer terminations in the USA were successful in 2005 and will be continued in 2006.
These include a programme that ensures continuity of service personnel for customers and incentives which specifically reward service personnel who achieve a 90% customer retention target.
The UK, which appointed a new general manager in December 2005, has embarked upon a programme of performance improvement initiatives including the re-engineering of routes to reduce mileage, increase chargeable time and match employee and site locations more effectively.
14 Rentokil Initial plc Operating Review New Growth Duiven, Netherlands Jan Maus Plant Arranger Andy Hobart Divisional Managing Director, Pest Control and Tropical Plants
