Facilities Services Manned Guarding 2005 review Manned guarding represented 16% of group revenues and 4% of group adjusted operating profit in 2005.
A steady performance in all regions resulted in an 8.5% increase in revenue over the prior year to 359.9 million.
Operating profit was flat year-on-year at 14.0 million.
Excluding one-off items of 0.2 million 2004: nil, adjusted operating profit of 14.2 million was up 1.4%.
The USA includes two bolt-on acquisitions which partially offset increased state unemployment insurance and healthcare costs.
Canada benefited from a significant temporary work win and the positive impact of price increases in the Eastern region of the country.
The UK gained sizeable new business in the second half of the year and customer retention improved following a strengthening of the management team with further investment in sales resources and training capability.
New business wins and acquisitions contributed to portfolio growth of 11.5%.
2006 preview Manned guarding is a high quality business with good market positions and a strong Clive Ward management team.
However the company believes that there may be other parties whose strategic Divisional Managing Director, focus and or investment priorities will mean they are able to realise the full potential of this Facilities Services Aged 58.
Clive started his commercial career business.
To this end, the UK and Canadian manned guarding activities were sold in March 2006 with Rentokil Property Care in 1979 after and the future of the US and Belgian activities remains under review.
serving in the armed forces.
In 1982 he returned to the Middle East.
He rejoined Rentokil in 1990 as head of its Office Machine Other Facilities Services business and was appointed to the company executive board in 1998.
Clive sits on two 2005 review external boards, the Safer London Foundation Other Facilities Services comprise primarily the groups catering, cleaning and hospital and Asset Skills.
services activities and in 2005 represented 21% of group revenues and 11% of adjusted operating profit.
Revenue for the division as a whole was 469.5 million, an increase of 3.4% over the prior year.
Amongst the larger businesses, cleaning in the UK and Spain reported revenue up by 10.4% and 4.6% respectively and hospital services was up by 11.6%.
Revenue for UK catering was 6.2% lower, largely due to adverse publicity concerning the education meals sector impacting the take-up of school meals.
Managed services recorded a 25% drop in revenue although this regression had been expected due to the termination of some difficult contracts.
Overall, operating profit for the other facilities services sector of 34.8 million fell by 11.2% compared with last year.
It was impacted by Agenda for Change the non-recoverable provision for wage increases within NHS contracts and the much reduced volume of school meals impacting a relatively fixed cost base.
Excluding one-off items of 0.8 million 2004: 0.2 million, adjusted operating profit fell by 9.6%.
Over the year the portfolio grew by 12.2% due to strong new business wins, particularly in UK cleaning.
2006 preview Good portfolio growth in the second half of 2005 provides an excellent platform for 2006.
Resources and capabilities in cleaning and catering will continue to receive the necessary investment to sustain growth.
The impact of Agenda for Change on NHS work will be resolved in the early part of 2006.
We expect many of the issues related to the education meals sector will also reduce.
Opportunities will also be pursued in some of the divisions smaller businesses, mostly specialist hygiene services, which are driven by legislation, insurance requirements and the ever increasing demands for higher standards of hygiene and cleanliness.
This includes medical services and air quality activities.
18 Rentokil Initial plc Operating Review New Standards Retail cleaning, London Evelin Ferrufino Cleaning Operative Rodrigo Saucedo Cleaning Operative Clive Ward Divisional Managing Director, Facilities Services
