18 Report of the Directors The Directors present their annual report and the Group accounts for the year ended 1 January 2006.
Results and dividends The results for the year ended 1 January 2006 are presented under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
This is the first set of full accounts presented by the Group under IFRS.
Previous annual reports were presented under UK GAAP, and a reconciliation between IFRS and UK GAAP in respect of 2004 is provided in note 33.
The report and accounts are drawn up on a 52 week reporting basis ending on 1 January 2006.
Previous accounts were drawn up on a calendar year basis.
The Group has adopted the basis of a 52 week year reporting basis as this is in line with many other companies in the retail and leisure sector.
The results for the year are set out in the Group consolidated income statement on page 38.
An interim dividend of 0.91p per share was paid on 27 October 2005.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 3.84p per share to be paid on 5 July 2006 bringing the dividend payable in respect of 2005 to 4.75p 2004: 4.20p.
In addition, a special dividend of 16p per share was paid to shareholders on 9 March 2006, following the disposal of the Caffe Uno business in December 2005.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Group is the operation of restaurants.
Further information relating to the business is given in the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 6 to 11.
Directors Full details of the Directors of the Company are given on page 17.
The Directors who held office during 2005 were as follows: Alan M. Jackson Andrew Page Stephen M. A. Critoph Kevin J. Bacon Patricia A. Corzine John E. Jackson Andrew Thomas Robert Ivell In respect of 2005, each of the non-executive Directors is considered by the Board to be independent.
Alan M. Jackson transitioned from Executive Chairman to non-Executive Chairman on 1 January 2006, and is not considered to be an independent non-Executive.
No Director has a service contract with the Company requiring more than twelve months notice.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Directors retiring by rotation are Alan M. Jackson and Andrew Thomas who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
John E. Jackson has been a non-executive Director of the Company for more than nine years, and, in accordance with corporate governance best practice, also offers himself for re-election.
The Board considers John E. Jackson to remain independent and recommends his re-election as an independent non-executive Director.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors: John E. Jackson Chairman Andrew Thomas Robert Ivell The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 19 During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors: Andrew Thomas Chairman John E. Jackson Robert Ivell During the year the Nominations Committee comprised the following Directors: John E. Jackson Chairman Alan M. Jackson Andrew Page Andrew Thomas Robert Ivell The Directors remuneration report, which includes details of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys shares and options, together with information on service contracts, is set out on pages 25 to 31.
Directors shareholdings The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, all being beneficially owned, were as follows: At At At 11 April 1 January 31 December 2006 2006 2004 Executive Directors Andrew Page 178,950 156,449 156,449 Stephen M. A. Critoph 25,250 3,737 Kevin J. Bacon 67,495 49,421 19,421 Patricia A. Corzine 63,400 48,601 48,601 Non-executive Directors Alan M. Jackson 345,198 319,774 269,774 John.
E. Jackson 46,666 52,500 52,500 Andrew Thomas 46,277 50,000 50,000 Robert Ivell 8,888 10,000 Following the share consolidation on 27 February 2006, the Directors shareholdings were reduced by a factor of eight new shares for every nine existing shares held prior to the consolidation.
Details of the Directors share options are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 30 and 31.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 1 January 2006 was 152 pence and the range during the year was 114 pence to 155 pence.
Substantial shareholdings At 23 March 2006 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of shares % of issued share capital Capital International 13,788,443 7.1% Aberforth Investment Managers 11,951,763 6.2% F&C Asset Management 11,133,024 5.8% Fidelity 10,369,941 5.4% Barclays Global Investors 9,982,074 5.2% M & G Investment Management 9,646,211 5.0% JP Morgan Asset Management 8,475,555 4.4% Legal & General Investment Management 7,608,292 3.9% Fortis Investment Management 6,799,536 3.5% The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 20 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the Companys compliance with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the Guidance on Audit Committees, together the Code.
The Company has been in full compliance throughout the year with the provisions set out in the Code other than as noted below.
The Board The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company and Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board reviews the Groups strategic objectives and looks to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve these objectives, and to review management performance against these objectives.
The Board also sets the Companys values and standards and manages the business in a manner to meet its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Executive Director of the Leisure division, the Executive Director of the Concessions division and three non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear on page 17 and these demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital for the success of the Group.
John E. Jackson acts as senior independent non-executive Director and is available to shareholders if they have reasons for concern on which contact through the normal channels is inappropriate or has failed to resolve an issue.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the strategic direction and operational management of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular basis and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
This includes approval of the annual budget and the three year business plan, approval of the interim and year end report and accounts, review and approval of significant capital expenditure including development of new sites, significant disposals of assets and acquisitions or disposals of businesses.
Operational management are responsible for the day to day running of the Group and report on a regular basis on that performance to the Board.
The Board is responsible for reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic direction of the Group and monitoring operational performance.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and has access to the necessary information to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, except where they are appointed by shareholders, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of not more than three years.
There is significant involvement from the non-executive Directors.
This involves an on-going dialogue with executive Directors with constructive challenges of performance and the Groups strategy.
The non-executive Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive management of the Group.
Comprehensive board papers including financial information are circulated to all Directors prior to Board meetings and, on a weekly basis, they receive up-to-date trading information.
The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors present, and this includes discussions of targets set and met by management.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed for the Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense of the Company.
On joining the Board there is a process for Directors to receive training as to their role and its requirements and for non-executive Directors to gain an understanding of the whole business.
Non-executive Directors are actively encouraged to meet with operational management to enhance their understanding of the Groups business, its brands, employees and processes.
During 2005 there were nine Board meetings.
Overall attendance at meetings was 97% by Board members Andrew Thomas and John E. Jackson gave their apologies in respect of one meeting each.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 21 Executive Directors are included in the annual performance evaluation of all senior employees within the Group.
This involves a comprehensive review of performance against objectives and covers areas for future development through appraisal documentation and meetings.
The non-executive Directors also met in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance in the light of his salary review.
The Company acknowledges the importance of developing the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant courses and seminars and to acquire skills and experience which may enhance their contribution to the on-going progress of the Group.
The Board and committees of the Board have been subject to a formal performance appraisal, through an internal questionnaire, and the performance of all members of the Board is considered as part of the annual remuneration review process.
Communications with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review and Group Finance Directors review on pages 4 to 15 include a detailed review of the business and the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 6 to 11 includes a review of planned future developments.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional investors including presentations after the Companys preliminary announcement of the year end results, and at the half year.
Feedback from major institutional shareholders is provided to the Board on a regular basis.
and where appropriate the Board will take steps to address concerns and recommendations.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions, and for all Directors to attend.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of the non-executive Directors.
There was 100% attendance of the four Remuneration Committee meetings during 2005.
The role of this Committee and details of how the Company complies with the principles of the Code are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 25 to 31.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the three non-executive Directors, the Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
It met once during 2005 with full attendance except for John E. Jackson who gave his apologies.
There are written terms of reference for the Nominations Committee.
It makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment of replacement or additional directors.
It is also responsible for succession planning for the Group.
Alan M. Jackson and Andrew Thomas offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 24 May 2006.
The Board have confirmed that they are satisfied that each of the Directors continue to contribute effectively and has demonstrated commitment to the role.
John E. Jackson has been a non-executive Director of the Company for more than nine years, and in accordance with corporate governance best practice, also offers himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman and Board are satisfied that John E. Jackson is considered to be independent in his role as senior non-executive Director notwithstanding his length of service on the Board, and that he continues to provide valuable experience, judgement and insight to the Board and its Committees.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of the three non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by John E. Jackson who is a chartered accountant.
It meets on a regular basis under its terms of reference, and with the Group Finance Director and the external auditors to review the financial statements and external financial announcements made by the Company.
It has responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity, and reviews supplies of all non-audit services provided by the external auditors to ensure that independence and objectivity are not compromised.
Andrew Thomas is a partner in an independent firm of Chartered Accountants.
The other members of the Audit Committee are non-executive Directors.
The Audit Committee met twice during 2005: Andrew Thomas sent his apologies in respect of one meeting.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 22 Report of the Directors continued Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with guidance for directors Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has ensured that there is an ongoing process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control including identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, is carried out in conjunction with business planning and is documented in a risk register that has been progressively enhanced during the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Whilst acknowledging the overall responsibility for the system of internal control, the Board is aware that the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has well established procedures which have been developed over many years which meet the requirements of the Turnbull Guidance.
A key control procedure is the day to day involvement of executive members of the Board in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular management meetings at which performance against plan and business prospects are reviewed.
Additionally, the Board seeks to continually strengthen the internal control system where this is consistent with improving the relationship between risk and reward.
The Groups associate company, Living Ventures Limited, does not fall under the same internal controls as the Group.
The internal controls within Living Ventures Limited are discussed with management of that company on a regular basis and are considered to be appropriate for an entity of its size.
Other key features and the processes for reviewing effectiveness of the internal control system are described below: terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees, including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board and an agreed annual programme of fixed agenda items for Board approval: an established organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements.
Operational performance and operational matters are considered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors with senior management.
Financial performance is monitored and action taken through weekly reporting to the executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Board against annual budgets approved by the Board: capital investment is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels, with appraisals and post-investment reviews: comprehensive policy manuals setting out agreed standards and control procedures.
These include human resources related policies, information technology and health and safety: and an internal audit function headed by an experienced internal auditor has access to all areas of the Company and Groups business and reports to the Board.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Accounts The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Report of the Directors and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Financial statements are published on the Groups website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and have chosen to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with UK GAAP.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 23 Group financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Parent company financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Going concern Based on the Groups plans for 2006 and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Employees The Restaurant Group plc is committed to the fair treatment and development of all employees.
Wherever possible, the Directors aim to promote talent from within by reviewing succession plans and offering development opportunities.
Through the application of appropriate policies, the Directors and their management teams ensure employees are not mistreated or discriminated against on the grounds of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or part-time employment status.
The Companys performance in these areas regarding employment practices is tracked and reported at Board level.
The Directors also ensure regular communication happens throughout the business through written material, team briefings and one-to-one reviews.
Environment The Restaurant Group plc acknowledges the importance of environmental matters within its role in the community.
The Group has established an environmental committee to develop initiatives to reduce the impact on the environment from the operations of the Group and is working with several key suppliers, partners and external agencies to ensure environmental concerns are considered in conjunction with economic factors.
In particular, the Group looks to reduce the production of waste in its operations and to maximise efficiency of water consumption and the use of non-renewable fuels.
Donations No donations for political purposes have been directly made by the Company during the year.
Charitable events, fund raising and sponsorship are organised by restaurants for organisations in their locality.
As part of the celebrations of the tenth anniversary of the first Frankie & Bennys opening, a series of fund raising activities for the BBCs Children in Need appeal were undertaken.
In total, the efforts and generosity of staff and customers meant over 150,000 was raised for the appeal.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 24 Report of the Directors continued The Group also took part in the appeal for victims of the Asian tsunami, through the UNICHEF day in London.
Revenue made on 7 February 2006 in the Groups London sites was donated to the UNICHEF appeal, and this raised 21,000.
Customers of Caffe Uno raised 12,000 for the Breast Cancer Care charity, whereby 10p from every linguine with asparagus and salmon dish sold was donated to the charity.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy is to agree the terms of payments with its suppliers as and when a trading relationship is established.
The Company ensures that the terms of payment are clear and its policy is to abide by the agreed terms, provided the supplier meets its obligations.
At 1 January 2006 the Company had no trade creditors.
The Group had an average of 54 days 2004: 52 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Financial risk management The Board of The Restaurant Group plc regularly reviews the financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated therewith.
The Group does not use complicated financial instruments, and where financial instruments are used it is for reducing interest rate risk.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Group operations are primarily financed from retained earnings, bank borrowings including an overdraft facility and bank loans.
In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group also has other financial instruments such as debtors, prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise directly from the Groups operations.
Further information is provided in note 29 to the accounts.
Effective from 16 January 2003, the Group entered into two interest rate swaps for notional amounts of 20 million each to be fixed at 4.55% and 4.395% respectively, which terminated on 15 January 2006, with an option, in the Groups counterpartys favour, to extend the second 20 million swap for a further two years to 15 January 2008.
On 15 January 2006 the option was not exercised and both swaps terminated.
Effective from 16 January 2006, the Group entered into a new three year interest rate swap, for an initial notional amount of 20,000,000, rising to 50,000,000 from 18 April 2006 until 16 January 2008, when it reduces to 30,000,000 until 16 January 2009, at which date it terminates.
The fixed rate for the duration of the three years is 4.695%.
The average rate of interest charged during the year on the Groups debt excluding DPP Restaurants Limited, which was not directly controlled during the year was 5.50% 2004: 5.60%, and the average year end rate was 5.32% 2004: 5.37%.
On 2005 results, net interest was covered 17.5 times 2004: 15.6 times by profit before tax, interest, the result of DPP Restaurants Limited and exceptional items.
Based on year end debt and profits for 2005, a 1% rise in interest rates would reduce profits before tax, DPP Restaurants Limited and exceptional items by 0.1% 2004: 0.2% and reduce interest cover to 17.4 times 2004: 21.1 times.
At 1 January 2006 the Group including DPP Restaurants Limited had gross borrowings including overdraft of 12.8 million 2004: 12.1 million and cash balances of 0.4 million 2004: 0.5 million.
Annual General Meeting A separate Circular is included with the mailing of these Report and Accounts to shareholders setting out the resolutions to be voted on at the Annual General Meeting, which is to take place on at 11am on 24 May 2006 at The Thistle Charing Cross Hotel, The Strand, London WC2N 5HX.
The Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 24 May 2006 are in the best interests of shareholders and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the Company.
Auditors BDO Stoy Hayward LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors, and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for their reappointment.
By order of the Board, Robert J. Morgan Company Secretary 11 April 2006 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005
