This is Rexam Rexam is a leading global consumer packaging company and the largest beverage can maker in the world.
Our vision is to be the leading global consumer packaging company.
We are business partners to many of the worlds most famous and successful consumer brands as well as young, entrepreneurial start-ups.
We offer a broad range of packaging services and solutions for different industries, using different materials and technologies.
Three things characterise us leadership in our industry, our commitment to innovation and our passion to deliver exceptional value.
For further information, visit Rexams web site at www.
com Rexam is the worlds No.
The cans are used for a wide array Beverage Cans of beverages, including beer, carbonated soft drinks, juices, sports and energy drinks, water, wine, spirit mixers and even iced coffee.
In Europe, we are the largest beverage can maker with more than 40% of the market.
We make both aluminium and steel cans at 15 can and 4 can end plants.
In North America, which includes Mexico, we are the No.
3 beverage can maker with around one quarter of the market.
We have 18 can and 2 can end plants.
In South America, we are market leader with around 60% of the market.
We have five can plants in Brazil, including a can end plant, with a sixth under construction, and one each in Argentina and Chile.
We also have one beverage can plant in China and a joint venture in South Korea.
In February 2006 we acquired a can plant in the fast growing Egyptian market.
Rexam manufactures plastic packaging solutions on a global basis for a wide range Plastic Packaging of end uses.
These include beauty packaging and dispensing systems, pharmaceutical packaging and delivery systems, packaging for home and personal care products, advanced re llable and one-way plastic bottles, trays, tubs and other containers for food, as well as closures for beverages and regulated markets which require child-resistant or tamper-evident products.
We have leading positions in a number of product areas such as spray samplers, lipstick cases, compacts and drug-powder inhalers.
In total, our plastic packaging operation comprises more than 50 plants in Europe, North and South America, China and Indonesia which combine expertise in design, engineering, injection and blow moulding with mould manufacturing and automation systems.
Rexam is the second largest glass container manufacturer in northern Europe where we Glass have just over 25% of the market.
Our products are used for beverages and food as well as pharmaceuticals.
In all, we have 13 glassworks located in Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and Sweden.
We are a leader in the application of new decorative technologies.
Based on a solid foundation of operational excellence, we pioneer ways of delivering differentiation through shape, size, colour and decoration for leading global and regional brands.
We have around 100 plants in more Locations than 20 countries around the world.
In 2005, we employed some 22,000 people, a quarter of whom were in China and South East Asia.
Recent acquisitions have increased the number of employees to around 23,500.
Full details of all our locations can be found on www.
