Directors report The directors present their Report and the audited Group Accounts offer is launched, the transaction would be expected to complete for the year ended 31 December 2005. during the first half of 2006.
Financial results, business review and future prospects Disposals The Groups financial results, business review and future prospects On 23 May 2005 the Group announced the disposal of its glass are described in detail in the Chairmans statement and in the business in Barnsley, United Kingdom, to Ardagh Glass for a cash Operating and Financial review.
Dividends Directors A final dividend of 10.6p per ordinary share is proposed which, Details of the Board of directors for the year ended 31 December subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 5 June 2006 to 2005 and at the date of this report are set out on page 35. shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 May 2006.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 10 May 2006.
As stated in the 2004 Directors report, Bill Barker was appointed W hen taken with the interim dividend of 7.52p per ordinary an executive director on 21 January 2005 with responsibility for share paid on 1 November 2005, the total dividend for the year the Beverage Can businesses.
He brings to this position outstanding ended 31 December 2005 is 18.12p per ordinary share leadership qualities, operational experience and proven business 2004: 17.25p.
Dividends on the 7.75 pence convertible cumulative preference On 14 July 2005 Yves Dominioni, executive director with shares are payable on 31 March and 30 September each year.
responsibility for the beauty and pharmaceutical packaging businesses, retired from the Board.
Yves Dominioni remains with Principal acquisitions and disposals the Company in an advisory capacity until 14 January 2007.
Details of the Groups acquisitions and disposals can be found in the Operating and Financial review.
The following is a summary Graham Chipchase was appointed to the newly created position of the significant transactions.
of Group Director Plastic Packaging on 14 July 2005.
His successor as Finance Director is David Robbie who was appointed Acquisitions to the Board on 3 October 2005.
David Robbie brings to the On 6 September 2005, the Group announced the acquisition of Board a strong track record having been Chief Financial Officer Delta Plastics Inc, a plastic packaging business based in the US, of both Royal P& O Nedlloyd and CMG.
He has demonstrated for a cash consideration of 88m including borrowings assumed.
that he has the financial and strategic skills to continue to build The acquisition was completed on 22 September 2005 upon Rexam organically and through acquisition.
receipt of US competition authority clearance.
On 8 February 2006 Christopher Clark, who was the senior The acquisition of Precise Technology Inc, a US based manufacturer independent director, retired as a non executive director.
Carl of plastic packaging, for a cash consideration of 146m, including Symon, a non executive director, was appointed senior borrowings assumed, was announced on 14 November 2005 independent director with effect from the same date.
and was completed on 13 December 2005 upon receipt of US competition authority clearance.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, David Robbie, who has been appointed an executive director since the last Annual On 25 January 2006, the acquisition of the Chinese beauty General Meeting, will retire from the Board at the Annual General packaging business of FangXin Limited, for a cash consideration Meeting 2006 and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
The acquisition is expected to complete Lars Emilson, Chief Executive, Graham Chipchase, Group during the first quarter of 2006.
Director Plastic Packaging, and David Tucker, a non executive director, will retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting The acquisition of the Egyptian Can Making Company Ecanco, 2006 and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Egypt's sole beverage can maker, was announced on 30 January 2006, for a cash consideration of 61m.
Following receipt of The service contracts of the executive directors and the letters regulatory approval, completion took place on 6 February 2006. of appointment for the non executive directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the On 22 February 2006, Rexam announced its intention to launch Annual General Meeting, as specified in the Notice of Annual a public offer to acquire Airspray NV, a dispensing systems General Meeting 2006. business listed on the Dutch stock exchange for 102m.
If the 36 Directors report Directors interests Donations None of the directors had a material interest during or at the end Donations made by the Group for charitable purposes in the UK of the year in any contract of significance in relation to the business were 68,000 2004: 98,000, which included a donation to of the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
The Chairman the Princes Trust, a charity helping young people to become self and the executive directors are deemed to have an interest in the sufficient, and a donation to the British Occupational Health Rexam PLC ordinary shares held by the Rexam Employee Share Research Foundation which contributes to the well-being of people Trust as detailed in Note 29 to the Accounts.
working in the manufacturing industry.
No donations were made for political purposes.
Full details of the share interests of those directors holding office on 31 December 2005 in the ordinary share capital of the The worldwide total amounted to 790,000 2004: 257,000, Company, including any interest of a connected person, are set which included donations towards the relief efforts following the out in the Remuneration report.
earthquake and tsunami in Asia and the hurricane in the US.
Various donations were also given to support youth initiatives in Substantial shareholdings the US and an aluminium can recycling organisation in Brazil.
At the date of this Report, the Company had received notification from the following financial institutions of their own and their clients Employees interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the The Rexam W ay establishes the core values that distinguish Rexam Company, in accordance with sections 198 - 208 of the Companies as a market leader and employer of choice.
The number of shares and percentage interests stated Continuous Improvement and Recognition are the values that the are as disclosed at the date on which the holding was notified.
Group has chosen and which involve, inform and motivate employees to work towards the vision of making Rexam the world's Shares % leading consumer packaging group.
The Rexam W ay Impact Aviva plc 22,449,365 4.06 Program has been designed to support these core values.
Its aim Barclays PLC 22,206,280 4.02 is to raise performance by getting the best from empowered HBOS plc 21,896,327 3.96 teams through a series of workshops and follow-up action plans.
Legal & General Group Plc 16,508,595 3.01 Further information on the Program can be found on page 25.
Research and development The Group has active policies of equal opportunity ranging from The Group commits sufficient funds to enable it to keep in the selection and recruitment to training and development which meet forefront of all relevant product, process, market and system the needs of its operations around the world.
Disabled people are developments in the market segments in which it operates.
given full consideration for employment and subsequent training Expenditure during the year amounted to 12m 2004: 13m.
including, if needed, retraining for alternative work where employees have become disabled, career development and Corporate responsibility promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
Information relating to the Companys policies towards the environment and other areas of corporate responsibility can be The Groups Horizon Program aims to achieve a unified approach found in the Operating and Financial review on pages 23 to 26.
The to the career progression of talented people in Rexam through Environmental and Social Update 2004 published on the Companys structured development programmes run globally for varying web site, www.
com, provides information and case studies on management levels.
In addition to the Horizon Program, the Group's how we manage our environmental and social responsibilities.
businesses are responsible for arranging training programmes that aim to develop specific skills for employees.
There is also a Financial risk management well developed graduate recruitment programme that includes The financial risk management and objectives of the Group and carefully planned training and education for an eighteen month the exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow period in a related professional discipline.
risk are set out in Notes 24 and 25 to the Accounts.
Communication with employees has an important focus through Payments to suppliers quarterly team briefings when employees can participate and The Groups operating businesses are responsible for the terms give their views on any aspect of the Groups business.
The Chief and conditions under which they conduct business transactions Executive also issues regular on-line updates to employees through with their suppliers.
It is Group policy to agree the terms of the Group's intranet.
The Groups annual and interim results payment and make payments to suppliers in accordance with announcements are presented at the subsequent team briefings those terms, provided that suppliers have complied with all and employees are given the opportunity to comment on the relevant terms and conditions.
financial and economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
The Annual Review, Annual Report and Interim Report are available The Company had 12 days 2004: 18 days purchases on the Companys web site.
The Groups global intranet is an outstanding at 31 December 2005 based on the average daily immediate source of information and knowledge.
The in-house amount invoiced by suppliers.
employee magazine, 'at rexam', is published in fifteen languages for worldwide distribution.
37 Directors report Authority for purchase of own shares The Rexam European Forum REF is a joint employee representative At the Annual General Meeting 2005, shareholders passed a and management body created for the exchange of information special resolution renewing the authority to the Company, in and dialogue concerning issues which may impact Rexams accordance with the Articles of Association, to purchase up to employees within the European Economic Area.
The REF holds an 10% 55m of its own ordinary shares in the market.
No ordinary annual meeting attended by the Chief Executive and other senior shares have been purchased in the market, nor has any contract management.
A smaller coordinating committee drawn from been made to purchase ordinary shares under the previous or within the REF exists to discuss organisational issues as well as existing authorities from 1 January 2005 to the date of this any exceptional business issues which may arise and which may Report.
The directors are seeking to renew the authority at the have an impact on Rexams European employees.
Further details can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006.
The Company has well established employee share schemes to promote share ownership, as described in the Remuneration report.
Auditors Competitive retirement and benefit packages are offered and, In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, subject to the culture, market practices and regulations in the a resolution for the re-appointment of  LLP countries where we carry out our business, benefits may be will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 2006. provided in whole or in part by the government, private or supplementary Rexam sponsored programmes.
Financial details of the Groups worldwide retirement arrangements can be found On behalf of the Board in the Operating and Financial review and Note 26 to the Accounts.
David Gibson Company Secretary Annual General Meeting 2006 22 February 2006 The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.00am on 4 May 2006 at One Great George Street, London SW 1, details of which can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006.
