Rexam at work Bursting with colour: Illustration Impact is a new print technology launched by Rexam in 2005 to sharpen image reproduction on beverage cans and to enhance the cans standout properties on supermarket shelves.
It brings graphics to life in a completely new way and has already been snapped up by a number of customers looking to show their brands at their best.
Delivering with passion Rexam has more than 40 beverage can plants in Europe, the US and South America.
To drive continuous improvement across these beverage can operations, we launched an initiative known as Excellence in Performance to identify the best-practice plants and introduce systemised, process-based benchmarking activities to ensure that all plants could benefit from those best practices.
The plant in La Selva, Spain, was considered the best for electricity reduction by addressing areas such as variable frequency drives and compressed air usage.
The lessons learned are now being adopted by all other plants.
The plant in Extrema, Brazil, showed itself best at gas usage and spoilage reduction and its practices are being rolled out to other plants.
In the US, work done on reducing inside spray is similarly being held up as the best model and will be implemented by plants in other regions.
The new benchmarking process will enable Rexam to further strengthen its status as a world-class beverage can maker.
11 Cum dit ulla facipsu msandio corperc ilismodolor sequisci et 12 Rexam at work Based on its proprietary pump technology, Rexam designed this innovative dispensing system for skin condition treatment, a high-growth market.
Our customer, a leading pharmaceutical company, was looking for added convenience for the patient while maintaining stringent stability requirements.
Innovative growth To complement our organic growth, we pursue acquisitions in a variety of high growth markets and product segments.
We look at areas where we can gain access to new technologies or markets to strengthen our position with our customers and suppliers or even areas where we are not present.
In the past two years, we have invested substantially in speciality plastic packaging.
For example, we are now a market leader in drug delivery systems, medical devices and plastic primary packaging for the growing pharmaceutical market.
A succession of ground-breaking products has helped establish us as a credible, recognised leading player.
We are accelerating our strategy of investment in new technologies and world-class production in order to offer our customers viable solutions that combine safety, innovation, quality and reliability.
13 Cum dit ulla facipsu msandio corperc ilismodolor sequisci et 14 Rexam at work In 2005, Rexam produced a new beer bottle for The Jacobsen Brewhouse, part of the Carlsberg Group in Denmark.
The beer is named after, and brewed in the spirit of, Carlsbergs founder, J. C. Jacobsen.
The new amber and embossed bottle brings out the heritage and tradition of the famous Danish brewer.
It is available in both 33cl and 75cl sizes.
The larger bottle is an ideal size for sharing with friends a current trend in bottled beer.
Technical leadership Glass is an energy intensive business: it is also a source of emissions.
The installation of a new furnace and the recon guration of the production layout at our Dongen glassworks in the Netherlands have helped improve glass quality and reduce energy consumption.
We have reached new world-class levels of energy ef ciency.
Installation of the latest inspection technology enables us to meet the increasing quality requirements of our customers and emission levels that comply with current and expected EU requirements.
The total production layout has been classi ed as a benchmark for the industry by leading customers.
The lessons learned at Dongen are being rolled out across our other 12 glassworks in northern Europe.
