81795x 1140g 1 3 06 3:00 pm Page 54 Operational review continued Support continued for brownfield work at a number of Rio Tinto operations, including Diavik, Argyle, Kennecott Utah Copper, Energy Exploration group Resources of Australia, Pilbara Iron and Rssing.
In December Rio Tinto received confirmation of success in two Rio Tinto Exploration seeks to discover or identify mineral resources that tenders.
The first was the award of the La Granja copper project located will contribute to the growth of the Rio Tinto Group.
The discovery of in the Cajamarca region of northern Peru.
The bid comprises a new resources is essential to replace deposits as they are mined and to US$60 million investment in exploration and feasibility work and staged help meet the increasing global demand for minerals and metals.
payments to the Peruvian government of US$22 million.
Rio Tinto will be The Exploration group is opportunistic in approach and its conducting a study aimed at demonstrating the feasibility of leaching the resources are deployed on projects that show the best chance of ore and electrowinning copper metal.
delivering a world class deposit to Rio Tinto.
Mineral exploration is a The second successful tender was for the Jarandol concession high risk activity.
Rio Tintos statistics show that an average of only one hosting the Piskanja borate deposit located in southern Serbia.
This in 350 mineral prospects that are drill tested result in a mine for the project will now enter a period of ongoing exploration and evaluation Group.
Rio Tinto believes in having a critical mass of projects, selected planned to last between three and five years.
through a rigorous process of prioritisation.
On 27 January 2006 Rio Tinto announced with Norilsk Nickel the The Exploration group is organised into four geographically based launch of an exploration and development joint venture in Russia.
A teams for North America, South America, Australasia and Africa Europe Russian limited liability company is being formed owned 51 per cent by and a fifth team that looks for industrial minerals on a global basis.
Norilsk and 49 per cent by Rio Tinto.
The joint venture will give Rio Tinto Additionally, a small focused project generation team covers the world exploration access to a large area of interest in the Siberian and far for new opportunities.
At the end of 2005, Rio Tinto was exploring in 30 countries for a In December the Exploration group received ISO14001 certification broad range of commodities including copper, diamonds, nickel, covering all the environmental management activities of the four core industrial minerals, bauxite, iron ore and coal.
During 2005 a single integrated HSEC 178 geologists and geophysicists around the world and has a total management system was developed and introduced across the complement of approximately 800 people.
The management system framework of ISO14001 Tom Albanese, chief executive Copper and Exploration, is based in was extended from environmental matters to also cover the other London.
related areas of health, safety and communities.
2005 operating performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Exploration in 2005 focused on advancing the most promising targets 2005 compared with 2004 across the spectrum of grassroots, generative, drill test stage, and near Cash expenditure on exploration in 2005 was US$264 million and the mine programmes.
Encouraging results were obtained from a number pre-tax charge to underlying earnings was US$250 million, a of locations.
US$60 million increase over 2004, reflecting a further increase in iron ore An order of magnitude study was completed on the La Sampala exploration in Western Australia, the growth of high quality projects in project nickel, Indonesia.
However, this project remains with the the Exploration pipeline and further acceleration of evaluation on Exploration group while a Contract of Work is negotiated with the significant projects by product groups during the year.
In the Pilbara of Western Australia five new iron ore deposits were handed over to the product group evaluation team.
Since 2001 five projects have moved from exploration to the next stage of project evaluation including Resolution copper, Arizona, US, Potasio Rio Colorado potash, Argentina and Simandou iron ore, Guinea.
In addition to these projects, near mine exploration has also been undertaken.
Where resources have been supplemented or additional resource discovered this has been reported by the respective product group.
During 2006 several projects will initiate order of magnitude studies to assess their economic potential for advancement to pre-feasibility assessment.
Diamond exploration continued in Canada, southern Africa, Mauritania, Brazil and India.
A number of diamond bearing kimberlite pipes were discovered and follow up test work is in progress to gauge economic potential.
The Indian diamond programme is showing early promise.
Copper exploration continued in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Mexico and the US.
Drilling encountered copper mineralisation in Turkey and the US, warranting further follow up drill testing.
Exploration focus on the bulk commodities iron ore, coal and bauxite has been increasing each year for the last several years and did so again in 2005.
Ongoing evaluation of several projects is continuing with the intention to progress additional projects to product group handover in 2006.
The Exploration group was active in the search for industrial mineral deposits in a number of parts of the world including North and South America, Europe, south east Asia and Turkey.
54 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW 200 5
