81795x 1190 28 2 06 1:31 pm Page 86 Shareholder information continued TAXATION Dividend reinvestment plan DRP UK resident individuals Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested in Taxation of dividends the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash and Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the dividend.
The dividend should therefore be included in Individuals who are not liable to income tax at the higher rate will have the annual tax return as assessable income.
Higher rate tax payers are liable to tax on UK The shares acquired should be added to the shareholding at the dividends at 32.5 per cent which, after taking account of the tax credit, date of acquisition at the actual cost of the shares, which is the amount produces a further tax liability of 25 per cent of the dividend received.
of the dividend applied by the shareholder to acquire shares and any incidental costs associated with the acquisition, including stamp duty, Dividend reinvestment plan DRP will form part of the cost base or reduced cost base of the shares for The taxation effect of participation in the DRP will depend on individual capital gains tax purposes.
Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested in the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the Capital gains tax cash and arranged the investment.
The dividend should, therefore, be The Australian capital gains tax legislation is complex.
If shareholders included in the annual tax return in the normal way.
have acquired shares after 19 September 1985 they may be subject to The shares acquired should be added to shareholdings at the date capital gains tax on the disposal of those shares.
and at the net cost shown on the share purchase advice.
The actual Generally, disposal of shares held on capital account would give cost of the shares, for Rio Tinto plc shareholders including the stamp rise to a capital gain or loss.
A capital gain arises when the proceeds on duty stamp duty reserve tax, will form the base cost for capital gains tax disposal are greater than the cost base of shares.
when the proceeds on sale are less than the cost base or reduced cost base.
Where a capital gain arises on shares held for at least 12 months, Capital gains tax individual, trust and superannuation fund shareholders may be eligible Shareholders who have any queries on capital gains tax issues are for a capital gains tax discount.
advised to consult their financial adviser.
Shareholders are advised to seek the advice of an independent A leaflet which includes details of relevant events since 31 March taxation consultant on any possible capital gains tax exposure.
1982 and provides adjusted values for Rio Tinto plc securities as at that date is available from the company secretary.
US resident individuals The following is a summary of the principal UK tax, Australian tax and Australian resident individuals US Federal income tax consequences of the ownership of Rio Tinto plc Taxation of dividends ADSs, Rio Tinto plc shares, Rio Tinto Limited ADSs and Rio Tinto The basis of the Australian dividend imputation system is that when Limited shares the Groups ADSs and shares by a US holder as Australian resident shareholders receive dividends from Rio Tinto defined below.
It is not intended to be a comprehensive description of all Limited, they may be entitled to a credit for the Australian tax paid by the tax considerations that are relevant to all classes of taxpayer.
Future the Group in respect of that income, depending on the tax status of the changes in legislation may affect the tax consequences of the shareholder.
ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
The application of the system results in the Australian tax paid by It is based in part on representations by the Groups depositary the Group being allocated to shareholders by way of franking credits bank as Depositary for the ADRs evidencing the ADSs and assumes attaching to the dividends they receive.
Such dividends are known as that each obligation in the deposit agreements will be performed in franked dividends.
A dividend may be partly or fully franked.
The current accordance with its terms.
Rio Tinto Limited dividend is fully franked and the franking credits You are a US holder if you are a beneficial owner of the Groups attached to the dividend are shown in the distribution statement ADSs and shares and you are: a citizen or resident of the United States, provided to shareholders.
a domestic corporation, an estate whose income is subject to United The extent to which a company can frank a dividend depends on States federal income tax regardless of its source, or a trust if a United the credit balance in its franking account.
Credits to this account can States court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts arise in a number of ways, including when a company pays company administration and one or more United States persons are authorised to tax or receives a franked dividend from another company.
The dividend control all substantial decisions of the trust.
is required to be included in a resident individual shareholders This section applies to US holders only if you hold your shares or assessable income.
In addition, an amount equal to the franking credit ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to attached to the franked dividend is also included in the assessable you if you are a member of a special class of holders subject to special income of the resident individual, who may then be entitled to a rebate rules, including: a dealer in securities, a trader in securities that elects to of tax equal to the franking credit amount included in their income.
use a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities holdings, a Should the franking credits exceed the tax due, the excess is refunded tax-exempt organization, a life insurance company, a person liable for to the resident individual.
alternative minimum tax, a person that actually or constructively owns The effect of the dividend imputation system on non resident ten per cent or more of our voting stock, a person that holds shares or shareholders is that, to the extent that the dividend is franked, no ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction, or a Australian tax will be payable and there is an exemption from dividend US holder whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as A withholding tax is normally levied at the rate of 15 per cent when amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, unfranked dividends are paid to residents of countries with which published rulings and court decisions, and on the convention between Australia has a taxation treaty.
Most Western countries have a taxation the United States of America and United Kingdom, and the convention treaty with Australia.
A rate of 30 per cent applies to countries where between the United States of America and Australia the Conventions there is no taxation treaty.
which may affect the tax consequences of the ownership of the Groups Since 1988, all dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited have been fully ADSs and shares.
These laws and conventions are subject to change, franked.
It is the Groups policy to pay fully franked dividends whenever possibly on a retroactive basis.
US holders should consult their own tax adviser regarding the United States federal, state and local and foreign and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of shares and ADSs in their 86 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 200 5
