81795x 1190 27 2 06 8:30 PM Page 88 Shareholder information continued Takeovers Act.
The Takeovers Act applies to any acquisition of 15 per determined in US dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, cent or more of the outstanding shares of an Australian company or to translated and paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
The Companies are any transaction that results in one non resident, or a group of associated also required to announce and pay their dividends and other non residents, controlling 15 per cent or more of an Australian company.
distributions as close in time to each other as possible.
The Takeovers Act also applies to any transaction which results in a In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient group of non associated non residents controlling 40 per cent or more distributable reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised of an Australian company.
Persons who are proposing such acquisitions capital distribution, it would be entitled to receive a top up payment from or transactions are required to notify the Treasurer of their intention.
The top up payment could be made as a dividend Treasurer has the power to order divestment in cases where such on the DLC Dividend Share or by way of a contractual payment.
acquisitions or transactions have already occurred.
The Takeovers Act If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law does not affect the rights of owners whose interests are held in applicable to one of the Companies, then they may depart from the compliance with the legislation.
However, should such a departure occur then the relevant Company will put aside reserves to be held for payment on the DUAL LISTED COMPANIES STRUCTURE relevant shares at a later date.
On 20 December 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend the dual listed companies merger the DLC merger which was designed equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
to place the shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same The DLC Dividend Share can also be utilised to provide the Group position as if they held shares in a single enterprise owning all of the with flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be assets of both Companies.
As a condition of its approval of the DLC paid between the two parts of the Group.
Such dividend payments are merger, the Australian Government required Rio Tinto plc to reduce its of no economic significance to the shareholders of either Company, as shareholding in Rio Tinto Limited to 39 per cent by the end of 2005. they will have no effect on the Groups overall resources.
Consistent with the commitments made to the Australian Government in 1995, the Rio Tinto plc shareholding in Rio Tinto Limited has been Voting rights reduced over time to now stand at approximately 37.5 per cent.
In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the public shareholders Following the approval of the DLC merger, both Companies of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate on all entered into a DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement matters which affect shareholders of both Companies in similar ways.
through which each Company agreed: a to ensure that the businesses These are referred to as Joint Decisions.
Such Joint Decisions include of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are managed on a unified basis, the creation of new classes of share capital, the appointment or removal b to ensure that the boards of directors of each Company is the same, of directors and auditors and the receiving of annual financial and c to give effect to certain arrangements designed to provide statements.
Joint Decisions are voted on a poll.
shareholders of each Company with a common economic interest in the The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of the combined enterprise.
public shareholders of each Company by treating the shares issued by In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement each Company as if they were separate classes of shares issued by a provided for the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights single company.
So decisions that do not affect the shareholders of attached to each Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto Limited both Companies equally require the separate approval of the share to be fixed in an Equalisation Ratio which has remained shareholders of both Companies.
Matters requiring this approval unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing Agreement has provided for this ratio to procedure are referred to as Class Rights Actions and are voted on a be revised in special circumstances where, for example, certain poll.
modifications are made to the share capital of one Company, such as Thus, the interests of the shareholders of each Company are rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and share consolidations, but protected against decisions which affect them and the shareholders in not to the share capital of the other.
Outside these specified the other company differently, by requiring their separate approval.
For circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the example, fundamental elements of the DLC merger cannot be changed approval of shareholders under the Class Rights Action approval unless approved by shareholders under the Class Rights Action procedure described under Voting rights.
In addition, any adjustments approval procedure.
are required to be confirmed by the auditors.
Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to legislation requires the separate approval of a decision by the appropriate a wide range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple majority of shareholders in one Company and where approval of the jurisdictions.
Where these rules differ, in many instances it means that matter by shareholders of the other Company is not required.
Rio Tinto, as a Group, complies with the strictest applicable level.
Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint Consistent with the creation of a single combined enterprise under Decision or a Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the power the DLC merger, directors of each Company act in the best interests of to change that categorisation.
If a matter falls within both categories, it is the shareholders of both Companies ie, in the best interests of Rio Tinto treated as a Class Rights Action.
In addition, the directors can as a whole.
When matters may involve a conflict of interests between determine that matters not expressly listed in either category should be the shareholders of each Company they must be approved under the put to shareholders for their approval under either procedure.
Class Rights Action approval procedure.
To facilitate the joint voting arrangements each Company has To ensure that the boards of both Companies are identical, entered into shareholder voting agreements.
Each Company has issued resolutions to appoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders a Special Voting Share to a special purpose company held in trust by a of both as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions as described under common Trustee.
Voting rights, and it is a requirement that a person can only be a director Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share RTP Special of one Company if that person is also a director of the other Company.
Voting Share to RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued So, for example, if a person was removed as a director of one its Special Voting Share RTL Special Voting Share to RTP Shareholder Company, he or she would also cease to be a director of the other.
The total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions by the public shareholders of one Company are voted at the parallel meeting of the Dividend rights other Company.
The role of these special purpose companies in The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and achieving this is described below.
Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that is In exceptional circumstances, certain public shareholders of the without taking into account any associated tax credits.
Dividends are Companies can be excluded from voting at the respective Companys 88 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 200 5
