Risk assessment and management is an important and integral component of the project review process.
The unit also Technology group continued with the programme of post investment reviews and lessons learned from completed projects are shared within the Group.
The Technology group provides a central platform to support Rio Tintos The Project Management Unit provides ongoing support to major operations, future growth and profitability.
It provides a world-class project teams across Rio Tinto, both for projects in execution and those technology based service to the product groups and their businesses still in the feasibility stage.
There was also continued involvement with and advises executive management.
Through the Health, Safety and some major projects at non managed operations.
Two project Environment unit, assurance is provided to the board with regard to the management forums were held during the year focussing on development and implementation of Rio Tintos Safety, Occupational collaboration between project teams and capture of lessons learned.
Health and Environment policies and standards.
All units in the Technology Group identify, share and implement Asset Utilisation leading practice across Rio Tinto.
Collaboration in knowledge capture This unit is now well established across the Group and its workload and dissemination is a key requirement for all staff.
There has been particularly heavy involvement Throughout 2005 Technology group staff were a core part of the with the iron ore operations in Western Australia which continued Improving performance together programme, driving the implementation through 2005.
The process control group is now well established and of a number of initiatives to create value for the Group through a implementation of performance improvement was progressed in a combination of capital efficiency, higher volumes, higher revenues and number of areas.
These included asset integrity and remote monitoring.
There is continuing emphasis on ensuring that safety, operability and The total staff in the Technology group at year end was 343 maintainability issues are fully addressed and incorporated in all the compared with 362 in 2004.
The decrease was due to reassignment of units work.
some support functions to the Rio Tinto Shared Services group.
On 1 May, 2005 Ian Smith succeeded John OReilly as head of FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Technology, and is based in London.
The charge for the Technology group including Health, Safety and Environment against net earnings was US$41 million, compared with 2005 operating performance US$35 million in 2004.
The increase was due to the greater level of Health, Safety and Environment activity in all Technology group units.
Health, Safety and Environment continued to work closely with Group businesses, providing the support systems for full and consistent implementation of the strategies, standards, guidance and procedures.
The Rio Tinto Safety Plan is being updated to reflect emerging issues, changed legislation and leading practices.
A Product Stewardship Strategy has been developed for implementation across the businesses in 2006.
Technical Services Technical Services continued to increase its involvement with Rio Tinto operations, play its role in ore reserve assurance and also provide significant contributions at non managed operations.
Activity over the year was again at record levels, with a strong focus on the enhancement of initiatives to improve performance and implement best practice in areas such as mine planning and metallurgical margin improvement.
Initiatives progressed during the year include underground mining technologies and quantitative mineralogy.
A number of current development projects are linked with external research programmes in order to leverage value for Rio Tinto.
Others are focussed on innovation and best practice in key areas to add value in a shorter time frame.
Office of the Chief Technologist The Office of the Chief Technologist is responsible for the identification and the transfer of technology based opportunities for the Group.
The external research portfolio covers a broad range of initiatives with potential to add value in the medium to longer term.
These activities link directly with internal development projects, providing a clear pathway for implementation.
Work on energy efficiency in mineral liberation and comminution including new microwave technology continues to be a focus.
A number of breakthrough projects are also being pursued.
The Rio Tinto Foundation for a Sustainable Minerals Industry approved a further 12 projects for funding.
The Australian Government and Rio Tinto funding commitments for the Foundation have now been fulfilled.
Technical Evaluation and Project Management Technical Evaluation continued in its principal role of providing independent review of all major investment proposals being considered Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 55 OPERATIONAL REVIEW 200 5
