Stamp duty For the purposes of the Conventions and of the US Internal An issue or transfer of Rio Tinto Limited ADSs or a transfer of Rio Tinto Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Code US holders of ADSs Limited shares does not require the payment of Australian stamp duty.
are treated as the owners of the underlying shares.
The summary describes the treatment applicable under the US Federal income tax Conventions in force at the date of this report.
United States Internal Revenue Service Circular 230 Notice: To ensure compliance with Internal Revenue Service Circular 230, holders are UK taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc hereby notified that: a any discussion of US federal tax issues Taxation of dividends contained or referred to in this report or any document referred to herein US holders do not suffer deductions of UK withholding tax on dividends is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used by holders for paid by Rio Tinto plc.
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the purpose of avoiding penalties that may be imposed on them under the net dividend, or ten per cent of the net dividend plus the tax credit.
the United States Internal Revenue Code: b such discussion is written The tax credit is not repayable to US holders.
for use in connection with the matters addressed herein: and c holders should seek advice based on their particular circumstances from an Capital gains independent tax adviser.
A US holder will not normally be liable to UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposition of Rio Tinto plc ADSs or shares unless the holder Dividends carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a Dividends on the Groups ADSs and shares will generally be treated as permanent establishment in the UK and the ADSs or shares have been dividend income for purposes of US Federal income tax.
In the case of used for the purposes of the trade, profession or vocation or are Rio Tinto Limited, the income will be the net dividend plus, in the event acquired, held or used for the purposes of such a permanent of a dividend being subject to withholding tax, the withholding tax.
Dividend income will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Inheritance tax Dividends paid by Qualified Foreign Corporations QFCs are Under the UK Estate Tax Treaty, a US holder, who is domiciled in the US subject to a maximum rate of income tax of 15 per cent.
This maximum and is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax rate applies to taxable years beginning before 1 January 2009.
Both upon the holders death or on a transfer during the holders lifetime Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited expect to be QFCs throughout this unless the ADSs and shares form part of the business property of a period.
To qualify for the 15 per cent maximum income tax rate on permanent establishment in the UK or pertain to a fixed base situated in dividends the stock of the QFC must be held for more than 60 days the UK used in the performance of independent personal services.
In during the 121 day period beginning on the date which is 60 days the exceptional case where ADSs or shares are subject both to UK before the ex-dividend date.
inheritance tax and to US Federal gift or estate tax, the UK Estate Tax Treaty generally provides for tax payments to be relieved in accordance EXCHANGE CONTROLS with the priority rules set out in the Treaty.
Rio Tinto plc At present, there are no UK foreign exchange controls or other Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax restrictions on the import or export of capital or on the payment of Transfers of Rio Tinto plc ADSs will not be subject to UK stamp duty dividends to non resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that affect provided that the transfer instrument is not executed in, and at all times the conduct of Rio Tinto plcs operations.
The Bank of England, however, remains outside, the UK.
upholds international law and maintains financial sanctions against Purchases of Rio Tinto plc shares are subject either to stamp duty specified terrorist organisations and specific targets related to at a rate of 50 pence per 100 or to stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at a certain regimes.
Conversions of Rio Tinto plc shares into Rio Tinto There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs memorandum and plc ADSs will be subject to additional SDRT at a rate of 1.5 per cent on articles of association or under UK law that limit the right of non resident all transfers to the Depositary or its nominee.
owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plcs shares.
Australian taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto Limited Taxation of dividends Under existing Australian legislation, the Reserve Bank of Australia does US holders are not normally liable to Australian withholding tax on not restrict the import and export of funds and no permission is required dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited because such dividends are by Rio Tinto Limited for the movement of funds into or out of Australia, normally fully franked under the Australian dividend imputation system, except that restrictions apply to transactions connected with the meaning that they are paid out of income that has borne Australian following: income tax.
Any unfranked dividends would suffer Australian withholding a supporters of the former government of the Federal Republic of tax which under the Australian income tax convention is limited to Yugoslavia: and 15 per cent of the gross dividend.
b ministers and senior officials of the Government of Zimbabwe: Capital gains The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade upholds international law US holders are not normally subject to any Australian tax on the that prohibit transactions with persons identified as being associated disposal of Rio Tinto Limited ADSs or shares unless they have been with terrorists and their sponsors.
used in carrying on a trade or business wholly or partly through a Rio Tinto Limited must also deduct withholding tax from foreign permanent establishment in Australia, or the gain is in the nature of remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are unfranked, and from income sourced in Australia.
There are no limitations under the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited, Gift, estate and inheritance tax on the right of non residents, to acquire or hold or vote Rio Tinto Limited Australia does not impose any gift, estate or inheritance taxes in relation shares.
to gifts of shares or upon the death of a shareholder.
However acquisitions of interests in shares in Australian companies by foreign interests are subject to review and approval by the Treasurer of Australia under the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 the Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 87 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 200 5
