qxd 15 3 06 07:57 Page 32 32 Report of the directors The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Directors Rolls-Royce Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as The  details, including their other significant commitments, the Group for the year ended December 31, 2005. are set out on pages 30 and 31.
During the year there were a number of Board changes: Simon Robertson was appointed non-executive Chairman with effect Principal activities from January 1, 2005: Iain Conn was appointed as an independent non-executive Rolls-Royce is a global business providing power systems for use on land, at sea director with effect from January 20, 2005: Sir Robin Nicholson retired as the and in the air.
The Group has a balanced business portfolio with leading positions Companys senior independent director on February 9, 2005 and as a in the civil and defence aerospace, marine and energy markets.
There are some non-executive director, at the conclusion of the AGM on May 4, 2005: Peter Byrom 54,000 Rolls-Royce gas turbines in service and they generate a demand for succeeded him as the senior independent director: Dr Mike Howse retired as an high-value services throughout their operational lives.
Rolls-Royce is a technology executive director on June 30, 2005: and Colin Smith was appointed as an leader employing 36,200 people in ofces, manufacturing and service facilities in executive director of the Company on July 1, 2005.
Colin Green will retire from the 50 countries.
Board as an executive director on April 4, 2006.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the directors are Results for the year and the issue of B Shares subject to re-election every year, with each director also being subject to The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Finance Directors re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
Any director appointed review describe the years operations, research and development activities and during the year is separately required to retire and seek re-election by the prospects.
shareholders at the next AGM.
The Board also requires any non-executive director At the Annual General Meeting AGM on May 3, 2006, the directors will who has served on the Board for more than nine years to be subject to annual recommend an issue of 53.8 B Shares with a total nominal value of 5.38p for each re-election at the AGM.
The directors retiring at this years AGM are Peter Byrom, ordinary share.
Together with the interim issue on January 3, 2006 of 33.4 B Shares Sir John Rose, Colin Smith, Ian Strachan and Carl Symon.
They all offer themselves for each ordinary share with a total nominal value of 3.34p, this is the equivalent of for re-election.
a total annual payment to ordinary shareholders of 8.72p for each ordinary share.
The Company has entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of its Shareholders are given the opportunity to redeem their B Shares for cash or directors.
The deeds provide substantially the same protection as that already to convert them into additional ordinary shares in the Company.
For those provided to directors under the indemnity in Article 170 of the Companys shareholders who have not elected to redeem or convert their B Shares, a B Share Articles of Association.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance dividend at a rate of 75 per cent of the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR is cover for any legal action taken against its directors.
payable half yearly in arrears.
The Board believes that there continues to be a significant benefit to be Corporate governance gained from the issue of B Shares.
Payments to shareholders will, therefore, continue to be made through further issues of B Shares, generally in January and Statement on corporate governance compliance July each year.
Rolls-Royce attaches the highest priority to corporate governance, the system by which the Company is directed, managed and controlled in the interests of all its Going concern stakeholders.
The strength of the Companys corporate values, its reputation and After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the its ability to achieve its objectives are influenced by the effectiveness of the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Companys approach towards corporate governance.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis The Board confirms that throughout 2005, the Company complied with the in preparing the financial statements.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
This report and, where appropriate, the  report, explain how the Share capital Company discharges its corporate governance responsibilities.
The following shareholder has a notiable interest in the Companys ordinary shares at February 8, 2006: The Boards composition and  Simon Robertson chairs the Board of the Company and Sir John Rose is the Chief % of issued ordinary share capital Executive.
The division of responsibilities between them is set down in writing and BMW AG 9.02 agreed by the Board.
Peter Byrom is the Companys senior independent director.
There are currently 14 directors on the Board comprising the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, five other executive directors and seven Authority to purchase own shares non-executive directors.
At the AGM in 2005 the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase The quality and broad experience of the directors, the balance of the Boards up to 173,313,853 of its own ordinary shares representing ten per cent of its composition and the dynamics of the Board as a group ensure the Boards issued ordinary share capital as at February 9, 2005.
The Company did not make effectiveness and also prevent any individual or small group dominating the use of this authority during 2005.
The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the Each executive director receives a service contract on appointment see the conclusion of the AGM in 2006 and a resolution to renew it will be proposed at  report for further information and each non-executive that meeting.
director receives a letter setting out the conditions of their appointment.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, which may Auditors be extended subsequently with the agreement of the Board.
Executive directors A resolution to reappoint the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and to authorise the are employees who have executive responsibilities in addition to their duties as directors to determine their remuneration, will also be proposed at the AGM.
Non-executive directors are not employees and do not participate in the daily business management of the Group.
Political donations In line with its established policy, the Group made no political donations during 2005.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 2005 Directors&Rem.
qxd 15 3 06 07:58 Page 33 33 The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its non-executive The Board's tasks directors remain independent.
On his appointment as Chairman on January 1, In line with its primary goal, the Boards principal tasks are to: 2005, Simon Robertson met the criteria for independence contained in the ensure the development of the Companys strategy and keep it under Combined Code.
His other significant commitments are described on page 30. rigorous review: In the case of the non-executive directors, the Board reviews their independence every year, using its own judgement when applying the criteria in the Combined monitor the implementation of the strategy, ensuring that the necessary Code.
Having undertaken this review in 2005, the Board confirms that all the financial and human resources are in place to deliver it and that effective non-executive directors are considered to be independent in character and controls exist to manage risk: judgement.
safeguard the values of the Company, including its brand and corporate On January 1, 2006, Peter Byrom completed nine years service on the Board reputation and the safety of its products: and therefore does not meet one of the criteria for independence contained in the Combined Code.
Having conducted a thorough review, the Board has oversee the quality and performance of management and ensure through concluded that Peter Byrom remains independent in character and judgement, effective succession planning and remuneration policies that it is maintained that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect his at world-class standards: and independent judgement and that he is in no way dependent on the maintain an effective corporate governance framework that delivers remuneration he receives from the Company.
The Board believes strongly that in long-term value to shareholders.
a long-term, complex and technologically advanced business, it is essential that non-executive directors have the opportunity to acquire, over a number of years, the experience and knowledge of the business and the sectors within which the Directorsinduction, training and information Group operates.
With his financial background, City experience and deep Newly appointed directors participate in a structured induction programme and knowledge of the Groups business, Peter Byrom is particularly well qualied to receive a comprehensive data pack providing detailed information on the Group.
serve as the Chairman of the audit committee and as the senior independent An existing executive director acts as a mentor to each newly appointed director.
The Board therefore considers it to be in the interests of shareholders that non-executive director, giving guidance and advice as required.
As part of their he should continue to support the Company in both these roles, a judgement brieng, non-executive directors visit key sites and meet a cross-section of which has been endorsed by the independent consultancy, which undertook a managers and employees to gain a better understanding of the Group and its review of the Boards effectiveness during 2005 see below.
In line with the policy operations.
On-going training is available for all the directors, including adopted by the Board, Peter Byrom will in future be subject to annual re-election presentations by the executive team on particular aspects of the business.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access every director Role of the Board has to the Company Secretary and the General Counsel.
The Board is responsible to all its stakeholders for the conduct and performance of the Company.
Board effectiveness The day-to-day running of the Company is delegated by the Board to the The Chairman meets at least once a year with the non-executive directors executive team under the leadership of Sir John Rose, the Chief Executive.
without the executive directors present, in order to review the operation of the The Board retains responsibility for the approval of certain matters which Board.
affect the shape and risk prole of the Company, as well as such items as the The Chairman has an annual meeting with each non-executive director to annual budget and performance targets, the published accounts, payments to review their contribution to the Board.
The senior independent director chairs an shareholders, major capital investments and any substantial change to balance annual meeting with the non-executive directors to review the performance of sheet management policy.
This division of responsibilities between the Board and the Chairman, the outcome of which is reported back to him.
the executive team is set out in detail in a schedule approved annually by the Each year, the Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Executive as Board, which defines those decisions which can only be taken by the Board itself.
part of the annual salary review process overseen by the remuneration The Board has approved the following statement summarising its core committee.
The Chief Executive reviews the performance of the other executive responsibilities: directors in the same way.
The Board attaches considerable importance to ensuring that it performs Primary goal effectively as a team.
In 2005, an in-depth review of the effectiveness of the Board The primary goal of the Board is to ensure that the Companys strategy creates and its committees was undertaken by Consilium Associates, an independent value for the long-term investor within an acceptable risk prole.
The review covered Board and committee structure, Board dynamics, the conduct of Board meetings, the information provided to directors and corporate governance.
The report prepared by Consilium Associates was discussed by the Board in December 2005 and will be used by the directors in 2006 to implement a number of improvements in the way the Board operates.
The audit, remuneration and nominations committees have separately undertaken reviews of their terms of reference and effectiveness during 2005.
qxd 15 3 06 07:58 Page 34 34 Report of the directors continued Board committees Remuneration committee The Board is assisted by its committees.
Details of their membership and The remuneration committee determines appropriate levels of remuneration for principal terms of reference are set out below and on page 39.
Their full terms the executive directors and other senior executives.
The committee met six times of reference are available in the Investors section on the Groups website at during the year.
The committees membership and principal terms of reference www.
com are set out in the  report on page 39.
The following table shows the level of attendance by the directors at Board and principal committee meetings in 2005.
Audit committee The audit committee consists exclusively of independent, non-executive directors Attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal committees in 2005 and is chaired by Peter Byrom who has recent and relevant financial experience.
In 2005, its other members were Sir Robin Nicholson until May 4, 2005 and Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Ian Strachan.
Iain Conn became a member of the committee with effect from Hon Amy Bondurant 88 555 4 January 20, 2005.
The committee met four times during the year.
Peter Byrom 8844556 6 The committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the John Chefns 8 8 published accounts and for reviewing the Groups financial reporting and Iain Conn 874311 accounting policies, including major announcements made to a regulatory Carl-Peter Forster 8 5 5 3 6 3 information service.
It is also responsible for the relationship with the external Colin Green 8 8 auditors and for the internal audit function, which in Rolls-Royce is termed James Guyette 8 8 Business Assurance.
In addition, the committee reviews the Groups procedures Dr Mike Howse 4 4 for detecting, monitoring and managing the risk of fraud.
Sir Robin Nicholson 3 3 2 2 1 1 The committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the Simon Robertston 8 8 5 5 appointment of the external auditors and for reviewing the scope of the audit, Sir John Rose 8 8 5 5 approving the audit fee and, on an annual basis, satisfying itself that the auditors Andrew Shilston 8 8 are independent.
It keeps under review the Groups internal controls and systems Colin Smith 4 4 for assessing and mitigating financial and non-financial risk.
It also reviews and Ian Strachan 8 74455 approves the Business Assurance work programmes and ensures that this Carl Symon 8 8 5 5 6 6 function is adequately resourced and co-ordinated with the work of the external Sir John Taylor 8 8 1 1 5 5 auditors.
In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the following The number of meetings held during the period a director was in ofce or a member of a policy is applied in relation to services provided by the auditors: committee.
Audit related services these are undertaken by the auditors as it is work that they During 2005, Carl-Peter Forster was unable to attend the Board and committee meetings shown above must, or are best suited to, perform.
It includes formalities relating to borrowings, as a result of the demands placed on him at short notice in his capacity as President of General Motors shareholder and other circulars, risk management services, various regulatory Europe.
In all cases when he was unable to attend a meeting, he communicated his views to the Board or committee Chairman and in the Boards view, he continues to make a very strong contribution to the reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
Company and to the work of the Board and its committees.
Tax, accounting and mergers and acquisitions The auditors are used for this work where they are best suited to undertake it.
All other significant consulting work in these areas is put out to tender.
Nominations committee All other advisory services consulting The auditors are generally prohibited from In 2005 the nominations committee was chaired by Simon Robertson.
Its other providing these services.
members were the Hon Amy Bondurant, Peter Byrom, Carl-Peter Forster, Throughout the year the committee monitors the cost of non-audit work Sir John Rose, Ian Strachan, Carl Symon and Sir Robin Nicholson until his undertaken by the auditors and is, therefore, in a position to take action if at any retirement as a non-executive director on May 4, 2005.
On November 17, 2005 time it believes that there is a risk of the auditorsindependence being Iain Conn and Sir John Taylor joined the committee, reecting the Boards view undermined through the award of this work.
that all the non-executive directors should serve as members of the committee.
The committee met five times during the year.
Risk committee The committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment The Board has a risk committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, with specic of executive and non-executive directors and on the membership of Board accountability for the system of risk management and for reporting key risks and committees.
It is assisted in the former task by external recruitment consultants.
their associated mitigating actions to the Board.
In 2005, membership of the It reviews succession planning for appointments to the Board and to other senior committee comprised John Chefns, Colin Green, James Guyette, Sir John Rose, positions within the Group.
Dr Mike Howse was a member of the committee until his In carrying out these tasks, the committee gives careful consideration to the retirement on June 30, 2005.
Colin Smith became a member with effect from balance of skills required on the Board, including the need to reect diversity, July 1, 2005.
Colin Green will cease to be a member of the committee when he international experience and strong managerial and business skills.
Before retires from the Company on April 4, 2006. recommending the appointment of a non-executive director to the Board, the committee satisfies itself that the candidate will have sufficient time available to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
qxd 15 3 06 07:58 Page 35 35 Internal controls and risk management Systems of internal control The general managers of individual businesses are aware of their responsibility Directors responsibilities to operate systems of internal control which provide reasonable assurance of The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for effective and efficient operations, reliable financial information and compliance maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness from both a financial and operational with laws and regulations.
Financial managers are required to acknowledge in perspective.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than writing that their routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide their results are properly stated in accordance with Group requirements.
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual The Groups approach to internal control is based on the underlying principle of budget approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are reported at line managements accountability for control and risk management.
Actual results are reported monthly against budget and variances In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, the Board reviewed.
has taken account of the results of the work carried out to audit and review the The activities of the Group are subject to review by the Department of Risk, activities of the Group.
including Business Assurance and Project Risk Assessment, and the assurance There is an ongoing process to identify, assess and manage risk, including functions of Health, Safety and Environment, Quality and Engineering.
These those risks affecting the Groups reputation.
This process is subject to continuous functions operate to work programmes agreed by the appropriate Board improvement and has been in place throughout the financial year to which these member.
statements apply and up to the date of their approval.
In 2005 the risk review The Business Assurance function, which works closely with the external framework has been enhanced at both programme and sector level and auditors, undertakes a programme of financial and operational audits and reviews assurance activities more closely co-ordinated with the risk management process.
agreed by the audit committee and covering all Group activities.
The programme The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that includes independent reviews of the systems of internal control and risk ongoing processes and systems ensure that Rolls-Royce continues to be management.
The findings and the status of corrective actions taken to address compliant with the current Turnbull Committee Guidance on Internal Control and these are reported to the audit committee four times a year and to the risk the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in October committee twice a year.
2005, which takes effect for financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2006.
Export controls Organisation The Group attaches the highest priority to complying fully with export controls in The Group has a clearly dened organisation structure within which operational all the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Detailed processes have been put in place management has detailed responsibilities and levels of authorisation, supported to ensure that the Group follows all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
by written job descriptions and operating manuals.
The Board has established an exports committee, chaired by the Chief Rolls-Royce also has a code of business ethics which lays down the principles Operating officer, which has responsibility for the application of appropriate to be followed by employees in the course of conducting business.
The code controls to the Groups export activity.
also gives guidance to support achievement of the required standards.
In the UK, the Group fully complies with the provisions of the UK Export Additionally, condential reporting lines enable UK and US employees to report, Control Act on tangible and intangible exports and trade between third parties.
outside the normal management chain, any concerns they may have with regard Additionally, the Group complies with the relevant EU regulations regarding the to business conduct.
export of dual use goods and technology.
In other jurisdictions, most notably the USA, the Group vigorously enforces a policy of compliance with both the relevant The risk management system national legislation and its underlying regulatory intent.
The risk management system is an integral part of managements approach to delivering business objectives and is a systematic process designed to identify, Communication with shareholders assess, treat, manage and communicate risks.
It also provides a method of The Company attaches importance to the effectiveness of its communications escalation and delegation to the appropriate level within the organisation and with shareholders.
It publishes an Annual review and summary financial ensures actions are owned, dened, resourced and effective.
statement as well as a full Annual report.
There are also separate reports for the Management is responsible for the ongoing identication and evaluation of Environment and Community Relations.
significant risks within their areas of responsibility and, using a common process, The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders for the operation of suitable controls or mitigation actions.
Risks are recorded in and the financial community.
This includes presentations of the preliminary and regularly updated risk registers operating at all levels of the organisation and are interim results, regular meetings with major shareholders, participation in continuously reviewed and monitored.
During the review process, significant stockbrokersseminars and site visits.
emphasis is placed on learning from and sharing prior experience.
Risks may arise In November 2005, the Company hosted a major investorsseminar in Derby, from a variety of internal and external sources.
They may be associated with at which a number of Board directors and other senior executives described the regulations, customer requirements and competitor actions or could result from Groups progress.
All shareholders can gain access to these and other the capability of the processes used to execute the business or from external and presentations, as well as to the Annual report and other information about the largely unpredictable events, such as terrorist activity or war.
Group, on the Groups website at www.
com Risks, irrespective of source, are managed through processes operated by Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the project and functional teams.
Management reports regularly to the risk Company highlights key business developments during the year and at which committee on its view of risks and how they are managed so that the Board can shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen of the audit, then consider and review these risks in terms of their potential impact.
remuneration and nominations committees are available to answer any questions Management has continued to perform comprehensive risk reviews for all from shareholders on the work of their committees.
key projects, programmes and business change plans.
In addition, all the processes operated by the Company are subject to continuous improvement, including the risk management process itself.
qxd 15 3 06 07:58 Page 36 36 Report of the directors continued The Company confirms that it sends the AGM notice and relevant Health, Safety and Environment HS&E documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of Rolls-Royce recognises that exceptional HS&E performance makes sound the AGM.
For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications business sense.
Our strategy is to protect our employees, contractors and the electronically, notice is given of the availability of documents on the Groups wider community: attract and retain a motivated workforce: maintain business website.
continuity: avoid asset damage: and reduce overall costs.
We also aim to have zero Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with shareholders injuries and environmental incidents and to minimise the environmental impact rests with the executive management team led by the Chief Executive.
the Board is informed on a regular basis of key shareholder issues, including share The Chief Executive chairs the HS&E committee which is responsible for price performance, the composition of the shareholder register and City dening strategy, the management system, Group objectives and all performance expectations.
Independent research is commissioned annually into institutional measures.
The Group is supported by the Environmental Advisory Board EAB, shareholder perceptions of the Group.
The Chairman, the senior independent whose members include respected external authorities.
The EAB reviews and director and the non-executive directors make themselves available to meet with makes independent recommendations on the environmental and sustainability shareholders as required.
aspects of the Groups activities.
The Chief Operating officer chairs the Major Incident Board which reviews Corporate responsibility incidents to ensure that lessons learnt are effectively communicated throughout the Group.
Incidents considered in 2005 were a re in a magnesium cutting The Group believes that excellence in corporate responsibility delivers operation and an explosion in a hydrogen bell furnace.
Fortunately, these competitive advantage and contributes to long-term success.
It helps the Group regrettable incidents did not result in any injuries and the Group experienced no attract and retain the best people and maintain successful working relationships work-related fatalities in 2005. with customers, suppliers and governments.
It also enables the Group to build Three-year targets were set across the Group in 2003 covering: lost time goodwill and to support the communities in which its employees live and work.
injury rate: number of working days lost: incident rate of occupational diseases The sustained wealth, created by providing thousands of highly skilled jobs, and other work related ill health: 100 per cent health surveillance of any represents the Groups single greatest contribution to those communities.
populations at risk: energy use: solid waste: solid waste recycling and hazardous Charitable donations and community involvement are encouraged within a liquid waste.
Programmes are in place to improve performance in these areas and global framework which assists local regeneration and promotes education in an update, with data for 2005, will be published on the Groups website in April business and technology-based studies.
Independent assurance is provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Group supports its own employees with well-developed policies and The Group operates three sites in the UK which manufacture, test and practices in health, safety and environment, employment policy and employee support nuclear reactor cores for Royal Navy submarines.
All these sites continue learning and development.
The Group also operates proactive policies to manage to maintain a strong health, safety and environmental record.
its supplier and customer relationships responsibly.
The Groups HS&E audit programme independently assesses the The Groups achievements during the year were recognised when it was implementation of its HS&E management system.
Several audits were completed ranked in 9th position in the 2004 UK Business in the Community Corporate in 2005, covering operations in the UK, USA, Finland and Norway.
Good progress Responsibility Index and retained its inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability continues to be made in implementing the Group-wide standard for an Indices.
HS&E reviews were also undertaken at The following paragraphs describe in more detail how the Group addresses joint venture operations in the UK and the USA and at selected suppliers in specic aspects of its policy and practice in the eld of corporate responsibility.
The Group recognises HS&E performance with annual awards presented by Supply chain the Chief Executive.
Recognition was given in 2005 to those sites achieving zero The Group makes its approved suppliers aware of the expected business lost time injuries.
requirements and performance standards through its supplier quality system, Supplier Advanced Business Relationships SABRe.
This includes a supplier code Environment of conduct and a health, safety and environmental management system, which The Group operates environmental management systems which are third party set minimum standards.
Regular visits are made to suppliers to assess their certied to the international standard ISO 14001.
In 2005 the Groups operations at performance and a supplier awareness programme is delivered through Oberursel and Dahlewitz in Germany received certication and all the Groups conferences and regular communications.
The Rolls-Royce purchasing code of major sites are now certied.
Our aim is for newly acquired businesses to achieve conduct for employees complements the supplier code of conduct and ensures certication within two years of acquisition.
that employees act consistently with suppliers.
The Group continues to make excellent progress in improving the In 2005, Rolls-Royce won a UK award from the Chartered Institute of environmental performance of its products, with environmental impacts reduced Purchasing and Supply in recognition of its contribution to corporate by sustained investment in technology.
We work with industry groups to support responsibility through the recycling of material in its supply chain.
these objectives and in 2005, we were a key participant in the development of The Groups sourcing policies in the USA reect US Government regulations the UK Sustainable Aviation initiative.
This defines a long-term strategy to maintain on small and disadvantaged businesses and our performance is monitored the benets of growth in air travel, whilst managing the environmental impacts regularly.
The Group also supports the long-term goals published by the Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe ACARE.
ACARE seeks, by 2020 from a 2000 baseline, to develop aero-engine technology to help reduce fuel burn and carbon dioxide emissions per passenger kilometre by 50 per cent, noise by 50 per cent and emissions of oxides of nitrogen by 80 per cent.
Rolls-Royce engines for the Airbus A380 and the Boeing 787 show improvements in environmental performance which are fully consistent with achieving these goals.
Similar programmes are being followed in the energy and marine businesses.
qxd 15 3 06 07:58 Page 37 37 The Group continues to participate in the UK carbon dioxide emissions trading As part of its commitment to effective consultation with all employees, the Group scheme and the Chicago Climate Exchange and has targets for reduced carbon carried out a worldwide Employee Engagement survey in 2004.
In 2005 the dioxide emissions from its operations in the UK and North America.
In 2005, the results of this survey were shared with all employees.
Each business identied an Group again exceeded its obligations to reduce emissions under the UK action programme to address the issues arising.
Emissions Trading Scheme and sold some emissions units, thereby enhancing the The Groups global policy on diversity and equality continues to develop in cost-saving benets of energy reduction.
The Group is committed to equal In 2005, the Group was again placed first in its business sector in the opportunities and to developing a diverse and inclusive workforce.
It continues Business in the Environment index of corporate environmental management.
Its to support initiatives to encourage more women and people from ethnic environmental achievements have also been recognised by several UK awards, minorities to pursue careers in engineering.
The Group recognises the need to including Business in the Communitys Big Tick, Business Commitment to the promote its policies effectively and widely reecting the international scope of Environment and the Energy Accreditation Scheme.
The Groups policy is to provide, wherever possible, employment and training Occupational Health and development opportunities for disabled people.
It is also committed to The Groups strategy is to provide a progressive Occupational Health service supporting employees who become disabled and to helping disabled employees recognised for delivering best practice based upon prevention and with make the best possible use of their skills and potential.
processes fully integrated into the quality management system.
The Group actively encourages employee share ownership.
All employees The Group recognises the link between physical and mental health and the are regularly invited to participate in sharesave plans and the workforce has need for employees to enjoy working effectively and successfully with proper committed to save over 90 million to buy shares in the Company.
In addition, regard for their personal well-being.
To support the link between well-being and statutory arrangements enable UK employees to receive part of their annual productivity, the HS&E committee in 2005 endorsed a preventative occupational bonus in Company shares and make monthly share purchases from their salary.
health strategy, which concentrates on four key areas: screening and surveillance: rehabilitation: health promotion: and education.
Learning and development In screening and surveillance, stringent targets are set for assessing tness for To strengthen its competitive position, the Group has over many years invested in work, reducing occupational disease and work-related ill health.
A campaign the training and development of its employees, customers and suppliers.
In 2005, continues to reduce noise-induced hearing loss and the Company played a we spent 30 million on the education, training and professional development of significant part in 2005 in advising on the introduction of The Control of Vibration employees.
at Work Regulationsand their supporting guidance.
Training programmes were delivered to support major change programmes.
The priority in rehabilitation is early intervention and active case In particular, we have launched the Process Excellenceinitiative to improve our management of individuals.
Training is provided to assist managers in managing management and operating processes and we have trained people to undertake absence and rehabilitation effectively.
specic projects to raise standards of performance and improve customer Health promotion in 2005 included awareness campaigns on smoking and satisfaction.
Employees are encouraged to stop smoking by highlighting the many Some 2,000 people were trained to support Product Lifecycle Management benets of not smoking and promoting the wide range of help and support in which enables the Group and its supply chain to deliver products and services at giving up.
A three-month educational campaign called Reduce Hazardous Waist!
a higher quality and with greater efficiency.
was launched with the aim of reducing health problems associated with obesity.
The Company offers employees access to wide-ranging courses on-line and The Groups approach to managing workplace pressure has previously been over 5,000 employees have taken an on-line course over the past two years.
recognised as an example of best practice by the UKs Health and Safety The Group continues to attract trainees into its skilled and professional Executive HSE commissioned report on Beacons of Excellence.
In the UK, graduate applications totalled over 3,500 in 2005 and we approach to absence management was cited by the HSE in its Better business recruited 183 graduates.
We also recruited 136 apprentices and technicians.
addition, over 500 undergraduate students were employed for training periods of Dr Ian Lawson, the Groups Chief Medical officer, has recently completed a between two and 12 months.
At the end of the year, worldwide there were 273 term of ofce as President of the Society of Occupational Medicine and has graduates and 370 apprentices and technicians in formal training programmes.
become a member of the International Commission on Occupational Health.
In 2005, the Group was ranked first in its business sector and 24th overall in the UK Times Newspaper Top 100 Graduate Employers list.
Employment policy The Group continues to work closely with schools, colleges and universities At the end of 2005, the Group employed 36,191 employees 2004 35,372. to promote science, technology and enterprise.
Our policy is to work with The Group and employee representatives continue to work closely together government, local and national bodies and educational institutions to widen to improve the quality of employee engagement and participation in the pupilsand studentsexperience of industry and to promote careers in the development of the business.
This was reected by the creation in April 2005 of a aerospace, marine and energy sectors.
In 2005, the Group progressed two agship Global Council.
It comprises employee representatives from countries worldwide activities: profitable Pursuit, a business simulation to stimulate enterprise and provides a structured approach to consultation and communication on education in schools, and the Rolls-Royce Science Prize which promotes and international issues.
The Global Council meets at least twice a year, supported by rewards science teaching in schools and colleges in the UK and the Republic of the Global Councils Executive Committee which progresses issues between the Ireland.
In 2005 the first round nalists and special merit award winning teams Council meetings.
were selected, representing a wide range of schools.
In 2005, the Group consulted widely over changes to the Rolls-Royce Group Pension Scheme for UK employees.
New arrangements took effect from July 1, 2005 after agreement with employee representatives and acceptance by employees.
The changes introduced were similar to those made to the Rolls-Royce Pension Fund in 2004.
qxd 15 3 06 07:58 Page 38 38 Report of the directors continued The Group supports educational projects and initiatives to promote engineering The Company also supports its commitment to being a good corporate citizen education in schools including Open Industry, Specialist Schools, Education Action by supporting projects in which employees are encouraged to participate.
Zones and Science and Engineering Ambassadors.
In North America, Rolls-Royce Examples include: supports Project Lead the Way, a programme which creates partnerships with running successful mentoring and literacy programmes for school pupils schools to encourage more students to consider careers in engineering and through education business partnerships : technology.
Some of the Groups training facilities are made available to local participating in the UKs Science and Engineering Ambassadors Scheme: communities with free places being offered on internal training programmes.
undertaking community projects with trainees as part of their training: In addition, working on local community projects forms a key part in developing employees.
supporting employees who are school governors: and We continue to meet customer training needs with management and providing business mentors and advisers through The Princes Trust and business education.
We led the initiative to establish the British University in Dubai Young Enterprise.
and developed executive programmes for Chinas aviation industry leaders.
Under the UK Governments Chevening scheme, the Group sponsored students from The Group offers support in-kind to local initiatives including providing places on Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Taiwan.
We also manage a company in-house training programmes: donating surplus computer equipment and scheme for placing English language teachers in China, arranging 40 assignments furniture: and offering the free use of meeting rooms and premises.
The Company is a member of Business in the Community and actively supports Common Purpose programmes across the UK.
These two organisations Community investment aim to promote greater business awareness and involvement in wider The Group community investment committee is responsible for the Groups community issues and to encourage greater employee participation.
In 2005, total charitable donations amounted to Rolls-Royce has a long and successful history of community involvement 1,484,000.
A list of the principal donations made in the year is available on which it is determined to maintain.
We continue to attach particular priority to written request to the Company Secretary.
supporting education, the environment, the arts and economic and social The committee is supported by national committees and all operate within regeneration.
Our approach supports our values of reliability, integrity and the following guidelines: innovation.
As a forward-looking, innovative and global company, Rolls-Royce Group plc is committed to being a good corporate citizen in its operations throughout the world.
The Groups policy on donations is to direct its support primarily to causes By order of the Board with educational, engineering and scientific objectives, as well as to social objectives connected with the Groups business and place in the wider community.
During 2005, charitable donations in the UK amounted to 671,000.
They included support for The Princes Trust, Community Foundations, SS Great Britain, Charles Blundell, Company Secretary The Industrial Trust and Duxford AirSpace.
February 8, 2006 The Group has made charitable donations of 563,000 in other major regions.
In North America, this included support for the work of United Way, Habitat for Humanity, the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum and Purdue University.
In Germany, the Group supported a range of organisations including the Brandenburg Summer Festival, World Youth Day and the International Airport Race.
In the Nordic countries, it supported a number of local sports and arts-based projects.
In response to the tsunami disaster in south east Asia, the Group contributed 250,000 in 2004 and an additional 250,000 in 2005 to match employee donations.
Funding is being used to support a number of projects in the affected areas, including the construction of a primary care clinic in Aceh, Indonesia, the construction of a school in India and other projects in Thailand.
Our response to the hurricane Katrina disaster was very visible in the devastated communities affected.
The Group provided housing, transportation and medical support, followed by a range of special support services.
Employee groups mobilised their support through food and clothing drives and also raised over 35,000.
The Rolls-Royce response was exemplary and was recognised as such both externally and internally.
In addition to our charitable donations, contributions of 1,700,000 were made by the Groups sponsorship committee and individual business groups, primarily to support arts and educational programmes.
The Group also nances the administration of the Payroll Giving Scheme for UK employees.
In 2005, the scheme helped employees make donations of over 396,000 to over 200 charities of their choice.
Sixteen per cent of employees participate, one of the highest levels in the UK.
The scheme received a Gold Award from the UK Institute of Fundraising in 2005.
In addition, 36 per cent of employees in North America have contributed over 200,000 to good causes through United Wayschemes, which are partly matched by the Company.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
