qxd 15 3 06 07:57 Page 30 30 Board of directors At February 8, 2006 Simon Robertson Non-executive Chairman Iain Conn Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in 2004 and appointed non-executive Chairman Appointed to the Board in January 2005.
He is an executive director of in January 2005.
He is the founder member of Simon Robertson BP p. l. c. having held a range of executive positions within the BP Group Associates LLP and a non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc, Berry worldwide.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Board of The Imperial College Bros & Rudd Ltd and The Economist Newspaper Limited.
He is Chairman London Tanaka Business School.
Age 43. of the Royal Academy Trust, a director of The Royal Opera House Covent Garden Limited and a trustee of the Eden Project and the Royal Opera Carl-Peter Forster Non-executive director House Endowment Fund.
He is the former President of Goldman Sachs Appointed to the Board in 2003.
President of General Motors Europe Europe Limited.
Age 64. and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Adam Opel AG as well as Chairman of SAAB.
He is Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of the Sir John Rose Chief Executive Germany-based ASIC manufacturer, ZMD AG and the Austrian based Appointed to the Board in 1992.
He joined Rolls-Royce in 1984 and was private equity company, Lead Equities AG.
Former Managing Director appointed Chief Executive in 1996.
Age 53. of BMW South Africa and former Executive Board Member for Manufacturing at BMW AG.
Hon Amy Bondurant Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in 2003.
Managing Director of Bozman Partners, Colin Green CBE, BSc, CEng, FREng, FIMechE, FRAeS a private investment fund based in Washington.
A Board member of the President Defence Aerospace American Hospital in Paris and a Member of the Council on Foreign Appointed to the Board in 1996.
He joined Rolls-Royce in 1968, became Relations and of the Council of American Ambassadors.
A former Director Military Engines in 1989, Executive Vice President Business US Ambassador to the OECD from 1997 to 2001 and former senior Operations Allison Engine Company, Inc. in 1995, Managing Director member partner and Board member of the Washington DC law rm, Aerospace Group in 1996, Director Operations in 1998 and was Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson and Hand and former Senior appointed President Defence Aerospace in 2001.
He is a Fellow of the Counsel to the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Aeronautical Society and the and Transportation and to the Consumer subcommittee.
He is a former President of the Society of British Aerospace Companies.
Peter Byrom BSc, FCA Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in 1997.
He is Chairman of Domino Printing James Guyette BSc President and Chief Executive officer Sciences plc and Molins PLC, and a non-executive director of both of Rolls-Royce North America Inc. Wilson Bowden plc and AMEC plc.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Appointed to the Board in 1998.
He became President and Chief Aeronautical Society.
He was a director of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited Executive officer of Rolls-Royce North America Inc. in October 1997. from 1977 to 1996.
He is a director of the Private Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Illinois and of priceline.
com Inc. Until 1995 he was Executive Vice President, John Chefns BSc, Ing, FREng, FRAeS Chief Operating officer Marketing and Planning of United Airlines.
Appointed to the Board in 2001.
He joined Rolls-Royce in 1967, became President and Chief Executive officer of Rolls-Royce Industries Canada Inc. Andrew Shilston MA, ACA, MCT Finance Director in 1991, Director, Civil Engine Business in 1993, President Civil Aerospace Appointed to the Board as Finance Director in January 2003, having in 1998 and Chief Operating officer in 2001.
He is a Fellow of the Royal joined Rolls-Royce in 2002.
He is a non-executive director of Cairn Academy of Engineering and of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
He was Finance Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers and of the Order of until 2002.
Membership of principal Board committees: Audit committee Peter Byrom Chairman, Iain Conn and Ian Strachan.
Remuneration committee Carl Symon Chairman, Hon Amy Bondurant, Peter Byrom, Carl-Peter Forster and Sir John Taylor.
Nominations committee Simon Robertson Chairman, Hon Amy Bondurant, Peter Byrom, Iain Conn, Carl-Peter Forster, Sir John Rose, Ian Strachan, Carl Symon and Sir John Taylor.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 2005 Directors&Rem.
qxd 15 3 06 07:57 Page 31 31 Colin Smith BSc Hons, FREng, FRAeS, FIMechE The Group Executive Director Engineering and Technology The Group Executive is responsible for the management of the Appointed to the Board in 2005.
He joined Rolls-Royce in 1974 and has Group within the strategy determined by the Board.
It is chaired by held a variety of key positions within Engineering, including Director Sir John Rose, Chief Executive, and its other members are: Research and Technology and Director of Engineering and Technology Civil Aerospace.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Axel Arendt, Chairman Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG Royal Aeronautical Society and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Brian Baker, Commercial Director and General Counsel Age 50.
Charles Blundell, Company Secretary and Director of Government Relations Ian Strachan Non-executive director John Chefns, Chief Operating officer Appointed to the Board in 2003.
A non-executive director of Reuters Miles Cowdry, Director Services Group plc, Johnson Matthey plc, Xstrata plc and Transocean Inc.
He is Tom Curley, President Energy the Former Chief Executive of BTR plc, former Deputy Chief Executive Colin Green, President Defence Aerospace 1991 to 1995 and Chief Financial officer 1987 to 1991 of Rio Tinto plc, James Guyette, President and Chief Executive officer of former non-executive Chairman of Instinet Group Inc and former Rolls-Royce North America Inc. non-executive director of Commercial Union.
Chris Hole, Director of Procurement Dr Saul Lanyado, President Marine Carl Symon BSc, MSc Non-executive director Dr Mike Lloyd, Director Gas Turbine Operations Appointed to the Board in 1999.
He is Chairman of HMV Group plc, the John Paterson, Managing Director Aero Repair and Overhaul BT Group Equality of Access Board and a number of private companies.
John Rivers, Director Human Resources He is also a non-executive director of BT Group plc and Rexam plc.
Andrew Shilston, Finance Director He was previously Chairman and Chief Executive officer, IBM UK.
He held Colin Smith, Director Engineering and Technology numerous executive positions in IBM Corp. in Canada, USA, Latin America, Mike Terrett, President Civil Aerospace Asia and Europe during a 32 year international career.
Prof Sir John Taylor OBE, FRS, FREng Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in 2004.
He is currently Chairman of Roke Manor Research Ltd, and a member of Council of the Royal Academy of Engineering, an honorary fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge and a visiting professor at Oxford University.
He is the former Director General of Research Councils and the former director of Hewlett Packard Laboratories Bristol.
He was chair of the South West RDAs Shadow Science and Industry Council and director of the UK Foresight project on Cognitive Systems.
He previously served as President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers and as Chairman of the UK Technology Foresight Panel in IT Electronics and Communications.
Charles Blundell MA Company Secretary He joined Rolls-Royce in 1993 and was appointed Company Secretary in 1995.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
