18 Rotork Board of Directors Annual Report 2005 BOARD OF DIRECTORS WH Whiteley, Chief Executive left Bill 57 joined Rotork in 1974 and was President of Rotorks North American operations from 1979 until he became Managing Director of Rotork Actuation in 1988.
He has been a member of the Rotork p. l. c. Board since 1984 and was appointed Group Chief Executive in 1996.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Bill is a nonexecutive director of Dialight plc and Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
RH Arnold left RC Lockwood, Chairman above Bob 54, who became a Roger 60 has been a nonmember of the Rotork p. l. c. executive director of Rotork Board in 2001, is a graduate since joining the Board in engineer.
Previously with 1988 and became non-executive Westinghouse in the USA, Chairman in November 1998.
He he joined Rotork Controls Inc. is Chairman of the Nomination as Engineering Manager Committee.
He is Chairman of subsequently becoming Vice Colston Manufacturing President, Engineering and Engineering Co Ltd and Hydro RE Slater above since 1988 President of Rotork International plc and has Bob 54 joined Rotork in 1989 as Finance Controls Inc. Bob has previously held CEO roles in Director of the Actuation Division, and was responsibility for all Rotorks automotive and engineering appointed to the Board of Rotork p. l. c. as Group interests in the Americas.
He has previously held finance positions in mining, building controls and the engineering industry.
JW Matthews above IG King above GM Ogden above John 61 has been a nonIan 49 joined the Board in Graham 49, holds a Phd and executive director of Rotork February 2005 as a non- 1st class honours degree in since joining the Board in executive director.
He is electronic engineering from November 1998.
He is Chairman currently Group Managing Bristol University and has been of Crest Nicholson plc and Director, Customer Solutions with Rotork since 1985.
He has previously and Support, BAe Systems plc joining Graham has been closely held senior positions in banking and is a member of that involved in product development and industrial companies.
He is companys Executive including our award winning IQ Chairman of the Audit and Committee.
He was appointed to the A Walker above Remuneration Committees and held senior financial and Actuation division operating Alex 59, who joined the Board a member of the Nomination general management positions board in 1997 as Research and as a non-executive director in Committee, and is the senior at Marconi.
He is a member of Development Director and January 2001, has been Chief independent non-executive the Audit, Remuneration and joined the Board of Rotork p. l. c. Executive of Yule Catto & Co. director.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
