Report of the Directors Rotork 19 Annual Report 2005 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors submit their report and the audited Substantial shareholdings At the Annual General Meeting AGM, in accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 As at the date of this Report the Company accordance with the Articles of Association, as set out on pages 34 to 81. had been formally notified under the WH Whiteley and JW Matthews will retire by Companies Act 1985 since the publication of rotation and, being eligible, will offer Principal activities the 2004 Report that Standard Life Group themselves for re-election.
In accordance with Rotork p. l. c. is a holding Company.
The had a material interest in 3.99% of the the Combined Code, RC Lockwood will also principal activities of the Rotork Group are issued ordinary share capital of the Company offer himself for re-election.
the design, manufacture and support of being 3,430,877 ordinary shares.
Nonactuators, systems and related products material interests had also been formally Financial instruments worldwide.
notified by Capital Group of 5.28% of the An explanation of the Group policies on the ordinary share capital of the Company being use of financial instruments and financial risk Rotork Actuation provides a range of 4,536,936 ordinary shares and Fidelity of management objectives are contained in note products, systems and services for the 4.04% of the ordinary share capital of the 22 of these financial statements.
motorisation and manual operation of and Company being 3,484,387 ordinary shares.
adaption to industrial valves and dampers for Statement of directors responsibility for isolation duty and process control applications.
Research and development preparing the financial statements It does this through its Electric Actuator, Total Group expenditure on research and The following statement, which should be Gears and Fluid System operations.
Actuated development in the year was 2,666,000 read in conjunction with the auditors valves are major control elements in refineries, 2004: 2,424,000 further details of which Statement of Auditors Responsibilities, pipelines, power stations, water distribution are contained in the Operating and Financial included in the audit report, is made with a systems and effluent treatment plants and in Review on pages 6 to 15. view to distinguishing for shareholders the all industries in which liquids or gases are respective responsibilities of the directors and transported through pipes.
Charitable donations of the auditors in relation to the financial During the year the Group made charitable statements.
Reviews of the Groups activities and business donations of 44,000 2004: 35,000. development including future development of Statement of Directors Responsibilities the business and research and development There were no political donations made in in Respect of the Annual Report and are set out in the Operating and Financial the year or the prior year.
Accounts Review on pages 6 to 15.
The directors are responsible for preparing Directors the Annual Report and the Group and Dividends The names of the directors in office at the year Company financial statements in accordance The directors recommend a final dividend of end and their biographical and other details with applicable law and regulations.
8,521,000 for the year, payable on 26 May including the other significant commitments of 2006 to shareholders on the register on 5 the Chairman are as shown on page 18.
On Company law requires the directors to prepare May 2006.
This represents 9.9p per ordinary 1 January 2005, GM Ogden was appointed an Group and Company financial statements for share 2004: 9.7p which, with the interim executive director and on 17 February 2005, each financial year.
Under that law the dividend of 5.9p per ordinary share 2004: IG King was appointed a non-executive directors are required to prepare the Group 5.35p will produce a total dividend per director.
GE Malcolm retired on 8 April 2005. financial statements in accordance with IFRS ordinary share of 15.8p the 2004 equivalent The interests of the directors in office at the as adopted by the EU and have elected to total dividend was 15.05p per ordinary share end of the financial year in the shares of the prepare the Company financial statements in but with the additional interim dividend of Company are as shown in note 26 to the accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
5.85p per ordinary share produced a total financial statements.
The Group financial statements are required WH Whiteley, RE Slater, RH Arnold and GM by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to Shares issued or purchased Ogden have service agreements and details of present fairly the financial position and Details of the ordinary shares issued during these are contained in the Remuneration performance of the Group: the Companies 2005 are given in note 16.
Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
20 Rotork Report of the Directors Annual Report 2005 continued The Company financial statements are The directors are responsible for keeping Auditors required by law to give a true and fair view proper accounting records that disclose with Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as of the state of affairs of the parent company.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial auditors and to authorise the directors to position of the Company and enable them to determine their remuneration are to be In preparing each of the Group and Company ensure that its financial statements comply proposed at the forthcoming Annual General financial statements, the directors are with the Companies Act 1985.
required to: general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard Annual General Meeting Select suitable accounting policies and the assets of the Group and to prevent and The Annual General Meeting of the Company then apply them consistently: detect fraud and other irregularities.
will be held at the Companys offices at Make judgements and estimates that are Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ reasonable and prudent: Under applicable law and regulations, the on Friday, 21 April 2006 at 12 noon.
A For the Group financial statements, state directors are also responsible for preparing a separate circular containing the Notice of the whether they have been prepared in Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Meeting is sent to shareholders with this accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: Report and Corporate Governance Statement Annual Report.
For the Company financial statements, that comply with that law and those state whether applicable UK Accounting regulations.
Standards have been followed, subject to On behalf of the Board any material departures disclosed and The directors are responsible for the explained in the Company financial maintenance and integrity of the corporate statements: and and financial information included in the Prepare the financial statements on the Companys website.
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group Creditor payment policy Stephen Rhys Jones and the Company will continue in While there is no formal code or standard, it Secretary business.
After making enquiries the is Company and Group policy to settle terms 27 February 2006 directors have a reasonable expectation of payment with creditors when agreeing the that the Company and the Group have terms of each transaction and to abide by adequate resources to continue in creditors terms of payment provided that the operational existence for the foreseeable supplier is also complying with all relevant future.
For this reason they continue to terms and conditions.
There are no creditors operate the going concern basis in subject to special arrangements outside preparing the financial statements.
The Company does not have any trade suppliers so that a creditor day payment period is not appropriate.
