16 Rotork A Tribute to Our Founder Annual Report 2005 IN REMEMBRANCE OF JEREMY FRY FOUNDER AND CHAIRMAN OF ROTORK 1957 1984 Rotork.. combines the entrepreneurial qualities of a small organisation with the complex pattern of trading of a very much larger company this comment in the 1974 Annual Report begins to illustrate how Jeremy Frys personality shaped the development of his business.
Engineer, inventor and entrepreneur Jeremy Fry the second son of the Even years later, when the company was first established at its last chairman of the Frys chocolate business founded the Rotork permanent factory site, Jeremy would spend hours on the shop floor Engineering Company in 1957.
The discovery of a disused electrically assembling components to meet a crucial delivery deadline, or, when powered water valve in an old iron foundry owned by Frenchay Products the rising waters from the adjacent River Avon threatened to flood the Ltd an aircraft component company set up by Jeremy and his brother works, join in as the whole workforce moved endangered stock to David was the spark that ignited the Rotork story.
intrigued with the idea of specialising in the design of electromechanical valve actuators and thereafter this became the enduring Much early progress was made in the Middle East, with Rotork actuators focus of his innovative and creative talent.
installed in the hazardous areas of oil refineries, pipelines and loading jetties.
The challenge was to make the equipment both explosionproof At that time the Fry family lived at Widcombe Manor, a beautiful and watertight.
Jeremy was on a sales trip to Saudi Arabia when he Georgian house with gardens on a Bath hillside.
The house was well discovered how this design criterion could be accomplished, triggering known for the Frys fondness for entertaining Jeremys life-long friends the radical redesign of Rotork actuators with enclosures that were totally Antony Armstrong Jones and Princess Margaret were frequent visitors sealed from the environment when all the covers were in place.
but Widcombe Manor also became the first and unlikely home for Rotork.
Here, Jeremy and a small team of engineers began the The fundamental breakthrough in environmental sealing was thus development of design benchmarks that still define the modern electric achieved, enabling the actuator to develop into an increasingly selfvalve actuator, converting what had previously been a machine that was contained and sophisticated device.
This was the beginning of Rotorks fabricated for each individual valve into a product range, built from spectacular growth.
By 1964 Jeremy was able to announce the launch standard modules and suitable for all valve types.
of The last word in valve actuation, a new revolutionary system.. the only method of its type in the world, the standardised valve actuator Orders were taken and actuators built in the basement, often leaving which the firm has been working towards ever since its modest the Georgian splendour of Widcombe Manor on the back of the Ford beginnings ten years ago.
Thames Trader lorry that was parked in the driveway.
Employees remember how informal it all was, an extension of home life rather than In the same year the press reported: Rotork Engineering Co. Ltd, Bath, going to work.
For Jeremy it was natural to be actively involved in all have secured $150,000 of orders for the USA.
This follows a sales tour areas of the business and he expected the same enthusiasm and interest by Mr. Jeremy Fry, head of the firm, who visited about 23 engineering from all of his team.
He had the ability to inspire those who worked and petroleum industry centres in the US.
He conducted lectures and led with him and he entrusted them with considerable responsibilities discussions with demonstrations of working models of Rotorks range of irrespective of age and experience.
A Tribute to Our Founder Rotork 17 continued Annual Report 2005 Jeremy Fry 1924 2005 His life was filled with many engineering, architectural and artistic achievements.
Of these, the creation of the modern electric valve actuator surely represents his most significant and prevailing industrial legacy.
There had been many other successes the largest an order for 1000 The architectural practice of Leonard Manassah whom Jeremy greatly actuators for the French nuclear industry in 1963 whilst industry in admired, having studied architecture under him designed Rotorks general adopted the concept of centralised control inherent in Rotorks innovative factory extension.
Sir Alex Issigonis was another life-long product philosophy with enthusiasm.
Jeremys ideas were very much in friend: Mini-vans provided the transport for Rotorks first service tune with the times and by the early 60s Rotork had businesses or engineers.
In 1968, the Company was introduced to the London Stock licence agreements in six countries, annual production exceeded 1000 Exchange in order to facilitate the financing of future expansion.
units in 1960, the first production line was established in an old mill and in 1962 a new Rotork factory was built in nearby Brassmill Lane, which Rotork grew even more quickly during the 1970s when the Rotork is still the Companys international headquarters.
name was also associated with additional Jeremy Fry interests including the Sea Truck and the Cyclone vacuum cleaner from which the Dyson Jeremys enthusiasm continued to influence and innovate.
If something evolved, as well as new engineering businesses that were added to the seemed worth a try, it was given a chance.
A direct delivery service to Group.
Sales Conventions were introduced in order to keep everyone Europe by Rotork lorry was instigated in 1963, linking manufacturing fully informed of the latest developments and a research department facilities in France, Germany and Italy to provide a faster, more was established at Le Grand Banc, a derelict village in France that Jeremy economic and more positive service to European customers.
Throughout it all, employees recall those days with trips would bring components to the Bath factory.
Europe was also the affection, remembering how informal it all still seemed and how focus of much exhibition activity, at Frankfurt, Leipzig, Paris and different from other engineering companies it was.
Jeremy insisted that actuators should not be specially prepared for exhibitions and only production units should be used, since When Jeremy Fry retired in 1984, he had directed his company over a the Companys reputation relied on the quality and appearance of period of twenty-seven years from a workbench in his basement to a standard products.
leading international engineering group with annual actuator sales of 21 million.
Jeremys life was filled with many engineering, architectural The new Brassmill Lane factory expanded in an open plan fashion, and artistic achievements.
Of these, the creation of the modern electric bereft of the management worker layout and atmosphere that typified valve actuator surely represents his most significant and prevailing much of British industry in those days.
Visiting firms representatives industrial legacy.
were heard to remark that Rotork was far too modern to be British, and surely must be an American company!
In fact, Rotork was a dynamic British company that would soon be expanding into manufacture in the USA, reversing the conventional trend of the time.
