Review of operations Europe A stronger presence in Romania SABMiller looks to develop its businesses through in-country acquisitions.
A recent example of this was the purchase of the in July 2003, with market share of 8% at the historic Aurora brewery in Brasov end of the year.
Re-launched premium brand in June 2004 by SABMillers Lech, complemented by Redds, improved Romanian subsidiary, mix in the fourth quarter, halting the negative Compania fide Bere Romania CBR.
mix trend witnessed for much of the year.
This strategic acquisition benets CBR in four ways: New product innovation has been particularly increased capacity, improved distribution, especially in central successful in Poland, and products launched Romania, ability to produce beer in plastic bottles and Ciucas, since 2000 now contribute over 30% of total Auroras main brand, which is now being rolled out nationally, revenue.
Real pricing declines continued consolidating the important lower mainstream and economy for the industry, but our manufacturing brands in the companys brand portfolio.
and distribution productivity yielded cost Auroras full integration into CBR was completed in December savings, and sales per employee reached 2004, reinforcing the companys position as a very strong number 4,000 hectolitres.
two player in the country.
In 2004 it produced 661,000 hectolitres In the Czech Republic, domestic industry of beer which have now been integrated as part of CBRs platform volumes declined by 2.5% for the year, with for growth.
the first halfs 5% decline reecting 22% fewer summer sunshine hours compared to the v prior year.
Plzensky Prazdrojs volumes were down 2.1% for the year, resulting in a small market share gain as our on-premise investment and key account management initiatives continued to succeed in the market.
Pilsner Urquell volumes rose slightly both domestically and globally, driving positive Europe sales mix benets.
Pricing grew ahead of ination, whilst package and channel mix were stable.
These factors, together with Total lager beer volumes rose 9% 5% on an organic basis, adversely influenced in cost savings from centralised regional the first half by much poorer summer weather than in the previous year.
procurement, helped our Czech operations to once again deliver improved earnings.
In Russia, Transmarks volume increase Strong volume growth in Poland, Russia for the year outpaced both overall single-digit 2005 2004 % Financial summary US$m US$m change and Romania more than offset declines industry growth and also premium segment Turnover 2,909 2,420 20 elsewhere.
Supporting this good growth was growth, although our rate of growth slowed EBITA 483 383 26 increased marketing investment, up 9% in in the second half as we cycled high prior EBITA margin % 16.6 15.8 real terms over the prior year, and expansion year comparables.
Our successful focus Sales volume hls 000s of focused on-premise merchandising.
The on building complementary Russian and Lager 33,669 30,925 9 business again produced excellent profit international brand equities within a leading Lager organic 32,420 30,925 5 growth, with EBITA up 26% 15% in organic premium portfolio has been amplied by Other beverages 97 constant currency terms.
EBITA margin strong merchandising execution by our Before exceptional items of US$51 million being Naples brewery closure costs of US$35 million and restructuring costs in the growth of 80 basis points was derived from specialist distributors and retailers.
Miller Canary Islands of US$16 million 2004: water plant closure costs in the Canary Islands of US$6 million.
improved sales mix, as worthmore segment Genuine Draft MGD volumes grew by 43%, volumes rose 11% organically, and generating positive brand mix benets.
distributors network now covers most major The Polish beer market grew by some Russian cities, with particular strength in the 2%, led by growth in the lower mainstream Moscow region where we have a revenue segment.
Kompania Piwowarskas organic share of approximately 15%.
Pricing growth volume growth of 12%, driven by increased continued in line with food and beverage on-trade investment and key account ination.
Whilst marketing expenditure rose channel focus including enhanced cold signicantly, substantial cost benets have display, secured market leadership, with been obtained through local malt and bottle share at 37%.
Recently restrictions have leading beer brand, and Zubr is now the been imposed on media use by brewers and second largest brand following its re-launch on beer consumption, although it is too early 16 SABMiller plc to quantify what impact these may have on the industry.
In Romania, our organic volume growth of Gambrinus 18% industry up 6% and our acquisition of SC Aurora SA in June 2004 has increased our market share to 22%.
Ursus, the Country Czech Republic countrys leading brand franchise, has been Beer type Lager repositioned, attracting more consumers to Alcohol content by volume 4.1% ABV Ursus Premium from Ursus Pils, a local premium beer with equity rivalling the v Gambrinus is Plzensky Prazdrojs core brand, accounting for one international brands in the country.
Ursus in four beers sold in the Czech Republic.
The brand appeals most franchise volumes grew by 35% and to consumers of legal drinking age up to the age of 30. generated positive mix impact, whilst Timisoreana Lux grew 82% in the mainstream segment with rapidly growing geographic distribution.
At year end, we and direct point of sale merchandising in the forthcoming year.
launched two new brands: Peroni Nastro control, restructuring of distribution The Peroni Nastro Azzurro brand was Azzurro in the international premium segment arrangements, aggressive cost containment recently re-launched in the UK, with a brand and Ciucas, a lower-mainstream PET brand and deliberate performance management.
Initial designed to complement our existing Facilities restructuring programmes are on consumer reception is encouraging and portfolio, leveraging our strong distribution track following the closure of the Naples the new brand has achieved high early network in this market segment.
profitability plant, whilst manufacturing upgrades are awareness among target consumers.
has increased signicantly, and our ongoing at other facilities, including those The Hungarian domestic industry declined production capacity is being expanded to enabling production of MGD for the pansome 10% following the ongoing importation accommodate our continuing growth.
European market at the Padua brewery.
Drehers volume In Italy, the domestic beer market declined Margins have reduced mainly as a result declined in line with this, and profits have by an estimated 6% in a weak consumer of negative sales mix associated with decreased as a consequence.
environment and following the prior years consumption shifts towards the off-premise The Slovakian industry continued to exceptionally good summer.
Birra Peronis channel and towards lower-priced market decline, but at the reduced rate of 7% and organic volumes declined 8%, reecting an segments.
The closure of the Naples plant our volumes contracted by 3%.
In the unchanged organic share performance and and associated restructuring initiatives led Canaries, our volumes were level, in line with the termination of a licensed international to an exceptional charge of US$35 million the industry.
The Peroni brand retained its market during the year.
In February, we increased been announced in the Canaries, including leading share of 12% and Nastro Azzurro our shareholding in Birra Peroni to 99.8% a 20% workforce reduction, which will held its 4% share.
A comprehensive at a cost of US$205 million.
In March, generate significant cost savings from 2007. turnaround programme is now underway, beer excise was increased by 24%, the An exceptional charge of US$16 million has encompassing stronger brand marketing, impact of which will be felt by the industry been taken.
development of an effective sales function MGDs highly efficient home in Italy Following the acquisition of Birra Peroni Padua ideal for MGD production.
Firstly it by SABMiller in 2003, the modern Padua had already benefited enormously from brewery was identied as a good location investment in the plant and in the skills of for the production of the companys the employees, and secondly, the location international brand, Miller Genuine Draft is near urban areas in northern Italy, where MGD.
This was not just for Italy but for MGD is in greatest demand.
Finally, the markets in Europe and Africa too.
Today, brewerys efficiency allows it to meet the the brewery is producing MGD for 31 requirements of different markets.
In fact, in countries in Europe and Africa.
2004 Padua was ranked second in efficiency Roberto Cavalli, Peronis director of of the ten MGD licensed producers and it is production, describes why Padua was forecast to produce volumes in excess selected.
Three key factors make of 150,000 hectolitres during 2005.
SABMiller plc 17 Review of operations Europe 18 SABMiller plc a new lease of life Kompania Piwowarska SA KP, SABMillers Polish subsidiary, has seen its volume double since 2000 thanks, in part, to KPs sensitivity to changing consumer needs.
A good example of the companys ability to react to market trends involved Lech, one of its leading mainstream beer brands.
The brand more contemporary label design gave the had started to lose market share, and it was brand a fresher and more modern style time for the company to recognise that in line with the new positioning.
Lechs marketing manager, Wojciech A new brand strategy repositioned Lech Klosowski, explains: We target occasions to appeal to young urban consumers that are relevant to our consumers and have over the legal drinking age who built on Lechs on-going support for national live an active, dynamic sports teams such as Polands national life.
New bottles football and Olympic teams.
Occasions such and a as music events are also supported.
When Lech was relaunched in June 2004 its market share was 5%.
It now has 7% and still has room to grow.
This success, together with the performance of KPs other leading brands, is keeping the company at the forefront of Polands beer market.
SABMiller plc 19 building local business skills in Tanzania Tanzania Breweries Limited TBL relies on independent distributors Faida Kwa Wote has helped distributors to grow their to sell major local brands such as Safari and Kilimanjaro lager.
businesses successfully and fostered a much closer, and mutually Because of this situation, the company introduced a training beneficial, relationship with TBL.
Since the programme began, programme to improve its distributors business skills.
The 18 months ago, distributor volumes across the country have programme has two aims to improve distribution effectiveness increased, TBLs brands are now distributed more efficiently, and to help the distributors to improve their profitability.
particularly in rural areas, and overall customer satisfaction has Called Faida Kwa Wote profit For All, the programme was increased.
developed by the TBLs marketing department.
It delivers access to practical business skills, customer service advice and stock management guidance.
