1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Executive committee The excom is appointed by the chief executive.
It comprises the chief financial officer, divisional managing directors and directors of group functions.
Its purpose is to support the chief executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board.
In that context, excom co-ordinates brand and operational execution and delivers strategic plans and budgets for the boards consideration.
It also ensures that regular financial reports are presented to the board, that effective internal controls are in place and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the group.
Norman Adami 1 Alan Clark 2 Sue Clark 3 Tony van Kralingen 4 BBusSc hons, MBA MA, DLitt et Phil BSc hons, MBA BA hons President and chief executive Managing director, SABMiller Europe Corporate affairs director Managing director, The South officer, Miller Brewing Company 45 Alan Clark has served as managing 41 Sue Clark joined SABMiller plc African Breweries Limited 50 Norman Adami was appointed director of SABMiller Europe since 2003. in 2003, when she was appointed 47 Tony van Kralingen was appointed president and chief executive officer of He joined SABMiller plcs subsidiary, The corporate affairs director.
Prior to this, managing director of The South African Miller Brewing Company in 2003.
Before South African Breweries Ltd SAB Ltd, she held a number of senior roles in Breweries Ltd SAB Ltd in 2003.
Mr van this appointment he spent nine years as in 1990 as a training and development UK companies, including director of Kralingen joined SAB in 1982 and managing director of The South African manager.
He has since held a number corporate affairs for Railtrack Group and subsequently held a number of senior Breweries Ltd SAB Ltd and from 2000 of senior posts in the group, including director of corporate affairs for Scottish posts within the SABMiller group.
These v to 2003 held the positions of managing marketing director of SAB Ltd, Power plc.
include managing director of Plzensky director and chairman.
managing director of Amalgamated Prazdroj A. S. marketing director for Mr Adami began his career with the Beverage Industries Ltd and chairman SAB Ltd and operations director group in 1979 and held a number of of Appletiser South Africa Pty Ltd. Northern Regions for SAB Ltd. senior positions within SAB Ltd, Before joining SABMiller, Dr Clark including regional and operations practised as a clinical psychologist and director, before his appointment to lectured in psychology at Vista University managing director in 1994. in South Africa.
Johann Nel 5 Andr Parker 6 Mark Sherrington 7 Andrew Tonkinson 8 BA hons B Econ hons BSc hons BA, B Juris Human resources director Managing director, SABMiller Marketing director Group company secretary 48 Johann Nel became director of Africa and Asia 49 Mark Sherrington was appointed 60 Andrew Tonkinson became group human resources for the group in 2002.
54 Andr Parker was appointed to his marketing director in 2002.
He joined company secretary of The South African He joined SABMiller plcs subsidiary, The current position in 1994.
Mr Parker SABMiller plc from the leading Breweries Ltd SAB Ltd in 1992 after South African Breweries Ltd SAB Ltd in joined the group in 1975, and has held a international marketing organisation, 16 years service at The Lion Match 1997, being appointed human resources number of senior positions in marketing The Added Value Group, which he Company, then a group subsidiary.
He director in 1998. and general management within its co-founded in 1988.
Mr Sherrington became group company secretary of Mr Nel previously owned a consulting African operations.
These have included has also written and published a book SABMiller plc then known as South organisation, and had worked with general manager, The South African on growing brands using the marketing African Breweries plc upon the groups SAB Ltd on various major strategy, Breweries Central Region, and approaches and techniques which relisting on the London Stock Exchange organisational development and human managing director, South African he developed during his time in in 1999. resources projects since 1988.
He has Breweries International Africa.
Previously, he worked at Prior to joining SABMiller plc, co-authored a book on managing Unilever for 11 years, holding a number Mr Tonkinson worked for Syfrets Trust productive change in organisations of senior marketing positions in Europe Ltd in South Africa for eight years.
and was involved in initiatives to and internationally.
encourage business involvement in the democratisation of South Africa in the 1980s and 1990s.
