Corporate accountability Supporting local suppliers Using local suppliers enables us to reduce Corporate our costs and respond quickly to market opportunities.
To help them thrive and grow with us, we provide technical assistance and accountability other types of support.
Initiatives during the year included working with local farmers in countries such as Uganda and South Africa to help them Key achievements in 2004 produce sustainable crops of barley, sorghum and other raw materials needed to The SABMiller group injected over manufacture our products.
In some cases US$4,378 million into local economies these projects have created new markets, around the globe by paying direct and providing local communities with additional excise taxes to state treasuries and sources of income.
In Uganda, for example, salaries to employees.
farmers are now growing a new variety of We cut our average water sorghum to help our business there to consumption by 1%, lowering our produce a new low-cost beer, Eagle Lager.
A new environmental This project alone has injected US$1.3 million strategy, developed during the into the local economy.
year, will accelerate the reduction We also provide business advice and of our water, energy, waste and financial assistance to a variety of other local packaging costs.
suppliers, from distributors to packaging More intense efforts to limit the businesses.
In addition, we actively impact of HIV Aids among the groups support companies run by minorities and staff and their dependents, especially disadvantaged groups.
These types of in Africa, lowered the associated businesses are often highly motivated and business risks and costs.
In the US, for Initiatives to discourage irresponsible example, Miller increased the amount of drinking, including the roll-out of money we spent with minority business SABMillers alcohol manifesto and enterprises by over 20% during the year.
To ensure our suppliers aspire to the A strengthened corporate social same high ethical standards as SABMiller, responsibility CSR team.
we conducted an ethical procurement survey of 100 of our major suppliers.
The results Overview indicated that the majority of companies SABMillers ability to continue to grow adhered to acceptable standards across most profitably depends on a number of social and indicators, including applying appropriate age environmental factors, including a sustainable limits for employment.
These findings will help supply of natural resources, healthy and shape our future supplier strategy.
productive staff, and prosperous and socially responsible communities.
Reducing our environmental footprint To ensure these and other elements for All our products depend on sustainable long-term success are in place, we run supplies of natural resources, notably water.
an extensive CSR programme which To safeguard these assets and ensure we addresses key social and environmental can meet the growing demand for our issues at each stage of our products products, we run a substantial environmental life cycles.
Supporting local suppliers We continued to make progress against Reducing our environmental footprint a number of key environmental benchmarks.
Enhancing our staffs productivity For example, we reduced our average group Discouraging irresponsible drinking water consumption from 4.79 hectolitres of Investing in communities water per hectolitre of beer to 4.75, against Engaging with stakeholders an industry average of 5.0.
Recycling schemes contributed to this success and we now closer co-operation In late 2003 Kompania Piwowarska KP, SABMillers subsidiary in Poland, conducted an employee opinion survey.
It showed that employees were relating more strongly to their own departments and were not seeing enough of the bigger picture.
KP reacted by creating internal communications initiatives aimed at improving communications at every level.
Survey results are now shared with employees and a six-monthly board road show was launched to give every employee the opportunity to have direct access to senior management.
Info-kiosks have been provided, so that all employees can access information on the company intranet, and the company internal magazine, SWIAT PIWA, is now published monthly rather than bi-monthly.
The SABMiller performance management processes have been introduced, which include empowerment through joint goal setting, regular one-on-one meetings and formal performance feedback.
The changes have had considerable impact: the latest employee opinion survey reveals two important developments.
Employees are now much more likely to see problems as opportunities, and they are making use of the new communications channels to talk more openly and freely about the issues that concern them.
SABMiller plc 35 Corporate accountability have group-wide guidelines for reclaiming to more than 80% in certain locations.
Our SABMiller group average water consumption for lager beer and recycling water, based on internationally new group-wide HIV Aids strategy is due to hectolitres of water per hectolitre of beer recognised standards of good practice.
6 significant steps have also been taken Like all responsible multinationals, to further lower our greenhouse gas SABMiller invests heavily in the professional 5 emissions.
In South Africa, for instance, and personal development of its staff 4 we are intending to implement a major fuelthrough training programmes and other 3 switching scheme at one of our breweries schemes.
We place particular emphasis 2 that aims to reduce carbon dioxide on developing local staff, exemplied by our 1 emissions by up to 800,000 tonnes over business in Tanzania.
Over the last three a 21-year period.
years the business has run workshops and To cut the commercial and environmental training programmes, as well as rotated 01 02 03 04 05 costs of waste, we have introduced a new local staff through different positions, to and more systematic waste management create a sense of ownership and enable programme at our breweries in Asia and employees to take on more senior positions.
Corporate social investment spend Africa.
This involves auditing each stage In the last two years, several local staff have Education 18% of the production process to identify reached top managerial posts, replacing opportunities to reduce or recycle the 12 expatriate staff.
Welfare 14% different categories of waste we produce.
Health 9% More ecologically friendly packaging has also Discouraging irresponsible drinking Environment 6% been introduced.
This has included the use At SABMiller, we believe in leading by of recyclable and reusable materials, as well example.
And, when it comes to responsible Arts and culture 8% as lighter packaging.
The South African drinking, this means integrating the principles Other 45% Investing in... we believe in leading by example... this communities means integrating the principles of responsible During the year ended 31 March 2005 we invested US$16.9 million alcohol consumption into our business.
through our corporate social investment programme, representing 0.8% of pre-tax profits.
Breweries Ltd, for example, has reduced the of responsible alcohol consumption into our weight of its handy bottles by 12%.
During the year we did this in several ways.
First, we published and Enhancing our staffs productivity distributed among our businesses The Healthy, motivated and skilled staff are the Responsible Way, a communication package key to higher productivity and profitability.
To that provides all the information and guidance enable them to realise their full potential, we our companies need to implement our support a range of training and healthcare alcohol manifesto and code of commercial programmes, among other initiatives.
communication both the manifesto and the HIV Aids is a significant issue in many code were discussed in detail in last years of our markets, including Africa, Asia and annual report.
To limit its impact on Second, we strengthened internal our staff, we run a comprehensive HIV Aids compliance to our code by establishing programme, currently focused on Africa but compliance committees, where they did due to be rolled out across our group.
not already exist, to ensure our marketing Supported by educational campaigns, this activities conform to the codes provisions, includes voluntary counselling and testing underpinned by training programmes and for our staff and their dependants in Africa, other initiatives.
as well as fully funded anti-retroviral treatment for employees and their dependents who test HIV positive.
So far about 60% of staff in Africa have agreed to voluntary testing, rising 36 SABMiller plc We also supported numerous Engaging with stakeholders Account is taken of social, environmental programmes to discourage irresponsible Our licence to operate in both a regulatory and ethical matters in the training of directors, drinking, building on existing alcohol and socio-economic sense depends on and the remuneration committee is aware awareness programmes.
Some of these the support of all our stakeholders, from of emerging views that the effect of social, have had a substantial impact.
A national governments and local communities to our environmental and ethical performance campaign to stop the sale of alcohol to employees, suppliers and investors.
should be included in the design and under-age drinkers in Poland, for example, Maintaining an open and honest dialogue implementation of its performance-related has cut the proportion of shop assistants with these groups, including reporting our remuneration schemes.
selling alcohol to minors from 77% to 48%.
progress, is critical to our success.
Verication of social, environmental and Despite challenges to our sincerity, like Developing strong, interactive relationships ethical information is achieved through our those being made in the US class action with our stakeholders not only provides us internal control procedures and external litigation against most of the alcohol with a rich source of ideas to improve the assurance as presented in the corporate beverage industry, including the company performance of our business, it is also a accountability report and on the website.
and Miller as described on page 108, social and commercial obligation.
We have over marketing practices and their effect to be accountable for our actions.
Moving forward on people below the legal drinking age, we During the year we held productive SABMiller group is constantly striving to wont be discouraged from, and remain discussions with a large number of improve its performance, taking into account committed to, continuing our programmes.
At a global level, these included existing and emerging trends.
To enable us organisations such as the World Health to respond more effectively to the major Investing in communities Organisation: the Commission for Africa: and social and environment developments that Economically and socially strong the European Commission for Health and relate to our business, we are revising our communities provide us with skilled labour Consumer Safety.
Locally, our businesses current CSR strategy, building on our and raw materials, as well as markets for our maintained regular contact with their local existing foundations.
To help them ourish, we invest stakeholders, including relevant government To help us do this and accelerate our in various community programmes, from departments and civil society groups.
CSR programmes, we have enlarged our schemes to encourage young entrepreneurs In terms of reporting our CSR progress, CSR team.
As well as shaping our new to public health projects.
we document our advances in publications strategy, the team will take the lead in During the year ended 31 March 2005, such as this one, produce an annual corporate researching key environmental and social we invested over US$16.9 million in accountability report and provide progress trends and assessing our operating units community programmes, an increase of over reports on the web www.
This will enable us 30% on the previous 12 months.
Several of Our corporate accountability report provides to highlight best practice, identify gaps and these projects are designed to promote a fuller explanation of our CSR progress, as ensure a consistent, group-wide approach.
In India, well as our CSR governance and management Discussions with our stakeholders will also for instance, we are funding a health structure and principles, which can also be be taken into account in the new strategy.
promotion initiative that will educate over accessed via our website.
Several of our 3,000 families about the importance of businesses, including our companies in hygiene, immunisation against major diseases Botswana, Hungary and Poland, have also and other health-related issues.
The scheme produced their own local CSR corporate will also provide basic primary health care, accountability reports.
including mobile clinics offering first aid and treatments for minor ailments.
Governance and management of our Full details of our We also fund various programmes to CSR issues CSR activities are encourage young entrepreneurs.
Our Miller The board considers the potential impact to be found in Urban Entrepreneur Series in the USA, for of social, environmental and ethical issues the SABMiller instance, has provided over 3,000 aspiring on the short and long-term value of the Corporate entrepreneurs, mainly from minority ethnic company through the corporate Accountability groups, with advice on how to turn great accountability and risk assurance committee Report.
Similar CARAC, the audit committee and the risk schemes are supported in South Africa and management and internal control procedure.
Botswana under our KickStart programme.
The policies and programmes to manage In addition, we sponsor business-related social, environmental and ethical trends are scholarships and internships in countries as reviewed regularly and are summarised diverse as Romania and the USA.
above and provided in more detail in the accompanying corporate accountability report.
