Review of operations North America North America For the first time since 1998, Miller Brewing Company posted growth in retail sales and domestic shipments.
This growth was achieved in a challenging with its UK partner were renegotiated.
2005 2004 % Financial summary US$m US$m change competitive and economic environment.
Contract brewing volumes were in line with Turnover 4,892 4,778 2 Substantial increases in fuel costs have the prior year.
EBITA 497 424 17 had a marked impact on consumers Total turnover for the year increased by EBITA margin % 10.2 8.9 disposable income and spending patterns, 2.4%, and within this, US domestic turnover Sales volume hls 000s whilst US beer industry sales were also excluding contract brewing grew by 3.2%.
Lager excluding impacted by more favourable sales trends The level of promotions increased in the contract for the competing wine and spirit categories.
fourth quarter as a result of the intensied brewing 47,380 47,258 These two factors, coupled with variable competition in the market place, and this contract weather conditions, make this performance pricing activity is expected to continue into brewing 10,583 10,593 Carbonated soft all the more pleasing.
Domestic market share the coming financial year.
Strong gains in drinks CSDs 75 70 8 grew to 18.5% on a financial year basis.
both operating efficiency and overall waste Lager domestic Domestic beer sales to wholesalers reductions have been made in Millers sales to increased by 0.7% during the year whilst breweries.
However, during the fourth quarter retailers wholesaler inventories at year end were one the first impacts of the significant increases STRs 44,380 43,997 1 day lower than the prior year.
Wholesaler in world commodity prices, particularly Before exceptional credits of US$7 million being exceptional profit on the sale of Tumwater brewery of US$4 million, Tumwater sales to retailers STRs increased by 0.9% aluminium and energy costs, were felt.
brewery closure costs reversal of US$1 million and integration over the prior year.
In the second half, STRs Total marketing expenditure was higher and restructuring cost reversal of US$2 million 2004: exceptional charges of US$14 million being integration and restructuring costs were unchanged versus the prior year on a than in the prior year, driven by increased of US$13 million, Tumwater brewery closure costs reversal of US$4 million and asset impairment of US$5 million.
spending in the second half.
The mix of Miller Lite has achieved strong growth marketing expenditure continued to shift during the year despite challenging away from overhead and xed costs towards comparatives in the second half of the prior consumer-facing media placements and local year, and was the fastest growing beer brand market activation programmes.
Increased in US supermarkets for our financial year just resources were also deployed in the sales ended, as determined by ACNielsen.
The and marketing departments, and in improving decline in Miller Genuine Draft has slowed the talent level, training and development somewhat compared with the previous year: programmes as well as depth of cover in however Miller remains dissatisfied with the all functions of the company.
Miller is in the brands performance and further investment early stages of implementing world-class will be made behind this brand in the coming manufacturing standards in some of its financial year.
Progress against cost leadership Increased focus is being applied to the goals has been in line with expectations and Miller High Life and Milwaukees Best brand the resulting productivity gains have been franchises by both the company and its reinvested in the core strategic focus areas distributors, and the decline in these brands of the business.
These include an expanded has slowed.
During the year, Olde English sales organisation, with the recruitment of and Mickeys returned to volume growth.
nearly 200 specialised sales force team In the worthmore segment, Pilsner Urquell members, funding of local market initiatives has continued to grow whilst Peroni Nastro in all areas, the expansion of the on-premise Azzurro was launched during the fourth taste challenge with millions of consumer quarter.
The early signs for this brand are intercepts being achieved, improved brand promising.
Brutal Fruit was trial launched in marketing capability and an increase in three areas of the country late in the financial marketing expenditure on Millers year whilst shipments of both SKYY Blue and key brands.
SKYY Sport were discontinued during the year.
EBITA for the year grew 17% to US$497 Internationally, volumes experienced million despite the challenging competitive and varying performance across the territories.
Following this strong During the year Millers licensing arrangements performance, Millers target of achieving a 10 SABMiller plc double-digit EBITA margin by the end of its three-year turnaround Taking responsibility.
programme was met earlier than Taking action.
Capital expenditure was Miller takes its corporate ahead of the prior year and responsibilities seriously.
One area is expected to grow in the is alcohol responsibility, and the short and medium term company is constantly refreshing its as increased investments long-term alcohol responsibility are made behind key programmes the Lets Keep Talking focus areas.
initiative is just one example.
The extremely competitive Launched in October 2004 the environment coupled with a programme leverages the fact that difficult economic landscape under-age drinking, a major issue in and higher world commodity the United States, can be influenced prices make the next financial by parents as well as by peers, a fact year a difficult year to forecast.
Industry fundamentals, primarily Millers approach includes working volume and pricing, are expected to be through its distributors to provide more challenging, and since February the support and practical advice to pricing environment has become increasingly parents and other concerned adults difficult.
However, further growth in Miller Lite with regard to inuencing responsible Establishing a sales volumes, albeit at a slower rate, is behaviour among 15 to 20 year olds.
performance culture expected to be achieved, together with an The company has produced and The shaping of an improvement in the balance of the portfolio.
distributed over 50,000 copies of a intense performance Miller intends to continue to invest strongly Lets Keep Talking brochure to date, culture at Miller has behind its brands, its people and its in both English and Spanish.
The been a crucial processes in order to ensure that it remains programme has also been backed by element in reversing a strong and viable competitor over the radio spots in 23 states, television the downward trend long term.
advertising and hundreds of print ads in Miller Lites sales in English and Spanish publications in in the short term, key markets to help to punch home and in creating an the important message.
environment for sustained growth at Miller in the longer term.
Denise Smith, senior vice president human resources, explains: At Miller, we approach the shaping of a performance culture in two ways.
Firstly, we use a performance management process to help translate strategic priorities into goals for all teams and Milwaukees Best Light individuals.
Secondly, we ensure that the structures, processes, roles and skill proles are in place to ensure that we are able to Country USA deliver our strategic priorities.
Beer type American style light lager Creating a new environment in which Alcohol content by volume 4.5% ABV people can grow has had important consequences.
Employees are now much better placed to focus on business goals and Millers leading low-calorie brand in the economy segment.
It is far more aware of the contribution that they considered an unwind beer and is mostly purchased off-premise and can make.
Millers emerging performance consumed during at-home drinking occasions.
culture shows every sign of continuing to drive the company forward, helping it to succeed in a ercely competitive marketplace.
SABMiller plc 11 Review of operations North America 12 SABMiller plc national brand local branding Miller has fundamentally changed its approach to its business Tailored business plans, focusing on marketing, sales and over the last 18 months.
One of the key changes has been the distribution, are developed for each DMA in light of opportunities introduction of local market management.
identied, and resources are allocated accordingly.
Such plans Although the US is the worlds second largest beer market, it support and build upon national brand strategies and programmes.
operates as a series of smaller, very different markets, which is why DMA planning has helped to improve local insights and Millers strategy of analysing detailed market information at a local marketing, activation of national plans, and relationships with level, and planning accordingly, has helped it to win sales and to distributors.
It has allowed Miller to tap into its peoples increase volumes.
entrepreneurial skills more readily, resulting in greater focus and The strategy requires each local market to develop its own commitment and increased sales of Millers main brand, Miller Lite, highly individual plan.
The company identied 61 dened market for the first time in a decade.
areas DMAs each one with different and unique market attributes.
