South Africa Following the acquisition in December 2004 of all of the shares in ABI which the group did not own, a programme of work has begun to establish and leverage the benets from the combination of our beverage businesses in South Africa.
Future financial announcements will include segmental results and commentaries for South Africa Beverages.
For the year under review, economic conditions remained positive for our South African operations.
Lower ination and interest rates, taken together with lower taxation and benets from improved social grants, led to an increase in disposable income.
Turnover increased by 13% in local Beer South Africa currency, reecting higher volumes, price increases and significant growth in premium 2005 2004 % brands.
This translates to a 10% increase in Financial summary US$m US$m change domestic turnover per hectolitre over last year.
Turnover 2,522 1,964 28 Good control of operational costs and EBITA 708 522 36 improved efficiencies assisted by the strong EBITA margin % 28.1 26.6 performance of the rand which resulted in Sales volumes hls 000s reductions in raw material costs, helped Lager 25,912 25,261 3 boost the EBITA margin to 28.1% up from 26.6% a year ago.
EBITA was signicantly Reported lager volumes achieved strong up at US$708 million, an improvement of growth, ending the year 3% above last year.
36% on last year, and a constant currency As noted at the half year, during 2004 the increase of 20%.
management responsibility for exports to Strong sales growth and changes to Angola was transferred to the Africa division, both pack and brand mix have resulted in and on a pro forma comparable basis the the need to increase both packaging and increase in volume was 4%.
A programme brewing capacity as well as exibility of renovation of our mainstream brands capability.
Plans are well advanced to bring including packaging changes and focused the first tranche of capacity on line before the consumer communication contributed to 2005 summer peak.
While capacity upgrades this volume growth.
This has been achieved are restricted to certain breweries, a general through innovation, maximising opportunities enhancement of our packaging capability is presented by the marketing mix, price planned for all breweries.
management in trade and improved Good progress has been made by the availability following a 19% increase in liquor industry on the formulation of a Black customers receiving a delivery service.
Economic Empowerment BEE Charter for the The general consumer shift to more industry.
Internal targets to nalise the Charter premium offerings continues to gain by later in the year are, however, being momentum, with growth of 50% achieved in hampered by Governments delay in publishing the premium segment by Beer South Africa.
the full BEE codes of good practice.
Developments in packaging, promotions Progress in licensing the previously and merchandising combined with a highly unlicensed shebeen trade has continued differentiated route to market and focused to be below expectations, given delays in consumer engagement helped to maximise provincial licensing legislation.
In the Eastern this growth.
The deliberate drive behind Cape, however, increased temporary our international brands, MGD and Pilsner licensing has resulted in a doubling of Urquell, within the South African premium licensed customers during the year.
We have portfolio has delivered results and contributed continued to engage with the relevant licensing to this growth.
In addition, Beer South Africa authorities and assist shebeeners to increase now holds a market leadership position in the pace of licensing across the country and the fruit alcoholic drinks category following are investing in training to enhance the 36% growth during the year under review.
SABMiller plc 25 Review of operations South Africa A question of identity SAB has been one of the best known brands in South Africa for many years.
But the brand, which was developed in the early 1980s, needed refreshing to reect the companys roots, the needs of South Africa today and SABs role as a key contributor to Carling Black Label South Africa, both economically and socially.
The challenge was to retain the companys strong sense of identity and South African pedigree, while simultaneously reinforcing the caring and integrity Country South Africa values that resonate within modern South Africa.
Beer type Lager The answer was a new brand campaign coupled Alcohol content by volume 5.5% ABV with a new identity and a carefully managed communications programme to remind everyone that South Africas best selling brand.
Carling Black Labels key SAB was quintessentially South African and that market is blue collar males over the age of 25.
With its market it would remain South African in a changing world.
share at record levels, the main focus is to continue to strengthen Launched in July 2004, this programme was the brand through a packaging upgrade in 2005 and new TV initiated with a two-minute epic television advertising coupled with additional marketing support.
advertisement featuring more than 800 staff members and subsequently incorporated print, television and radio advertising and the new corporate identity.
