Review of operations Africa & Asia Africa & Asia Our African businesses delivered another year of strong earnings growth, while our Chinese associate, CR Snow, further consolidated its leading position in China.
Africa following the 8% devaluation of the 2005 2004 % Financial summary US$m US$m change Our African businesses continued the solid local pula, to post 1.3% total volume Turnover 1,937 1,555 25 momentum described at the half-year with growth, within which the CSD portfolio EBITA 384 306 25 full-year growth in reported lager volumes of performed best.
Volume gains combined with improved Castle brand volumes grew 15% across Sales volumes hls 000s productivity and selective price increases led Africa, with strong performances in Tanzania Lager 39,505 32,521 21 to strong EBITA growth for the year under and Zambia where the brand attracts a price Lager organic 35,685 32,392 10 review.
EBITA margin also increased aided by premium.
Castle Milk Stout grew in Ghana, Carbonated favourable country mix, with good growth in also at a premium price position, and the soft drinks CSDs 4,667 3,879 20 our higher margin territories.
brand was introduced in Cameroon by our Other beverages 11,538 10,137 14 Before exceptional items being profit on the disposal of the Within the portfolio, Tanzania enjoyed an strategic alliance partner, Castel, with groups interest in Harbin Brewery Group Limited Harbin of exceptional year with lager volume growth of encouraging initial results.
Miller Genuine US$103 million 2004: share of associates profit on disposal of a CSD business and brands in Morocco of US$6 million and 9%, driven by improved market penetration Draft was launched in selected African share of associates profit on disposal of a brand in Angola of US$1 million.
within the context of an improving economy countries in the last quarter of the year.
Castel volumes of 12,771 hls 000s 2004: 12,049 hls 000s lager, and favourable agricultural conditions.
Lager volumes in Castel grew 6% year- 8,260 hls 000s 2004: 9,221 hls 000s CSDs, and 2,985 hls 000s 2004: 3,326 hls 000s other beverages are not included.
Mozambique also excelled with volume on-year, with solid performances in Angola, During 2004, the management responsibility for sales to Angola was transferred from Beer South Africa to the Africa division.
On a growth of 13% reecting greater product Democratic Republic of Congo and Algeria.
pro forma comparable basis, the organic growth in lager volume in Africa and Asia would have been 9% compared to the prior year.
availability in rural areas and improving Castels CSD volumes reect a non-organic economic fundamentals.
Angola continued drop following the sale of their Moroccan and its strong growth in CSDs with volumes Angolan CSD interests in the latter part of the improving 15% year-on-year as increased prior year.
EBITA has shown strong growth capacity and additional packs were over the prior year, reecting improved introduced during the year.
Botswana productivity and a favourable product mix.
recovered from a slow start to the year Chibuku Country Various mainly Botswana, Malawi, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe Beer type Sorghum beer Alcohol content by volume Less than 4% Chibuku is a traditional unpasteurised African sorghum beer and, because it is live, it has a short shelf-life of only a few days.
In 2005, the group sold over 6.2 million hectolitres in Africa.
SABMiller plc 21 Review of operations Africa & Asia developing Indias most advanced brewery Charminar brewery is owned by SABMillers business in India.
It is located in the state of Andhra Pradesh, which accounts for 21% of Indias annual beer sales.
Until 2003, Charminar was restricted to a licensed capacity of 325,000 hectolitres a year.
Its18-month massive expansion programme, which increased this to a potential maximum capacity of 950,000 hectolitres a year, was completed on schedule in May 2005, without disruption to the brewerys operations.
The expanded brewery has not only resulted in improved economies of scale, which have delivered increased profitability for the company, but its development has also brought welcome additional jobs to an economically poor area.
Today, Charminar is Indias biggest and most advanced brewery, as well as its lowest cost producer, able to deliver 34% of all our Indian operations volumes.
Asia marketing and distribution initiatives, A national brand for the Our Chinese associate, CR Snow, expanded we are beginning to reap brand portfolio worlds largest market further during the year, with seven breweries and operational synergies from our recent Creating a locally brewed, national acquired giving access to new markets in the acquisitions.
Reported EBITA was, brand in China, is one of many Yangtze River delta as well as bolstering our however, also influenced by the negative challenges facing brewers in the position in Anhui.
Lager volume growth for impact of the new acquisitions, particularly worlds largest beer market.
CR Snow, the year was 25%, within which underlying in the case of the breweries in southern SABMillers Chinese associate, and organic growth of 10% was achieved.
Our Jiangsu province, which were acquired in one of the countrys largest brewers, national brand, Snow, grew by 27% and October 2004, ahead of the lower-volume is addressing this through its Snow comprised 33% of total volumes.
brand, rolling it out as the company our national market share grew by over one Our investment in India recorded expands into new regions.
double-digit sales volume growth, ahead Recent strategic acquisitions such Double-digit organic EBITA growth was of the industry.
The business continued to as Qianjiang in North Zhejiang, Longjin delivered in China driven by our volume rehabilitate individual brewing units and in Anhui, the modern Lion Nathan performance as well as modest net pricing added one million hectolitres of new capacity breweries in Jiangsu, and the new and mix improvement which offset higher while closing down two smaller breweries brewery being built on a greeneld site raw material and energy costs.
The business is focusing on in Guangdong, are giving the company moderate price ination trends are industry reforms, and is making significant access to Chinas strategically encouraging.
Additionally, while we are investments in upgrading returnable important urbanised areas on the increasing investment in focused brand containers.
southern and eastern seaboards for the first time.
The Snow brand is well on the way to becoming a truly national Chinese Haywards 5000 beer brand.
Country India Beer type Lager with smooth taste Alcohol content 7.5% ABV With annual sales of 1.2 million hectolitres, Haywards 5000 is the largest selling brand in Indias strong beer segment, which accounts for 65% of the total beer market.
Recently relaunched, Haywards 5000 is now growing at over 15% per annum.
SABMiller plc 23 Review of operations South Africa brands that appeal to more customers The worthmore segment in South Africa is now in excess of 10% of the countrys total beer market.
Increasing market share in this highly competitive, fast growing and valuable segment is important, and The South African Breweries Ltd SAB is capitalising on the opportunity through its differentiated premium portfolio catering for different consumer needs.
Miller Genuine Draft is positioned and marketed as an authentic international beer with a smooth, cold-ltered, crisp, clean taste to appeal to young, urban consumers over the legal drinking age, whilst Pilsner Urquell is positioned as a brand for beer connoisseurs.
Amstel Lager serves to deliver consumer desirability through status and superior quality and Castle Lite appeals to a wider audience looking for a lighter, healthier drinking option.
The positioning and momentum behind these brands has resulted in the phenomenal growth of SABs premium portfolio in excess of 50% compared to competitors premium products, which grew by 13.5%.
In addition, significant effort has been invested behind on the ground brand activation with new and different applications of the marketing mix and some unique thinking about route to market.
These changes have also assisted growth in the fruit alcoholic beverage FAB sector where SAB has more than doubled its market share to 48% of this equally competitive and premium sub-portfolio over the past three years.
