Review of operations Central America customer focus with Latin style... Bevco, SABMillers Central American subsidiary, operates in an increasingly competitive beer market as well as in highly competitive carbonated soft drinks CSD and water sectors.
After integrating the companies acquired into single operating entities in both countries, Bevco made a number of key operational changes to ensure that it could generate value on an ongoing basis, despite losing volume in the short term.
In order to meet consumer needs more effectively, Bevco introduced new processes, systems and technology.
An important part of this strategy involved setting up a channel marketing and sales project in October 2004 to focus the business.
The companys sales and marketing functions are now managed like a series of small businesses, focused on addressing customer needs by matching brands to specic consumption occasions.
For example, on-premise brand promotions are individually designed to meet the consumer needs of the particular outlet.
These changes, which have helped to create a new structure and culture within the company, enable it to compete relentlessly in the market place, supported for the first time by quality information systems.
the year in strengthening our brand portfolio and improving execution through customer Central America focused channel marketing.
Following our successful launch of a local premium beer, Bahia, in El Salvador in the previous financial The results for the year display the progress made in many areas of the business year, the brand was launched in Honduras notwithstanding tough trading conditions, particularly in El Salvador.
during the year and continues to grow share ahead of expectation.
Both countries successfully grew share of worthmore brands Disposable incomes in both countries enhancing beer margins.
However, overall 2005 2004 % Financial summary US$m US$m change continue to be negatively impacted by high beer volumes were marginally lower across Turnover 521 531 2 fuel costs, and consequent increases in the business, with good growth in Honduras EBITA 91 76 21 electricity and public transport costs.
being offset by a decline in El Salvador, EBITA margin % 17.5 14.2 Economic growth in El Salvador has slowed where domestic volumes in the last quarter Sales volumes hls 000s signicantly due to the effects of delayed fell following the excise tax increase, and Lager 1,828 1,839 1 expenditure caused by the uncertainty in the export volumes were reduced in light of their Carbonated outcome of the presidential elections and inherent low profitability.
soft drinks CSDs 5,622 6,031 7 postponement in the approval of the central Aggregate CSD volumes fell by 7%, Other beverages 2,749 2,643 4 Before exceptional costs of US$Nil million 2004: reorganisation budget.
This situation has been exacerbated reecting the price-based nature of costs of US$6 million.
by the introduction in January 2005 of a competition in El Salvador.
Whilst our CSD number of scal reforms, including an market share is relatively stable in Honduras, increase in excess of 50% in the excise tax market share has been lost in El Salvador.
on beer, against modest increases for However, through effective channel marketing competing alcohol products.
The excise and improved in-trade execution, we have regime has also changed, moving away been able to increase prices in certain from ad valorem to a unit of alcohol basis.
segments in both markets to improve the This ostensibly allows for more transparency, profitability of the CSD business.
Whilst we but the rate imposed on beer penalises the have introduced lower-priced offerings in category by comparison to spirits.
selected market segments to compete on Further progress was made throughout a price basis, we continue to support our 14 SABMiller plc sector leadership by focusing mainly on 26% up in constant currency and an brand attributes rather than price.
The growth improved EBITA margin.
The full year benets Bahia breaks new ground in other beverage volumes reects the of previous reorganisations have also in Central America increased sales of bottled water.
Bahia, which incorporates energy, vivid Turnover for the period declined by Trading conditions are expected to colours, dynamism and spontaneity in 2%, as improved pricing for both beer and remain tough, and this will lead to increased its marketing, is sold mainly in the CSDs partly offset the impact of the volume market investment.
However, the business on-premise sector of the market.
Improved revenue management is now appropriately structured with a Since its launch, Bahia has broken through brand segmentation and portfolio cost base that will allow us to compete new ground by taking 6% and 14% of management has yielded benets, and aggressively.
Accordingly, we are in a position total beer market share in El Salvador continues to deliver improved margins across to strongly defend the competitive entries and Honduras respectively.
These improved margins, into our beer markets, and have the ability also achieved an awareness of over strong control of operating costs, and the to aggressively seek CSD market share, 90% among adults over the legal lower cost base in the business following albeit that this may be at the expense of drinking age.
restructuring, has led to a higher EBITA short-term margin.
Pilsener Country El Salvador Beer type Lager Alcohol content by volume 4.6% ABV As El Salvadors leading beer brand for almost 100 years, Pilsener is a national icon, holding a 50% market share.
