Directors Report For the year ended 30 September 2005 The directors present their report and the audited financial Creditor payment policy statements for the year ended 30 September 2005.
Given the international nature of its operations, the Group does not operate a standard code in respect of payments to Principal activities suppliers.
Subsidiary operating companies are responsible The Groups principal activities during the year continued to for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business be the development, distribution and support of business transactions with their suppliers are conducted, including the management software and related products and services for terms of payment.
It is the Groups policy that payments to medium-sized and smaller businesses.
suppliers are made promptly in accordance with these terms.
Creditor days for the Group have been calculated at Review of business The Group achieved a profit on ordinary activities before 37 days 2004: 40 days.
Substantial shareholdings A review of operations of the Group during the year and At 11 January 2006, the Company had been notified, in an indication of future prospects are contained in the accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review on 1985, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital pages 2 to 5. of the Company: Results and dividends The trading results for the year, dividends paid and Barclays plc 5.01% proposed, and the amount transferred to reserves are set The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 5.00% out on page 32.
The Board proposes a final dividend of Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 4.02% 1.953p per share 2004: 1.719p per share taking the Aviva plc and Morley Fund Management Limited 3.86% proposed full year dividend to 2.875p per share 2004: Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 3.23% 2.330p per share.
Fidelity International Limited 3.01% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.00% Research and development During the year, the Group invested 81,610,000 in research and development 2004: 74,386,000.
This has resulted in Annual General Meeting a number of new products and features as referred to in the Notice of the eighteenth Annual General Meeting of The Chief Executives Review on pages 3 to 5.
Sage Group plc to be held on Thursday 2 March 2006 is set out on pages 62 and 63.
A form of proxy is enclosed for Charitable contributions and political donations members who wish to use one.
It should be returned so as During the year, within the UK, charitable contributions to be with the Companys registrars no later than 10.00am totalling 100,000 were made, which included 50,000 to on Tuesday 28 February 2006.
Shareholders with internet the Tyne and Wear Community Foundation and 50,000 to access may register their voting instructions online for the the Tsunami appeal.
The rest of the Group made charitable forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
They may register their donations of 221,000.
No political donations were made vote electronically by going to www.
will be required to key in the three security numbers printed Directors and their interests on the form of proxy to access the voting site.
CREST A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital members may appoint their proxy or proxies electronically of the Company and details of their options over the ordinary via Lloyds TSB Registrars ID 7RA01.
share capital of the Company are given in the Remuneration The Resolutions to be put at the Annual General Meeting Report on pages 23 to 31.
No director had a material are in the notice of Annual General Meeting set out on interest in any significant contract, other than a service pages 62 and 63. contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
12 13 Directors Report continued For the year ended 30 September 2005 Resolution 1 is to receive and consider the audited accounts Resolution 5 relates to the re-appointment of Mr R Verni.
for the year ended 30 September 2005 together with the Mr Verni is Managing Director of the North American reports of the directors and auditors.
Mr Verni joined Peachtree Software as President required to present to the meeting the accounts together with and CEO in July 1994.
He was appointed Chief Executive these reports which are contained in this Annual Report.
Officer of all the Group US operations in October 2000 and joined the Group Board in July 2002.
Mr Verni provides the Resolution 2 recommends a final dividend of 1.953 pence Board with extensive experience of the US software market.
per ordinary share be declared.
The final dividend declared cannot exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Further biographical details of Messrs. Berruyer, Ingram and The proposed final dividend, which will be payable on 8 Verni are set out on pages 8 and 9.
March 2006 to holders of ordinary shares registered at the The Nomination Committee, which is the Committee of the close of business on 10 February 2006 will bring the total Board which considers the balance of the Board and the dividend for the year to 2.875 pence.
Last year the total mix of skills, knowledge and experience of its members, has dividend was 2.33 pence.
considered and approved the re-appointment of Messrs.
Resolutions 3 to 5 relate to the re-appointment of certain Berruyer, Ingram and Verni.
Messrs. Berruyer, Ingram and directors to the Board.
Verni have been subject to a formal evaluation procedure in the last twelve months and following that procedure the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Chairman confirms their continuing commitment and Mr G S Berruyer, Mr T C W Ingram and Mr R Verni will be contribution to their roles.
retiring at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Berruyer and Mr Verni Resolution 6 relates to the re-appointment of the auditors.
have service contracts with Sage Overseas Limited and  LLP have indicated their Sage Software, Inc. respectively, terminable on twelve willingness to continue in office.
months notice by the relevant company.
Mr T C W Ingram Resolution 7 is to approve the Remuneration Report on has a contract for services with the Company for a fixed pages 23 to 31.
The Directors Remuneration Report period of two years from 18 March 2004, terminable within Regulations 2002 the Regulations require that a report, that period by six months notice from the Company and prepared in accordance with the Regulations, is put to a one months notice from him.
If re-elected he will be offered vote of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
a further contract for services on those terms for a further period of two years.
Resolutions 8 and 9 will be proposed to enable the directors to renew their existing power to allot unissued shares in the Resolution 3 relates to the re-appointment of Mr G S capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount Berruyer.
Having joined the Group in 1997, Mr Berruyer of 4,284,395 representing 33.2% of the nominal value of the joined the Board in January 2000.
He is currently Managing Companys issued share capital on 11 January 2006, the Director of the Mainland Europe and Asia divisions and as latest practicable date prior to the printing of this document such he manages all the businesses of the Group in these and to allot equity securities for cash up to an aggregate areas and in the Middle East.
Mr Berruyer brings to the nominal amount of 642,659 representing 5.0% of the issued Board extensive experience of the software industry within ordinary share capital of the Company on 11 January 2006, Europe.
the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this Resolution 4 relates to the re-appointment of Mr T C W document.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of Ingram.
Mr Ingram joined the Board in March 2002 and is an the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
He is Chief Executive directors do not have any present intention of exercising these of Caledonia Investments plc and was formerly Managing authorities other than in connection with the Groups Director of Business to Business Banking at Abbey National employee share schemes and do not intend to issue more plc.
He is also a non-executive director of Savills plc.
than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company under Mr Ingrams extensive banking experience together with his the authority to allot equity securities for cash in any three year current role at Caledonia provide the Group with valuable period without prior consultation with the relevant investor expertise and insight, particularly in the finance area.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
Ingram is not related to his fellow director, Ms Tamara Ingram.
1 Financial Highlights and Overview 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Chief Executives Review 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 10 Financial Review 13 Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Statement 23 Remuneration Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 37 Notes to the Accounts 61 Independent Auditors Report 62 Notice of Meeting 64 Financial Calendar Resolution 10 set out in the Notice of Meeting will be A listed company may hold shares in treasury, as an proposed to continue to enable the Company to purchase alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of own its own shares in accordance with section 166 of the shares by the company in accordance with the Companies Companies Act 1985 on such terms and in such manner Act 1985.
Shares held in treasury in this manner will be as the directors determine, subject to the following: available for resale by the Company or may be transferred for the purpose of or pursuant to an employees share scheme.
The price which may be paid for each ordinary share will Accordingly, if the directors exercise the authority conferred not be less than the nominal value of the share and will not by Resolution 10, the Company will have the option of exceed the higher of 5% above the average of the midholding those shares in treasury, rather than cancelling them.
market price of the ordinary shares of the Company as Your Board will have regard to any guidelines published by derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List any of the investor groups in force at the time of any such for the five business days before the purchase is made and purchase, holding or re-sale of treasury shares.
that amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003, in each case exclusive of The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares any expenses payable by the Company.
and awards to be satisfied by newly issued ordinary shares and other long term incentive plans of the Group that were The maximum aggregate number of shares that may be outstanding at 11 January 2006 being the latest practicable purchased pursuant to this authority shall be limited to date prior to the printing of this report was 63,085,504.
128,531,858 shares which is equivalent to approximately The proportion of issued share capital that they represented 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 30 at that time was 4.9 per cent and the proportion of issued September 2005. share capital that they will represent if the full authority The authority will remain in force until the conclusion of the to purchase shares existing and being sought is used is next Annual General Meeting of the Company but will 5.4 per cent.
terminate on 31 March 2007 if the Annual General Meeting The Articles of Association of the Company are reviewed has not been held by that date.
As a result of this review, the Company proposes to change its Articles of Association to increase the The Company may agree before the authority terminates to maximum number of directors to 15 to ensure that it has the purchase ordinary shares where the purchase will or may be ability in the future to maintain the correct ratio of executive executed after the authority terminates either in whole or in part.
The Company may complete such a purchase even and non-executive directors as required by the Revised Combined Code and recognising that the size of the Group though the authority has ended.
may require a larger Board than was historically the case.
The Company took such an authority for the first time at the It also proposes to change the articles relating to the fees Annual General Meeting in 2005.
The Company has no and other remuneration payable to non-executive directors present intention to exercise this authority.
In any event, the including the Chairman by increasing the maximum amount power given by the resolution will only be exercised if the of fees and other remuneration payable to the non-executive directors are satisfied that any purchase will increase the directors to 750,000 to reflect possible increases in the size earnings per share of the ordinary share capital in issue after of the Board.
Resolution 11, if passed, will implement these the purchase and, accordingly, that the purchase is in the proposed changes.
The directors will also give careful consideration to gearing levels of the Company and its Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Meeting proposes the general financial position.
The purchase price would be paid adoption of a new savings related share option scheme.
Details of the proposed scheme are set out below.
14 15 Directors Report continued For the year ended 30 September 2005 The Sage Group Savings-Related Share Option Plan Exercise price the SAYE Plan An employee who applies for the grant of an option to In February 1996, the Company introduced an Inland acquire Shares will do so at a price the Exercise Price Revenue approved savings-related share option scheme which is determined by the directors but which is not less allowing all UK employees to apply for an option to acquire than the greater of: a 80% of the middle market quotation ordinary shares in the Company Shares at a price per of a Share on the dealing day prior to the date of invitation Share which was not less than 80% of the market value of as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official those Shares when invitations for options were made.
The List or, if the directors so decide, 80% of the average of the acquisition of the Shares was funded by the proceeds of a middle market quotations over the three dealing days prior savings account with a bank or building society.
The original to the date of the invitation or 80% of the middle market scheme adopted in 1996 has continued in accordance with quotations at such other time or times agreed in advance its terms for 10 years and will therefore expire in February with HMRC, and b in the case of an option over unissued 2006.
In order to ensure that this benefit remains available to Shares, the nominal value of a Share.
employees in the UK and in other jurisdictions where it may Grant of options be appropriate, it has been decided by the Board to adopt a Each option is granted over a number of Shares which, new savings-related share option scheme, the SAYE Plan, at when multiplied by the Exercise Price, does not exceed the the Annual General Meeting in 2006.
Resolution 12 will total monthly contributions plus the bonus payable on the therefore be put to members at the Annual General maturity of the SAYE contract.
There will be no payment for Meeting.
A summary of the principal terms of the SAYE the grant of an option.
Invitations to apply for options must Plan is set out below.
be made within a period of 42 days after i approval of the Constitution SAYE Plan by HMRC, or ii the publication by the Company The SAYE Plan is constituted by a set of written rules, which of its interim or final results each year, or iii the day after the have been submitted to Her Majestys Revenue and Companys Annual General Meeting, or iv any day on which Customs HMRC for approval.
The SAYE Plan will be any change to the savings-related share option schemes administered by the directors.
legislation is announced or made, or v if the directors resolve that exceptional circumstances exist which justify the Eligibility operation of the SAYE Plan.
All UK employees, including executive directors, of the Company and its participating subsidiaries who have Non-transferability completed at least one years continuous service and are Options may not be transferred and may only be exercised by assessable to employment income tax are eligible to the persons to whom they were granted the Optionholder participate in the SAYE Plan.
The directors may offer or the Optionholders personal representatives.
participation to other employees and may alter the length Exercise of options of service required to qualify to a different period, not In normal circumstances, an option may be exercised at any exceeding five years.
time within six months following maturity of the SAYE Employee contributions contract, using the proceeds of the SAYE contract and the An employee who wishes to participate in the SAYE Plan will applicable bonus.
enter into a contract the SAYE contract with a savings The Company must arrange for the delivery of Shares to body, designated by the directors for the purpose of the the Optionholder within 30 days following the effective SAYE Plan, to make monthly contributions by deductions date of exercise of the option.
Shares acquired by the from their pay of not more than the maximum contribution Optionholder will rank equally in all respects with the Shares permitted from time to time by HMRC currently 250. then in issue, except that they will not be entitled to any A tax-free bonus currently equivalent to 1.4x or 4.4x the rights attaching to Shares by reference to a record date monthly contribution will be paid on completion of 36 or falling before the date on which the Optionholder is 60 monthly savings contributions respectively and another entered on the register of shareholders.
tax-free bonus currently 8.4x the monthly contribution including the payment at the end of 60 months will be paid after a further two years if the savings plus the initial bonus are not withdrawn prior to that date.
1 Financial Highlights and Overview 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Chief Executives Review 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 10 Financial Review 13 Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Statement 23 Remuneration Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 37 Notes to the Accounts 61 Independent Auditors Report 62 Notice of Meeting 64 Financial Calendar Leavers Amendment If an Optionholder ceases to be an employee of the The rules of the SAYE Plan can be amended at any time by Company or a company in the Sage group of companies in the directors.
However, no amendment to the advantage of certain circumstances for example due to injury, disability, Optionholders can be made without the prior approval of the redundancy, retirement or following a change of control of shareholders in general meeting if the amendment relates to the employing company or transfer of the employing the provisions in the rules of the SAYE Plan relating to: business or if there is a takeover or winding-up of the Who is eligible to participate under the SAYE Plan: Company, the Optionholder may exercise his or her option within six months after so ceasing to be an employee or The limits on the number of Shares that can be issued or within a certain period after the relevant event.
If an transferred from treasury under the SAYE Plan: Optionholder dies, his or her personal representatives may The maximum entitlement for any one Optionholder: exercise the option within twelve months after the earlier of the date of death or the date of the maturity of the SAYE The rights attaching to options and Shares: contract of the option.
If an Optionholder ceases to be an The determination of the Exercise Price: employee of the Company or a company in the Sage group of companies for any other reason, the option will lapse.
The rights of Optionholders in the event of a variation in the share capital of the Company: and Limits on the issue of Shares or use of Shares transferred out of treasury This amendment provision, The total number of unissued Shares or Shares held in unless the amendment is necessary or desirable in order to treasury which may be placed under option under the SAYE obtain or maintain HMRCs approval of the SAYE Plan, or is Plan in any financial year is limited to 10 per cent of the minor and made to benefit the administration of the SAYE issued share capital of the Company at the end of that Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain financial year, taking into account Shares issued or to be or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory issued or transferred out of treasury under the SAYE Plan treatment for Optionholders or for any member of the Sage and any other employees share scheme s adopted by the group of companies.
Company during that financial year and the preceding nine financial years.
Shares subject to options that have lapsed, Additional schedules to the rules of the SAYE Plan can be been released or cancelled are excluded when calculating adopted by the directors to operate the SAYE Plan outside this limit.
the United Kingdom, subject to additional and or modified terms and conditions having regard to any securities, Exchange of options exchange control or taxation laws, regulations or practice.
If there is a change of control of the Company following a general offer to acquire the whole of the issued share capital For as long as the SAYE Plan remains approved by HMRC, of the Company or all the Shares in the Company, or following no amendment to a key feature of the SAYE Plan may be a compromise or arrangement, Optionholders may agree with made without the prior approval of HMRC.
the acquirer to exchange their options for options over Termination ordinary shares in a company within the acquirers group.
The directors may at any time terminate the SAYE Plan and Repayment of savings in such event, no further offers of participation will be made On maturity of the SAYE contract, the Optionholder may but the subsisting rights of Optionholders will not be affected.
either exercise his or her option in whole or in part or take Duration the cash payment.
An Optionholder may withdraw the Options may not be granted more than 10 years after proceeds of his or her SAYE contract at any time but earlier the approval of the SAYE Plan by the Company in withdrawal, except in special circumstances, will cause the general meeting.
By Order of the Board Variations of capital M J Robinson If there is a capitalisation issue, an offer or invitation to shareholders by way of rights, a consolidation, sub-division Secretary or reduction or other variation of capital of the Company, 11 January 2006 the number of Shares subject to options and the Exercise Price will, with the prior approval of HMRC, be subject to adjustment in such manner as the directors may determine.
