Board of Directors and Executive Team Chairman Charles Miller Smith 65 joined the Board as Deputy Chairman Corporation, a California-based international engineering, in August 1999 and was appointed Chairman in April 2000. construction and services company, until his retirement in Following a career with Unilever for some 30 years, during the February 2002.
Previously, he was with Shell Oil for over 35 last five of which he was Director of Finance and latterly of the years, serving as President and Chief Executive Officer from Food Executive, he was appointed Chief Executive of ICI in 1993 to 1998.
He is an honorary life member of the Board of 1995 and then served as Chairman from 1999 to 2001.
He is a the American Petroleum Institute and holds various posts with member of the Board of the Indian company, ICICI One the James A Baker III Institute for Public Policy of Rice Source plc, and of the Ministry of Defence Management Board.
University and the University of Houston.
He will retire from During the year, he participated in a programme mentoring the Board after the AGM in 2005. women in senior business roles with a view to increasing female representation in the boardroom.
Nolan Karras 60 joined the Board in November 1999.
He continues as a non-executive director of PacifiCorp, having previously until the merger in November 1999 served as Chairman of the PacifiCorp Personnel Committee.
He is Chair of Non-Executive Directors the PacifiCorp Utah regional advisory board, and President of The Vicky Bailey 53 joined the Board in June 2004.
Based in Karras Company, Inc. and a Registered Principal for Raymond Washington DC, she is a former Assistant Secretary for Policy James Financial Services.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Western and International Affairs at the US Department of Energy and Hay Company, Inc. and a non-executive director of Beneficial ex-member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Life Insurance Company.
He is Chairman of the Utah State FERC.
She has also served as an Indiana state utility Higher Education Board of Regents and a member of the board of regulator, and was President of PSI Energy Inc. Indianas Ogden-Weber Applied Technology College.
He also served as a largest electricity supplier, from June 2000 to July 2001.
She is member of the Utah House of Representatives from 1981 to 1990, currently a Partner of Johnston & Associates, a public and and as Speaker of the Utah House of Representatives from legislative affairs consultancy.
Her current term of office, 1989 to 1990.
His current term of office, subject to his refollowing her election in 2004, will expire at the AGM in 2007. election in 2005, will expire at the AGM in 2006.
Euan Baird 67 joined the Board in January 2001.
He served as Nick Rose 47 joined the Board in February 2003.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Schlumberger Chairman of the Audit Committee and is the Committees Limited from 1986 to 2003, and as non-executive Chairman of designated financial expert.
He is Finance Director of Diageo Rolls-Royce plc until June 2004.
He is a non-executive director plc, having been appointed to this position in July 1999. of Socit Gnrale and Areva.
He is a trustee of Tocqueville Previously he held senior finance positions with GrandMet and Alexis Trust and Carnegie Institution of Washington.
His current was latterly Finance Director of International Distillers & term of office will expire at the AGM in 2007.
Vintners in 1996 and then of United Distillers & Vintners in 1997.
He is also a director of Mot Hennessy.
His current term Donald Brydon 59 joined the Board in May 2003.
Following a of office will expire at the AGM in 2006.
20-year career with Barclays Group plc, he joined AXA Group in 1997 and is now Chairman of AXA Investment Managers.
He Nancy Wilgenbusch 57 joined the Board in June 2004.
She is a is also Chairman of Smiths Group plc and the London Metal distinguished community administrator and President of Exchange, and Chairman of the Code Committee of the Panel Marylhurst University in Portland, Oregon.
She served as a on Takeovers and Mergers.
His current term of office, subject non-executive director of PacifiCorp from 1986 until the to his re-election in 2005, will expire at the AGM in 2006. merger in November 1999 and is Chair of the PacifiCorp Pacific regional advisory board.
She is a former chair of the Philip Carroll 67 joined the Board in January 2002, but was Portland Branch of the San Francisco Federal Reserve, and a absent during the period May to October 2003.
He was director of West Coast Bank.
Her current term of office, formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Fluor following her election in 2004, will expire at the AGM in 2007.
81 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Board of Directors and Executive Team Lewis & Clark College.
She has a bachelors degree in political Executive Directors science from Colorado State University and a law degree from Ian Russell 52 is Chief Executive, having been appointed to Northwestern School of Law at Lewis & Clark College in this position in April 2001.
He joined ScottishPower as Portland, Oregon, and is a member of the Oregon and Finance Director in April 1994, and became Deputy Chief Washington State Bar Associations.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, having trained with Simon Lowth 43 is Director, Corporate Strategy and Thomson McLintock, and has held senior finance positions Development, having been appointed to the Board in this with HSBC.
He serves on the Council of Edinburgh position on 1 September 2003.
He is responsible in this role for International Festival and the Scottish Council of the Princes leading the formulation, presentation and delivery of corporate Trust.
During the year he led a UK Government Commission strategy.
With effect from 24 May 2005 he assumes the new on the development of a National Youth Volunteering Strategy, role of Executive Director, Finance and Strategy.
He was the conclusions of which were published in March 2005. formerly a Director with McKinsey and Company, leading its UK industrial practice, serving clients in the energy and David Nish 45 is Finance Director, having joined utilities, manufacturing and transport sectors.
He holds an MA ScottishPower in September 1997 as Deputy Finance Director in Engineering from Cambridge University and an MBA from and then being appointed to the Board as Finance Director in London Business School.
In this capacity, he also has responsibility at Board level for performance and risk management.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, Executive Team the Scottish Council of the CBI, and the Accounting Standards Boards Urgent Issues Task Force, and a non-executive director The Executive Team is constituted as a committee of the Board of The Royal Scottish National Orchestra.
Prior to joining and includes not only the Executive Directors of the Board but ScottishPower, he was a partner with Price Waterhouse.
He also the following key Executives and Officers from the group.
has a BAcc from the University of Glasgow.
As previously For US reporting purposes the members of the Executive Team, announced he becomes Executive Director, Infrastructure as and also the Company Secretary, are regarded as officers of the part of the planned board development programme with effect company.
Dominic Fry 45 joined ScottishPower in September 2000 as Charles Berry 53 is Executive Director UK, responsible in this Group Director, Corporate Communications.
He is responsible capacity for the UK energy businesses of Generation, Energy for investor and media relations, communications with Management and Supply.
He joined ScottishPower in employees, corporate social responsibility and management of November 1991 and was appointed to the Board in April 1999. the groups overall reputation.
He has held appointments as He is a non-executive director of the Securities Trust of Communications Director with J Sainsbury plc and Eurotunnel Scotland plc.
Prior to joining ScottishPower, he was Group plc.
He chairs the Trading Board of the Glasgow Science Development Director of Norwest Holst, a subsidiary of Centre and is a communications adviser to the Royal Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux, and prior to that held Shakespeare Company and Business in the Community.
He is management positions within subsidiaries of Pilkington plc.
He also a director of Scottish Business in the Community and of holds a BSc First Class Hons in Electrical Engineering from Project Scotland.
He was educated at the Universit Paul the University of Glasgow and a Masters Degree in Valry III in Montpellier and the University of North Carolina.
Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Terry Hudgens 50 was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Judi Johansen 46 is President and Chief Executive Officer of ScottishPowers competitive US energy business, PPM Energy, PacifiCorp: she was appointed to this position in June 2001 in May 2001 and joined the Executive Team in December and joined the Board on 1 October 2003.
He joined PacifiCorp as Senior Vice President of Power PacifiCorp as Executive Vice President of Regulation and Supply in April 2000, having previously spent 25 years with External Affairs in December 2000, having held senior Texaco, Inc.
He was formerly President of Texaco Natural Gas positions with the Bonneville Power Administration and and served as Texacos senior representative and elected officer Washington Water Power.
She is a former member of the in the Natural Gas Supply Association.
He is a member of the Board of the Portland Branch of the US Federal Reserve Bank Board of Trustees of The Nature Conservancy in Oregon.
He of San Francisco, a commissioner for the Port of Portland, has a bachelors degree in civil engineering from the University director of the Oregon Business Council and trustee of law at of Houston.
82 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Ronnie Mercer 61 is Executive Vice President, Operations, PacifiCorp, having been appointed to this new role on 1 Company Secretary January 2005.
In this role he has joint responsibility with Judi Johansen for the operating performance and results within Andrew Mitchell 53 was appointed Group Company Secretary Generation, Power Delivery and Mining.
He was previously in July 1993 and is responsible in this role for Board and Group Director, Infrastructure and was responsible for the UK shareholder services, corporate governance and compliance, wires businesses.
He joined the ScottishPower Generation and group security.
He also serves as Chairman of the trustees Business in 1994 and was appointed Generation Director in of the groups UK pension schemes and as the companys e7 1996 and then Managing Director of Southern Water in 1998. representative.
Prior to joining ScottishPower, he held a Previous career positions include Scottish Director and number of company secretarial appointments, latterly as Managing Director roles in British Steel.
He was educated at Company Secretary of The Laird Group plc and then Stakis Paisley College of Technology.
plc, now part of the Hilton Group.
He is a graduate in law from the University of Edinburgh LLB Hons and the London Michael Pittman 52 was appointed Group Director, Human School of Economics LLM and is a member of the Institute Resources in November 2001.
He has groupwide responsibility of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
for human resources, leading the focus on talent management, one of the groups main strategic thrusts.
He joined PacifiCorp Members of the Nomination Committee in December 1979 and was appointed to the PacifiCorp Board Charles Miller Smith, Chairman in May 2000.
He chairs the PacifiCorp Foundation for Donald Brydon Learning Board and is involved in numerous civic activities, Nolan Karras including chairing the Board of Directors for the Oregon Ian Russell Public Employees Retirement System.
He has held several Nancy Wilgenbusch positions within PacifiCorp, including safety and health, risk Members of the Remuneration Committee management and operations.
He holds an advanced degree in Nolan Karras, Chairman environmental health from the University of Washington.
Euan Baird Donald Brydon James Stanley 50 is Legal, Commercial and Compliance Philip Carroll Director, having joined ScottishPower in March 1996.
He is Nick Rose responsible for legal compliance and reporting together with Nancy Wilgenbusch the provision of all legal, commercial and associated services and particularly the negotiation, structuring and delivery of Members of the Audit Committee M&A and similar projects.
In January 2005 his role was Nick Rose, Chairman expanded to include responsibility for the Corporate Vicky Bailey Secretarial Department and the coordination of procurement Donald Brydon throughout the group.
In his early career he specialised in Philip Carroll commercial litigation in private practice.
In 1986 he moved to Nolan Karras the Trafalgar House Group and subsequently became both Board and Executive Team changes Commercial Director of John Brown plc and General Counsel Mair Barnes and Sir Peter Gregson retired from the Board to the Global Engineering Division of the Group.
He is a following the conclusion of last years AGM on 23 July 2004. graduate in law from Nottingham University and the College of Vicky Bailey and Nancy Wilgenbusch were appointed to the Law in Chester where he qualified as a solicitor in 1980.
Board on 1 June 2004: their appointments were confirmed by election at the AGM in 2004.
David Rutherford 41 is Managing Director, PowerSystems, having been appointed to that role in April 2003.
He holds a In accordance with the Articles of Association, Charles Berry, BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from Strathclyde Donald Brydon, Philip Carroll and Nolan Karras will retire from University and an MBA from Heriot Watt University.
During office at the Annual General Meeting.
Charles Berry, Donald the period between Ronnie Mercers appointment as Executive Brydon and Nolan Karras, being eligible, offer themselves for reVice President, Operations at PacifiCorp and David Nish election.
Philip Carroll will retire from the Board and accordingly becoming Executive Director, Infrastructure in May 2005, he does not seek re-election.
Charles Berry has a service contract acted as Divisional Director, Infrastructure and in that capacity terminable by either party upon 12 months notice.
Changes to the responsibilities of Executive Team members are described in their individual biographies.
