Our business Civil government Transport Defence We have over 25 years experience We have a strong position in transport.
Since winning our first contract in in delivering essential public services.
In UK rail we run Merseyrail one of the 1960s, we have developed a broad In home affairs, our activities range from the best performing franchises and business of more than 100 defence managing prisons and court escort Northern Rail, the largest network.
contracts in the UK, ranging from services to electronic monitoring of In Australia we run the Great Southern supporting secure military communications offenders and developing intelligence Railway, including its iconic service The systems to managing training colleges.
We also have a growing civil Ghan.
Our urban transportation business We are a leading service supplier to resilience capability.
operates the award-winning Docklands the Australian armed forces and have Light Railway and light rail systems in a growing portfolio in Germany.
We have We provide education services to children Manchester and Copenhagen, and is a built critical mass in the key North in Walsall and Bradford and have an UK market leader in traffic management American market, with particular strength expanding school software operation.
In air, we are a leading provider of in providing human resources services In health we provide support services to air traffic control services in the Middle to the military.
hospitals, strategic consulting to health East and US.
services and out-of-hours doctor services to 1m people.
In local government we are a leading provider of IT services and business process outsourcing and deliver environmental, streetscene and other direct services.
More generally, governments are Revenue: market sector analysis increasingly using us in a consulting capacity as they seek answers to their public service issues.
2005 2,260m Science 15% Defence 25% 2004 1,637m Transport 24% Defence 23% Civil government 36% Science 18% Civil government 38% Transport 21% 2005 private sector revenue of 192m 2004: 125m included within the four segments above 4 Annual review and accounts 2005 Science Private sector Our science business began in the Our work with the private sector includes 1970s with our work for the European multi-service facilities management for Space Agency and we are now a sector blue-chip clients.
We run the UKs National Physical provide a shared services centre for Laboratory one of the worlds major Microsoft's European subsidiaries, and scientific establishments.
With our deliver integrated services to Airbus UK.
partners, we operate the UKs Atomic We also provide IT services to major Weapons Establishment.
We provide companies, including Cadbury safety advice to the Royal Navys nuclear Schweppes and Coca-Cola Enterprises.
submarines and deliver technical support In North America we have a strong services to CERN the worlds largest position in fleet maintenance for utilities.
In the Middle East, we perform facilities management and maintenance tasks for local businesses.
Revenue: geographical analysis 2005 2,260m North America 11% Asia Pacific 6% UK 74% Europe and Middle East 9% 2004 1,637m North America 6% Asia Pacific 9% Europe and Middle East 11% UK 74% www.
