Kevin Stanley Beeston FCMA 43 Andrew Mark Jenner ACA 37 Executive Chairman Finance Director Since joining Serco in 1985, Kevin has worked in Andrew joined Serco in 1996 as Group Financial both financial and commercial roles.
He was Group Controller, having previously worked for Unilever.
Finance Director 1996-1999 and Chief Executive He became Corporate Finance Director with 1999-2002, becoming Executive Chairman in May additional responsibility for Treasury activities in 2002.
He is a member of the CBIs Presidents 1999 and Group Finance Director in May 2002.
Committee, Deputy Chairman of the CBIs Public Andrew shares with the Executive Chairman Services Strategy Board, a Board member of the responsibility for our relationship with shareholders Chartered Management Institute and a Nonand the city.
Executive Director of IMI plc and Ipswich Town Football Club plc.
DeAnne Shirley Julius CBE PhD Econ 56 Senior Independent Director Margaret Ford MA MPhil 48 DeAnne joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director in October 2001.
She is Chairman of The Royal Margaret is the Chairman of English Partnerships, Institute of International Affairs and was a founder the national regeneration agency.
She spent her member of the Bank of England Monetary Policy early career in a variety of roles either in the public Committee 1997-2001 and also sat on the Court sector or as an adviser to Government and is a of the Bank of England until May 2004.
She has specialist in leadership development, culture held senior strategy positions with British Airways change and public sector reform.
From 1997-2000 and Royal Dutch Shell, and spent seven years with she was Chairman of Lothian Health Board and the World Bank developing infrastructure projects in from 2000-2003 was a Non-Executive Director of Asia and Africa.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Ofgem.
From 2000-2005 she was a Director of Lloyds TSB, BP and Roche.
Good Practice Ltd, the publishing company that she founded, and from 2002-2005 she was a David Hedley Richardson BSc FCA 54 Director of Thus plc.
Non-Executive Director David joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director Ralph Noel Hodge CBE BEng Hons 71 in June 2003 and chairs the Boards Audit Non-Executive Director Committee.
He has previously held the position Ralph joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director of Finance Director of Whitbread, where his roles in April 2000 and chairs the Boards Remuneration in a 20-year career included eight years as Strategy Committee.
He is a Non-Executive Director of British Director.
He was instrumental in transforming Ceramic Tiles and ORC Inc.
He was previously Whitbread from a brewing and pubs company into Non-Executive Chairman of Enron Europe, Chief a market leader in hotels, restaurants and leisure Executive of ICI Chemicals and Polymers and Nonclubs.
During the year David was appointed a Executive Director of the Halifax Building Society.
Non-Executive Director of Dairy Crest Group plc, Ralph will be retiring from the Serco Board in May Forth Ports Plc and fide Vere Group plc where he 2006. will be taking on the role of Non-Executive Chairman in April 2006.
Christopher Rajendran Hyman CA SA 42 Chief Executive Christopher was appointed Chief Executive of Serco Group plc in 2002.
He is a Non-Executive Director of both United Business Media plc and the Prince of Wales charity In Kind Direct.
He is also a member of the UK Governments Honours Advisory Committee for Economy.
He joined Serco in 1994 as the European Finance Director and has held the roles of Group Company Secretary, Corporate Finance Director and Group Finance Director.
Christopher is responsible for setting the vision and strategy of the Group.
