Directors report The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunity and a safe and healthy working environment.
Equally the Group is committed to the protection of the environment.
Annual review and accounts The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Fidelity International Limited 7.66% Annual review and accounts of the Group for Legal and General Group plc 3.42% the year ended 31 December 2005.
Morley Fund Management Limited 5.49% Activities In the case of non-material interests representing The Company is a holding company, which 10% or more of the issued share capital, the operates via its subsidiaries and its joint ventures Company had received the following notification: to provide facilities management, systems engineering and equity investment management.
HBOS PLC 10.33% The review of the business for the year ended Changes to the Board 31 December 2005 can be found in the Business The current Directors of the Company are listed Review on pages 10 to 43. on page 44 and their profiles are on page 57.
Share capital With effect from 2 February 2005, Joanne Roberts The authorised and issued share capital of the was appointed Company Secretary of the Group.
Company, together with the details of shares issued during the year are shown in note 30 Ralph Hodge will be retiring from the Board of the financial statements.
following the completion of the Annual General Meeting in May 2006.
The Board would like to Dividends and transfers to reserves thank Ralph for his contribution to the Board since An interim dividend of 0.91p 2004 0.81p per joining in April 2000 and wish him well with his Ordinary Share was paid on 19 October 2005. retirement.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.06p 2004 1.82p per Ordinary Share, which if On 24 February 2006, the Board approved approved by shareholders at the Annual General the appointment of Leonard V. Broese van Meeting, will be paid on 17 May 2006, to those Groenou as a Non-Executive Director, effective shareholders on the register at the close of from 3 April 2006.
In accordance with the business on 10 March 2006.
After dividends, Companys Articles of Association he will be retained profits of 53.4m will be transferred subject to election by shareholders at the to reserves.
Substantial shareholdings Directors interests At close of business on 28 February 2006 being With the exception of the Executive Directors the latest practical date prior to the signing of the service contracts and Non-Executive Directors Report of the Directors, the Company had letters of appointment, there are no contracts in received notifications of the following substantial which any Director has an interest.
interests representing over 3% of the issued share capital: www.
com 53 Directors report Details of the Directors interests in the Ordinary The Group gives full and fair consideration to Shares and options over the Ordinary Shares of the applications for employment, career development Company are set out in the Remuneration Report and promotion, received from people with on pages 64 to 66. disabilities and offers employment when suitable opportunities arise.
If employees become disabled Annual General Meeting during their service with the Group, wherever The 19th Annual General Meeting of the Company practicable, arrangements are made to continue will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference their employment and training.
Centre, London on 5 May 2006 at 11.00am.
Participation by staff in the success of the Group The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together is encouraged by the availability of sharesave with relevant notes and proxy card are circulated schemes, and a share scheme for senior with this document.
management, which effectively aligns their interests with those of shareholders by requiring that Employment policies performance criteria are achieved prior to exercise.
The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment where staff are individually valued Health, safety and environmental policies and recognised.
The Board is committed to the The Group recognises and accepts its responsibility adherence to our Governing Principles which for health, safety and the environment H, S&E.
A provide a set of values for all of our staff to follow.
full time Director of Health, Safety and Environment, a member of the Corporate Assurance Group, is The Group is committed to ensuring equal responsible for the development and monitoring of opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual H, S&E policies, procedures and control systems and fostering partnership and trust in every working and reports to the Board via the Executive relationship.
We maintain a safe working Chairman.
The Executive Chairman is the Director environment that provides appropriate responsible for H, S&E matters on behalf of the remuneration and benefits, training, personal Board.
Appropriate H, S&E risk assessment and development and compliance with employment management processes are applied across the laws and regulations of the countries within which Group and are subject to regular audit as part of we operate.
The Group recognises the United wider assurance processes with key performance Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights indicators formally reported to the Board on a and implements appropriate policies and quarterly basis as part of the Corporate Assurance processes to meet the requirements of the Report.
This report consolidates divisional declaration.
The Group is also committed to the assurance reports that have been reviewed and creation of diverse teams, placing diversity at the approved by the respective divisional Boards.
The Board regularly review data relating to the diversity within our The Group is committed to maintaining a safe businesses to ensure we continue to measure our and healthy working environment in all places that progress in this area.
the Company operates, for our staff, our customers, members of the public and any other The Group remains proud of its record of third party.
Our 2005 global reportable incident rate managing employee relations and continues to shows an improvement of some 7.5% against that believe that the structure of individual and collective reported in 2004.
The Group recognises that it is consultation and negotiation are best developed at everyones responsibility to reduce injury and a local level.
Over the years the Company has illness at work.
Equally, the Group is committed demonstrated that working with trade unions and to the protection of the environment, recognising creating effective partnerships allows everyones responsibility for minimising the impact improvements to be delivered in business that we have on it.
This commitment extends to all performance as well as terms and conditions of our activities, wherever they take place, which have employment.
Where employees choose not to the potential to adversely affect the environment.
belong to a trade union, employee communication The Group aims to reduce environmental harm, forums such as works councils exist to ensure minimise the use of energy and other resources involvement of staff within the business.
and ensure that the principles of sustainable The Board understands its responsibility to development are operated throughout the range encourage and assist in the employment, training, of activities in which we are engaged.
promotion and personal career development of all employees.
54 Annual review and accounts 2005 CAG is supported by dedicated H, S&E teams in Donations divisional support offices or in contracts, which The Company continues to encourage all staff to provide advice and support on H, S&E issues.
participate in their local communities and has a All employees share responsibility for continually process to capture investment on a worldwide improving the Groups performance in relation to basis.
This measure is based upon the Business in H, S&E management.
The Community BiTC reporting format.
The value of this investment at 1,017,129 2004: 795,000 Regular H, S&E meetings are held and represents 1.3% 2004: 1.4% of the Groups pre representatives from the operating divisions tax profit, and a 28% increase on investment made attend quarterly Assurance Network meetings.
In order to maintain a high level of H, S&E awareness, great emphasis is placed on training both in relation During the year the Company made no political to specific H, S&E matters but also in the overall donations and intends to continue with this policy.
context of assurance within the Company.
The Companies Act 1985 the Act requires Serco has been committed to addressing issues companies to obtain shareholder approval before of work-related ill-health and has established incurring European Union EU political occupational support across the business.
The Group may need, as part of its is to provide a working environment where the business, to contact politicians and political parties health of our employees is not affected by the within the EU on a non-partisan basis in order to work that they undertake.
Our occupational health make them aware of industry views, technology providers support management in their efforts to and trends.
As the Act defines EU political identify and prevent work-related illness and organisations and political expenditure widely, provide support and guidance about health the Directors are proposing to seek shareholder problems at work.
They also provide health authority to incur such expenditure at the surveillance where appropriate and assist in issues forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
such as absence from work and supporting the Shareholders unanimously passed a similar Groups programme of encouraging individuals resolution in April 2005. back to work where possible.
The number of workplace stress cases referred to our UK Auditors occupational health provider has decreased Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their significantly since 2003, with 62% less cases willingness to continue in office as auditors and a being managed during 2005. resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Creditor payment policies The Company requires each of its business units Approved by the Board of Directors and signed to negotiate and agree terms and conditions for on its behalf payment for the supply of capital and revenue items just as keenly as they negotiate prices and other commercial matters.
Suppliers are made aware of the terms and the way in which disputes are to be settled.
Payment is then made in Joanne Roberts accordance with those terms.
Secretary During the year the Company has undertaken a comprehensive review of spending patterns and is Serco House seeking to expand the level of preferred suppliers 16 Bartley Wood Business Park relationships, thereby improving supply chain Bartley Way management and value for money.
Hook Hampshire RG27 9UY The Groups average creditor payment terms in 2005 were 26 days 2004: 24 days : Company 20.5 1 March 2006 days 2004: 21 days.
com 55 Directors report Joint Services Command and Staff College From left to right: Shrivenham, Wiltshire Christopher Hyman, Margaret Ford, Joanne Roberts, Ralph Hodge, David Richardson, Andrew Jenner, Kevin Beeston, DeAnne Julius 56 Annual review and accounts 2005
