SEVERN TRENT PLC 26 DIRECTORS REPORT 2005 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 The Directors present their report, together Substantial shareholdings Corporate governance with the audited financial statements of the As at 6 June 2005 the company had The company attaches great significance group for the year ended 31 March 2005. been notified of the following substantial to the maintenance of good corporate shareholdings: governance procedures and adherence Principal activities to best practice recognising that they play Number of ordinary The principal activities of the group their part in creating a framework which can 5 shares of 65 19p each % continued to be the supply of water and provide increased benefits for shareholders.
Fidelity 20,709,4075.99 sewerage services, waste management and International Limited the provision of environmental services.
The Board is pleased to report that, in These are described in more detail, together an index of the FTSE 100 UK companies Legal & General 11,259,833 3.26 with a review of the groups business and compiled by FTSE and Institutional Investment Management future developments, on pages 6 to 21 which Shareholder Services, the company was Limited should be read in conjunction with this ranked in the top 10 for good corporate report.
Details of the principal joint venture, governance practice.
Directors associated and subsidiary undertakings of A list of Directors and their background the group at 31 March 2005 appear in notes During the year to 31 March 2005 the details appear on pages 24 and 25.
Full 12 and 25 to the financial statements on company complied with the principles set details of their service contracts, emoluments pages 56, 57, 73 and 74. out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on and share interests can be found in the Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 39. Dividend and reserves the Combined Code as detailed below No Director had an interest in the shares Details of dividends paid, payable and and in the Remuneration Report on pages of any subsidiary undertaking.
No contract proposed are set out in note 8 to the 32 to 39, save and except as follows: significant to the companys business in financial statements on page 54.
Subject to The former Chairman, Mr T D G Arculus, which a Director had a material interest approval at the Annual General Meeting was appointed as chairman of mmO2 was entered into during the year.
AGM, the recommended final dividend of in July 2004 but was requested by 30.30p 2004: 29.27p for each ordinary the Board to remain in office until Sir John Egan was appointed as a nonshare will be paid on 31 August 2005 to 31 December 2004 to provide some executive Director on 1 October 2004. shareholders on the register at the close of continuity while a number of Board Mrs R S Brydon Jannetta and Mr M R Wilson business on 24 June 2005.
This, together changes took place and also while were appointed as executive Directors on with the interim dividend of 18.21p 2004: the AMP4 Final Determination was 1 September 2004.
Mr A P Wray joined 17.77p per share, which was paid on 6 April awaited by Severn Trent Water: the Board as an executive Director on 2005, brings the total for the year to 48.51p Mr R M Walker, former Group Chief 7 March 2005.
Proposed transfers to from Executive, was granted permission by reserves are set out in note 20 to the the Nominations Committee to phase Mr A S Perelman and Mr B Duckworth financial statements on page 64. an increase in the number of FTSE 100 retired from the Board on 31 August 2004. non-executive directorships he could Mr J K Banyard, Mr T D G Arculus and Mr R Share capital hold, above the current policy of one such M Walker retired from the Board on 30 Details of movements in share capital are appointment, during the period up to his December 2004, 31 December 2004 and shown in note 19 to the financial statements retirement.
Further reference to this can 2 February 2005 respectively.
on page 63. be found in the Remuneration Report on page 32: Sir John Egan became Chairman of the Resolutions will be proposed at this years During the current year, Mr Flower will company on 1 January 2005, Mr M C Flower AGM to renew the Directors authority to: have served on the Board for nine years was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Allot relevant securities within the and will, at that stage, be deemed by the company on 6 July 2004 and Mr C S meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Combined Code not to be independent.
Matthews took over as Group Chief Executive Act 1985 : However, subject to the above, the Board on 1 February 2005.
Issue equity securities for cash without considers that Mr Flower is independent first having to offer these securities to and wishes him to remain on the Board In accordance with the companys Articles existing shareholders: and for another year, to 10 June 2006. of Association Mr M J Bettington, Mrs R S Make market purchases of the companys Mr Flower is Deputy Chairman, as well Brydon Jannetta, Ms M L Cassoni, Sir John own ordinary shares.
as senior independent non-executive Egan, Mr M C Flower, Mr M R Wilson and Director and Chairman of the Mr A P Wray retire at the AGM and, being Full details of these resolutions are included Remuneration Committee, and the eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
in the Notice of the AGM which is circulated Board wishes him to continue to hold The Board and the Nominations Committee to all shareholders.
those positions, at least until the above support and recommend the proposed date.
He has made a very valuable reappointments.
contribution and the Board considers it important that he should continue to have the opportunity to do so, particularly to help provide continuity in light of the significant changes to the Board that have recently taken place.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 27 The Board operation and effectiveness of the Board Board committees The Board currently consists of five executive and its Committees, and on the performance The Board has delegated certain powers and Directors and seven non-executive Directors.
of the Chairman, each of the Directors and duties to the Board committees, all of which The Board has reviewed the status of the the Company Secretary.
They were then operate within clearly defined terms of non-executive Directors and has confirmed interviewed by the facilitator to explore reference and in accordance with the that it regards them as being independent.
certain issues in greater depth and to identify Combined Code, where applicable.
All of the At the time of his appointment, Sir John areas requiring improvement.
Additionally, committees meet regularly throughout the Egan was considered by the Board to be the Board reviewed progress against actions year.
The membership of the committees is independent.
In addition, the Board is identified in last years review.
Finally, the set out on page 24. satisfied that he is able to devote sufficient Directors and the Company Secretary were time to his duties as Chairman of the interviewed by the Chairman and the The terms of reference and membership of company.
Chairman was interviewed by the Deputy the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Chairman.
Committees the Principal Committees The Board meets at least ten times each are available on the companys website year and also convenes additional meetings The evaluation drew particular attention to www.
com or on written request as and when required.
The Board has the fact that, although the company had to the Company Secretary at the address established a formal schedule of matters performed well in recent years and the Board given on the back cover.
which are specifically reserved to it for had a clear understanding of its remit, there decision thereby ensuring that it maintains were opportunities to improve its functioning.
Each of the Principal Committees has control over strategies and financial and key reviewed its effectiveness and terms of operational issues.
It has also put in place The Board has realigned its time allocations reference during the year and any necessary a revised organisational structure across at Board meetings in accordance with its actions have been identified and reported to the group with clearly defined lines of key priorities and has also determined that the Board.
The delegations of authority any business previously submitted to the have also been modified during the year Treasury Committee should, in future, Audit Committee and are to be the subject of a major review be referred to the Board.
Accordingly, Membership of the Audit Committee consists in the current year.
that committee has not operated since entirely of independent non-executive 31 March 2005.
Appointments to the Audit In addition to the Board meetings, the nonthe Board has already embarked on a Committee are made by the Board.
By executive Directors, including the Chairman, review of its subsidiary board arrangements invitation of the Audit Committee other meet separately on a regular basis and also and processes, line management and individuals such as the Chairman, Group have an annual meeting where there is an delegation levels.
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, head opportunity for the non-executive Directors to of Internal Audit and representatives of the meet without the Chairman.
In May 2004 an employee of Severn external auditors will normally be in Trent Water raised a number of allegations attendance for all or part of the Audit The division of responsibilities between the relating, in particular, to alleged accounting Committees meetings.
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive is inaccuracies and regulatory returns in respect clearly defined.
The Chairman ensures the of which an announcement was made on 22 Remuneration Committee effective operation of the Board whilst the November 2004.
This can be viewed on the The Remuneration Committee also consists Group Chief Executive has responsibility for companys website www.
entirely of independent non-executive the efficient running of all of the groups  LLP Forensic Directors.
It determines, on behalf of the businesses.
Services was appointed by the company Board, the companys policy on the to carry out a thorough and independent remuneration of executive Directors and the All Directors who joined the Board during investigation and in the light of their findings Chairman of the Board, and is consulted the year have undertaken induction training.
the Board was, and remains, of the view that by the Group Chief Executive regarding Furthermore, the training needs of all Directors the matters raised have no effect upon the remuneration for a number of the companys have been reviewed and appropriate training integrity of the accounts and that Severn senior executives.
Further details on identified as part of a continuing process.
Trent Waters customers have not been remuneration issues are given in the overcharged.
However, as such findings Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 39.
The Board is satisfied that it has a sufficient revealed evidence of some behaviour which number of non-executive Directors with the Board believed fell short of the high Nominations Committee recent and relevant financial experience, as standards it expects from employees, a The Nominations Committee comprises can be seen from the Directors biographies disciplinary investigation was instigated the Chairman and three independent nonon pages 24 and 25. which, though substantially complete, is likely executive Directors.
It makes recommendations to continue at least until Ofwats review of to the Board on the appointment and, where During the year the Board, with the help of these matters is completed.
applicable, re-appointment to the Board of an outside facilitator, carried out a formal both executive and non-executive Directors, evaluation of its performance and that of The Board, with the support of the Audit considers succession planning and related its Committees, individual Directors and Committee, has taken, and intends to take, issues.
Since the Board has such actions as it thinks appropriate to undergone a number of changes in the last ensure the maintenance of both high ethical year, it was recognised that the review had and professional standards and resilient taken place at a time of transition.
Each and effective controls throughout all group Director and the Company Secretary companies.
The company is supporting completed a detailed questionnaire on Ofwat in its review of these allegations.
his her perception of the composition, SEVERN TRENT PLC 28 DIRECTORS REPORT 2005 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Corporate Responsibility Committee The Nominations Committee has reviewed, The Audit Committee annually reviews The Corporate Responsibility Committees and is satisfied with, the attendance by the the level of the Auditors fees in respect principal terms of reference are to help Directors at the meetings of the Board and of the audit of the financial statements further develop the companys environmental Principal Committees during the year.
of the group and its subsidiaries at the leadership, strategy and objectives and same time as considering the adequacy address matters relating to corporate Directors indemnities of the Auditors proposed audit plan: responsibility.
Article 154 of the companys Articles of In addition to the annual appointment of Association, provides that every Director of Auditors by the shareholders, the Audit The companys corporate vision is to be at the company shall be indemnified out of the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the forefront of the environmental services assets of the company against all costs, the audit.
Due to the longevity of the industry and has a policy statement that charges, losses, damages and liabilities incumbent Auditors appointment, the defines how the vision is incorporated into incurred by him her in defending any Audit Committee carried out a formal its activities in relation to the environment, proceedings in which judgment is given in selection process during 2004 2005. corporate responsibility and sustainable his her favour or in which he she is As a result, a resolution proposing the development.
It has expressed support for acquitted, or in connection with any appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the United Nations Global Compact and application in which relief is granted to Auditors will be put to the AGM.
Providing reports against the 10 principles in the him her by the court, in each case arising the appointment is approved, the new companys online Corporate Responsibility out of his her position as a Director of the Auditors will perform the audit of the Report which can be viewed at company.
On 8 October 2002, the groups results for 2005 2006. www.
shareholders and Directors of Severn Trent Italia SPA gave an indemnity to its Directors The Board has instituted the following The company seeks to comply with the other than Snr.
Alberto Rittatore Vonwiller policies in relation to the performance guidelines issued by the Association of in respect of all costs, charges, expenses, by the Auditors of services for the group: British Insurers on socially responsible losses, damages and liabilities arising in their investment and reporting on social, ethical capacity as Directors of that company in Audit-related services including reporting and environmental matters.
respect of defending any actual or on regulatory accounts and other threatened proceedings and which do not regulatory matters, covenants and other Executive Committee arise directly or indirectly from any crime, borrowing related matters and Stock The Severn Trent Executive Committee has fraud or gross negligence and which are not Exchange circulars delegated authority to approve capital and covered by insurance.
The maximum amount Subject to conflict of interest or other other expenditure within defined limits.
The of the indemnity given was 5.35 million per pertinent issues impacting delivery of Executive Committee is responsible for Director.
services, the Auditors are used to perform reviewing the financial and operational such work on behalf of the group.
performance of all companies within the Internal controls group and in establishing, or supporting the A statement by the Directors covering their Tax compliance and tax advisory services Board and where appropriate, Remuneration responsibilities in relation to the groups Given their knowledge of the group, subject Committee, in establishing, policies covering system of internal control is set out on page to conflict of interest or other pertinent organisational and employment matters.
A statement regarding the adoption of issues impacting delivery of the services, the the going concern basis for the preparation Auditors are used to undertake tax Attendance at meetings of the financial statements is set out on compliance and general tax advisory Details of the Board and Principal page 31. services.
Specific projects are assessed on a Committees meetings attended by each case by case basis, depending on who is best Director during the year are as follows: Auditors suited to perform the work.
The Board has formal policies and RemunNomiprocedures designed to minimise the risk Internal audit services Board Audit eration nations of the independence and objectivity of the It is the intention that no internal audit No of Meetings 15 6 11 2 groups external auditors the Auditors services should be provided by the Auditors, 1 T D G Arculus 11 1 being compromised.
The primary policies except on rare occasions in relation to 2 J K Banyard 10 in place include the following safeguards: standalone projects where specialist skills are M J Bettington 13 In their assessment of the independence required and then only with the express, R S Brydon of the groups Auditors, the Audit prior authorisation of the Audit Committee 3 Jannetta 7 Committee receives annually in writing Chairman.
The group has its own internally M L Cassoni 10 5 8 details of relationships between the resourced Internal Audit Department 4 B Duckworth 4 Auditors and the group, which may Internal Audit with a direct and 5 Sir John Egan 6 1 bear on the Auditors independence independent reporting line to the Audit M C Flower 14 11 2 and receives confirmation that they are Committee.
The effectiveness of Internal M J Houston 13 independent of the group as required Audit has been reviewed periodically during C S Matthews 15 by Auditing Standard SAS 610: the year by the Audit Committee.
J D G McAdam 12 9 2 The Audit Committee meets with the F A Osborn 13 6 1 Auditors at least three times a year, with Transaction related services 4 A S Perelman 5 executive management in attendance by A competitive selection process was J B Smith 12 6 invitation.
The Audit Committee and the undertaken in 2003 2004 to decide who 6 R M Walker 12 Auditors also hold separate meetings on should undertake transaction related services 3 M R Wilson 7 these occasions without the attendance for the group, which concluded that 7 A P Wray 1 of executive management and at any  LLP would generally 1 Resigned 31 12 04 other time at the sole discretion of either be used to supply these services when due 2 Resigned 30 12 04 3 the Audit Committee or the Auditors: diligence fees were 100,000 or less per Appointed 01 09 04 4 Resigned 31 08 04 service.
In other cases Audit Committee 5 Appointed 01 10 04 approval would be necessary for the 6 Resigned 02 02 05 appointment of a firm.
7 Appointed 07 03 05 SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 29 Other advisory services excludes services unit have been identified within a A sound system of internal control is designed for the above four categories comprehensive control framework and an to manage risks but cannot eliminate them Each project is assessed on a case by case assessment has been made of the and therefore provides reasonable but not basis, depending on who is best suited to effectiveness of these controls.
absolute assurance against a company failing perform the work.
Any material project for to meet its business objectives or against other advisory services where fees payable The Directors of each of the principal material errors, losses or fraud or breaches to the Auditors exceed 100,000 would subsidiary companies regularly consider new of laws or regulations.
generally be the subject of a competitive risks and threats and control weaknesses selection process.
Furthermore, any projects that may have become apparent and report Employees for other advisory services where fees at six-monthly intervals to the Group Chief The group employed 16,583 people as at payable to the Auditors would exceed Executive.
Of these 500,000 must be approved by the Audit review of the risks facing their businesses 5,053 30% were employed in water and Committee.
and report on this review in one of the sixsewerage business, 5,510 33% in the waste monthly reports.
management business, 2,891 17% in the The level of non-audit services provided by laboratories business, and 2,387 14% in the Auditors and the associated fees are The Board reviews risk management and the the water purification and operating services considered annually by the Audit Committee effectiveness of the system of internal control business.
Approximately 30% of employees in the context of the Auditors independence, through the Audit Committee.
The Audit are based outside the UK, mainly in the US, as part of the Audit Committees review of Committee meets at least three times a year Belgium and Italy.
the adequacy and objectivity of the audit and both the head of Internal Audit and the process.
An analysis of fees payable to the Auditors have direct access to the Chairman Most group companies have their own Auditors in respect of audit and non-audit of the Audit Committee.
In addition, the intranets which form a major communication services is provided on page 52.
Audit Committee periodically holds separate channel with their employees, in addition to meetings with Internal Audit, without the in-house magazines, tool-box talks and team It is the groups policy to seek rotation of attendance of executive management.
Employee opinion surveys are used the Auditors principal engagement partner Audit Committee receives reports on a sixto provide feedback on a range of issues.
as a matter of course every five years and of monthly frequency from the Group Chief other key members of the audit team, where Executive on the significant risks faced by the Group companies continue to maintain deemed appropriate by the Audit Committee.
group, an assessment of the effectiveness of positive relationships with the recognised controls over each of those risks and an trade unions and with other elected Appointment of auditors action plan to improve controls where this representatives.
The groups meeting of the Following the Audit Committees review of has been assessed as necessary.
Any European Consultative Council is an annual the Auditors, the Board wishes to change significant control weaknesses that have opportunity to promote dialogue with the Auditors from  been identified are also reported to the Audit employee representatives and further LLP PwC to Deloitte & Touche LLP Committee.
The Audit Committee also enhance their understanding of the future Deloittes.
PwC, having completed the receives reports from Internal Audit and from issues facing our businesses in Europe.
audit for the year ended 31 March 2005, management on specific control issues, have agreed that they will not seek agrees audit strategies and reviews reports Following the introduction of new pension reappointment at the AGM.
Accordingly, a from management on the financial results of options for new UK based employees in April resolution proposing the appointment of the group.
In addition, the Auditors present 2004, the company continues to monitor Deloittes as Auditors will be put to the AGM, their audit strategy to the Audit Committee its pension provision, with the objectives of special notice of the intention to propose and report on significant control issues reducing risk and maintaining affordability.
such a resolution having been received in identified as part of their audit.
The accordance with sections 379 and 388 of the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to The groups Lifestyle flexible benefits Companies Act 1985. the Board.
The Audit Committee has scheme was further extended amongst UK reviewed risk management and the based employees and from October 2004 Internal control effectiveness of the system of internal control over 8,000 employees were eligible to The Board has overall responsibility for the during the year ended 31 March 2005. participate.
groups system of internal control and for During the year, a number of initiatives were reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has launched to further strengthen the controls Employee share ownership is encouraged formally established policies and processes and identify any other improvements that through the operation of a number of for identifying and evaluating the significant can be made, and have regard to the employee share plans, including a Save As risks faced by the group.
There are allegations referred to on page 27.
These You Earn Scheme and a Share Incentive Plan.
established procedures for managing these include simplifying management structures, risks, of which the key elements are: an reporting lines and group delegated The group continues to focus on the organisation structure with clear lines of authorisations, enhancing the groups development of employees at all levels, with accountability: regular, structured reviews of business education programme, an annual performance appraisals used to drive business risk by senior management: a evaluation of internal controls in Severn Trent the direction of and demand for training scheme of delegated authority: pre-approval Water and the implementation of new IAS activities.
of plans, budgets and significant investments: reporting disciplines.
and monthly reporting of financial results Management development and training has and other key business monitors.
The Directors confirm that there is an ongoing been a core activity in all group companies, process for the identification, evaluation and operating via a range of providers including The executive Directors and senior management of the significant risks faced by leading business schools such as INSEAD, management teams of each of the principal the group.
This process has been in place Warwick and Aston as well as tailored, insubsidiary companies have identified the throughout the year ended 31 March 2005 house programmes.
risks facing their businesses and have made and up to the date of approval of the Annual an assessment of the impact of those risks.
It accords with the The controls that are in place to manage guidance in the report on Guidance on each of the more significant risks in each Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance.
SEVERN TRENT PLC 30 DIRECTORS REPORT 2005 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 In Biffa there was a marked increase in the of opportunity for all of our employees To add pace and focus to the process the number of training days delivered during the regardless of race, gender, religious belief, Group Health and Safety Executive Committee year with major programmes in driver sexual orientation, disability, age or any other now meets on a monthly basis and includes training, manual handling and diversity status unrelated to an individuals ability to health and safety professionals.
Biffa also takes an active part in perform their job.
Reasonable adjustments are chaired by the Group Chief Executive the Utilities and Energy Skills Council are made to ensure the workplace is who reports on health and safety meetings to develop a career map of the accessible to both current employees and performance to the Board each month.
waste industry and its training requirements.
We have continued to use the British Safety All companies have the goal of making Diversity profiles across the group continue Council to verify our health and safety learning opportunities available and to be monitored and reported regularly.
This management systems, achieving a number accessible to all employees.
To this end information is used on an individual business of 5 Star awards, and have undertaken many group companies are making learning unit basis to track against local and national climate surveys to determine employees resource centres available via intranets population profiles.
The collection of data on attitudes to health and safety.
These activities are all diversity has been extended to job applicants complemented at senior manager level by to assess the effectiveness of our recruitment Through ongoing culture change the Leadership Development programme processes.
We positively encourage programmes we continue to embed the which covers the top 120 managers.
The applications from suitably qualified and principles of health and safety into the aim of the programme is to produce a eligible candidates including those with day to day management of the businesses stream of technically and managerially disabilities and regularly review our approach whilst ensuring that current systems and competent managers who are able to put to recruitment to enhance our access to the procedures meet Severn Trents health into action the groups future business plans.
widest possible pool of skills and talent.
Targeted recruitment initiatives, including our Several group companies participate in graduate recruitment campaign and our Going forward the target is to reduce to external accreditation schemes such as presence at a Diversity fair, have increased minimal levels the number of accidents.
Investors in People and it is particularly the diversity of applicants.
Other activities To support this, Managing Directors bonus pleasing when these accreditations are over the last twelve months include Diversity arrangements will this year be linked to retained following periodic reassessment Awareness programmes in Biffa and a Fair improvements in their companies accident such as in Metering Services.
Treatment Program attended by almost 2,000 records coupled with the continued external employees in Severn Trent Services in the US.
verification of their health and safety We were delighted that Severn Trent Water management systems.
gained recognition as one of The Sunday The company benchmarks its policies and Times Top 10 Best Big Companies to Work practices in this area against best practice Research and development For and were also listed in the Guardians organisations such as Race for Opportunity Research and development expenditure, publication Britains Top Employers 2005. and Employers Forum on Disability.
including amounts capitalised as tangible Severn Trent Laboratories also received Participation in Race for Opportunitys 2004 fixed assets related to research and external commendations, being a finalist benchmarking exercise resulted in Severn development, amounted to 5.3 million in two categories of the Coventry and Trent Water achieving runner up position 2004: 4.2 million.
Warwickshire Investors in People Good amongst best newcomers in the Practice Awards.
This year, Severn Trent Water has concentrated on developing technologies to Ethics and diversity Health and safety meet the standards required for drinking Following a review of the groups Code of At Severn Trent we see the effective water and sewage works effluents over the Business Principles and Conduct involving management of health and safety as a key next five years.
This work has identified consultation with employees and external priority that makes good business sense.
To novel, cost effective processes capable of stakeholders, a revised Code of Conduct has support this core value we have established removing metals from drinking water to been produced.
Compliance with the Code three health and safety principles for all levels required by future standards.
On waste and statutory obligations is monitored employees: water treatment, a more sustainable process through a series of performance indicators.
If a job cannot be done safely, dont do it has been developed for removing Group companies continue to meet, as a Always look out for safety hazards phosphorus from sewage without using minimum, legislative requirements of the Never ignore a safety hazard: fix it or chemicals and this work is beginning to find countries in which they operate.
report it its way into full scale plants where it is expected to reduce costs and simplify Disclosure whistleblowing procedures are in Regrettably we have to report one employee operations.
Work has also started to identify place in all group companies to deal with fatality this year when a refuse collector from the best methods for removing endocrine allegations of breaches of that Code and Biffa was hit by a reversing vehicle.
As with disrupting compounds and metals from supporting values including bullying, any serious accident we have undertaken a sewage treatment works effluents.
The effectiveness of rigorous investigation and acted to reduce our Disclosure whistleblowing policy and the possibility of this, or any similar incident, Severn Trent Services has continued to procedures has been subject to review and happening in future.
develop new products during the year in the revised policy will be rolled out through support of organic growth targets.
A cost employee communication and management Historically we have worked hard to improve effective on-site hypochlorite generation training programmes during the coming year.
our health and safety performance.
However, system has been introduced which enables in recent years this has proved difficult to ships to comply with new regulations on the We remain committed to creating an sustain and, over the last year, performance treatment of ballast water when entering US environment which values diversity and has not improved significantly.
A new lower cost system has also been enhances the contribution made by each unsatisfactory and we are committed to designed to control chlorine-related water of our employees.
We regularly review improving our performance so that no-one is quality and temperature uniformity in large our working practices to ensure equality hurt or injured by our activities.
Patent applications have been SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 31 filed for both of these systems.
Such communications are business transactions with suppliers are notable development relates to a new sensitive to the need not to disclose potentially conducted.
It is group policy that, provided intelligent water meter based on fluidic price-sensitive information in breach of any a supplier is complying with the relevant oscillator technology.
Production is targeted regulatory regime.
terms and conditions, including the prompt to start in Spring 2006. and complete submission of all specified In addition, the Board considers it important documentation, payment will be made in Severn Trent Laboratories in the US has to canvass the views of institutional accordance with agreed terms.
It is also developed a method of identifying 24 shareholders and a report was submitted group policy to ensure that suppliers know potentially allergenic compounds present to the Board during the year in connection the terms on which payment will take place at very low concentrations in fragrances with a comprehensive survey of institutional when business is agreed.
Details of supplier and essential oils.
payment policies can be obtained from the is of interest to major fragrance flavours individual companies at the addresses shown companies due to EU labelling regulations.
Contributions for political and in note 25 to the financial statements on Further development of this process will charitable purposes pages 73 and 74.
Trade creditors for the continue this year.
New methods have Donations to charitable organisations group at the year end are estimated as been developed for analysing emerging during the year amounted to 378,825 representing no greater than 30 days contaminants, including perchlorate and 2004: 375,461.
The company focuses on purchases 2004: no greater than 30 days.
The perchlorate the development of long term partnerships Trade creditors for the company at the yearmethod will shortly be undergoing nationwide with charities close to its major sites and end are estimated as representing 34 days validation.
A method has also been developed which reflect the companys value of purchases 2004: no greater that 30 days.
of identifying polybrominated diphenyl ethers environmental leadership.
The work focuses PBDEs, which are widely used as flame on environmental education, the preservation Economic and Monetary Union retardants in the US.
and enhancement of the natural environment The group maintains its preparedness for or addressing social exclusion issues in the conversion to the euro, should the UK enter In previous years, the principal areas of built environment.
The company is also the EMU.
The experience gained from the Biffas R&D work were in technology committed to supporting WaterAid, the UKs conversion of our subsidiary and associated efficiencies and the analysis of material flows only major charity dedicated to providing companies located in euro area countries has in the economy.
Similar important studies safe domestic water and sanitation to the been a useful input into the conversion continue to be produced, the most recent worlds poorest people.
being an input and output analysis of information regarding charitable donations resource flows in the South West region.
Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited Research associated with the dynamics of Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water resource flows in the UK economy are It is the companys policy not to make any Limited are prepared and sent to the Director increasingly recognised as a vital donations to political parties and the Board General of Water Services.
A copy of these contribution to the development of an does not intend to change that policy.
accounts will be available from the website of effective and focused policy framework in the However, under the Political Parties, Elections Severn Trent Water Limited www.
co. uk context of the emergent EU Thematic and Referendums Act 2000, the definition of or on written request to the Company Strategy on improved resource efficiency.
political expenditure and donations is Secretary at the address given on the back Biffa also continues to participate on a extremely wide and extends to activities not cover.
There is no charge for this publication.
number of industry sector and government normally thought of as political.
The following study groups, most notably the Mini-Waste normal industry activities, undertaken during Going concern Faraday committee and the DEFRA the year, fall within the ambit of such Act: The Board has a reasonable expectation committee considering the development of Biffa Waste Services Limited paid a 500 that the group and the company have an electronic data capture network for subscription fee to the Socialist adequate resources to continue in industrial, commercial and domestic waste Environment and Resources Association operational existence for the foreseeable flows in the UK.
SERA, an organisation which aims to future.
Accordingly the financial statements promote sustainable environmental set out on pages 42 to 74 have been Communications with shareholders policies within the Labour movement and prepared on the going concern basis.
and the AGM Labour Party to ensure sustainable The company attaches considerable development is central to the work of the By order of the Board importance to the effectiveness of its government.
Prior to In addition, Biffa Waste Services Limited Group General Counsel and Company the AGM, private investors are given the paid 2000 in sponsorship fees towards Secretary opportunity to meet the Board and also to a waste seminar arranged by SERA.
6 June 2005 question them during the AGM itself.
They As in previous years and on a precautionary are encouraged to participate in the AGM.
basis, resolutions will be proposed at this Photographic displays and literature are years AGM in relation to political expenditure available to shareholders at the AGM to as defined by the Political Parties, Elections demonstrate the nature and extent of the and Referendums Act 2000.
Full details of groups environmental services.
The company those resolutions are given in the Notice will, on request, provide a summary of the of the AGM which is circulated to all proceedings of the AGM.
responds to enquiries from shareholders as they arise throughout the year.
Further Supplier payment policy information relevant to shareholders is Individual operating companies within the provided on the companys website group are responsible for establishing www.
Regular communication appropriate policies with regard to the is maintained with institutional shareholders payment of their suppliers.
The companies and fund managers through meetings and agree terms and conditions under which
