at 2 June 2005 Chairman Ian Clubb, CA Age 64 Non-executive Chairman Ian Clubb was appointed Chairman in 2002 and joined the Board in 1994.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Trustees of the Companys Pension Scheme.
He is a Non-executive Director of Platinum Investment Trust plc.
He retired as Chairman of First Choice Holidays plc in 2004.
Executive Directors Michael Averill, BSc, MBA, ARSM, FCIWM Age 54 Group Chief Executive Michael Averill holds an MBA from Cranfield Management School and a degree from Imperial College of Science and Technology.
He joined the Group in 1989 as a Business Development Director for Rechem International Limited.
He became Managing Director of Rechem in 1992.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive in 1994.
He is a Non-executive Director of TDG plc.
David Downes, BSc, MBA, FCMA, FCT Age 59 Group Finance Director David Downes is a qualified accountant and holds an MBA from Stanford Business School and a degree in civil engineering from Kings College, University of London.
He was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in 1993.
He was previously Deputy Chief Executive of Hunter Saphir plc and Group Finance Director of MBS plc.
He is a Trustee of the Companys Pension Scheme.
He is a Non-executive Director of Danka Business Systems plc.
Fraser Welham, BSc, ACA Age 40 Group Finance Director Designate Fraser Welham is a qualified accountant and holds a degree in mechanical engineering from Kings College, University of London.
He was appointed to the Board on 16 May 2005 and will assume the position of Group Finance Director in June 2005.
For the past seven years he has been Finance Director for Shanks Belgium.
annual report 2005 Non-executive Directors Richard Biffa, MCIWM Age 65 Deputy Chairman Richard Biffa joined the Board in 1991 following the merger with Rechem Environmental Services plc of which he was previously Chairman.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He has had a long lasting association with, and a wide experience of, the waste management industry.
He will be retiring in June 2005.
Barry Pointon, BSc Age 58 Senior Independent Director Barry Pointon was appointed to the Board in 1999.
He is the Senior Independent Director and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He retired at the end of March 2004 as an Executive Director of IMI plc after twenty two years service.
He is an engineer with over thirty years experience in industry.
Adrian Auer, BA, MBA, ACT Age 56 Non-executive Director Adrian Auer was appointed to the Board on 16 May 2005.
He will be the Chairman of the Audit Committee following the retirement of Richard Biffa.
He was Group Finance Director of RMC Group plc.
He is Chairman of Readymix plc and Non-executive Director of Bespak plc and Foseco plc.
Philippe Delaunois, Ir, IC Age 63 Non-executive Director Philippe Delaunois, a Belgian national, was appointed to the Board in May 2001.
He holds a degree in engineering from the States University at Mons.
He was Chief Executive until 1999 of Cockerill Sambre, a Belgian steel producing company with a turnover in excess of 5bn.
He is currently a Non-executive Director of a number of companies in Belgium.
Peter Johnson, BA, ACA Age 51 Non-executive Director Peter Johnson was appointed to the Board on 16 May 2005.
He is Finance Director of Taylor Woodrow plc.
Previously he was Group Finance Director of Henderson plc, was Chief Financial officer for Pearl Assurance and was Finance Director of Norwich Union Life.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 17
