Directors Associated British Foods plc report Directors report The directors submit to the members their Charitable and political donations A further special resolution passed at that seventieth annual report together with the Contributions to charitable organisations meeting granted authority to the directors financial statements of the company for the by the group during the year totalled 0.3m to allot equity securities in the company for 52 weeks ended 17 September 2005.
Political donations were cash, without regard to the pre-emption made during the year by Food Investments provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The corporate citizenship, corporate Pty in Australia to the Liberal Party of This authority expires on the date of the governance and remuneration reports on Australia of 4,132 2004 49,453, annual general meeting to be held on pages 26 to 29 and 34 to 46 form part to the Australian Labour Party of 1,446 9 December 2005 and the directors of this directors report.
2004 4,150 and to the National Party will seek to renew this authority for the of Australia of 207 2004 8,186. following year.
Profits and dividends The group profit and loss account is on Payments to suppliers Auditors page 48.
Profit for the financial year amounted Associated British Foods plc has no trade In accordance with Section 384 of the to 333m.
The directors recommend a final creditors but the group policy on payment Companies Act 1985, a resolution for dividend of 12.0p per ordinary share, to be of suppliers is detailed on page 29. the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc paid, if approved, on 13 January 2006 which, as auditors of the company is to be together with the interim dividend of 6.0p Tangible fixed assets proposed at the forthcoming annual per share paid in July, amounts to 18.0p The groups tangible fixed assets are general meeting.
Dividends are detailed in note 7 included in the financial statements at on page 62. depreciated historic cost.
The properties Directors are employed in the business and many The names of the persons who were directors 32 Review of activities of them were acquired when market values of the company as at 8 November 2005 The activities of the group principally were substantially lower than at present.
Peter J Jackson concern the processing and manufacture The directors consider that a surplus was a director of the company until his of food in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, over book value exists, but are unable retirement on 31 March 2005.
Asia and the US, and textile retailing in the to quantify the excess.
UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Comments In accordance with the Articles of Association, on the development of the business during Substantial shareholdings George G Weston, John G Bason and the period under review and on the future Details of a controlling interest in the shares Martin G Adamson retire from the board outlook are contained within the Chairmans of the company are given in note 29 on by rotation and, being eligible, offer statement, and the Operating Review on page 77. themselves for re-election.
Code on Corporate Governance provides Other than as noted above, so far as that non-executive directors may serve Research and development is known, no other person holds or is longer than nine years, subject to annual Innovative use of existing and emerging beneficially interested in a disclosable re-election.
In accordance with this technologies will continue to be crucial interest in the company.
provision WG Galen Weston and Lord to the successful development of new MacGregor retire from the board and being products and processes for the group.
Power to issue shares eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
At the last annual general meeting, We have major technical centres in the held on 10 December 2004, authority Controlling interest UK at the Allied Technical Centre and the was given to the directors to allot unissued The ultimate holding company of animal feed Central Laboratories.
Facilities relevant securities in the company up Associated British Foods plc is Wittington also exist at ACH Food Companies in the to a maximum of an amount equivalent Investments Limited, which together with US, Weston Technologies in Australia and to one third of the shares in issue at any its subsidiary undertaking, Howard AB Enzymes in Germany.
These centres time up to 9 December 2009.
No such Investments Limited, held 54.5% of support the technical resources of the shares have been issued.
The directors the total issued ordinary share capital.
trading divisions in the search for new propose to renew this authority at the technology and in monitoring and annual general meeting to be held on Non-beneficial interests maintaining high standards of quality 9 December 2005 for a further period The directors of the company at the end of the and food safety.
year had the following non-beneficial interests: Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2005 report WG Galen Weston and George G Weston are trustees of a trust, in which they Share have no beneficial interest, which at 17 September 2005 held 683,073 schemes ordinary shares of 50p 2004 683,073 in Wittington Investments Limited.
Subsequent changes Associated British Foods 1994 The interests shown above remained the Share Option Scheme the Scheme same at 8 November 2005.
The Scheme was established by the company in 1994.
Under the terms of the Scheme, options to purchase By order of the board ordinary shares in the company may Paul Lister, Company Secretary be granted to selected qualifying 8 November 2005 employees over the ten years from November 1994.
The exercise of options is not subject to specified performance criteria.
Associated British Foods 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 33 the Executive Scheme This scheme was approved and adopted by the company at the annual general meeting held on 15 December 2000.
Under the terms of the Executive Scheme options to purchase ordinary shares in the company may be granted to selected employees over the ten years from 15 December 2000.
The exercise of an option under this scheme will, in accordance with institutional shareholder guidelines, be conditional on the achievement of performance criteria which are based on growth in the group and subsidiary company profits.
Associated British Foods Executive Share Incentive Plan 2003 the Share Incentive Plan The Share Incentive Plan was approved and adopted by the company at the annual general meeting held on 5 December 2003.
It takes the form of conditional allocations of shares which will be released if, and to the extent that, certain performance targets are satisfied over a three year performance period.
