qxd 30 03 2006 12:10 Page 28 Commercial Interiors A B D C E A Paul Hampden, Bedford Branch Manager, shows a customer a glazed demountable partition system, with integral privacy blinds fitted.
B In 2005, SIG acquired the brand leading producer of performance doorsets adding to the existing commercial door business.
C High performance office door and surrounding frames are made to individual client requirements to match the overall interior design concept, thus giving a unique style and appearance to a building.
D SIG works closely with architects and contractors to provide products which meet the required specifications.
E SIG provided a range of interior products for the Lifeboat College at Poole.
28 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Review of the year 9SIG 2005arf.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:10 Page 29 The commercial interiors market place is demanding, sophisticated and fast-moving.
Emphasis is on achieving an optimum balance between efficient utilisation of space and the quality and comfort of the working environment.
There is also an added requirement of flexibility to meet the changing business requirements of todays world.
Countries of operation: SIG supplies a wide range of systems and SIG is the leading supplier of purpose-made products, including ceiling, partitioning, doors, interior products in the UK and is the largest United Kingdom lighting and washroom products to the supplier of the complementary brand leading Ireland commercial interiors market.
The supply of products used throughout the UK, Ireland products is supported by high levels of technical and in Mainland Europe.
Germany expertise and support to contractors working France on both new and refurbishment projects.
Fire performance, acoustic standards, visual appearance and design innovation The Netherlands All types of non residential buildings, including all affect the choice of commercial Belgium offices, shops, hotels, schools, hospitals and interior products.
SIG enables clients public buildings use various elements of SIGs to make the right choices and to produce Austria commercial interiors product range.
Poland SIG works closely with the major suppliers to the sector and also has its own manufacturing capability for partitioning systems, wall storage and specialist door systems.
In the case of many interior fit-out projects, clients and architects want to have purpose-made products with a design and finish to suit their own style and requirements.
The interior doors, partitioning and related products set the scene for the occupancy of the workspace, as well as meeting the vital requirements of fire prevention, noise control and safety.
Focus, Specialisation and Service SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29
