qxd 30 03 2006 12:10 Page 26 Roofing A B D C E A There are many different styles of roof tiles available from stock at our roofing trading sites.
Here Chris Homer checks quantities and prepares tiles ready for dispatch.
B Steve Meredith picks specialist roofing materials prior to delivery.
C SIG trading sites have tile libraries of different roofing tiles to help customers select those appropriate to fit their environment.
D Trade counters are an important point of contact and support for our customers.
Here Stuart Pierpoint offers advice to a customer on the alternative materials suitable for a particular type of roof.
E In Ireland, SIGs Roofing business provided the K Club host venue for the 2006 Ryder Cup with the Brazilian natural green roof slate for its prestigious Club House.
26 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Review of the year 9SIG 2005arf.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:10 Page 27 The roof is the most critical part of a building as it protects the integrity of the structure and the contents within from the elements.
Repair and maintenance are often urgent requirements and this means that the right products must be available on demand.
Countries of operation SIG is the largest supplier of roofing products Firstly, they are environmentally friendly in terms in the UK and Ireland.
The demands of the market of recycling, minimising waste and removing the United Kingdom are for local supply of materials which the Group need for extra energy costs in manufacturing Ireland supports with a network of over 200 trading sites.
Secondly, they are aesthetically pleasing as they appear aged and can blend with existing Each trading site supplies products from the buildings and the surrounding environment leading manufacturers into the flat, pitched, a major consideration for Planning Control industrial and agricultural trading sites.
As well in many parts of the Country.
as the core roofing products, trading sites offer a wide variety of accessories ranging from The ongoing need for repair or replacement consumable items such as fixings and safety of existing roofs, whether as the result of products to specialist tools and equipment.
natural wear and tear or of storm damage, creates a resilient market for roofing materials.
Alongside the actual waterproofing materials sold The emergency nature of some repairs requires by SIG, there are increasing requirements for materials to be available immediately from stock.
insulation materials and for a range of specialist Alternatively, where a new or replacement roof ventilation products needed to prevent is being specified, consumers and designers may condensation build-up due to new designs wish to select a particular style or finish and visit and specification of roofs.
one of SIGs roof libraries to aid this process.
As the number one supplier to the roofing SIG has extended its presence in the roofing industry, SIG keeps at the forefront of technical market through the development of specialist developments and makes new products available Roof Line trading sites which provide perimeter to customers after careful evaluation.
materials such as rainwater and guttering, soffit, fascias and bargeboards.
SIG is also a leader in the reclaiming and recycling of pre-used roof tiles which have two The Group has been particularly active key advantages over newly manufactured tiles.
with acquisitions in the roofing sector, and this has allowed SIG to extend geographic coverage and reach increased numbers of customers.
Focus, Specialisation and Service SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27
