qxd 30 03 2006 12:09 Page 24 Insulation A B D C E A In Birmingham, Dal Singh is a member of the experienced team working in the warehouse, ensuring the efficient and safe storage of products.
B John Metcalf sorts products in the Bedford branch prior to delivery.
C Robert OBrien explains to a customer the benefits of a particular insulation material.
D SIG has developed its own range of acoustic products which are sold across the Insulation businesses.
Here, Barry Huelin checks stocks of SIGs own brand E-cousti product prior to delivery to a customer.
E SIG has supplied specialist thermal and acoustic materials to The Deep, a unique, Millennium-funded visitor attraction, education, research and conservation centre in Hull.
24 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Review of the year 9SIG 2005arf.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:09 Page 25 Insulation materials are used across all areas of industry and construction.
Traditionally, insulation materials have been used to resist the transfer of Heat and Fire.
The control of Noise is also now an important issue for the building industry.
Countries of operation: High energy costs and environmental concerns In the UK there is a system of government drive the use of insulation products across a wide grants and separate stimulus provided by energy United Kingdom range of industrial and construction applications.
producers, aimed at improving the energy efficiency Ireland The diverse range of these applications means of existing residential properties.
SIG is the leading that a wide portfolio of products and materials insulation provider to these programmes.
Germany needs to be held at a local level to effectively and France efficiently meet the demands of local contractors The development of acoustic sound insulation and installers.
products is particularly active as a result of The Netherlands increasingly dense building patterns and new Belgium As the importance of a high standard of insulation regulations.
Similarly, thermal insulation continues to grow through increasing energy costs regulations are being tightened and this will Austria and market regulation, product developments lead to further opportunities for the Group.
Poland using new materials and techniques broadens the requirements of stock holding and of staff SIG believes that the best way of meeting demands USA expertise.
SIG believes in working with the leading is through a branch network that can respond to manufacturers to bring new products to market local issues and local concerns.
Each branch is able but also supports innovative new concepts and to utilise the processes and best practices that are products developed by smaller businesses and identified across the Group but has the authority by its own in-house fabrication capabilities.
to respond to local market conditions.
Whereas new construction is affected by Reducing energy consumption means Building Regulations, there is a huge proportion lower costs and less damage to the of existing buildings, both residential and environment.
The use of insulation is a non-residential, with very poor standards of proven, cost effective means of reducing thermal performance.
These older buildings are increasingly expensive to heat, and are also a major source of wasted energy.
The EU and individual governments are increasingly seeking ways of improving the energy efficiency of existing buildings, and SIG believes that this will result in increased demand for insulation materials to be installed retrospectively.
Focus, Specialisation and Service SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25
