qxd 30 03 2006 12:11 Page 30 Specialist Construction and Safety Products A B D C E A Appropriate personal safety equipment is vital within the construction industry, as demonstrated at this site at Croke Park in Ireland.
B Diamond-tipped blades supplied by SIG are used by a civil engineering customer to cut concrete at the Old Sea Bathing Hospital in Kent.
C Specialist steel reinforcement products are supplied for poured concrete applications in a wide range of large scale construction projects.
D Daniel Ball, a member of the technical team, applies an own brand epoxy resin fixing system with a customer on a site in Kent.
E Heathrow Terminal 5 has provided significant work for many SIG businesses.
In particular, the Specialist Construction and Safety Products division has supplied concrete accessories and specialist fixings to the project.
com photolibrary 30 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Review of the year 9SIG 2005arf.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:11 Page 31 Specialist Construction and Safety Products provide materials and consumable products which are essential to the construction process and are specialist, not mainstream.
Detailed product knowledge, and a keen understanding of specialist applications is vital to provide customer support.
Countries of operation: The Specialist Construction and Safety Products The sector also includes the activities of SIGs Safety division covers a wide portfolio of products from equipment business which unlike other business United Kingdom concrete accessories, waterproofing systems and areas manages its resources from a single site France Safety chemicals, brickwork support systems, specialist offering guaranteed next day delivery throughout fixings and safety products.
Specialist products including USA Safety eye, hand and foot protection, together with Typically products are supplied to large respiratory masks form the core of the product commercial infrastructure or civil engineering range which is supplied to a wide range of projects.
Examples include tunnels, bridges, industries with particular emphasis on the airports, sports stadiums, hospitals and construction industry.
Although the cost of the product or system is often low relative to the size The Safety business reaches a wide and of the project it is often of critical importance to growing range of customers by direct mail, the whole building programme.
Relationships personal representation, telephone order with contractors and the ability to resolve line service and a strong web presence problems with expert technical advice and www.
The growing rapid delivery times are of vital importance requirement for customers to have to maintain workflows on large projects.
certain products branded with their own logo for corporate identification The increasing scale of SIG facilitates global purposes is met by having in-house sourcing for this sector which is allowing the print and embroidery capabilities.
Company to bring the best products from around the world.
A nationwide network of trading sites is being developed for each of the specialist areas and utilises the successful business approach of staying close to customers whilst efficiently managing the back office activities.
Focus, Specialisation and Service SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31
