qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 38 Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Group is the supply of building materials to construction and related markets.
The main products supplied are insulation, roofing, commercial interiors and specialist construction and safety products.
The Chairmans Statement and Business Review on pages 6 to 23 contain a review of these activities and comments on the future outlook.
The operational and treasury risk management objectives and policies of the Company are set out in the Business Review on pages 20 to 22.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees including disabled employees and information on charitable and political donations are disclosed on pages 34 and 35.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to corporate governance are disclosed on pages 40 to 43.
Group results The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2005 is shown on page 54.
The movement in the Group reserves during the year is shown in Note 23 on page 88.
Segmental information is set out in Note 1 on pages 64 and 65.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 11.5p per share 2004: 9.4p which, together with the interim dividend of 5.3p 2004: 4.6p per share, makes a total for the year of 16.8p 2004: 14.0p per share.
Payment of the final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 22 May 2006 to Shareholders registered at the close of business on 21 April 2006.
Directors The names of the Directors as at the date of this report together with biographical notes are set out on page 36.
They comprised the Board for the whole of the year.
The Directors standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting are Mr. G. W. Davies and Mr. D. A. Haxby.
Each Director being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the Company and of their share options are set out on pages 44 to 50 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Acquisitions Details of acquisitions made in the year are covered in Note 13 on pages 77 to 79.
Share capital Details of the share capital and allotments during the year, which arose solely from the exercise of options under Employee and Executive Share Schemes are set out in Note 22 on page 86.
Details of outstanding options under the Groups Employee and Executive Schemes are also set out in Note 22 on page 86.
Substantial shareholdings As at 8 March 2006, the Company had been notified of the following substantial interests of 3% or more in its ordinary issued share capital.
% of issued share capital FMR Corporation Fidelity International Limited 11.04 Barclays PLC 5.99 Prudential PLC 4.23 Standard Life Investments 4.41 Payment to suppliers The Group follows the CBIs prompt payment code and operates and abides by a clearly defined policy, which has been agreed with all major suppliers.
As at 31 December 2005 the Company had no trade creditors, as it does not trade in its own right.
The Groups average number of days outstanding as at 31 December 2005 in respect of trade payables was 37 2004: 39.
38 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 39 Fixed assets In the opinion of the Directors, the market value of the Groups properties is not materially different from the value included in the Group Accounts.
Directors and officers liability insurance The Company purchases liability insurance cover for Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Accounts.
The Directors have chosen to prepare Accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP Accounts, the Directors are required to prepare Accounts for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these Accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Accounts.
In the case of IFRS Accounts, IAS 1 requires that the Accounts present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the IAS Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Auditors In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 a resolution re-appointing Deloitte and Touche LLP as Auditors of the Company for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at the Whitley Hall Hotel, Elliot Lane, Grenoside, Sheffield at 12 noon on Wednesday 10 May 2006, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed, is contained in a circular to be sent to Shareholders with this report.
By order of the Board Richard Monro Company Secretary 8 March 2006 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39
