8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 28 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report on the affairs of Directors the Group, together with the consolidated financial The membership of the Board on 22 May 2006 was statements and auditors report for the year ended as follows: Dr Argeris Jerry Karabelas 31 December 2005.
Michael Ashton Principal activities and business review Frank Condella A review of the Operating and Financial business Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Beavis and future developments of the Group is set out Alan Bray in the Chairmans Statement, Review of Operations Dr Kenneth Cunningham and Financial Review.
Dr David Ebsworth Stephen Harris The principal activities of the Group are the research Dr Keith Mansford and development, manufacture and sale of Donald Nicholson prescription pharmaceutical products.
Company Secretary: Douglas Parkhill Results and dividends Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The Group made a loss for the year to 31 December 2005 of 50.9 million 2004: 18.6 million.
The In January 2006 Ian Gowrie-Smith stepped down Directors do not propose to pay a dividend.
as Non-Executive Chairman and in February 2006 retired from the Board.
Dr Jerry Karabelas was Research and development appointed Chairman.
The Group incurred research and development costs of 26.0 million 2004: 28.0 million during the year Michael Ashton, Sir Michael Beavis and Dr Keith which have been written off to the profit and loss Mansford will retire from the Board at the conclusion account in accordance with the Groups accounting of the Annual General Meeting.
having served more than nine years as a NonExecutive Director will offer himself for re-election Environmental policy at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with The Company is conscious of its responsibilities in the recommendations of Section A.
7.2 of the respect of the environment and has produced a group Combined Code.
In the opinion of the Board Stephen wide environmental policy.
Harris has been been key in the development of the Company and continues to provide a worthwhile Payment of creditors contribution to its future growth.
The Groups policy is to pay its suppliers within 30 days from receipt of invoice unless otherwise The Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General agreed with suppliers prior to goods or services Meeting are Dr David Ebsworth and Donald Nicholson being ordered.
Suppliers are made aware of the who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
terms of payment and it is the Companys policy Frank Condella and Dr Ken Cunningham, having to abide by the agreed terms, subject to the terms been appointed since the last Annual General and conditions being fulfilled by the supplier.
Meeting, offer themselves for re-election.
At 31 December 2005, creditor days outstanding in respect of the Company amounted to 26 days Details of Directors interests in the share capital 2004: 27 days.
of the Company together with details of the share incentives granted to them are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 52 of this Report and Accounts.
As at the date of this report, the Directors of the Company had an interest, beneficially and nonbeneficially, in an aggregate of 3,751,168 Ordinary 28 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 29 Shares, representing 0.5% of the Companys issued practical in cases where disability is incurred p of the Board on 22 May 2006 was share capital.
during employment with the Group.
Karabelas Directors and officers liability insurance All employees may have the opportunity to participate During the period under review, the Company and the in the Companys relevant share incentive schemes Group maintained insurance policies for its Directors and the SkyePharma International Share Purchase and officers in respect of liabilities which could arise Plan described in the Remuneration Report.
Employee Sir Michael Beavis in the discharge of their duties in the ordinary course remuneration is determined on an annual basis of business.
by the Remuneration Committee and Executive ngham Committee as appropriate.
The Group attracts and Substantial shareholdings retains employees of the highest calibre by offering In addition to Directors interests as disclosed in the remuneration that is in line with that offered by Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 52 the Company industry competitors and local practice in the has been advised of the following individual interests countries in which it operates.
y: Douglas Parkhill which at 22 May 2006 exceeded 3% of the Companys issued share capital: Charitable and political donations emuneration Committee Nomination Committee No contributions were made to charities 2004: Nil.
HBM BioVentures Cayman Ltd 10.2% No contributions were made to political organisations Ian Gowrie-Smith stepped down UBS AG and subsidiaries 5.9% 2004: Nil.
e Chairman and in February 2006 Dr J Gonella 5.0% Board.
Dr Jerry Karabelas was Close company provisions HBOS PLC and subsidiaries 4.1% man.
The company is not a close company within the Kowa Company Limited 4.0% meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act Sir Michael Beavis and Dr Keith 1988, and there have been no changes since the end ire from the Board at the conclusion Authority to make market purchases of the year.
Stephen Harris, of Ordinary Shares ore than nine years as a NonAs at 31 December 2005 authority given by the Annual General Meeting or will offer himself for re-election shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the eneral Meeting in accordance with for the Company to make market purchases of up Company proposes to seek the usual authority to ations of Section A.
7.2 of the to 6,223,987 nominal value of its Ordinary Shares issue shares, limited disapplication of the statutory In the opinion of the Board Stephen at a price of not more than 105% of the current pre-emption rights on the issue of new shares and been key in the development of the market price was still in force.
to seek authority to purchase shares in the market ntinues to provide a worthwhile subject to compliance with relevant statutory and s future growth.
Employees and disabled persons regulatory requirements.
The Company also proposes The Group is committed to a policy of promoting to ask Members to approve the Remuneration Report iring by rotation at the Annual General employees awareness of its activities, encouraging of the Company.
Further information on these David Ebsworth and Donald Nicholson employees participation in the growth of the Group proposals and on the Annual General Meeting is set ble, offer themselves for re-election.
and welcomes staff input at all levels.
out in the separate letter from the Chairman, which and Dr Ken Cunningham, having explains the reasons for these resolutions and also since the last Annual General It is recognised that by far the most important form contains the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
of involvement and information regarding the progress, performance and plans of the Group take Auditors ors interests in the share capital place during informal daily discussions between A resolution to reappoint  together with details of the share management and other employees.
Consultations LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at ed to them are disclosed in the occur to allow employee opinions to be heard when the Annual General Meeting.
eport on pages 37 to 52 of this making decisions affecting their interests.
policy to offer the same opportunity to disabled By order of the Board people as to all others in matters of recruitment and this report, the Directors of the career advancement, provided they have the ability n interest, beneficially and nonto perform the tasks required, with training where Douglas Parkhill n aggregate of 3,751,168 Ordinary appropriate, and to institute retraining where Company Secretary 22 May 2006 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 29
