8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:47 Page 14 Products on the Market Paxil CR Solaraze Xatral OD An oral formulation of GlaxoSmithKlines A topical treatment for actinic keratosis, A once-daily oral version of Sanofi-Aventis SSRI antidepressant Paxil.
Our Geomatrix a common pre-cancerous skin condition alfuzosin for the urinary symptoms of benign technology reduces gastrointestinal sidecaused by over-exposure to sunlight.
Xatral OD has been effects, an issue with all drugs of this class.
Solaraze, based on our hyaluronic acid on the market in Europe and other territories Paxil CR was off the US market between gel formulation, is licensed to Bradley since 2000 and was launched as Uroxatral March and June 2005 because of a Pharmaceuticals in the USA and to Shire in the US in November 2003. manufacturing problem at GSKs Puerto Pharmaceuticals in Europe and Australasia.
Demand for Paxil CR has recovered since the product returned to the market but not to the former level.
DepoCyt DepoDur Triglide A treatment for lymphomatous meningitis, A sustained-release injectable formulation of An oral treatment for lipid disorders, Triglide a late-stage complication of cancer, based morphine.
A single epidural injection during employs our IDD-P solubilisation technology on our sustained-release injectable surgery provides effective relief of postto overcome the insolubility of fenofibrate, technology.
DepoCyt is marketed by operative pain for 48 hours.
DepoDur was an otherwise valuable treatment for this Enzon Pharmaceuticals in the USA and launched at the end of 2004 by our US partner common condition.
Triglide was launched by Mundipharma International in Europe Endo.
UK approval was granted recently.
in July 2005 by our US partner First Horizon as DepoCyte.
SkyePharma uses drug delivery technologies to improve the characteristics of pharmaceutical products.
Normally we work with medicines that have already been shown to be safe and effective but which have disadvantages in terms of dosing.
By reformulation, we can often improve the therapeutic effect, minimise side-effects and make dosing more convenient for the patient.
Our delivery technologies cover four routes of administration: oral, inhaled, injectable and topical.
Together these four routes account for over 90% of all drugs now on the market.
Our fifth technology, solubilisation, is designed to overcome a growing problem for the pharmaceutical industry: low bioavailability of many promising drug leads.
All of these delivery technologies have now been validated by market approval.
