8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:47 Page 16 TM Flutiform The Phase III trial of Flutiform, started in February 2006, is on track for our target of filing in the second half of 2007 and US market entry in early 2009.
SkyePharma has extensive experience in development of respiratory products and we also consider this to be a low-risk clinical development as both formoterol and fluticasone are already approved entities.
We are therefore confident of our ability to meet these timelines.
We believe that Flutiform will be at worst the third combination on the US market and differentiated from both Advair and Symbicort.
There is potential The world market for asthma drugs is expected to position Flutiform as Best in Class and no other to exceed $20 billion by 2010, with use in chronic significant competitors are expected to enter the obstructive pulmonary disease COPD expected to US market before 2012 at the earliest.
The fastest-growing part there is limited risk of generic competition in the of this market is combination treatments, which combination asthma market because there is no combine a long-acting bronchodilator with an recognised test for bioequivalence after inhalation inhaled steroid in a single delivery device.
dosing and therefore no basis for approval of an Combinations are not only convenient for patients AB rated generic inhaled drug in the US market.
but also optimise the efficacy of the individual A generic company would therefore have to conduct agents.
Sales of GlaxoSmithKlines combination clinical trials, which is much more expensive and Advair Seretide in Europe already exceed $6 billion risky than development of a conventional oral generic and AstraZenecas Symbicort which is not yet on drug so typical generic deep-discount pricing would the US market add another $1 billion.
We therefore anticipate a peak sales the combination category is expected to account potential for Flutiform well in excess of $1 billion for over half of the asthma COPD market by value.
with an appropriate marketing partner.
SkyePharmas product Flutiform consists of a fixedIn September 2005 we therefore decided to raise dose combination of the bronchodilator formoterol funds to proceed with Phase III development at our with the inhaled steroid fluticasone in a proprietary own expense.
The Phase III trials will cost in excess metered-dose aerosol inhaler with a dose counter.
This decision kept development under Formoterol provides 12 hours of bronchodilation our control and reduced the risk of delays to market and has a rapid onset of action 1-3 minutes.
entry that could jeopardise the sales potential of By contrast salmeterol, the bronchodilator used in Flutiform.
Our decision to proceed with development GlaxoSmithKlines Advair Seretide, is also a twicewas vindicated by the excellent terms of a licence daily product but has the drawback of needing agreement with Kos Pharmaceuticals for the US 30-45 minutes after inhalation to take effect.
Kos is a highly The inhaled steroid fluticasone a component of successful specialty pharmaceutical company and Advair Seretide is perceived to have a better safety we are confident that we have now found an ideal and efficacy profile than budesonide, the steroid used marketing partner for Flutiform in the key US in AstraZenecas Symbicort, and is the physicianmarket.
We remain in discussions with other preferred inhaled steroid in the US.
The SkyePharma potential partners for other major territories.
formulation technology employed in Flutiform provides patent protection to 2019.
