However, further development of this business would require significant cash resources and would also impact the Companys ability to become profitable in the near term.
The Company has retained UBS to act as its investment bank to manage the divestment process.
This process is ongoing and several third parties, both trade and financial, have already shown significant interest in the injectables business.
Funds raised by the divestment of the injectables business will be available to enhance the core oral SkyePharmas mission is to become one of the and inhalation business.
We expect to be able to worlds leading speciality pharmaceutical companies, accelerate the development of certain pipeline powered through excellence in drug delivery.
products whose development has had to be delayed in recent years.
Several of these products On 2 February 2006, the Company announced are at an early stage of development but would the outcome of its Strategic Review.
The Board address important therapeutic areas such as concluded that in the interests of achieving gastrointestinal, diabetes and hypertension.
sustainable profitability in the shortest reasonable Development activities will continue to be based time, SkyePharma should concentrate on oral and in Muttenz, Switzerland and manufacturing in inhalation products and divest its injectable business Muttenz and Lyon, France.
The proposed divestment, which the Board expects to be subject to approval by shareholders, Our oral and inhalation pipeline includes would not only release cash but also relieve the SkyePharmas most important project Flutiform, Company of a significant cash burn and future capital a combination asthma product.
The Board believes that the residual convinced that Flutiform has substantial value as it core business would be able to achieve profitability is poised to enter a large and rapidly growing market in the near term.
Furthermore, with greater focused with currently limited competition.
This is reflected resources the Company would be in a better position in the excellent terms on which we have recently to further develop its pipeline of oral and inhalation licensed Flutiform to Kos Pharmaceuticals for products.
Ultimately, it is the Companys strategy to the US market with an option on Canada.
We are add a niche sales and marketing capability in one or currently negotiating with several companies for more markets that would improve profit growth and the rights to market Flutiform in Japan and the give it greater control over revenue generation.
countries of the European Union.
The injectables business, located in San Diego, The core oral and inhalation business has seven consists of two marketed products: DepoCyt for products marketed by licensees, including Paxil a complication of cancer and Depodur for the CR, Xatral OD and Triglide.
These products will treatment of post-surgical pain.
This business also continue to generate revenues and cash for the has a pipeline of projects in various stages of Company.
There are also a number of late-stage development.
These include controlled-release products that are close to the market.
injectable formulations of a number of biological products and DepoBupivacaine, a long-acting The Company will focus its efforts on working with injectable formulation of the local anaesthetic partners to maximise revenues from existing and bupivacaine for the control of post-operative future marketed products.
We will also be able to pain.
The Company remains convinced that devote more resources in this area to the development DepoBupivacaine addresses an important area of additional products and to increase the size of of unmet medical need and has major commercial our pipeline.
