8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:47 Page 26 Directors and Officers Dr Jerry Karabelas aged 53 Michael Richard Dywer Ashton aged 60 Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Gordon Beavis Non-Executive Chairman since 2 February Executive Director.
Formerly Chief Executive aged 76 2006, appointed Non-Executive Director in Officer from November 1998 until 1 March Non-Executive Director, appointed in May November 2000.
Dr Karabelas has more than 2006.
He was appointed to the Board in March 1989 and appointed Senior Independent 23 years experience in the pharmaceutical 1997.
He has over 33 years of experience in Non-Executive Director in May 2001. industry having spent most of his career with the pharmaceutical industry having worked He entered the Royal Air Force in 1947 and SmithKline Beecham.
Dr Karabelas is a for Merck Inc. Pfizer Inc. Purepac Inc. and retired in 1987, his last appointment being partner at Care Capital LLC.
He was previously prior to this appointment, Faulding Inc. where Deputy Commander-in-Chief Allied Forces the CEO of Novartis Pharma AG where he Mr Ashton was Chairman, President and CEO.
He is a defence had responsibility for pharmaceuticals, R&D, He is a non-executive director of Transition consultant with Burdeshaw Associates consumer products, and the generics Therapeutics Inc. Astralis Limited, Hikma USA, a Companion of the Chartered business.
He is an external director of the Pharmaceuticals plc, Proximagen Management Institute, a Freeman of the International Partnership for Microbicides Neuroscience Ltd and Vital Living Inc. City of London and a Liveryman in the Guild and Chairman of Human Genome Sciences.
of Air Pilots and Navigators.
He is also a director of NitroMed Inc. Acura Pharmaceuticals Inc. Inotek Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Anadys Pharmaceuticals Inc. Renovo Ltd. and a member of the scientific advisory board of Epigenesis Pharmaceuticals LLC and CardioKine Inc. Dr David Ebsworth aged 51 R Stephen Harris aged 63 Dr Keith Mansford aged 74 Non-Executive Director, appointed in April Non-Executive Director, appointed in Non-Executive Director appointed in March 2002.
Dr Ebsworth has over 20 years of November 1995.
He has over 45 years of experience in pharmaceutical industry experience.
experience in the pharmaceutical industry, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors He provides consultancy services to a variety having worked for ICI Pharmaceuticals, principally with Beecham Group and of clients including venture capital companies.
Merck, Eli Lilly, Boots, Reckitt & Colman SmithKline Beecham.
From 1984 to 1992 He was chief executive officer of Oxford and Gensia: and was director of Development Dr Mansford was Chairman of Research and GlycoSciences PLC until May 2003.
Prior to and Licensing with Medeva PLC.
He is nonDevelopment at Beecham Group and this he held the position of president and executive chairman of Proteome Sciences plc, subsequently SmithKline Beecham PLC.
general manager of the Pharmaceutical Sinclair Pharma PLC and Conve Ltd and nonHe is an External Director of Sepracor Inc, Business Group for Bayer AG in Leverkusen, executive director of Advanced Medical chairman of Protemix Inc. a biotech company Germany, and has also worked for Bayer AG in Solutions Group PLC, Prophilian PLC, based in New Zealand, and Professor of a series of global positions in Canada, Europe Premier Research PLC and GeneMedix PLC.
Metabolic Biochemistry at the University and the United States.
Dr Ebsworth is nonof Buckingham.
executive chairman of Wilex AG, Xention Discovery Ltd and Curacyte AG as well as nonexecutive director of Intercell AG and CuraGen Corporation and held the same office, until 1998, with Schein Pharmaceuticals, Inc. now known as Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. 26 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 27 Alan Bray aged 61 Frank Condella aged 51 Dr Ken Cunningham aged 53 Non-Executive Director, appointed in Became Chief Executive Officer in March 2006 Became Chief Operating Officer in April 2006.
Mr Bray is a chartered and was appointed to the Board in April 2006.
He was appointed to the Board in May 2006. accountant having retired as a senior partner Mr Condella has over 25 years commercial Dr Cunningham is former CEO of Arakis from Deloitte & Touche LLPs financial experience in the pharmaceutical industry, from January 2002 to August 2005: Vice services practice in May 2004.
Mr Bray has having worked for several major international President European Affairs for Alza worked with retail and investment banks, companies.
Prior to joining SkyePharma he Corporation and Vice President Clinical insurance companies and asset management served as President of European Operations Development for Sequus Pharmaceuticals.
firms and was seconded for a time to the for IVAX, CEO of Faulding Pharmaceuticals, Previously he held a variety of clinical Department of Trade and Industry.
He was Vice-President of the Specialty Business for development and commercial strategy responsible for Deloitte & Touche LLPs risk Roche, and the Lederle unit of American positions in GlaxoWellcome and Warnermanagement policies and procedures in its Home Products.
He holds a BS in Pharmacy Lambert.
He is a non-executive director financial services practice and was a serving degree and an MBA from Northeastern of Xention Discovery Ltd. Dr Cunningham member on a DTI Supervisory Board and University in Boston, Massachusetts.
qualified from St Marys Medical School, Audit Committee.
Donald Nicholson aged 48 Douglas Parkhill aged 54 Finance Director, appointed in March 1997, Company Secretary, appointed in September joined the Company in February 1996.
Mr Parkhill is a graduate of Glasgow He is a member of the Institute of Chartered University and a member of the Institute of Accountants of Scotland.
He began his Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
professional career with Deloitte Haskins & Sells and has spent over 20 years in healthcare including Wellcome PLC and Corange Ltd, the holding company of Boehringer Mannheim and DePuy, where he was Corporate Strategy & Finance Director.
