8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:47 Page 05 any that could have marketed n some markets.
The discussions We believe that the strategic initiatives we have adopted will enable y SkyePharma due to uncertainties the Company to maximise the potential of Flutiform and other pipeline artys prospects.
SkyePharma was products, to become profitable in the near term and to deliver long-term e this at the time due to reasons value for shareholders.
and the possibility that these d resume at some time in the future.
e also received an opportunistic ch from Innovata PLC.
As a result, at it was in shareholders interests ions and consequently appointed rs to conduct a full strategic review s open to the Company.
on a number of early-stage non-pharmaceutical The Board will miss their wise counsel and wishes companies.
I have been a Non-Executive Director of them well in retirement.
In their place, we will be of this review in early 2006 did not SkyePharma since 2000 and I have also had extensive appointing two new Non-Executive Directors.
or the entire Company on terms experience at senior management levels of the lt able to recommend to shareholders.
The Future were expressions of interest in The EGM process was costly and also diverted of the business.
The Board then Michael Ashton, who has now reached the age of 60, significant management time away from running decision to divest the US-based indicated to the Board last year that it was his the business.
However, now that this is behind us ess in order to reduce the Companys intention to retire as Chief Executive in 2006. we can focus on execution of the new strategy utflow over the next few years and Michael will continue to serve as a Director until referred to above and outlined in more detail in the concentrate on the oral and the 2006 Annual General Meeting in June but will following pages.
We are focused in the short term esses.
The investment bank UBS not be seeking re-election.
on the licensing of Flutiform in territories outside d recently to manage this sale and North America and the divestment of our injectables ngoing.
The injectables business I am sure that shareholders will join me in thanking business.
While there is obviously uncertainty as to yt and DepoDur, both marketed both Ian and Michael for their contribution to the the timing of these transactions, they will not only e lead injectable pipeline product development of SkyePharma since its formation.
greatly reduce the Companys current and future e. cash requirements but also provide us with the The Board has appointed Frank Condella as Chief funds to consider new opportunities related to certain shareholders requisitioned Executive, who joined the Company on 1 March oral and inhalation products.
We are also devoting General Meeting EGM seeking 2006, having previously run the European operations a significant amount of resource to ensure that ompanys then Chairman and to of the leading generic company IVAX.
Before joining Flutiform continues on its planned development ated director to SkyePharmas IVAX, Frank was Chief Executive of Faulding timeline.
We remain convinced that Flutiform will ltimate aim of having him appointed Pharmaceuticals and before that built up the become a major product, as is evident from the airman.
Although this motion was speciality pharmaceuticals business of Roche.
number of companies that have expressed an EGM in early March, the Board has Frank joined the Board on 4 April 2006. interest in obtaining licensing rights.
We believe that mber of changes and introduced a the strategic initiatives we have adopted will enable y major investors are now involved The Board has also appointed Dr Ken Cunningham the Company to maximise the potential of Flutiform of new Non-Executive Directors.
in the new role of Chief Operating Officer.
Ken and other pipeline products, to become profitable in was formerly Chief Executive of the private UK the near term and to deliver long-term value for company Arakis and has a wealth of experience shareholders.
Ian Gowrie-Smith stepped down in pharmaceutical development, especially in Non-Executive Chairman when I was the areas of oral and inhalation products.
Ian subsequently resigned as joined the Board on 17 May 2006.
As shareholders will be aware, Non-Executive Chairman ePharma in 1996 and has seen it Two other Non-Executive Directors, Sir Michael a substantial business.
He remains Beavis and Dr Keith Mansford, will not be standing ut will now be focusing his energies for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
