8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:47 Page 15 Upcoming Products Foradil Certihaler A new version of Novartis long-acting bronchodilator formoterol for asthma.
SkyePharma developed not only the multi-dose drypowder inhaler device but also the unique formulation of the drug.
The product has now been approved in 24 countries in Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and South Africa and New Zealand and received an approvable letter from the FDA in April 2006.
In Foradil Certihaler our inhaler and formulation technologies successfully achieve repeat dose consistency.
This technology is employed in a second collaboration with Novartis for indacaterol QAB 149, a novel long-acting bronchodilator.
Propofol IDD-D An injectable anaesthetic and sedative.
Our formulation was designed to avoid the need for a preservative and to be suitable for long-term use in intensive care units.
Although this product completed Phase II trials in 2004, the Phase III trial has not yet commenced and in April 2006 we agreed with our North American partner Endo to terminate the joint development of Propofol IDD-D. Pulmicort HFA-MDI A new pulmonary formulation of AstraZenecas Pulmicort budesonide in an HFA-powered metered-dose aerosol inhaler.
AstraZeneca filed for European approval in June 2005 and the first European approval came in February.
We have developed this new version of AstraZenecas asthma drug Pulmicort.
Our aerosol inhaler is powered by environmentally friendly HFA and will allow the current CFC-powered version to be withdrawn.
Requip Once-a-day A new oral version of GlaxoSmithKlines Requip for Parkinsons disease.
The long-acting formulation should bring therapeutic benefits as well as convenience.
Phase III trials of Requip Once-a-day have been completed and we expect GSK to file for approval before year-end.
Dopamine agonists like Requip are increasingly recommended for first-line use in Parkinsons.
Our once-daily version addresses the major disadvantage of the current product: the need for dosing three times a day.
