Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Who we are Hull shortsea container terminal Larger.
Deeper Background with potential customers.
Speci cations and and our con dence in the future The groups existing container-handling plans to develop this facility are complete commercial prospects are underpinned by terminal at Hull was originally developed and construction will commence as soon as the following factors: in the 1970s.
This facility comprises a customer agreement is in place.
We a 300-metre quay and offers a secure expect the new facility to be operational in The Port of Hull is well integrated with 17-acre terminal with storage facilities.
The commissioning the UKs road network and can provide The terminal, which is subject to lockgate of the new facility will also allow the Port of access to a market of 40 million people restrictions, is currently operated under Hull to continue to grow its forest products within the UK in under four hours licence by PD Port Services and offers trade because it will release capacity from services to Continental Europe and the existing facility.
Potential future capacity constraints at the Scandinavia.
In 2005, this facility handled UKs southern container ports are leading over 240,000 twenty-foot equivalent units The new facility operators to consider shortsea feeder TEUs of containers for customers The groups investment will facilitate the services into regional ports such as Hull including Geest North Sea Line, the United development of a 411-metre quay that will Baltic Corporation, Bulcon, Finnlines and allow the port to accommodate larger Increased road haulage costs, coupled OOCL, among others.
To support container vessels than can currently be with congestion delays, make shortsea anticipated growth in shortsea container handled.
The facility will also be equipped shipping an increasingly more attractive volumes, the group commenced planning with state-of-the-art gantry cranes and will option, because it facilitates the shipping towards the development of a new bene t from an ef cient storage yard of goods closer to their origination and riverside shortsea container terminal in con guration.
The elimination of lockgate destination points.
1996 and submitted a planning application restrictions will mean that the new terminal for this development in 2000. can handle container vessels with much I am satis ed that, overall, the project improved marine access and signi cantly will bring signi cant bene ts to the city Current status decreased turnaround times.
The overall and to the region as a whole.
I am also happy Following a planning process that lasted five container capacity is expected to double to that the projects likely impacts on nature years, in December 2005 the government 500,000 TEUs per annum.
conservation sites will be adequately gave its final approval for the groups compensated for by the creation of proposed new shortsea container terminal, Growth in shortsea container volumes replacement habitat on the Humber estuary.
which is expected to be developed at a cost Over the past four years, container Derek Twigg MP, of between 30-35m.
The group is in the volume throughput at the existing facility Parliamentary Under-Secretary, advanced stages of discussing agreements has grown by over 55 per cent.
This growth Department for Transport Container volumes at Hull thousand TEUs Facts and gures After 55% growth in container volumes at Hull in recent years, ABP will invest 30-35m to help develop a 411-metre quay, to facilitate container vessels with potential draughts of up to 10.5 metres, with overall container capacity increasing by 100% to 500,000 TEUs per annum.
