Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Board of directors Richard Adam, Group Finance Director, 48 Since joining the group in 1999, Richard has steered the south-east of England.
In this role, he raised 300m for groups proactive communications with investors and the acquisition of new businesses.
In 1993, he was Chief stakeholders, strengthened its financial management and Financial Of cer at International Family Entertainment UK overseen the successful disposal of non-core assets.
He and a key gure in the launch of its Family Channel on is chairman of the risk management working group, CSR satellite television.
Between 1996 and 1999, he was management committee and the main fide ned-bene t Group Finance Director of Hodder Headline plc, the pension scheme.
Richard quali ed as a chartered book-publishing business acquired by WH Smith in accountant with KPMG in 1982 before gaining broad 1999.
Pre-tax pro ts grew by 64 per cent during his time experience in a variety of senior financial posts, at Hodder and he is credited with improving the groups predominantly within the media sector.
By the age of 30, financial controls.
Richard is a non-executive director and he was Group Finance Director of TVS Entertainment plc, the chairman of the Audit Committee of global healthcare which then held the ITV franchise for the south and organisation SSL International plc.
Aubrey Adams, Non-executive, 56 Aubrey has been a member of the board since 1996 the company.
Prior to joining Savills in 1990, Aubrey and is a member of the Audit, Nomination and was Financial Director at Peachey Property Corp plc: Remuneration Committees.
His extensive, first-hand he was instrumental in reorganising the group and knowledge of property matters has contributed greatly increasing its market capitalisation from 20m to to the success of the groups estate-management 300m by 1988.
He joined Peachey from activities and non-core property disposal programme.
A fellow of the Institute of Aubrey has spent the majority of his career within the Chartered Accountants, Aubrey is also a trustee of the property sector and is Group Chief Executive of Savills, Wigmore Hall and sits on the general council of the the international property consultants.
He was British Property Federation.
previously Managing Director and Finance Director of Tim Bowdler, Non-executive, 58 Tim joined the board in 2001.
He is a member of the Audit, he trained as a production engineer before rising through a Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
In advising variety of managerial positions to general management.
the board, Tim draws on his experience of running an Beginning as a graduate management trainee at GKN expanding and successful public company.
The market Sankey Ltd, he went on to work for Tyzack & Partners Ltd, capitalisation of Johnston Press, one of the UKs major Chloride Group plc, Sandvik Ltd and RHP Bearings Ltd. regional newspaper publishers, has increased more than Tim is a fellow of the RSA, a past president of the seven-fold since Tim joined the company in 1994 as Newspaper Society and a member of its council, Group Managing Director: he was appointed Chief Chairman of the Press Standards Board of Finance Ltd Executive in 1997.
He was previously Managing Director and a non-executive director of the Press Association Ltd of Cape plcs building and  and the Miller Group Ltd. companies.
Tims career began in manufacturing: Stuart Chambers, Non-executive, 49 Stuart joined the board in 2002.
He is Chairman of director of Primary Products Europe, and then to the Remuneration Committee and a member of the president of Building Products Worldwide.
Stuart Nomination and Audit Committees.
As a highly began his career by using his academic background experienced chief executive of a public company, he in applied physics as a chemical engineer for Shell.
shares his expertise with the board on many business He worked in a number of Shells divisions, including matters.
He has been Group Chief Executive of Shell Oil UK and Deutsche Shell AG, before becoming Pilkington plc, one of the worlds leading glass Shell Oil UKs regional manager for retail in 1986.
Stuart joined Pilkington joined Mars as a national account manager in 1988, in 1996 as the group vice-president responsible for becoming European sales director four years later and marketing and business development of Building then vice-president for sales and marketing of Mars Products.
In 1998, he was promoted to managing Electronics International in 1995.
Chris Clark, Non-executive Chairman, 64 Chris became non-executive Chairman on 1 August He was promoted to the board of Johnson Matthey 2004 and brings extensive business knowledge and as an executive director in March 1990, rising to the commercial experience to the board.
He is Chairman position of Chief Operating Of cer in July 1996 and of the Nomination Committee.
Before taking on his Chief Executive in June 1998.
Under his leadership, current role, Chris spent his entire executive career at the company joined the FTSE 100 in 2002.
In addition Johnson Matthey plc, the speciality chemicals to the position of non-executive Chairman of ABPH, company.
He joined Johnson Matthey as a metallurgist Chris is Chairman of Wagon Automotive and Chairman in their research laboratories before moving into sales of Urenco, the uranium-enrichment company that is and marketing, where he held a number of marketing owned jointly by the governments of Germany, Holland and management roles and spent five years in the USA.
Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Strength through experience Bo Lerenius, CBE, Group Chief Executive, 59 Since becoming Group Chief Executive in May 1999, operations with P&O in 1998.
Prior to this, Bo was Group Bo has developed the management team, refocused the President of Ernstromgruppen, a building materials group on its core ports and transport business and group, and a director of both Tarkett Flooring Swedish instigated a programme to dispose of non-core assets.
Match and Nordjs Frg Nobel Group.
He is also He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Prior to a non-executive director of Group 4 Securicor Plc and joining the group, Bo gained an understanding of ports Land Securities Group plc, Deputy Chairman of the and port users requirements from his experience as Swedish Chamber of Commerce, a member of the CBI President and Chief Executive and subsequently London Council, a director of IAPH International Vice-Chairman of Stena Line, one of Swedens largest Association of Ports & Harbors and President of the Sea companies and the owner and operator of ships and and Water Advisory Board.
In 2005, Bo was awarded an a number of smaller UK ports.
During his time with honorary CBE for services to the British ports industry.
Stena, he managed the merger of its cross-Channel ferry Doug Morrison, Port Director, Southampton, 54 Doug has worked for the group for his entire career, considerable investment in new facilities at the ports.
having joined direct from school in 1968.
Doug worked He took control of Southampton in March 2005 and in ports administration for 11 years before moving to joined the board shortly afterwards.
the operational side of the business as a trainee supervisor.
Within 10 years, he was responsible for all port operations at Ayr & Troon.
He became Port Manager in 1998 and the port grew signi cantly, winning considerable volumes of new business under his leadership.
Following his promotion to the position of Port Director of Hull & Goole in 2003, Doug oversaw Derek Sach, Non-executive, 57 Derek has been a member of the board since 1998.
He a number of posts at RBS.
As director of group risk, is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of Derek was responsible for the effective control and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Derek monitoring of risk within the group, including market is suitably equipped to advise the board on strategic and operational risk management.
As part of a joint financial matters due to his career in investment venture, he was seconded in 1997 to Tesco Personal management and banking.
He is the managing director Finance as Chief Executive for a year and previously, of Specialised Lending Services SLS and a board Derek was a director of 3i Group plc, where he was the member of Corporate Markets at the Royal Bank of managing director for the UK and chairman of its Scotland RBS.
He joined RBS in 1992 to establish property companies and investment committee.
SLS, which provides strategic advice to businesses in trouble or showing signs of dif culty.
He has since held Andrew Simon, OBE, Non-executive, 60 Andrew became a member of the board in 1994.
He is to a 300m international speciality chemicals and a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration materials group, as well as achieving a number of Committees.
The considerable international experience market-leadership positions.
Since Evodes takeover, that he contributes to the board is bolstered by his Andrew has accumulated a diversi ed portfolio of experience in strategy process and development.
non-executive and chairman positions in UK, European Andrew has been involved in over 20 businesses as and North American companies across many sectors.
He spent 23 years He is Chairman of Kaffee Partner, Deputy Chairman of at Evode Group as Managing Director, Chief Executive Dalkia plc, a non-executive director of Brake Bros and Of cer and Chairman.
In this time, he developed the Finning International and sits on the supervisory board groups adhesives and sealants business from a 10m of SGL Carbon.
