Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Who we are A short voyage around our business 2 0 06-1014 ABP Front FINAL.
indd Sec1:2 2 23 2 06 11:33:25 pm 3 2 06 11:33:25 pm Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Who we are Ports & transport UK Handling services provided by our ports Property investment and development and charges to independent stevedores for working at our ports and hiring our equipment Income from terminals we run on behalf of our customers Charges for storage or warehousing of cargo passing through our ports Property rental and service income from the provision of land on our port estates Pilotage charges for guiding a vessel through an estuary or harbour area 90% of group underlying Conservancy charges for the maintenance 7% of group underlying # # operating pro t of safe and navigable waterways operating pro t Value-added transport-related services.
We segment our business into four distinct With over 12,000 acres of land and seabed areas.
The biggest is our UK ports and Ports & transport USA in the UK, effective management of our transport business, which in 2005 property assets is an important part of our accounted for 86.0 per cent of revenue success.
Property investment income is and 90.3 per cent of group underlying derived from rental income from tenants on operating pro t. our port estates who do not use our port facilities.
Proceeds generated from the We own 21 ports in the UK and are the disposal of surplus land and property are market leader in our sector, handling nearly classi ed as property development income.
As the UKs largest ports operator, we bene t from Associates having ports at prime locations in England, Groups share Scotland and Wales.
of revenue 53.0m 3% of group underlying Growth 1.2m 2% # As well as excellent geographic coverage, operating pro t Groups share of underlying our business is strengthened by the diverse # operating pro t 6.5m mix of cargoes it handles and the breadth This business is much smaller than our Growth -3.4m -34% of origination and destination markets for UK business.
In 2005, it contributed Groups share these cargoes.
In addition, we work with a 8.6 per cent to revenue and 2.6 per cent # of retained pro t 4.4m wide range of customers, usually under to group underlying operating pro t. Growth -2.1m -32% long-term contracts.
This means we can predict a large proportion of our annual Revenues in the USA come from: In addition to our own activities, we have revenues for example, in 2006, interests in two UK container terminals.
We approximately 53 per cent of turnover will Ships dues, from vessels berthing at own 49 per cent of Southampton Container come from existing customer contracts.
our facilities Terminals, the second largest container Goods dues levied on the tonnage of terminal in the UK, and 33 per cent of Typically, our UK ports and transport goods passing over our quays Tilbury Container Services.
The revenues of revenue is earned from: Unloading and loading of vehicles these businesses come from: Vehicle-processing, including receiving Ships dues, from vessels berthing at and inspection Container handling our ports Vehicle-remediation works Storage including temperatureGoods dues also known as wharfage Charges for the storage of vehicles controlled cargoes or cargo dues levied on the tonnage of passing through our facilities.
Ship-planning services goods passing over our quays Cargo inspection and consolidation.
Prior year previously reported under UK GAAP, now reported under IFRS # Before increase in fair value of investment properties 3.5m 2004: 3.4m and exceptional items nil 2004: 51.4m 3 Continuing operations 0 06-1014 ABP Front FINAL.
