Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Directors report Principal activities and business review companys governance structure are set out set out in the notice to the AGM on pages The principal activities of the group comprise in the report on corporate governance on 134 to 135.
Neither Russell Edey nor the provision of port facilities and related pages 108 to 117.
All of the directors served Simon Melliss has a service contract.
services to shipowners and other users of throughout the period except for Doug Russell Edey will become the companys seaports in the UK and USA.
The group Morrison, who was appointed to the board SID following the 2006 AGM.
owns and operates 21 ports within the UK as an executive director on 26 April 2005. and provides vehicle-processing services at The board considers that Stuart Chambers, five port locations in the USA.
It also provides The companys articles of association Russell Edey and Simon Melliss are all value-added transport-related services in the require that all directors are subject to independent of management, free from any UK and generates income from the election by shareholders at the first business or other relationships that could ownership and development of properties at opportunity after appointment and to interfere materially with their independent port locations within the UK and the USA.
judgement and bring wide and varied commercial experience to its deliberations.
The progress of business during the year Doug Morrison, being eligible, offers and anticipated future developments are himself for re-election.
Doug has a service Details of directors service contracts, discussed in the Group Chief Executives contract that may be terminated by giving remuneration, interests in the shares of the review on pages 28 to 31 and the operating one years notice.
company and options over shares are and financial review on pages 32 to 49. disclosed in the remuneration report on The operating and financial review also Richard Adam, who joined the board as pages 118 to 128. provides information that all large and Group Finance Director in November 1999, medium-sized European Union companies retires as a director by rotation at the No director has, or had at any time during the are required to publish under the EU forthcoming AGM.
As he continues to be year, held a material interest in any contract Accounts Modernisation Directive.
eligible under the companys articles of or arrangement of signi cance to which any association, he also offers himself for regroup undertaking was or is a party.
Richard has a service contract that Group pre-tax pro t on ordinary activities may be terminated by giving one years notice.
Investment property for the year was 135.8m 2004 : 82.2m.
The groups investment property as at Further details of the groups operating Stuart Chambers, who has been a non- 31 December 2005 was valued at 572.6m performance are provided in its income executive director since October 2002 and 2004: 566.3m on an open market statement on page 52. was appointed Chairman of the basis.
In accordance with International Remuneration Committee on 26 April 2005, Accounting Standard 40, Investment The company paid an interim dividend retires as a director by rotation at the Property, 3.5m of the increase in the of 7.25 pence per share, which was paid forthcoming AGM.
As he continues to be value of investment property has been on 1 November 2005.
The directors eligible under the companys articles of recorded within the groups income recommend a final dividend of 9.75 pence association, he offers himself for re-election.
Previously, under UK per share, making a total for the year of Stuart does not have a service contract.
accounting standards, this would have 17.00 pence per share.
This is an increase resulted in an increase to the groups of 6.3 per cent on the 2004 total dividend of Aubrey Adams, who has been a nonrevaluation reserve.
If approved at the executive director since October 1996 and forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Senior Independent Director SID since Payment of suppliers AGM, the company will pay the final the 2005 AGM, has decided to retire from the The group aims to agree terms and dividend on Friday 28 April 2006 to ordinary board following the companys 2006 AGM.
conditions before business takes place and shareholders on the register at close of to settle amounts due to its suppliers in line business on Friday 31 March 2006.
Andrew Simon, who has been a nonwith the terms agreed.
executive director since November 1994 Directors and their interests and is due to retire as a director at the At year-end, the group owed the equivalent The names of the directors as at the date of forthcoming AGM, has also decided not to of 35 days of purchases 2004: 34 days to this report, together with details on their seek re-election.
trade creditors, based on the average daily backgrounds and abilities, are set out amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
in the directors biographies on pages Russell Edey and Simon Melliss, who will 100 to 101.
Details of the independence of join the board as non-executive directors Purchase of own shares non-executive directors and their roles in the on 1 March 2006, being eligible, will offer During 2005, the company continued with themselves for re-election.
Details of their its share repurchase programme by Prior year previously reported under UK GAAP, respective backgrounds and abilities are purchasing, and subsequently cancelling, now reported under IFRS see note 36 106 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave an additional 10.2m shares, or 3.3 per cent Special business at the Annual General execute its share repurchase programme of the issued share capital at 31 December Meeting AGM and to mitigate the market impact of share 2004.
The total cost of 50.4m, including The remuneration report set out on pages issues from employee share schemes.
costs, has been charged to the pro t and 118 to 128 will be put to the AGM as an loss account reserve.
The directors are proposing that an repurchased these shares as part of its ordinary resolution be submitted to the ongoing share repurchase programme.
The At the AGM of 26 April 2005, shareholders AGM giving the company authority to company obtained approval to repurchase approved an ordinary resolution to permit the extend the Associated British Ports up to 10 per cent of its issued equity share directors to distribute shares to the value of Executive Share Option Scheme by a capital at its AGM in 2005 and intends to the lesser of i the unissued ordinary share further year and to establish the Associated seek approval for the renewal of this authority capital of the company and ii one-third of British Ports Share Matching Plan and the at its forthcoming AGM in April 2006. the issued equity share capital of the Associated British Ports Performance company, for one year ending on the date of Share Plan.
Details of these proposals will Substantial shareholdings the 2006 AGM.
At the forthcoming AGM, the be outlined in a letter from the Chairman to An analysis of substantial shareholdings is directors wish to renew that permission for a shareholders dated 16 March 2006. provided on page 129. further year in respect of an amount equivalent to one-third of the issued equity The directors are also proposing that Charitable and political donations share capital.
The authorised share capital of an ordinary resolution be put to the AGM The group donated 123,000 2004: the company is 125,000,000 divided into to renew the Associated British Ports 84,000 to charities during the year.
It did 500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
not make any contributions for political each.
As at 22 February 2006, one-third of Further details will be provided in the letter purposes 2004: nil.
the issued equity share capital equalled from the Chairman to shareholders dated 25,183,766 or 100,735,065 ordinary shares.
Employees and employment policies The directors have no present intention of The groups policy is to adopt practices exercising such authority other than to issue Finally, the board is proposing a special that respect employees as individuals and shares pursuant to the companys employee resolution to amend the articles of association allow them to participate in the business.
to make them consistent with new legislation provides opportunities for active in respect of indemni cation of directors.
participation and personal development The directors also request power to with the twin goals of motivating individuals distribute shares worth up to 3,777,564 Auditors and helping them to enhance their skills.
15,110,259 ordinary shares, representing Each director has taken steps that he approximately five per cent of the issued ought to have taken in his duty as a The group is committed to: equity share capital of the company as at director in order to make himself aware of Providing equality of opportunity for all 22 February 2006, without offering them first any relevant audit information and to existing and potential employees to existing shareholders.
The authority would establish that the companys auditors are Ensuring that employees have access to expire at the AGM in 2007.
The directors aware of that information.
So far as each information that enables them to believe it is in the best interests of the director is aware, there is no information of contribute to and participate fully in the company that, as permitted by the which the companys auditors are unaware.
groups achievement of its objectives Companies Act 1985, they should be in Providing employees with clear and fair possession of a relatively small number of  LLP have terms of employment and competitive shares to enable them to take advantage of expressed their willingness to continue in remuneration packages.
any appropriate opportunities that may arise.
of ce as auditors of the company.
Resolutions will be put to the AGM The group is committed to giving full and The directors further request permission for proposing their reappointment as auditors fair consideration to applicants for the company to buy up to 30.2m of its own and authorising the directors to set their employment who are disabled.
If an shares, equivalent to approximately 10 per remuneration.
employee becomes disabled during their cent of the issued equity share capital, in the employment, the group makes every effort open market.
The authority would again By order of the board to ensure that, wherever possible, the expire at the AGM in 2007.
Before buying person can either continue in their present any shares, the directors commit to take into role or retrain for a different role.
Further account the groups cash resources, capital details of the groups management of its requirements and the effect of any purchase Hywel Rees employees are provided in the annual on earnings per share.
The purpose of the Company Secretary corporate social responsibility report.
authority is to enable the company to 22 February 2006 107 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
