Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Who we are We are delighted with ABPs investment in these new facilities Jens Nielsen, Managing Director, DFDS Tor Line PLC 18 0 06-1014 ABP Front FINAL.
indd Sec1:18 2 23 2 06 11:33:37 pm 3 2 06 11:33:37 pm Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Who we are Immingham Outer Harbour: 27.5m ro-ro terminal imminent During 2005, the group has also continued impacted by this development, we Supporting our customers and to make good progress with its undertook detailed social and communities development of a major new roll-on roll-off environmental-impact studies prior to the The Port of Immingham, also the location ro-ro terminal at Immingham Outer submission of our planning application.
In of our UK head of ce, plays an important Harbour.
The groups 27.5m investment in order to mitigate the impact of these part in our business by facilitating roundthis project is its largest to date in a ro-ro dredging works, we worked closely with the-clock, seven-days-a-week services to facility.
The development will increase English Nature, RSPB, The Lincolnshire Germany, Benelux, Sweden, Norway and capacity at the Port of Immingham both in Wildlife Trust, The Yorkshire Wildlife Trust Denmark.
Our volumes from Immingham terms of berth capacity and landside and the Environment Agency.
Under a have continued to grow in recent years and storage.
The new berths will provide much ground-breaking agreement, we are we are delighted with ABPs investment in needed room for expansion of the ports creating new areas at Chowderness and these new facilities, as these should allow ro-ro trades by facilitating improved Welwick of 30 and 133 acres, respectively, us to increase our volumes by introducing scheduling and reduced turnaround times which will provide a varying habitat of larger vessels and a growing number of and by accommodating larger vessels.
The intertidal mud, saltmarsh and grasslands.
new third-party ro-ro shipping lines.
We development is being undertaken in also expect this growth to lead to the partnership with DFDS Tor Line, which has Putting safety first creation of an extra 150 jobs.
entered into a 25-year agreement with the Both of the groups developments at Jens Nielsen, Managing Director, group and is investing an additional 7.5m Immingham are bene ting from our DFDS Tor Line PLC in the project.
Here we highlight some of commitment to high standards of health the factors that are contributing to the and safety.
In addition to incorporating success of this project and its bene ts for external advice on health and safety our stakeholders.
matters into the design and development of the facilities, construction work at each Ground-breaking agreement on site has been managed under the close environmental mitigation supervision of a dedicated safety manager.
Works required to develop this facility All works are being managed in included the dredging of some 54 acres accordance with the Construction Design of mud ats to facilitate access and and Management Regulations 1994 and mooring of vessels and the installation of we are ensuring that our contractors and new berthing dolphins and linkspans.
sub-contractors maintain good Given the size and scope of areas housekeeping while on site.
DFDS Tor Line roll-on roll-off volumes at Immingham thousand units Facts and gures 27.5m is ABPs investment in Immingham Outer Harbour, under a 25-year agreement between ABP and DFDS Tor Line, which will provide 150 new jobs needed to work an extra 3 ships berthed at any one time and 18 vessels using the terminal every week, which will have deep-water channels with 24-hour access.
