Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Who we are Our long-term agreement supporting ABPs investment in Humber International Terminal, Phase 2, is a valuable part of our fuel supply strategy Peter Emery, Production Director, Drax Group plc 16 0 06-1014 ABP Front FINAL.
indd Sec1:16 2 23 2 06 11:33:34 pm 3 2 06 11:33:34 pm Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Who we are Humber International Terminal: generating revenue from coal During 2005, the group made excellent infrastructure.
The terminal will also provide constructing an embankment that will progress with the construction of its new storage facilities, which have been house some 1,500 young conifers.
The deep-water coal-import facility, Humber equipped with two stacker reclaimers terminals new rapid-rail load-out system International Terminal, Phase 2, at the Port capable of stacking coal at 5,300 tonnes will enable most of the coal to be of Immingham.
The 59.5m project the per hour and a stockyard with a capacity transported away by rail, ensuring that largest-ever investment undertaken by the of up to 750,000 tonnes of coal.
The the port remains the number one rail port group continues to be on schedule and complexity of the build has required over in the UK.
This development will 100 contracts with local and international accommodate the strong growth in suppliers.
Teamwork and close coMeeting the needs of our customers volumes of coal imported into the UK and is operation between the group and its At Drax Power Station we consume up to backed by long-term agreements with five suppliers from as far away as South Africa 10m tonnes of coal each year.
The new facility will be capable have been key in ensuring the project is our coal from a variety of suppliers from of handling 9.5m tonnes per annum of delivered on schedule and on budget.
both domestic and international markets.
imported coal and is due to become A steady, secure supply of coal of the right operational in the second quarter of 2006.
Incorporating environmental best quality and at the right price is essential to Here we highlight some of the factors that practice our operations and our long-term are contributing to the success of this The terminal build is being undertaken with agreement supporting ABPs investment in project and its bene ts for our stakeholders.
the environment as a key consideration at Humber International Terminal, Phase 2, is each stage.
In consultation with the a valuable part of our fuel supply strategy.
Diverse supplier base working as a team Environment Agency, we are installing Peter Emery, Production Director, The project management for this automatically operated pollution-control Drax Group plc development was undertaken in-house.
systems that include water cannons and The creation of the new terminal involves a sprinkler systems.
We are also creating 220-metre extension of the existing jetty, settlement ponds that will allow us to which is being equipped with rail-mounted recycle the water used in order to control cranes and associated hoppers, together pollution.
In addition, to separate the with the related conveyors and terminal from other activities, we are Immingham coal volumes million tonnes Facts and gures 59.5m is the cost of the terminal, being built by around 150 people at any one time over the 24 months it is taking to build, for 5 quality customers, so that approximately 150 coal-laden vessels can call at Immingham each year, to be loaded on some 130 trains every week, to bring in up to 9.5 million tonnes of coal per annum, which is enough coal to generate over 7% of the UKs electricity needs.
