THE BUSINESS HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT Group Overview Smith & Nephew is a global business engaged in the development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices inthe sectors of orthopaedics, endoscopyand advanced woundmanagement.
The Group has a history dating back 150 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, England in 1856.
On his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smith took over the management of the business.
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937.
Today it is a public limited company incorporated in the UK registered in, and conducted under the laws of, England and Wales.
Operations in countries other than the UK are under the laws of those countries.
In November 1999, the Group was listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The corporate headquarters is in the UK and the registered address is: Smith & Nephew plc 15 Adam Street LondonWC2N6LA Tel: 44 0 20 7401 7646 Website: www.
com In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the London Stock Exchange measured in terms of market capitalisation.
Recent Developments In October 2005, the Group announced its intention to exit the tissue engineering operations of its advanced wound management business due to delays in achieving economic viability.
Since no purchaser was found for the going concern, production ceased in December 2005 and the operation will be closed during the first quarter of 2006.
In August 2005, Smith & Nephew announced that, together with its partner Beiersdorf AG, it was preparing for the divestment of its joint venture BSN Medical.
Subsequently, on 16 December 2005 Smith & Nephew and Beiersdorf AG announced that they had signed an agreement to sell BSN Medical to Montagu Private Equity for an enterprise value of 1,030m.
This agreement was conditional upon receipt of competition clearances and completion of the transaction was expected in the first quarter of 2006.
The transaction was completed on 23 February 2006.
The Groups share of the results of BSN Medical have been classified as Discontinued Operations inaccordancewithIFRS.
In March 2005 the US Attorneys Office in Newark, New Jersey issued a subpoena to the Groups orthopaedic business asking for copies of its consulting, professional service and remuneration agreements with orthopaedic reconstructive surgeons.
Four of the divisions major competitors received similar subpoenas.
The Company is co-operating fully with the US Attorney, has provided copies of the requested contracts and is gathering additional documentswhichhave also been requested.
In August 2003, Smith & Nephew withdrew from all markets the macrotextured version of its OXINIUM femoral knee component.
As at that date, 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe.
As at 24 February 2006, 964 revision surgeries had been carried out on affected patients and settlements were agreed with patients in respect of 796 of these revisions.
As discussed more fully under Legal Proceedings, due to the denial of insurance coverage by certain of the Groups product liability insurers in respect of existing claims and future claims, a provision of 80m was recorded in 2004, representing unsettled insurance claims and an estimate of claims likely to arise in the future assuming that no further insurance cover is available.
After adjusting for costs charged against the provision and for the effect of translational exchange rate movements 44m remains to settle pending and future claims.
These estimates constitute forward looking statements that are subject to uncertainties.
Depending on the number and average cost of actual revisions, costs to Smith & Nephew may be greater or less than the amount of this provision.
See Legal Proceedingsand Risk Factors.
5 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Group Structure Smith & Nephew operates on a worldwide basis.
This has been achieved through a series of acquisitions, predominantly in the US but also in Europe, and through continued emphasis on the development and introductionof new products inthe Groups principalmarkets.
During the period covered by the Annual Report Smith & Nephew was organised into three global business units of orthopaedics, endoscopy and advanced wound management and a separate indirect market unit.
Each of the global business units manages its sales directly in ten international markets the US, Canada, the UK, Germany, Japan, Australia, France, Italy, New Zealand and Ireland and takes full responsibility for strategy, research and development R&D, manufacturing, marketing, sales and financialperformance.
Theremaining23 markets in which the Group has selling companies are managed by country managers, with business responsibilityfor the wholeof the Groups productrange, and comprisethe indirectmarket unit.
With effect from 2006, orthopaedics will be segmented organisationally into orthopaedic reconstruction and orthopaedictrauma, , to create a fourthglobal business unit.
A head office team in London, England directs the overall business and supports the business units, primarily in the areas of business development, company secretarial, finance, human resources and investor relations, with a legal department based in Memphis, Tennessee.
A central research facility in York, England is charged with the development of  materials scienceand biology, particularlycell biology.
Orthopaedics Overview Orthopaedic products comprise reconstruction joint implants, trauma products and associated clinical therapies.
Reconstruction implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement and mixing systems used in cemented reconstruction joint surgery.
Trauma products consist of internal and external fixation devices and orthobiological solutions used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correction procedures.
Clinical therapies consist of products applied in an orthopaedic office or clinic setting and  growthstimulators and a joint fluid therapy product.
The orthopaedics business is managed worldwide from Memphis, Tennessee, which is also the site of its main manufacturing facility.
Orthopaedic implants and trauma products are also manufactured at a small facility in Tuttlingen, Germany.
As described in Property, Plant and Equipment continuing strong revenue growth has created the need for expansion inboth manufacturingand administrative facilities.
The Groups reconstruction knee business is built on two major knee systems: GENESIS II, designed to facilitate the accuracy and efficiency of the operating procedure and provide improved long-term clinical results: and PROFIX, a reconstructionknee system featuring simpler instruments and surgicaltechnique.
Within the reconstruction hip line, the SPECTRON cemented hip system and the REFLECTION acetabular cup system have documented positive long-term clinical performance.
More recently, the success of SYNERGY, a tapered titanium stem system, ECHELON, a revision stem system and BIRMINGHAM HIP RESURFACING BHR, a hip resurfacing system approved for sale outside of the US have established Smith & Nephew as a strong player inthis productsegment.
The BHR product was acquired with the purchase of Midland Medical Technologies MMT in 2004 for 69m in cash and loan notes.
Additional payments of up to 10m in cash are contingent upon certain regulatory milestones being achieved.
The Group has developed and manufactures knee and hip implant components made from oxidised zirconium OXINIUM which is patent protected and which management believes possesses improved wear characteristics whichmay be of significantbenefit to younger, moreactive patients.
Within the trauma business, internal fixation products, such as the TRIGEN intramedullary nail system and PERI-LOC lower extremity locked plating system and the IMHS CP JET-X and TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME external fixators, provide orthopaedic surgeons with a comprehensive offering of products to address trauma and osteoporotic procedures.
Orthobiologic products, including demineralised bone matrix are also offered for use in  trauma surgeries.
6 The EXOGEN ultrasonic bone healing stimulator and SUPARTZ hyaluronic acid joint fluid therapy are the main products inthe clinicaltherapies sector.
To compete effectively in the growing global orthopaedic market, management believes that as well as having a leading edge product range it is important to have a skilled sales force that can build strong relationships with surgeons and to provide high levels of customer service.
At the end of 2005 the global sales force numbers 1,532 of whom1,021 serve the US market.
Strategy Smith & Nephews orthopaedics strategy is for future growth through innovation in product development in its existing core business and expansion into fast-growing market areas including revision products for hip and knee, extremities fracture management and alternative therapies for pain management and fracture healing.
Management believes that the orthopaedic market will continue to grow for the foreseeable future.
This is largely attributable to the increasing proportion of the population aged over 55 and the increasing need for joint reconstruction products for this age group, increasing obesity and providing other orthopaedic therapies for younger, moreactive patients.
Smith & Nephew also intends to further penetrate these markets by expanding its sales force and by introducing less invasive and alternative therapies.
The Group is also contributing to patient education and empowerment throughits websites and other .
Management believes that future growth will be enhanced by segmenting the business into two separate global units, orthopaedic reconstruction and orthopaedic trauma including clinical therapies, effective from the beginningof 2006.
In June 2005, certain assets of Leading Kabushiki Kaisah Leading Medical orthopaedic distributor in Japan were acquired.
This combination doubles the size of the Groups reconstruction sales force in Japan, enabling a greater level of service and coverage in what management believes to be the second largest orthopaedic market inthe world.
New Products In 2005, the orthopaedics business continued the promotion and roll-out of OXINIUM technologyacross the knee and hip product line.
OXINIUM is a material exclusive to Smith & Nephew which has the strength of a metal with the wear properties of a ceramic material and expands the market for hip and knee implants.
In November 2005 the LEGION Revision Knee System was released for sale.
This system utilises OXINIUM technology in the revision implant.
The full effect of LEGION, as well as continued extensions of the OXINIUM technology is anticipated in 2006.
In February 2005, the PERI-LOC Periarticular Locked Plating System was released for sale.
PERI-LOC is a trauma plating device used to treat lower extremity bone fractures and allows the surgeon to save time in the operating room and perform less invasive surgeries.
The upper extremity version of the system is expected to be launched inmid 2006.
In September 2005, MOBILAB, a comprehensive mobile surgical training facility for orthopaedic surgeons was introduced.
By travelling to hospitals and clinics across the US, the MOBILAB enables surgeons to have local access to training in the latest surgical techniques.
The unit is scheduled to visit 48 US cities in the first 12 monthsof operation.
Recent Regulatory Approvals In September 2005, the FDA Orthopaedic Advisory Panel recommended conditional approval of the BHR product to the FDA for use inthe US.
In 2005 Smith & Nephew received clearance of the Stride Onishi Porous Hip Stem and GENESIS II minimally invasive MIS tibial base plates inJapan from the Ministryfor Health Labourand Welfare.
Competition Management estimates that the worldwide orthopaedic market excluding spine served by the Group grew by 11% in 2005 and is currently worth more than 8 billion per annum.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew holds a 9% share of this market by value.
Principal global competitors in the orthopaedic market and their estimated global shares, are Zimmer 21%, Stryker 17%, fide Puy Johnson& Johnson 17%, Biomet 11% and Synthes 11%.
7 Endoscopy Overview Smith & Nephews endoscopy business, headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts, develops and commercialises a range of endoscopic minimally invasive surgery techniques, educational programmes and value-added services for surgeons to treat and repair soft tissue, articulating joints, spinal discs and vascular structures.
The business focuses principally on the arthroscopy sector of the endoscopy market.
Arthroscopy is the minimallyinvasive surgery of joints, inparticularthe knee, shoulderand hip.
The endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for surgery, including: fluid management and insufflation equipment for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, central control, multimedia broadcasting, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation: radiofrequency wands, electromechanical and mechanical blades, and hand instruments for resecting damaged tissue: and specialised devices, fixation systems and bioabsorbable materials to repair damaged tissue.
The business also designs, markets and provides services to its Digital Operating Room suites, which use computer and internet technology to put surgeons and other medical professionals infull controlof the operating roomenvironment.
Manufacturing facilities are located currently in Andover and Mansfield, Massachusetts and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
It was announced in August 2005 that the Andover manufacturing facility will close by early 2007.
Major service centres are located inthe US, the UK, Germany, Japan and Australia.
Of the global sales force at the end of 2005 of 684, 374 serve the US market.
Strategy Smith & Nephews strategic intent is to establish the business as the leading provider of endoscopic techniques for joint and ligament repair and to use its core capabilities to penetrate other selected endoscopic markets.
Management believes that the business capitalises on the growing acceptance of endoscopy as a preferred , patients and payors.
To sustain growth and enhance its market position, the endoscopy business supports its strategy with surgeon education programmes, financing solutions, global fellowship support initiatives, partnerships with professional associations and surgeonadvisory boards.
New Products In 2005, the 400 Series Camera System, the latest generation of the Groups surgical camera and camera control unit CCU was introduced.
This system automatically and instantaneously optimises settings in the camera head and CCU to provide the best image.
The launch of the DYONICS 25 Fluid Management System, a surgical pump for use during arthroscopy, provides an opportunityto market a pump usingupdated technologyto replace an old productwithinthe access range.
Smith & Nephew continues to expand its mechanical and radio frequency products, within arthroscopic resection, with the recent addition of the INCISOR Plus ELITE shaver blades and the GLIDER Articular Cartilage Probe.
The INCISOR Plus ELITEs design represents the sharpest serrated cutting surface offered in the DYONICS POWER range.
The GLIDER probe is designed to treat articular cartilage disease in weight-bearing joints, and features a pivoting head that emits radio frequency energy as it follows the contoured surface of the joint, restoring smoothness to a damaged cartilage surface while preserving the maximum amount of healthy tissue.
A patent dispute with ArthroCare Inc. was resolved in 2005, enabling the Group to resume selling its DYONICS ELECTROBLADE Resector and SAPHYRE BipolarAblation Probe products.
Recent additions to the Groups repair product line include the GTS System for use in soft-tissue ACL reconstruction in the knee and the BIORAPTOR 2.9 Premium Anchor in the shoulder.
The ACCU-PASS Suture Shuttle, a fully featured instrumentfor use inshoulderrepair, was also launched.
Expanding its line of Spine products, Smith & Nephew introduced the Controlled Disc Stimulation CDS System, which provides a standard platform for discography, a method of diagnosing the source of disc-related back or neckpain.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2005, the endoscopy business obtained regulatory clearances for the following products in most major markets, except Japan where the approval process is more lengthy: CALAXO absorbable osteoconductive 8 interference screw for fixation of an ACL graft: GLIDER Articular Cartilage radiofrequency probe for controlled smoothing of the articular cartilage surface: DYONICS 25 pump next generation arthroscopy fluid management system: CONDOR Controller, for centralised control of medical and audio-visual equipment in the Digital Operating Room: Controlled Disc Stimulation System for automated diagnosis of discogenic pain Discography : and variousother arthroscopyfixation devices.
Competition Management estimates that the global arthroscopy market in which the business principally participates is worth 860 million a year and is growing at 8% annually, driven by increasing numbers of sports injuries, longer and more active lifestyles, patient desire for minimally invasive procedures, innovative technological developments and a need for cost effective procedures.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew has a 29% share of the global arthroscopy market.
Smith & Nephew also participates in the developing minimally invasive spinal and minimally invasive vascular markets and continues to seek ways to leverage its knowledge, experience and core capabilities inother selected endoscopicmarkets.
Smith & Nephews main competitors and their estimated shares of the global arthroscopy market are: Mitek Johnson& Johnson 19%, Arthrex 17%, Linvatec Conmed 12%, Stryker 12% and Arthrocare 6%.
Advanced Wound Management Overview Smith & Nephews advanced wound management business is headquartered inHull, England.
It supplies a range of products and clinical support services for the treatment of chronic and acute skin wounds.
It offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted particularly at chronic wounds connected with the older population, such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers, burns and complex surgicalwounds.
Advanced wound management products are manufactured in facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke, England: Largo, Florida and by certainthird party manufacturers.
The advanced wound management business has continued to build its sales and marketing infrastructure in the worlds major markets.
These initiatives have led to increased levels of demand on the Groups manufacturing and global supply chain, which have been addressed with increased investment in the production capacity in Hull, Gilberdyke and Largo.
Strategy The strategy for the advanced wound management business is to focus on the higher added value segments of woundbed preparation and moist and active healing.
The business has built its sales and marketing infrastructure in the worlds major markets, largely through investment in additional sales teams particularly in the key markets of the US, Japan and Europe.
At the end of 2005 the global sales force is 924 of whom185 are inthe US.
In October 2005, the Group announced its exit from its tissue engineering operations comprising DERMAGRAFT, a human dermal replacement product designed as a treatment for diabetic foot ulcers, and TRANSCYTE, a temporary woundcoveringfor the treatment of burns.
Bothproducts were manufactured at La Jolla, California.
New Products Management believes that the market will continue the trend towards advanced products with their ability to accelerate healing rates, reduce hospital stay times and cut the cost of nursing and cliniciantime and aftercare in the home.
The range of ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressings was extended with the re-launch of improved ALLEVYN Plus.
Management believes that ALLEVYNis the largest selling dressing inits category inthe world.
Sales of ACTICOAT have been augmented by the launchof ACTICOAT Moisture Controlinthe US and Canada, an antimicrobial barrier dressing with foam and waterproof film layers, and the completion of the European launches of ACTICOAT ABSORBENT.
The moisture control product provides an effective barrier to bacterial penetration and is designed to help maintain a moist wound environment in the presence of exudate.
The absorbent product is 9 an  dressing that provides an effective wound barrier.
The ACTICOAT range incorporatesthe smallest crystallised silver nanocrystalline silver used in the treatment of wounds or burns.
The silver reduces the risk of bacterial colonisation and acts to kill micro-organisms that can cause infection and prevent or retard healing.
2005 was the first full year of VERSAJET, a fluid jet debridement system, acquired in 2004.
The product has been launched in thirteen markets worldwide.
A new handpiece was launched in the US during 2005 that enables faster debridement .
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2005, the advanced wound management business secured over 200 medical device and 120 pharmaceutical registration approvals in various markets throughout the world.
Among the most significant approvals were those for ACTICOAT Moisture Control in the US and CADEX IODOSORB powder and ointment in Japan.
VERSAJET gained CE markapproval inEurope.
Competition Management estimates that the sales value of the advanced wound management market worldwide is 2 billion a year, that this grew 10% in 2005, and that Smith & Nephew has a 18% market share.
Growth is driven by an ageing population and by a steady advancement in technology and products that are more clinically efficient and cost effective than their conventional counterparts.
Management believes that, with approximately only half of chronic wounds globally still treated with conventional dressings, there is strong growth potential for advanced technologyproducts.
Worldwide competitors in advanced wound management and their estimated market shares comprise Kinetic Concepts 25%, the Convatec divisionof Bristol-MyersSquibb 11%, Johnson& Johnson 8%, and 3M 8%.
Joint Ventures and Discontinued Operations Joint Ventures and Associated Undertakings Joint ventures are those in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are controlled by the Group and oneother entity undera contractualagreement.
Smith & Nephew previously owned 50% of the BSN Medical joint venture, which became operational on 1 April 2001.
It was jointly owned with Beiersdorf AG and was independently managed.
BSN Medical comprises traditional woundcare, fracture casting and bandaging and compression hosiery businesses.
Headquartered in Hamburg, Germany it has manufacturing facilities in US, UK, Germany, France, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, Mexico, Venezuela and Pakistan.
During 2004 BSN Medical acquired the fracture casting and splinting business of DePuy, Inc. a Johnson & Johnson company and integrated it with its casting and bandaging business.
In certain markets, Smith & Nephews sales forces sell BSN Medicals products on an agency basis in return for an agency commission and in some markets, mainly in Asia, Smith & Nephew distributes BSN Medical products.
Results were accounted for using the equity method up to 1 October 2005, whereby 50% of the profit after taxation was  & Nephews incomestatement as a single lineitem.
Following the Groups announcement in August 2005 to dispose of BSN Medical, Smith & Nephew and Beiersdorf AG announced in December 2005 that they had signed an agreement to sell BSN Medical to Montagu Private Equity for an enterprise value of 1,030m.
The agreement was conditional upon receipt of competition clearances and completion of the transaction was expected in the first quarter of 2006.
The transaction was completed on23 February 2006.
Consequently the results are nowclassified as .
Associated undertakings are those in which the Group has a beneficial interest of 50% or less in the equity capital and where the Group is able to exercise significant influence over commercial and financial policy decisions.
In September 2003, the Group disposed of its 21.5% interest in AbilityOne Corporation AbilityOne to Patterson Dental Inc. From 1 April 2002 to 12 September 2003 this interest was included in the Groups accounts as an associated undertaking and accounted for under the equity method, whereby 21.5% of the profit after taxation was incorporated into Smith & Nephews Income Statement as a single line item.
This is also classified as a .
Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations represent the share of results of the joint venture, BSN Medical, and in 2003 the associated undertaking, AbilityOne.
