25 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued application of its technological expertise and engineering The five-year trend in ROI compared to WACC is shown below: skills are appropriate.
An example is the development of Interconnect products for the medical equipment market.
15 12 Specialty Engineerings outlook is for further growth in the 9 year ahead, helped by the continued upturn in the investment 6 cycles for oil & gas and telecoms infrastructure.
3 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 0 Other financial matters ROI WACC Taxation Retirement benefits The tax charge for the year represented an effective rate The Company applies the full accounting requirements of FRS17.
of 26% on the headline profit before taxation 2004: 26.5%.
Under FRS17, the balance sheet reflects the net surplus deficit The effective tax rate on the headline pre-tax profit has in retirement benefit plans, taking assets at their market values progressively reduced over the last 10 years to 26%.
This is at July 2005, and evaluating liabilities at year-end AA corporate maintained through taking advantage of global tax incentives, bond interest rates.
the tax-efficient use of capital and active tax compliance management.
Tax payments normally lag the tax charge and, The table below gives an analysis of the year-end net liabilities: therefore, boost free cash-flow.
All current and deferred tax 2005 2004 liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice.
Funded plans: UK plans funding status 101% 97% The fundamental tenets of Smiths approach to taxation US plans funding status 74% 81% are to enhance the Companys competitive position on a global basis, whilst engaging with tax authorities around m m the world on a basis of full disclosure, full co-operation and full legal compliance.
Funded plans: deficit 104 128 Smiths seeks to build open relationships with tax authorities to deferred tax 41 44 bring about timely agreement of its tax affairs, and to remove uncertainty on business transactions.
net liability 63 84 Unfunded plans: The Companys taxation strategy is to mitigate the burden of liabilities 131 119 taxation in a responsible manner, and, in this way, to enhance deferred tax 46 41 long-term shareholder value.
net liability 85 78 Cost of capital and return on investment The Company uses its weighted average cost of capital as Total net liabilities 148 162 one measure to appraise both internally-generated investment Contributions to the funded pension plans were 52m in 2005 opportunities and acquisitions.
The funds investments achieved an investment weighted average cost of capital WACC reduced to 7.6% from return of 16% in the year.
However, the UK AA corporate bond 8.3% in 2004, reflecting the increased proportion of lower-cost rate reduced by 0.7% to 5.0%, and this caused the calculated debt finance and the reduction in risk-free interest rates.
present value of the liabilities to increase.
The benefit of the The after-tax headline return on average shareholder strong investment returns was offset by the increase in the investment, including goodwill set-off against reserves calculated value of the liabilities.
FRS17 basis, the funded pension plans in aggregate returned to a position of surplus.
26 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued 01 Smiths Detection, Edgewood, Maryland, US.
02 Smiths Aerospace, Manchester, Connecticut, US.
01 02 Mortality assumptions are reviewed at each actuarial valuation, environment.
The Company uses financial instruments to raise and were updated in 2003 in the UK.
The present assumptions finance for its operations and to manage the related financial are illustrated by the life expectancy of a 65-year-old retiring risks.
There is neither speculation nor trading in derivative in 2013.
Such a retiree is assumed to have a life expectancy of financial instruments and all funding is properly recognised on 19 years for males and 22 years for females.
In the US, mortality the balance sheet.
The Board has approved the treasury policy, assumptions were updated in 2005. which governs the financial risk profile, and a treasury compliance report is presented annually to the Audit Committee.
Full details of the retirement benefits accounted for under FRS17 are shown in note 11.
The key measures used by Smiths to assess compliance with treasury policy are consistent with those used by the credit Exchange rates rating agencies and the financial covenant tests in some of its The results of overseas operations are translated into sterling debt instruments.
The most significant measures are interest at average exchange rates.
The net assets are translated at cover and cash-flow to net debt.
The exchange rates, expressed in terms of the value of sterling, were: The objectives of the treasury function remain the same as in previous years and are explained in further detail below in the 2005 2004 context of current developments.
To deliver the liquidity requirements of the businesses Dollar 1.85 1.75 dollar weakened 6% cost-effectively.
The Company aims to minimise the level of Euro 1.46 1.46 surplus cash balances but, where these arise, tight controls Year-end rates: apply to ensure that they are securely placed with highly rated Dollar 1.76 1.82 dollar strengthened 3% counterparties and are available for redeployment at short Euro 1.45 1.51 euro strengthened 4% notice.
Local working capital needs and capital expenditure requirements are typically funded by local bank facilities.
In Dividend policy addition, Smiths has extensive local and cross-border cash Smiths operates a progressive dividend policy, with the pooling arrangements, and arms length inter-company lending objective of increasing dividends annually when trading results through financial centres, to optimise the global deployment and prospects justify it, and with the long-term objective of the of funds across its businesses in a tax-efficient manner.
dividend being twice covered by headline earnings.
To manage the central funding demands and provide a low Goodwill and intangibles cost of debt.
The Company funding requirements are largely Goodwill on all acquisitions since 1998 is capitalised and driven by acquisition activity and met by centrally arranged amortised over a maximum 20-year period.
The carrying value debt finance.
A 500m 364-day revolving credit facility was of acquisitions is formally reviewed at the first full year-end used to part-fund the acquisition of Medex earlier in the year.
following acquisition, and is also reviewed thereafter where This short-term bank facility acted as a bridge to a new fivecircumstances require it.
The annual amortisation charge year syndicated credit facility of 660m and has a two-year for goodwill and other intangible assets for 2005 was 55m extension at the option of the banks.
Goodwill impairment of 6m was charged in secured a five-year 70m loan from the European Investment 2005 in respect of the acquisition of Fairchild Defense Systems.
Bank to fund investments in technology.
This charge arises as the value of the assets plus the goodwill cannot be supported by the present level of business, nor is The Company holds term debt of circa 900m with average there sufficient assurance as to the future level of business.
maturity of six years and at an average effective interest rate No impairment charges were made in 2004. of 4.5%.
Through the use of interest rate swaps, the Company maintains a broadly even mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Treasury The Company seeks to maintain a spread of maturity profiles Smiths continues to apply centralised treasury management on its debt.
No more than 30% of the Companys net debt will over its financial risks, operating within a strong control
