21 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued New products launched in the year included x-ray machines The analysis of sales by product sector, including Medex on a giving higher resolution images and the new Sentinel II walkfull-year basis, is: through portal.
The Ionscan desktop trace detection range has been extended to offer dual capability simultaneously Safety MDPM detecting microscopic amounts of narcotics and explosives.
A new cargo screening system has been launched detecting radioactive materials hidden in trucks or containers.
Following the launch of a new mobile cargo inspection system Critical Care last year, 20 of these high-value systems were sold in 2005.
Smiths Medicals customers are hospitals and other healthcare Sales of critical infrastructure and emergency responders providers worldwide.
Most territories are serviced through products also made good progress.
Deliveries of anthrax wholly-owned local sales and distribution companies.
The US detection systems for the US Post Office have continued, is the most important market, followed by Europe and Japan.
and the SensIR products acquired in June 2004 are now being sold worldwide.
A new portable unit which can identify any of Manufacturing is concentrated in the US, the UK, Mexico 5,500 gases present at the scene of an incident was launched, and Italy.
less than a year after the concept was first demonstrated.
The two-year restructuring programme announced in 2004 Business developments continued in 2005.
The programme involved the consolidation Medex Inc. was acquired in March 2005. of facilities.
Medex is a leading supplier of infusion equipment used in The cost of these actions in 2005 was fully provided for within critical care, specialising in intravenous infusion catheters which the 3m exceptional charge in 2004. prevent needlestick injuries.
Its products are complementary Forward-looking issues to the Smiths Medical range, selling to the same customer Smiths strategy is to build a global business meeting customers base in hospitals and other healthcare locations.
needs to detect biological and chemical agents, weapons, Medex was formed through a management buyout by its contraband and explosives.
current management team in February 2001 from Saint To fulfil this strategy Smiths aims to develop technology internally, Gobain Performance Plastics Corp.
It subsequently acquired and to make acquisitions both of technology start-ups and Inhalation Plastics, Inc. in May 2002 and the vascular access more established businesses.
business of Ethicon Endo-Surgery Jelco from Johnson & Johnson in May 2003.
Trading performance in a particular period will depend on the contracts secured, which can be large and irregular.
Tendering Medex employs some 2,000 people, including 1,100 in the US.
activity is at a high level, giving good confidence of growth in 2006.
The US operations are located in Ohio, Illinois, Connecticut and Georgia, with additional plants in Mexico, Germany, Italy and Medical the UK.
Overview Two-thirds of Medexs sales are of intravenous catheters.
Smiths Medical is a supplier of specialist medical devices to The range incorporates devices which help prevent accidental global markets.
injuries caused by sharps which remain exposed after use.
These Medex products sell to many of the same customers as Smiths Medical comprises three product groupings: Safety the range of Smiths Needle-Pro needle protection devices.
Devices, Critical Care and Medication Delivery & Patient Monitoring MDPM.
22 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued 01 Interconnect supplies devices to protect base stations from power surges and lightning strikes.
02 The John Crane Type 8600 high duty seal.
03 Flex-Tek has developed a new line of vacuum cleaner hoses for domestic central vacuum systems.
01 02 03 The Medex intravenous catheters and the Smiths needle of the market to safety for needles and 90% conversion for protection devices together comprise the Smiths Safety Devices peripheral intravenous IV catheters.
In other markets, the product grouping, with a dedicated sales force in the US and a conversion to safety products is in its infancy, with minimal global distribution network.
The new Critical Care product grouping comprises the balance The market for other core products in the US is generally of the Medex product offering, plus the product range of Smiths growing in the range 2% to 7% per annum, with anaesthesia former Anaesthesia Systems division excluding safety products.
respiratory care market growth at the lower end of this range.
In Europe, market growth is generally similar to the US.
Through this transaction, Smiths expects to generate significant Elsewhere, growth rates are variable.
In Japan, government additional sales of both Smiths Medical and Medex products.
practices on the reimbursement of medical costs cause The Medex products will increase Smiths presence at a number volume increases to be offset by price reductions.
of important customer call points, especially infection control departments, intensive care units and respiratory departments.
Developing country markets are growing at varying rates, Geographically, two-thirds of Medexs sales are made in North generally in the 4% to 7% range.
Developing countries America and, while it has already successfully established a account for only 9% of global spending on medical devices, presence in Europe, there is considerable opportunity to take thus growth in these markets is not at present a major its products more widely into world markets through Smiths contributor to overall market growth.
Performance 2005 2004 The business of Sevit, engaged in the distribution of Smiths m m Increase products in Italy, was acquired in July 2005 for 3m.
Smiths Sales 563 488 16% agreed the disposal of pvb Critical Care GmbH in Germany Headline operating profit 108 92 18% for 7m.
It had sales of 11m in 2005 and net assets of 3m.
Sales rose 16% benefiting from the four-month contribution Smiths has entered into a cross-licensing agreement with from Medex.
The translation of the results of US businesses Medtronic MiniMed Inc. and previously pending litigation at the lower dollar exchange rate, and the effect of exchange between the companies relating to the Deltec Cozmo insulin on other non-UK businesses, reduced sales by 3%.
Excluding pump has been terminated.
Under the terms of the agreement, both current-year acquisitions and the exchange translation Smiths will make an initial payment to Medtronic and will pay effect, sales rose 4%.
a royalty on future sales of the current model.
The 15m cost of the settlement has been treated as an exceptional charge.
Underlying business growth varied by sector.
Safety products exhibited stronger growth.
Within MDPM, the diabetes pumps Markets grew strongly.
Within Critical Care, the sales of third-party Smiths product ranges serve markets growing at varying rates.
products contracted as the process of withdrawing from such The two main contributors to overall market growth are the products in Japan continued.
ageing of populations and increasing spending on healthcare.
Several new products were launched during the year.
The range The US market for insulin pumps is growing at 20% pa, with of Saf-T Wing blood collection set products was expanded and an increasing population of diabetes sufferers and a growing TM the Needlepro EDGE needle protection device was launched, preference for the use of pumps.
In Europe, the growth varies with a unique colour coding system clearly identifying the needle from 3% to 10% per annum.
The Omnifuse PCA was launched a The market for safety needles and catheters has enjoyed syringe pump featuring software to reduce medication errors.
significant growth in the US, driven by the progressive conversion The Tracer III peripheral nerve block system was launched, of the market from traditional products.
In the US, 2005 market providing anaesthetists with a targeted approach to pain growth is estimated at 5%, reflecting the present 60% conversion
