19 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued 01 The Sentinel II walk-through portal detects explosives and drugs at airports, customs and major buildings.
02 The mobile cargo inspection system, HCV2, can inspect 25 trucks per hour.
01 02 The recent three years of high investment has given Smiths Detection prospects for an increased share of the systems to be supplied Overview in future years.
Smiths Detection designs and manufactures equipment to In the commercial business, these prospects are supported detect and to identify explosives, weapons, contraband and by firm business on the A380 and the Boeing 787, and dangerous substances.
on key engine programmes, notably the CFM56 for narrow Its products are sold in 160 countries and are now installed bodies and the CF34 for regional jets.
The value of Smiths in 3,500 of the worlds airports.
It has an unrivalled range of products on these aircraft is much higher than that on older technologies, including trace detection, x-ray, millimetre wave, generation aircraft.
infra-red and biological agent analysis.
Customers are mainly On the military side, Smiths has high content on the government and public service operators, including homeland platforms with prospects of significant sales over the years security, customs and immigration authorities, emergency ahead.
Unlike the commercial business, Smiths military sales responders and military forces.
Initially event-driven, purchase are less concentrated in a few key platforms.
This in part is decisions now involve careful threat assessment and redue to update programmes of older aircraft, which form an equipment with new advanced technologies that are more important part of the military business.
equipment programmes of importance to Smiths are the Manufacturing is concentrated in North America, Germany, F-18, F-35 and Eurofighter Typhoon.
Update programmes France and the UK, with marketing worldwide.
Investment in new equipment and facilities to support growth has been made, particularly in the engine components business, Business developments where growth opportunities are enhanced by out-sourcing by Farran Technology was acquired in February 2005 for 15m, engine manufacturers.
plus a further potential deferred performance payment.
The investment in key future programmes and action to ensure Farran designs and produces sensors which enable the natural an appropriate cost base are key elements in securing a strong emission of millimetre waves to be used to create an image future for Smiths Aerospace.
to detect a variety of hidden threats.
The division should perform well in the year ahead.
In the Farrans people-screening portal employing millimetre wave longer term, recent successful selection on new commercial technology is at an advanced stage of testing, with prototype and military programmes will ensure long-term growth.
Other developments The millimetre wave technology potentially complements Smiths Aerospace will be affected by the International x-ray and trace detection technologies which are already Financial Reporting Standards IFRS to be introduced in widely deployed in airports and in other high-traffic premises.
2006 more than other Smiths divisions.
This arises from the ETI Technology was acquired in July 2005 for 3m, plus a different accounting treatment for the cost of development further potential deferred performance payment.
work where there is reasonably assured future value.
Under IFRS, the cost of development work where this condition ETI has developed optical sensors that perform initial screening is satisfied will be capitalised and then expensed in future of biological agents.
The technology has applications in military, periods as the production takes place thus aligning the emergency response and critical infrastructure markets.
20 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued 01 Firefighters use Smiths Detection's APD2000 after an incident to check clothing for dangerous chemicals during decontamination.
02 CozMore, the insulin technology system, offers diabetes sufferers better blood glucose control, eliminating daily multiple injections.
03 Tracer III peripheral nerve block system provides anaesthetists with a targeted approach to pain management.
01 02 03 Post the year-end, Smiths Heimann Biometrics SHB was at the lower dollar exchange rate and the effect of exchange merged with Cross Match Technologies Inc. in return for a on other non-UK businesses reduced sales by 2%.
Excluding shareholding of approximately 40% in the enlarged group.
SHB both current-year acquisitions and the effect of exchange and Cross Match supply complementary products and services translation, sales rose 17%.
that enable the reading, storage and recognition of biometric Military sales grew by a third, with the US Automatic Chemical data.
SHBs sales in 2005 were 13m and net assets were 7m.
Agent Detector Alarm ACADA contract the largest element.
Smiths investment will be accounted for on an equity basis.
Within the other sectors, sales to the Asia Pacific region grew Markets by 30%, albeit from a small base, and now comprise 10% of Smiths products serve the transportation, critical infrastructure, total sales.
ports and borders, military and emergency responder markets.
Headline operating profit rose by 20%, with the profit margin Within transportation, the airport market experienced a major increasing slightly to 18%.
The translation of the US earnings re-equipment phase in 2002 and 2003.
Market demand has at the lower dollar exchange rate and the effect of exchange since reduced to a more sustainable level.
Looking ahead, as on other non-UK businesses reduced profit by 1%.
technology develops, a further re-equipment phase is likely.
Excluding both current-year acquisitions and the effect of The critical infrastructure market comprises projects undertaken exchange translation, headline operating profit rose 21%.
by governments and other agencies.
Individual contracts can be large, giving volatility year-by-year in the overall market size.
The profit increase reflects principally the volume increase, and the effect of business mix.
The ports and borders market is experiencing growth caused by both security considerations and the need to R&D expenditure was 24m, an increase of 3m.
Technology reduce shipments of contraband and hence duty avoidance.
enhancement remains a high priority for Smiths Detection.
Company-funded R&D was equivalent to 7% of sales in the The military market accessible to UK and US technology is year and government funding added a further 2%.
Among 400 restricted by export controls, thus the two domestic governments engineers are 100 scientists identifying the most appropriate form a large part of the market.
This market, too, is influenced technologies for still-emerging threats.
by significant contracts that are large in relation to the total market, although typically such contracts run for several years.
Smiths has also invested in a US venture capital fund which will give the Company an early view of potentially attractive The emergency responder market is smaller than the other innovation.
markets, and is characterised by more localised purchasing decisions and steadier growth.
Several important contracts were secured during the year.
The markets served by Smiths Detection are particularly The US Department of Defense ordered more than 5,200 influenced by specific events and the perception of the threat ACADA systems.
The UK Ministry of Defence accepted into of terrorist activity or other security issues this perception service the Lightweight Chemical Detector, triggering a itself has been and is likely to remain volatile.
Other chemical agent detector orders included those from the Dutch, Japanese and Indian Performance governments.
2005 2004 m m Increase Following trials by the US Transportation Security Administration, Sales 367 317 16% an initial contract for 25 Sentinel II personnel screening systems Headline operating profit 67 56 20% was supplied.
Sales rose 16% with current-year acquisitions contributing Airport security systems orders included Germany, Korea, less than 1%.
The translation of the results of US businesses Australia, Bangladesh, Algeria and London Luton.
