7 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Our strengths Smiths has six fundamental strengths 8 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Our strengths continued Operating in sectors with high growth We operate in sectors with strong growth profiles.
Air travel is increasingly popular and Smiths technology is helping create a new generation of passenger aircraft: an ageing population in the developed world means that healthcare is a priority and Smiths helps to meet rising expectations: security and safety at airports, borders and other public locations have moved higher up everyones agenda and Smiths helps meet these concerns: wireless communications networks are expanding rapidly and Smiths components are helping build the necessary infrastructure: oil and gas markets are booming and Smiths products help bring hydrocarbons safely to market.
Airline passenger numbers are expected to double in the next 20 years.
As a first-tier supplier to both Airbus and Boeing on the next generation of commercial aircraft, Smiths is well positioned to take advantage of this growth.
9 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Our strengths continued Delivering constant improvement Sales growth is achieved through sustaining world-class competitiveness and paying close attention to operating efficiency.
Ever-improving productivity is itself a strong engine of growth.
Smiths has a long-standing culture of financial discipline and constantly finding ways to drive down costs is one of our core competencies.
Establishing the right cost base and delivering products that evolve to meet our customers needs is how we will realise our full potential.
Healthcare professionals constantly seek more efficient solutions and Smiths is developing and fine-tuning devices such as TM this Medfusion 3500 Syringe Pump so that clinicians can better treat their patients.
10 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Our strengths continued Reaching deep into global markets Smiths is a global business.
This experience helps us choose the best way to serve our customers, whether they are local, national or international enterprises.
With significant presence in more than 40 countries, each Smiths business has the global reach appropriate to its market.
We manufacture goods in both highly industrialised countries and increasingly in lower cost countries ensuring the highest benefits for ourselves and our customers.
John Crane operates in more than 40 countries and its high performance seals, such as this Type 28 dry running gas seal, protect tens of thousands of miles of pipeline and the majority of the worlds oil refineries, as well as many hundreds of facilities in the oil and gas, petrochemical, power and pulp and paper industries.
11 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Our strengths continued Developing technology to help customers succeed We grow by developing technology in our chosen sectors to help our customers achieve their goals.
This year we invested a total of 295m in R&D, 10% of sales, including 152m funded by our customers.
Our strength lies not just in the development of new ideas but also in the application of technologies to address new market opportunities and meet expanding customer requirements.
Technology to help our customers develop tomorrows aircraft.
Using innovative technology we are helping meet the challenges in developing Northrup-Grummans X-47B joint unmanned combat air system J-UCAS.
After the projects partners, Smiths is the largest supplier with 10 major systems subsystems on board, each offering focused benefits for our customer.
For example, our landing gear technology enables the aircraft to operate from US Navy carriers at sea, enduring the rigours of catapult take-offs and arrested landings.
12 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Our strengths continued Improving our business mix We have a track record of acquiring businesses that help us to grow, while selling those that are worth more to others than to Smiths.
Acquisitions make a strong contribution to growth and are an additional source of new technology alongside R&D.
Smiths has a proven competence in identifying, acquiring and effectively integrating high performance technology companies.
Each acquisition fulfils at least one of four criteria: giving access to important new technology: extending a product range: expanding geographical reach: or establishing a significant presence in an adjacent market.
Heimann CargoVision x-ray inspection systems allow customs and other authorities to see inside containers of cargo, helping stem the flow of contraband and smuggling.
The acquisition by Smiths of Heimann Systems GmbH in December 2002 doubled the size of our detection business and assisted it to grow into the leader in its field.
13 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Our strengths continued Doing business the right way Across Smiths we aim to deploy technology in ways that advance our customers capabilities and provide them with economic advantages.
We do this while upholding the highest ethical standards.
Our people have the experience and skills to ensure that we achieve these objectives.
To support this, the Smiths Group Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics sets out a clear ethical framework for all employees.
This has been widely communicated across Smiths, clearly setting out the standards which all employees must uphold.
Protecting individuals from needlestick injuries is a major concern of healthcare workers, governments, health insurance providers and manufacturers, and the Medex PROTECTIV I. V. catheter is just one example of how Smiths Medical helps keep people safe.
As the needle shown is withdrawn after use, it is automatically rendered blunt and therefore harmless.
At Smiths, placing a high value on the health and safety of our employees is just one important part of our ethical code.
