27 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued be held on borrowings due within one year without firm Financial controls plans for refinancing or repayment.
While the Companys decentralised organisation delegates day-to-day control to local management, Smiths has The credit ratings of the Company remain at AA3 comprehensive control systems in place, with regular neg with Standard & Poors and Moodys, respectively, reporting to the Board.
reflecting the Companys strong financial profile and stable business outlook.
The Company has continuous formalised business risk management processes operating at each business unit.
To develop and maintain strong and stable banking relationships and services.
Smiths has a core and stable The internal audit department reviews all units over a rolling group of 11 leading global banks and financial institutions three-year cycle, and its findings are reported to the Audit who competitively tender for treasury business.
All acquisitions are reviewed within 12 months of exposures to any one bank are carefully controlled.
All acquisition, to verify compliance with the Companys procedures.
business is transacted with banks on consistent terms Further information regarding the Companys procedures and fairly allocated.
to maintain strict controls over all aspects of risk, including 4.
To provide reasonable protection from the effect of foreign financial risk, are set out in the Corporate Governance Report currency volatility.
Material cross-border sale or purchase pages 45 and 46. contracts, or forecast commitments, are hedged at inception by appropriate derivative financial instruments, principally Legal issues forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps, with the Smiths is committed to operating within the law in all applicable Companys core banks as counterparties.
It seeks to benefit from the rights and protections of foreign currency movements cannot be eliminated, this afforded by relevant laws.
It aims to anticipate and meet the hedging programme reduces volatility and protects cash-flow changing requirements of the markets it serves as legal and and margins.
Smiths largely manufactures in countries where regulatory reform impacts those markets.
the currency is linked to the currency of its sales revenue.
The Company faces legal issues of different types in different The Company protects its reserves from foreign currency jurisdictions.
Its high level of activity in the US, for example, fluctuations by ensuring that at least 75% of the total net exposes the Company to the likelihood of various types of overseas operational assets are offset, either by borrowings litigation that are commonplace in that country, such as in the respective currency or by currency swaps.
mass tort and class action litigation, proceedings threatened Smiths overseas earnings are translated at average currency and sometimes begun as an aid to negotiated settlement rates for the year, which smoothes the effect of currency of disputes, and legal challenges to the scope and validity volatility.
However, Smiths is increasingly exposed to the of patents.
In addition, contracting with the US Government US dollar due to its significant North American presence.
subjects a company to numerous stringent regulatory obligations, calling for an active programme of compliance, reporting and Smiths strategy is to continue to take a risk averse approach communication.
By contrast, the Companys activities in some in managing and controlling its financial risks, be it hedging countries with less well developed legal systems pose challenges currency and interest rate risk, maintenance of liquidity or for the protection of corporate assets such as real estate and management of refinancing risk.
There are no immediate intellectual property rights.
plans to refinance any borrowings in the coming year, but the borrowing profile will be subject to regular review.
In order to address the challenges and exploit the opportunities arising from these and other legal issues, the Company employs Smiths will adopt the new international accounting standards, suitably experienced lawyers in its head office and certain of relating to the disclosure, recognition and measurement of its operations, and retains the services of law firms around financial instruments with effect from 1 August 2005. the world.
