23 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued management.
The Equator convective warming device was Forward-looking issues launched, incorporating devices to detect the presence of air Smiths strategy is to build a global medical device business in the blood, or crystalloid in the IV line.
concentrating on three product sectors Safety Products, Critical Care and Medication Delivery & Patient Monitoring.
During the year, various manufacturing processes were upgraded, The Critical Care product line embraces anaesthesia and to increase capacity and to make further improvements in other lines, for both hospital and other markets.
The supply of some products was reduced during the transition, leading to a modest loss of sales and some The Medex acquisition materially enhances the first two of these duplication of inventory.
In addition to cost synergies, both Safety Products and Critical Care are expected to make incremental sales gains.
Headline operating profit rose by 18%, with the profit margin In the main, these incremental sales derive from the market increasing 0.4% to 19.2%.
access of a large salesforce both in the US and globally.
The translation of the US earnings at the lower dollar exchange The back-office facilities of Medex and Smiths Medical will rate and the effect of exchange on other non-UK businesses be progressively integrated, to improve customer service and reduced profit by 4%.
Excluding both current-year acquisitions and the effect Looking ahead, manufacturing will be rationalised and of exchange translation, profit increased by 3%.
Increased opportunities taken to establish more assembly in low-cost investment in diabetes pump marketing, IT and regulatory locations.
When fully implemented, the savings are expected to functions, plus higher than normal airfreight costs, balanced be up to 25m per annum.
Smiths recorded 10m in 2005 in the benefit of restructuring savings.
exceptional charges related to integrating this acquisition, and Within the overall figures, the Deltec Cozmo insulin plans to spend up to a further 40m to complete the task.
By pump product line has a contribution similar to that of a 2008, the incremental sales growth and margin improvement in start-up venture.
Sales are increasing rapidly, but investment Smiths Medical is expected to enable the Company to achieve in sales and other infrastructure is increasing more rapidly a rate of return on this investment which is well above the in anticipation of further growth ahead.
Cozmo has achieved Companys cost of capital.
considerable success, with almost 18,000 units sold to date, nearly all in the US.
It has clear competitive advantages, including Specialty Engineering user-friendly software and a built-in blood sugar monitor.
Overview The other principal area of higher expenditure was regulatory The Specialty Engineering division comprises four businesses: assurance necessitated by increasing regulatory requirements John Crane provides mechanical rotating seals used in and by new product launches.
Regulatory expenditure in process plants.
numerous territories is generally a feature of the introduction of new medical devices.
Interconnect supplies components and sub-systems for connecting, protecting and controlling critical electronic R&D expenditure increased to 18m from 16m last year.
The integration of the sales and marketing functions of Medex Flex-Tek provides ducting and hosing for a wide range of was completed in 2005, and the integration of other functions applications, mainly for heating & ventilation and domestic is in process.
Restructuring costs totalling 17m have been equipment.
charged as an exceptional item 10m relating to Medex.
The expected reduction in the cost base is 8m in a full year when Marine Systems is a smaller activity and supplies marine the benefits are fully realised.
The exceptional charge of 32m electronics and charts.
comprises the 17m restructuring and 15m relating to the Medtronic settlement.
24 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued 01 Smiths Aerospace, Cheltenham, UK.
Smiths people 02 Smiths Detection, Edgewood, Maryland, US.
around the world 01 02 John Crane is a global business.
Interconnect manufactures Although each market is different, the demand for Specialty in the US, the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Costa Rica and Engineerings products generally rose in 2005.
Flex-Tek manufactures mainly in the US and also the Performance UK, France, Malaysia and Mexico.
2005 2004 m m Increase Smiths Specialty Engineering employs 10,600 people.
Sales 929 868 7% Business developments Headline operating profit 127 113 12% Tianjin Timing Seals in China was purchased in December 2004 Sales rose 7% with current-year acquisitions contributing for 3m, giving John Crane increased market penetration.
The translation of the results of US businesses Seals was purchased in March 2005 for 6m.
at the lower dollar exchange rate and the effect of exchange Hi-Tech Hose Inc was purchased in July for 9m, expanding rates on other non-UK businesses, reduced sales by 3%.
Flex-Teks industrial hose product line.
Excluding both current-year acquisitions and the effect of exchange translation, sales rose 9%.
Smiths has taken full control of ChartCo, which delivers navigational information to ships via satellite.
It was formerly Each of the four businesses grew, with Interconnect growing part-owned by Fugro.
After the year-end Smiths agreed to purchase the 34% minority Specialty Engineerings headline operating profit rose by 12%, in John Crane Tianjin for 1.5m, Farnam Custom Products for with the profit margin increasing by 1% to 14%.
The translation 3m and Millitech Inc. for 19m.
of the US results at the lower dollar exchange rate, and the effect of exchange translation on other non-UK businesses Markets reduced the divisions profit by 3%.
The principal businesses within Specialty Engineering John Crane, Interconnect and Flex-Tek each address varied markets.
Excluding both current-year acquisitions and the effect of exchange translation, headline operating profit rose 14%.
John Cranes largest markets are the oil and gas sector, the petrochemical and other process industries.
Maintenance and The profit increase reflects principally the volume increase, support form a large part of total demand, with new projects and the favourable effect of business mix.
providing an income stream many years after equipment R&D expenditure was 18m.
Important contracts secured in the year include major Interconnects largest markets are aerospace, defence and projects for John Crane in Abu Dhabi, Lanzhou China and wireless telecommunications.
Within aerospace and defence Bahrain, while Interconnect was awarded a contract for Interconnects products include antenna systems, connectors, interface connectors for Eurofighter Typhoon tranche II.
cable assemblies and frequency sources.
During the year, John Crane introduced a new range of In the wireless telecommunications sector, Interconnect heavy-duty wet seals and Interconnect introduced new active supplies devices to protect base stations from power antenna systems, silicon dioxide cables, varied connectors and surges, as well as coaxial cables and electronic components.
Flex-Tek developed a new line of vacuum Following a period of low demand in 2002 and 2003, this cleaner hoses for the domestic central vacuum systems, and market sector enjoyed significant growth in 2005, buoyed secured additional contracts for stowable hoses.
by the build-out of 3G networks.
Forward-looking issues Flex-Tek serves mainly the domestic appliance manufacturers Smiths strategy is to grow each of the principal Specialty and the US construction industry.
Demand is normally a Engineering businesses.
In pursuit of this strategy, Smiths function of overall economic growth.
aims to broaden the customer or market base where the
