40 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Directors report Directors report Principal activities On 24 November 2004 the Company acquired the issued share capital The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are the of Integrated Aerospace, Inc. for a cash consideration of US$110m.
development, manufacture, sale and support of: On 2 December 2004 the Company acquired the issued share capital aerospace systems, including integrated electronic and mechanical of Tianjin Timing Seals Co. Ltd for a cash consideration of 2.5m.
systems and precision components, for commercial and military On 15 February 2005 the Company acquired the issued share capital aircraft: of Farran Technology Limited for a cash consideration of 119m plus advanced security equipment, using trace detection and x-ray deferred performance-related consideration of up to a maximum of 15m.
imaging to detect and identify explosives, chemical and biological On 16 March 2005 the Company acquired the business and assets agents, weapons and contraband: of US Seals, Inc. for a cash consideration of US$11.8m.
medical devices aligned to specific therapies, principally airway, On 21 March 2005 the Company acquired the issued share capital pain and temperature management, infusion, needle protection, of MedVest Holdings Corp. for a cash consideration of US$655m.
critical care monitoring and vascular access: On 31 March 2005 the Company acquired all the issued B ordinary mechanical seals used in industries ranging from petrochemical shares in ChartCo Limited for a cash consideration of 0.5m.
processing to aerospace: interconnect products to connect and protect safety-critical electrical and electronic equipment: marine On 31 May 2005 the Company acquired the issued share capital of Gryphon Management Group Pty Limited for a cash consideration navigation: ducting and hose assemblies.
The main manufacturing operations are in the UK, the Americas and Continental Europe.
A review of the development of the Company On 27 June 2005 the Company acquired the issued share capital of Hi-Tech Holdings, Inc. for a cash consideration of 9m.
and its subsidiary undertakings during the 2004 05 financial year is provided in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 15 to 37.
On 30 June 2005 the Company acquired the issued share capital of Results and dividends ETI Technology, Inc. for a cash consideration of US$4m plus deferred performance-related consideration of up to a maximum of US$4.5m.
The results for the year to 31 July 2005 are set out in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account on page 59.
Sales for the year amounted Also on 30 June 2005 the Company acquired the business and assets to 3,017m, against 2,733m last year.
The profit for the year after of Sevit SpA for a cash consideration of 3.5m.
Note: The 2005 financial Post balance sheet events statements have been compiled in accordance with UK Generally On 1 August 2005 the Company transferred the issued share capital Accepted Accounting Principles.
As the 2006 financial statements of Smiths Heimann Biometrics GmbH to Cross Match Technologies, will comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, Inc. in exchange for approximately 40% of the issued share capital the 2005 financial statements will be restated under IFRS for future of Cross Match Technologies, Inc. comparison purposes.
Also on 1 August 2005 the Company acquired the business and assets An interim dividend of 9.25p per ordinary share of 25p was paid on of Farnam Custom Products, Inc. for 3.5m.
The directors recommend for payment on 18 November 2005 a final cash dividend on each ordinary share of 19.75p, making On 8 August 2005 the Company sold the issued share capital of a total dividend of 29p for the year.
EBTEC Corporation for a cash consideration of US$3.2m.
The retained profit of 57.5m was transferred to Reserves.
On 9 September 2005 the Company agreed the disposal of pvb Critical Care GmbH for 7m.
Research and development 295m was spent on research and development during the year, On 22 September 2005 the Company announced the acquisition of of which 143m was funded by the Company and the balance by the 34% minority shareholding of John Crane Tianjin for 1.5m and customers.
Each business carries out research and development of Millitech Inc. for 19m.
programmes to suit its own particular market and product needs.
Future developments Interchange of technology and technical information between Smiths The Company will pursue its existing international activities and manufacturing businesses is centrally co-ordinated.
continue to seek business opportunities in both the UK and overseas.
Changes in the Company and its interests during the year Charitable and political donations On 30 September 2004 the Company acquired the minority During the year the Company made donations of 635,000 for shareholders interests in the share capitals of Dionar sp zo.
o charitable purposes including payments totalling 300,000 for the and Dionar Tools sp zo.
Portex Chair of Paediatric Anaesthesia and 8,000 to charities with 41 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Directors report continued selected medical objectives.
Other donations were made by the and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the current Companys businesses worldwide to miscellaneous charities.
directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur No political donations were made.
or have incurred to third parties in the course of their professional duties.
Directors Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had an The directors at the end of the financial year are shown on page 39. interest in any contract to which the Company or its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
On 21 September 2004 Mr K Orrell-Jones retired from the Board and Mr D H Brydon succeeded him as Chairman.
On the same Interests in shares day, Mr D J Challen was appointed as a non-executive director.
As at 21 September 2005 the Company had been notified, pursuant On 16 November 2004 Sir Colin Chandler retired as a non-executive to the Companies Act 1985, of the following material or notifiable director: on 20 January 2005 Mr E Lindh retired as an executive director: interests in its issued share capital: Percentage and on 6 July 2005 Mr L H N Kinet retired as an executive director.
of shares share capital The Company has announced that Mr A M Thomson will retire as planned at age 60 in September 2006 and will be succeeded Barclays PLC 22.6m 4.0% at that time by Mr J Langston, currently Group Managing Director, Franklin Resources, Inc. 60.3m 10.7% Specialty Engineering.
Legal & General Group plc 20.7m 3.7% Janus Capital Management LLC 22.2m 3.9% Reappointment of director FMR Corp Fidelity International Limited 39.7m 7.0% Mr R W OLeary, who has been a member of the Board for more than eight years, has served more than 30 months since his previous percentage of share capital in issue on 21 September 2005 reappointment and will retire at the Annual General Meeting, in The Company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in its accordance with Article 57, and, being eligible, is willing to be own shares.
The interests of the directors, their families and any connected persons The Board has reviewed his effectiveness and concludes that his in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on page 51. continued commitment as a member of the Board and the Audit and Remuneration Committees and his wide-ranging experience, Corporate Governance particularly in the United States, are of great benefit to the Company.
The report on Corporate Governance is on pages 44 to 47.
The Board acknowledges that length of service can affect directors  LLP have reviewed the Companys independence but believes that Mr OLeary retains his independence statements as to compliance with the July 2003 issue of the and recommends to shareholders that he should be reappointed as Combined Code, to the extent required by the UK Listing Authority a non-executive director.
The results of their review are set out on page 58.
The Combined Code provides that non-executive directors who have Going concern served more than nine years should be subject to annual reappointment.
The Boards review of the accounts, budgets and forward plans, Although Mr OLeary has not yet served nine years, the Board intends together with the internal control system, leads the directors to to comply with this provision and, accordingly, Mr OLeary seeks believe that the Company has ample resources to continue in reappointment until the conclusion of the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
operation for the foreseeable future.
The accounts are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Directors Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 48 to 56.
An ordinary Policy on payment of creditors resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the The Companys policy and practice is to pay creditors promptly in Annual General Meeting.
accordance with agreed terms of business.
The average time taken to pay an invoice was 35 days 2004: 35 for the parent Company and Directors interests in contracts 48 days 2004: 49 for the Group as a whole calculated in compliance Details of the executive directors service contracts are as disclosed in with the Companies Act 1985 Directors Report Statement of the Service Contracts section of the Directors Remuneration Report Payment Practice Regulations 1997. on pages 51 and 52.
Details of the interests of the executive directors in the Companys share option schemes and plans are shown in the Environment Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 56.
The Company seeks to minimise, as far as is reasonably practicable, any detrimental effects to the environment of its operations and Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 309B products.
A senior corporate staff director has responsibility for safety, of the Companies Act 1985 were put into force during the course of the health and environmental matters.
The Corporate Responsibility review financial year ended 31 July 2005 for the benefit of the then directors appears in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 32 to 37.
42 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Directors report continued Employment policies for any other purpose including the sale on a non pre-emptive It is the Company's policy to provide equal opportunities for employment.
basis of any shares the Company may hold in treasury for cash The Company continues to be actively involved in all aspects of the provided that the aggregate nominal value of such allotments does training and development of young persons, including initiatives not exceed 7,051,555 approximately 5% of the issued share capital designed to ease the transition from school to work.
Disabled people on 21 September 2005. are given full consideration for employment and subsequent training, The directors intend seeking renewal of these authorities annually.
career development and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes The directors have no present intention of exercising these authorities, and abilities.
except for allotments of shares pursuant to the Companys share option Share schemes enable employees to acquire an interest in the schemes, and would not seek to issue more than 7.5% of the issued Companys shares and to align their interests more closely with share capital in the Company in any rolling three-year period without those of the shareholders.
prior consultation with the Investment Committees of the Association Employees are regularly provided with a wide range of information of British Insurers and National Association of Pension Funds.
concerning the performance and prospects of the business in which During the year ended 31 July 2005 the following ordinary shares they are involved by means of Employee Councils: Information and in Smiths Group plc were issued: Consultation forums: and other consultative bodies that allow the 1,613,883 shares pursuant to the terms of the Companys views of personnel to be taken into account.
shareholder-approved share option schemes: and All matters concerning the environment, health and safety continue to be regulated by preventative, investigatory and consultative systems, 580,573 shares pursuant to the terms of TI Group share option schemes.
overseen by the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee: issues relevant to the Company pension scheme are likewise covered Authority to purchase shares by means of structured committees, including representation from At the Annual General Meeting the Company will seek to renew the recognised trade unions.
A more detailed statement appears in the authority, granted at the last Annual General Meeting to the directors, Operating and Financial Review on pages 32 to 37. to purchase the Companys shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to 10% of the share capital in issue on 21 September 2005 Authority to issue shares At the Annual General Meeting shareholders will be asked to and will be renewed annually.
The maximum price that may be paid under the authority will be limited to 105% of the average of the renew the authority, given to the directors at the last Annual General Meeting, to allot relevant securities for the purposes of section 80 middle market quotations of the Company's shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business of the Companies Act 1985, so as to reflect the increase in the Companys issued share capital since the last Annual General days prior to any purchase.
On 21 September 2005 options over approximately 22m shares were outstanding under the Companys Meeting.
In compliance with recently published guidelines and market practice, the authority proposed will expire at the conclusion share option schemes, representing approximately 4% of the then issued share capital.
If the existing authority to purchase shares and of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on 14 February 2007.
The amount of relevant securities to which this the new authority being sought at the Annual General Meeting were to be used in full, then the outstanding options would represent authority relates 47,010,371 nominal of share capital represents one third of the share capital in issue on 21 September 2005.
The approximately 5% of the reduced issued share capital.
ordinary resolution is set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Under the Companies Act 1985, any shares purchased under this authority may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Treasury Also in the Notice is the special resolution to renew the power granted to directors under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985. shares may be subsequently sold or used to satisfy applications under share schemes.
The new authority sought will be on substantially similar terms to those attaching to the existing authority and, in compliance with No shares have ever been purchased or contracted for or are the current practice, will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual subject of any option under the expiring or any prior authority.
General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on 14 February 2007.
The directors will exercise the authority only if they are satisfied that It will permit the directors to allot equity securities for cash: any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the ordinary in connection with a rights issue pro rata to the rights of the share capital in issue and will be in the interests of the shareholders.
existing shareholders: The directors will also give careful consideration to the gearing levels pursuant to the terms of any share scheme approved by the of the Company and its general financial position.
If the directors exercise this authority, they may consider holding shares in treasury shareholders in General Meeting: rather than cancelling them.
The directors will, however, have regard 43 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Directors report continued to any guidelines issued by investor groups which may be published at onscreen instructions will give details on how to complete the the time of any such purchase regarding the merits of the cancellation appointment and voting process.
Crest members, Crest personal of such shares as against holding them as treasury shares.
members and other Crest sponsored members should consult the Crest Manual or their sponsor or voting service provider for Annual General Meeting instructions on electronic proxy appointment and voting.
The The 2005 Annual General Meeting will be held at The Banqueting Company may treat as invalid a Crest proxy voting instruction in the Suite, Lords Cricket Ground, Grace Gate, St Johns Wood Road, circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated London NW8 8QN on Tuesday 15 November 2005 at 2.30 pm.
In Securities Regulations 2001. addition to the items of business which shareholders are usually asked to approve at the Annual General Meeting, there is one Paper proxy cards have been distributed to all shareholders with proposal which requires some explanation as set out below.
the Notice of Annual General Meeting, as usual.
SAYE Share Option Scheme Shareholders who will not be able to attend the Annual General The Company adopted a SAYE Share Option Scheme in 1982 which Meeting on 15 November 2005 in person are encouraged to vote was last approved by shareholders in November 1995.
Invitations their shares by appointing a proxy and issuing voting instructions to apply for options cannot currently be issued after 28 November either electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards.
A resolution to extend the scheme for a further 10 years will Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with must be received by Lloyds TSB Registrars not later than 48 hours the rules of the scheme, shareholder approval of this extension before the Annual General Meeting in order to be valid.
At the same time, it is proposed that the name of the www.
com scheme be changed to the Smiths Group Sharesave Scheme to Electronic copies of the Annual Report and Accounts 2005, the reflect the change in the Company's name since the scheme was Summary Financial Statement 2005 and the Notice of Annual last amended and that certain minor modifications to the scheme General Meeting will be posted on the Companys website, be made to bring it into line with current regulations and practices.
The Companys announcements to the The proposed amendments will permit the issue of invitations to Stock Exchange and press releases are available online through the apply for options under the scheme up to 15 November 2015 being website.
Shareholding details and practical help on share transfers the tenth anniversary of the date of the Annual General Meeting and changes of address can be found at www.
when the changes are proposed to be adopted.
Important information The rules of the scheme, showing the proposed amendments, will be If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are available for inspection as described in note 5 of the Notice of Annual recommended to consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, General Meeting.
accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised Auditors under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to recently sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths Group plc reappoint  LLP as auditors and to authorise please pass this document and the accompanying proxy form to the the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
purchaser or transferee or to the agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Summary Financial Statement The Company has produced the Summary Financial Statement 2005.
Recommendation Shareholders will be automatically sent Summary Financial Statements Your directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the alone each year unless they elect in writing to receive the Statutory Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and Reports and Accounts.
Shareholders who wish to receive the Statutory its shareholders and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the Reports and Accounts free of charge in future years should write resolutions.
The directors intend to vote in favour of the resolutions in to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex respect of their own shareholdings.
The publication of Summary By Order of the Board Financial Statements results in significant savings in the cost of David P Lillycrop producing the accounts each year.
Director and Secretary Electronic proxy voting The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting for this 765 Finchley Road, London NW11 8DS years Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders who are not Crest members can appoint a proxy and vote on-line for or against or 22 September 2005 consciously not vote for the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting by visiting the website www.
