R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:16 PM Page 24 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Patrick Maugein 58 Peter Kingston 63 Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Deputy Chairman A member of the Board of and Senior Independent Director SOCO International since July A member of the Board of SOCO 1999 and Chairman of the International since April 1997 and Nominations Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Has developed a portfolio of private and Audit Committees.
A petroleum engineer who has worked in the oil and gas industry since 1965 in various roles.
Formerly, a founding director of Enterprise Oil plc, going on to become Managing Director Technical and a director of Elf Enterprise Petroleum Ltd.
Currently, Chairman of Tower Resources plc and a Director of Plexus Energy Limited, a social and environmental advisory network.
John Snyder 64 Ettore Contini 31 Robert Cathery 61 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997 and International since December 2001. International since June 2001. a member of the Nominations Currently, a director of EurowattOver 40 years of City experience.
Commerce and a director of Italiana Formerly, Managing Director and Formerly, Chairman of the Board of Energia e Servizi SpA.
Head of Oil and Gas at Canaccord Santa Fe Snyder Corporation and Capital Europe Limited, Head of founder of its predecessor Corporate Sales at SG Securities company, Snyder Oil Corporation.
London Ltd. Director of Vickers Currently, an advisory director for 4D da Costa and Director of Schroders Global Energy Advisors and a Securities.
director of Texas Capital Bancshares.
Currently, a director of Afren plc, Salamander Energy Ltd and Indigovision plc.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 24 R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:17 PM Page 25 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ed Story 62 Rui fide Sousa 50 Martin Roberts 61 President and Chief Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Officer A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of International since July 1999. International since September 2004 SOCO International since April Chief Executive Officer of the and a member of the Audit and 1997 and a member of the Toro Group for over a decade.
Currently, Chairman of A Solicitor by profession and a Formerly, President of Snyder Oil Mediterranean Oil Supply and partner of Slaughter and May, Corporations international subsidiary, Trading Limitada, a director of specialising in oil and gas and Vice Chairman of Conquest Quantic Limited and a director of projects, until his retirement in 2002.
Exploration Company, Vice President New Falcon Oil Limited.
and CFO of Superior Oil Company and holder of various positions with Exxon Corporation, including seven years resident in the Far East.
Currently, a director of Cairn Energy PLC.
Roger Cagle 58 John Norton 68 Olivier Barbaroux 50 Executive Vice President, Deputy Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director CEO and Chief Financial Officer A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997 and International since July 1999 and a International since April 1997. a member of the Audit and member of the Remuneration and Over 30 years of experience in the oil Nominations Committees.
and gas industry including A Chartered Accountant by Formerly, Managing Director of succeeding positions of responsibility profession and a partner at Arthur Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux, with Exxon Corporation and senior Andersen, heading the oil and President and Chief Operating Officer management roles with Superior Oil gas practice in Europe, the of Vivendi Water S. A.
Middle East and Africa, until his Energy Sector of Paribas and Chairman Formerly, Chief Financial Officer of retirement in 1995. and CEO of Coparex International.
Snyder Oil Corporations A former member of the Oil Currently, Chairman and Chief international subsidiary and of Industry Accounting Committee.
Executive Officer of Dalkia and a Conquest Exploration Company.
Currently, a director of the Arabmember of the Executive Committee British Chamber of Commerce.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25
