Business Review 31 GEOGRAPHIC REVIEW 2005 IN BRIEF GEOGRAPHIC SALES PERFORMANCE 2005 compared to 2004 compared to 2005 2004 2003 2004 2003 THE US DELIVERED A STRONG YEAR, Growth Growth DRIVEN NOTABLY BY NEXIUM, SEROQUEL, due to due to CRESTOR, TOPROL-XL AND ARIMIDEX Growth exchange Growth exchange Growth Growth Growth Growth Sales underlying effects Sales underlying effects Sales underlying reported underlying reported $m $m $m $m $m $m $m%%%% ASTRAZENECA MAINTAINED ITS MARKET US 10,771 1,140 9,631 883 1 8,747 12 12 10 10 POSITION AS THE SECOND LARGEST Europe 8,463 598 216 7,649 204 736 6,709 8 11 3 14 PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY IN CANADA Japan 1,527 114 17 1,430 130 111 1,189 8 7 11 20 THE REST OF THE WORLD DELIVERED ROW 3,189 290 183 2,716 362 150 2,204 15 21 17 23 A STRONG YEAR, DRIVEN BY KEY GROWTH Total 23,950 2,142 382 21,426 1,579 998 18,849 10 12 9 14 PRODUCTS NEXIUM, CRESTOR, SYMBICORT, SEROQUEL AND ARIMIDEX AND FAST-DEVELOPING ECONOMIES NORTH AMERICA Early in 2005, Seroquel became the number IN EUROPE, GROWTH PRODUCTS WERE UP US one prescribed atypical anti-psychotic on 30% AGAINST 2004, WITH SIGNIFICANT Reflecting our commitment to attain market the market, surpassing the long time market MARKET SHARE GAINS FROM leadership in a highly competitive and leader, risperidone.
Seroquel posted yearly COMPETITOR PRODUCTS challenging environment, sales for AstraZeneca prescription growth of 20% and two million US rose by 12% from $9,631 million to added prescriptions.
In the US, a boxed IN ASIA PACIFIC, ASTRAZENECA IS $10,771 million.
The combined sales of Nexium, warning relating to an increased risk of death RANKED FOURTH AND WAS THE FASTEST Seroquel, Crestor, Toprol-XL and Arimidex in treatment of dementia-related psychosis GROWING COMPANY AMONG THE TOP 10 were $7,625 million, which represented 71% in elderly patients was added to the labels of PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES of our total US sales.
AstraZeneca is currently the class of atypical anti-psychotics, including JAPAN CONTINUED TO GROW AHEAD the fifth largest pharmaceutical company in the Seroquel.
The atypical anti-psychotics are not OF THE MARKET, DUE LARGELY US with our sales representing a 5% share of US approved for the treatment of dementia-related TO ARIMIDEX, CASODEX, ZOLADEX prescription pharmaceutical sales.
The Company also submitted an AND LOSEC Aptium Oncology previously Salick Health Care sNDA to the FDA seeking approval for a new and Astra Tech rose by 10% and 53% in 2005 indication for Seroquel for the treatment of SALES IN THE LATIN AMERICA REGION to $335 million and $29 million respectively.
patients with depressive episodes associated INCREASED BY 25%, DRIVEN BY with bipolar disorder.
BRAZIL, VENEZUELA AND MEXICO Nexium leads the PPI market for both total prescriptions and capsules dispensed.
Sales of Crestor were $730 million despite Nexium achieved a 30.3% prescription market the residual effects of the earlier unfounded share, with growth of 12%, ahead of any other allegations concerning its safety, which branded PPI.
Virtually no price erosion was slowed the uptake of the product in the US.
seen until the fourth quarter.
This was We remain confident that Crestor offers achieved despite an increasingly challenging greater LDL-cholesterol lowering with a safety market, with increases in discounting and profile in line with other marketed statins, rebating due to the availability of Prilosec OTC a view based on extensive clinical trial and and generic omeprazole, the advent of Medicare post-marketing data.
Adjustments to contracting and competitive pressures.
In managed care formularies ahead of the 2006 and beyond, the above challenges are imminent entry of generic simvastatin into likely to exert increasing pressure on Nexium the US market, the introduction of the pricing.
Safety concerns regarding NSAID Medicare Part D drug benefit and the and Cox-2 inhibitors have led to a significant competitive impact of combination statin decrease in prescription NSAID use, which therapies are changing the dynamics further affected PPI market growth.
It is not possible to quantify the impact on Crestor at this time.
During 2005, the Company filed two sNDAs with the FDA for Nexium: paediatric GERD patients aged 12 years and above and Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
An NDA was also filed for a formulation of delayed-release granules for oral suspension.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 32 Form 20-F Information 2005 GEOGRAPHIC REVIEW CONTINUED management agreements, which were reported Sales of Toprol-XL were $1.3 billion and in the The issues of cross-border movement on last year.
fourth quarter of 2005, Toprol-XL surpassed of products into the US and coverage for the in total prescriptions to become the Norvasc non-Medicare eligible uninsured will continue most prescribed branded anti-hypertensive The Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit the to be debated among state and federal elected in the US.
In addition, Toprol-XL maintained Benefit became effective on 1 January 2006. officials, the media and special interest groups its position in the US as the most prescribed AstraZeneca is fully committed to the success during 2006.
Specifically with regard to state product by cardiologists across all classes of the Benefit.
The mechanism for delivering activity, the industry could see an increase including hypertensives.
The NDA for a fixed the Benefit via the private market system in threats of price control and additional efforts dose combination product comprising is developing.
The Center for Medicare to regulate sales and marketing activity.
Toprol-XL and hydrochlorothiazide was and Medicaid Services has announced that We also expect additional focus by the FDA submitted to the FDA in October 2005. there will be sufficient Medicare Advantage on drug safety, risk communication and directPatent litigation has been progressing against Prescription Drug Plans MA-PDs and to-consumer advertising.
three companies seeking FDA approval Prescription Drug Plans PDPs in each of the to sell generic metoprolol succinate.
On regions to deliver the Benefit.
AstraZeneca Canada 17 January 2006, summary judgement was has completed negotiations of contracts with During 2005, three products Crestor, Nexium entered against AstraZeneca.
MA-PDs and PDPs, and is encouraged with and Seroquel achieved $100 million in annual Further information is set out on page 123. its current level of projected access in this new sales for the first time.
Total sales for the year market segment.
AstraZeneca expects the were $976 million, an underlying growth of 2% In January 2006 we were served with a effect of the Benefit to be broadly neutral in the reported 11%.
AstraZeneca maintained its putative class action anti-trust complaint in the short term.
The eventual effect of the Benefit market position as the second largest US by Meijer Inc. and Meijer Distribution, Inc. on AstraZenecas business will be variable pharmaceutical company in Canada.
Crestor The complaint makes sham litigation claims across our portfolio, but will be the cumulative maintained its number two market ranking, based on the above patent decision.
For more result of the outcome of key variables such as: supported by the recently launched Crestor details see page 123.
Healthy Changes Support Program which The number of Medicare Eligible Individuals helps patients to understand better and Atacand received approval for a new indication MEIs who sign up for the Benefit.
improve the management of their cholesterol for heart failure in May following the positive and to develop a healthier lifestyle.
The ATAC recommendation of an FDA Advisory Committee.
The degree and timing of population shifts clinical study was a key driver of strong growth of MEIs from existing drug benefit plans for Arimidex in 2005.
Seroquel became the Arimidex, the leading aromatase inhibitor, i. e. either employer or independent leader in new prescriptions in the atypical continued its strong growth trajectory, bolstered coverage plans.
market in the fourth quarter.
Several new by the positive results of the ATAC trial published indications for our marketed products were in late 2004.
The distribution of covered lives approved.
Seroquel was approved for the amongst plans.
treatment of bipolar mania disorder in late Pulmicort Respules, the only inhaled 2004.
Atacand, one of AstraZeneca Canadas corticosteroid approved in the US for children The number of Medicare beneficiaries with key growth products, received regulatory as young as 12 months, has experienced access to AstraZeneca medicines.
approval for the treatment of symptomatic heart strong sales growth of greater than 20% over failure.
Merrem received its eighth indication the previous year.
The extent of additional demand resulting for the treatment of complicated skin and skin from beneficiaries without current or structure infections, and Crestor also received An NDA was filed in September for Symbicort, sufficient prescription drug coverage.
In line with our a combination of budesonide and formoterol.
continued efficiency drive, we launched This application is for maintenance treatment of Ultimately, the beneficiary satisfaction level a new Siebel-based customer contact and asthma in patients aged 12 years and above for with the Benefit and the benefit providers.
information management system to support two strengths 80 4.5 and 160 4.5 micrograms.
improved field force and organisational For more information on US price regulation, efficiency in customer interactions.
The sales organisation continued to improve see also page 44. its productivity and focus during 2005.
The In May 2005, the Canadian Federal Court of sales force effectiveness programme put into With the implementation of the Benefit, Appeal quashed Apotexs marketing approval place over the last two years continues AstraZeneca is fully committed to supporting for a generic omeprazole capsule product.
to bring value to both pharmaceutical sales education and outreach initiatives for this The Supreme Court of Canada granted specialists and customers.
AstraZeneca has vulnerable population, so that they have the Apotex leave to appeal and allowed Apotex continued to improve its reputation among necessary information to make an informed to continue selling its omeprazole capsules pharmacy benefits managers, ranking number decision on this important personal healthcare pending that appeal.
For more details, see one in two major syndicated surveys.
This is being implemented through page 120. several initiatives, including a grant to the In the US, fee for service agreements were National Council on the Aging NCOA that will We secured business partnerships designed implemented with 30 wholesalers with the enable NCOA and related entities to undertake to reinvigorate several important established aim of helping to manage stock and service a major national effort designed to help people AstraZeneca products.
We entered into in the trade channel.
The agreements have with Medicare understand the new Medicare a sales and distribution agreement with been highly effective in managing demand prescription drug coverage Part D and be Theramed Corporation for the promotion and stabilising inventory.
These replace prepared to make the enrolment decision that of Plendil and Rhinocort.
We also entered into the previous agreements known as inventory they believe is right for them.
agreements with partners for the promotion of Zestoretic and Imdur to ensure they maintain a significant place in their respective markets.
Business Review 33 REST OF THE WORLD In Italy, sales were $1,152 million.
Following Asia Pacific excluding Japan Sales in the rest of the world performed launch in 2004, Crestor continued to be a key We delivered another strong year in Asia strongly, up 9% to $12,203 million on an driver for growth 94% underlying, 98% Pacific, with sales up 15% to $1,386 million underlying basis 12% on a reported basis.
AstraZeneca was ranked On an underlying basis, key growth products reported, our third biggest product, and fourth and was the fastest growing among Nexium, Crestor, Symbicort, Seroquel Arimidex 31% underlying, 33% reported the top 10 pharmaceutical companies.
and Arimidex were up 31% against 2004 are market leaders in the anti-androgens reported growth 34%.
Sales in emerging market and aromatase inhibitors market Sales in the largest market in the region, markets were up a healthy 19% on an respectively.
Nexium sales were up 16% on an Australia, were $504 million, driven by a 36% underlying basis 24% on a reported basis.
underlying basis reported 19% and the increase in sales of recently launched products This increase was underpinned by continued approval for risk reduction of NSAIDexcluding an exchange benefit of 8%, which investments in sales and marketing initiatives.
associated stomach ulcers earlier in 2005 is more than offset declining sales of Losec.
expected to continue to drive future sales.
In China, of the 24 multi-nationals surveyed Europe by the Hong Kong Association of the Sales in Europe were up 8% reported 11% In the UK, sales were $757 million, driven Pharmaceutical Industry, we are the largest to $8,463 million, with strong underlying demand primarily by Symbicort 75% underlying, prescription drug company third ranking overall in Germany, the UK and Central and Eastern 77% reported and Seroquel 14% and with underlying growth of 33% reported Europe CEE.
With a 5% market share, underlying, 16% reported.
Arimidex 34%, we are one of the fastest growing we were ranked as the fifth largest prescription benefited from expanded use into adjuvant pharmaceutical companies.
On an underlying basis, sales in South Korea Nexium underlying 24%, reported 27%, In Spain, sales were $730 million, driven by were up 23% 38% reported to $137 million, Symbicort underlying 21%, reported 24%, Nexium 82% underlying, 88% reported and driven by a strong performance of our recently Crestor underlying 44%, reported 47%, Seroquel 40% underlying, 42% reported.
Sales in Taiwan increased Arimidex underlying 35%, reported 38% by 8% on an underlying basis 14% reported, and Seroquel underlying 48%, reported In June 2005, the European authorities in a market where growth was significantly 51% all performed strongly, each one approved wider use of Arimidex to include inhibited by government policies.
In South of them taking significant market share the adjuvant treatment of post-menopausal East Asia, we enjoyed average underlying from competitors.
Excluding sales of women with hormone receptor positive early growth of 17% with particular success in patent-expired products $1,059 million, invasive breast cancer.
down 21% on an underlying basis and 19% on a reported basis, sales in Europe Strong sales were recorded in CEE 29% Latin America were up an underlying 14% reported 17%.
underlying, 37% reported, particularly in Sales in the Latin America region increased by Russia, where the pharmaceutical market 17% on an underlying basis reported 25% to Widespread government pricing controls benefited from the introduction of a federal $579 million, driven by Brazil, Venezuela and continued to slow the overall rate of market reimbursement list for pharmaceuticals.
Sales in the rest of Latin America were growth in Europe, although the impact was up 20%.
Merrem remained our best selling less severe than in 2004.
Japan product 16%, while sales of Crestor 27% In Japan, strong growth from Casodex and Nexium 34% continued to be very Our sales in France were up an underlying 1% 16% underlying, 15% reported, Zoladex dynamic.
reported 4%, giving us a ranking of fourth.
15% underlying, 14% reported, Losec We continued to see good sales growth in 25% underlying, 23% reported and In Mexico, the largest market in the region, our key growth products 32% underlying, Arimidex 27% underlying, 25% reported sales reached $233 million.
In Brazil, 35% reported, which minimised the ongoing drove overall sales up an underlying 8% we achieved underlying growth of 18% effect of Losec patent expiry.
Iressa sales and Nexium is the brand leader in a highly declined by 15%, following the publication fragmented market.
Germany enjoyed a very strong year, with of the ISEL trial result.
We again grew ahead sales of $1,223 million.
Good growth in the of the market in 2005 8% against 5% Middle East & Africa German market as a whole 20% underlying, and we were ranked 14th.
Since the launch Underlying sales growth in the Middle East 23% reported was affected during the year of Crestor in April, we have initiated, together was 10% reported 17%, driven by strong by a reduction in the special rebate on sales with Shionogi & Co. Ltd. a post-marketing sales of Nexium, Symbicort and Atacand.
of non-reference priced products from 16% surveillance programme at specific medical to 6% as well as new reference price groups.
institutions in accordance with Ministry Our recently launched products enjoyed of Health, Labour & Welfare requirements.
strong momentum and have gained market The programme started around April 2005 share, with Symbicort now the leading brand and is expected to take 18 to 24 months.
in volume terms and Nexium the number one Significant sales of Crestor in Japan are prescribed PPI in volume terms IMS Health, not anticipated before completion of this VIP since the first quarter in 2005. programme.
An interim report is due in the second half of 2006, which will determine the subsequent course of the programme and thereafter the full-scale launch schedule.
