AstraZeneca Annual Report and 38 Form 20-F Information 2005 COMMERCIALISATION AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT One of the biggest challenges facing any As internet services continue to grow in diversity GMBD is also responsible for developing the pharmaceutical company is maintaining the and value to our customer groups, we continue global strategic communications for each quality of its portfolio.
Careful prioritisation of to monitor and evaluate new techniques and brand, working closely with the major emerging research opportunities, development technologies to achieve our business objectives marketing units.
With the development of new of these opportunities to meet market needs and ensure ongoing competitiveness.
The use communication channels and an increasing and securing maximum potential from our of analytics and measures is also critical appetite for healthcare information among marketed brands, together are a core value to our understanding of how we can continue patients and physicians, it is increasingly driver for AstraZeneca.
to leverage the opportunities presented by important to develop clear, consistent global this medium.
communication programmes for our brands The new Global Marketing and Business which are integrated across the communication Development GMBD function formerly known channels.
As part of the recent reorganisation, as Product Strategy & Licensing is accountable a greater focus has been put on developing for AstraZenecas Global Strategic Marketing.
This means working alongside research and development, our local marketing units and, E-BUSINESS most importantly, our external customers to We continue to exploit internet strategy and ensure the delivery of differentiated, sustainable e-marketing technologies to facilitate and brands that address unmet medical needs.
In particular, we focus on maximising the opportunities for Designed to enhance this capability, GMBD effectively communicating with customers, and is directly responsible for global marketing for driving efficiencies across the value chain.
activities of marketed and pre-launch brands, including optimising their lifecycles: ensuring Growing numbers of healthcare professionals strong commercial direction in the management actively seek information from us via the of our research activities and developing internet and we aim to maintain a flow of high brands portfolio: leading portfolio and brand quality medical education which informs and development decisions: and leading in-licensing supports appropriate use of our medicines.
and alliance activities to enhance the portfolio.
Where appropriate, we also communicate with All these activities are driven by core customer patients via this route to promote awareness insight, identified and developed by this team.
of our medicines, the diseases they treat and Increasingly, our customer base and their how they should be properly taken.
respective needs have become much more AstraZeneca is recognised as one of the complex.
The attitudes of regulators and payer industry leaders for online marketing and groups, as well as physicians, patients and educational communication to customers.
other healthcare professionals are key drivers of both our product development and We also use the web to communicate with marketing activities.
a wide range of stakeholders and others who have an interest in our business activities.
Disease target product profiles TPPs are During the year, we launched a variety of new defined at an early stage in the Discovery internet sites including eCME.
com, which process in order to provide guidance for R&D provides a library of interactive continuing activity and to help shape the marketing medical education courses for an international strategy.
The profile is based on our insight audience of healthcare professionals, and into market needs and the drivers behind .
com, which makes recommending, prescribing, paying for and publicly available clinical trial data, results taking the medication.
When a candidate drug and other information from or regarding transitions into Development, a specific TPP  clinical trials.
For more is developed, based on product features and information, see the separate Corporate benefits, medical and health outcomes Responsibility Summary Report 2005. information, market positioning, demonstration of value and the competitive environment.
Internet-enabled processes have brought This profile is used throughout the development efficiency and effectiveness gains across our programme to prioritise further investment.
research and commercial activities, facilitating the rapid sharing and distribution of information within and outside the organisation.
