AstraZeneca Annual Report and 10 Form 20-F Information 2005 DELIVERING STRATEGY This illustration maps our approach CREATING VALUE BY DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY to creating value through achievement of our strategic PIPELINE PRODUCTS objectives.
A high level overview VALUE Discovery Development Manufacturing Sales & Marketing CREATION of each aspect of our approach is provided below.
More detail about each of these areas, together Productive use of resources EFFECTIVE with our performance in 2005, is included in the following pages of this Report.
DECISION Portfolio management, Effective leadership risk management, MAKING Board and Senior Executive Team measurement PRODUCTS We have a highly competitive portfolio of People Know-how, experience, creativity marketed medicines, designed to meet patient Money Cash flow, balance sheet needs in important areas of healthcare.
Intellectual property Patents, licences, other exclusivity, brands RESOURCES Alongside our successful mature brands such Laboratories, factories, equipment Physical assets as Seloken Toprol-XL, Zoladex, Diprivan and Delivering our promise Reputation Merrem we have a range of important medicines, launched over the last six years, which provide the platform for continued growth in the short to medium term.
These comprising six joint discovery and development Supply and manufacturing growth products include Arimidex, Crestor, facilities in the UK, the US and Sweden: a further We have some 14,000 people at 27 Nexium, Seroquel and Symbicort.
We have four sites in the US, Canada, India and France manufacturing sites in 19 countries, dedicated clearly defined lifecycle management that focus only on discovery: and a facility in to delivering a secure, high quality, cost-effective programmes for each of our marketed Japan for drug development only.
In addition, supply of our product range worldwide.
Of these products designed to maximise not just the we are planning to build upon our capability 14,000 people, around 1,500 are employed commercial potential of the brands, but also in China.
These resources are complemented in active pharmaceutical ingredient supply the benefit they bring to patients lives.
by clinical development capability at 40 sites and 11,800 in formulation and packaging.
We operate a small number of sites for the Sales and marketing manufacture of active ingredients, complemented Active in over 100 countries, we have an by efficient use of outsourcing.
AstraZeneca Development portfolio extensive worldwide sales and marketing has active ingredient sites in the UK, Sweden A core priority is ensuring that our growing network.
In the majority of key markets, and France and a bulk drug purification plant in range of candidate drugs compounds with we sell through wholly-owned local marketing Germany.
Principal formulation sites for tablets the potential to become new medicines are companies.
Elsewhere, we sell through and capsules are located in the UK, Sweden, developed effectively to meet the future needs distributors or local representative offices.
Puerto Rico, France, Germany and the US.
We have a wide range of compounds Global brand strategy is built and led by our There are also major formulation sites for the in early development, and a total of 17 projects Global Marketing and Business Development global supply of parenteral and inhalation in phase 1, 15 projects in phase 2 and 29 GMBD function working in partnership with products in Sweden, France and the UK.
Whilst the our largest marketing companies.
This shared Packaging is undertaken at a large number majority of projects are small-molecules, an approach creates a consistent platform on of locations, both at AstraZeneca sites and increasing proportion of our early development which all our local marketing companies can at contractors facilities, located close to our compounds are large biological molecules build according to individual market needs.
marketing companies to ensure rapid and see pages 36 and 37 for more information.
Our products are marketed primarily to Partnerships and collaborations physicians both primary care and specialist PIPELINE In todays world of rapid scientific and as well as to other healthcare professionals.
Our scientists share a common goal: to get technological advance, no company Marketing efforts are also directed towards life-changing new medicines to patients as can rely exclusively on its own discovery explaining the economic as well as the quickly, safely and efficiently as possible.
therapeutic benefits of our products to governments and healthcare buying groups.
Our global research and development We work with leading academic centres to organisation is therapy area-led with scientific, broaden the base for disease research and Personal contact is still the single most effective medical, technical and ethical input and control in 2005, entered into more than 200 new marketing method, but increasingly the efforts provided by large multi-skilled Discovery and collaborations.
We have over 1,700 active of our sales forces are being complemented Development functions.
This offers a number R&D collaborations and agreements that by our use of the internet to facilitate and of advantages including sharing of best practice complement our in-house R&D capabilities.
We also and efficient use of resources across a multiuse direct-to-consumer television advertising site, global organisation.
During 2005, we In 2005, in line with our strategy of strengthening campaigns in the US.
reviewed and restructured the organisation our in-house pipeline through targeted to improve our focus on project delivery, decisionacquisitions, in-licensing and partnerships, we As well as building on our leading positions in making and risk management and to ensure also announced four major deals designed to key markets such as the US, Japan and Europe, we fully exploit promising new projects and strengthen our development pipeline.
For more we continue to increase our strength through technology platforms across and outside the details of these activities, see pages 34 and 35. strategic investment in the smaller but fastmain therapy areas.
In total we employ over growing markets of the future, of which China 11,900 people at 11 research and offers the most outstanding opportunity.
development centres in seven countries Science Stakeholder needs Business Review 11 PRODUCTIVE USE OF RESOURCES professionals dedicated to the cost-effective of representatives from each business Effective leadership is key to ensuring that we management and enforcement of intellectual function, facilitates much of our work in this have the right resources, appropriately aligned property rights for the optimal global protection area.
The RAG assists senior management to drive delivery of our strategic objectives.
of, and legitimate reward from, AstraZenecas in identifying and assessing our main business innovations and commercial products.
It focuses in The AstraZeneca Board particular on cross-functional risks, linking risk Our Board comprises Executive Directors, with Cash management to business performance direct responsibility for business operations, and We continue to be a highly cash generative reporting and sharing best practice across the Non-Executive Directors, who have responsibility business.
Although future operating cash organisation to drive continuous improvement.
to bring independent, objective judgement flows may be affected by a number of factors, The RAG reports twice a year to the SET to bear on Board decisions.
The Board sets as outlined in the business background section and its reports on the Companys risk profile Company strategy and policies and monitors of the Financial Review on page 45, we believe are reviewed annually by the Board.
It conducts our cash resources will be sufficient for our For more information, see pages 40 and 41. an in-depth strategy review annually.
It also present requirements and include sufficient assesses whether obligations to shareholders cash for our existing capital programme, Intellectual property and others are understood and met, which share re-purchases and the costs of Patents enable information on inventions to includes regular reviews of financial performance developing and launching new products.
be made widely available and are important and critical business issues.
See pages 60 incentives for the continued innovation that and 61 for more information on the Board.
Physical assets drives societys progress.
Patents do not We own and operate numerous production, create a monopoly for treating a disease The Senior Executive Team SET marketing and research and development other manufacturers are able to develop a The SET is a cross-functional, cross-territorial facilities worldwide.
We continually review different medicine to treat the same condition.
group, established and led by the Chief our physical assets such as laboratories, Also, patents are limited in time and after their Executive Officer.
It focuses on the day-to-day factories and equipment to ensure that they expiry, competitors both innovative and generic running of business operations and on Company are appropriate to meeting the needs of can legitimately market the same product.
It regularly reviews and makes our business.
Because patents require the disclosure and decisions on all major business issues.
publication of information about the patented The SET comprises the three Executive Board PEOPLE medicine, they can stimulate competition Directors and six Executive Vice-Presidents, Our most important resource is our people.
to innovate improved alternatives that expand each of whom has a specific area of With over 65,000 employees in 45 countries, the range of treatment options which is responsibility in line with our business structure.
we value the diversity of skills and abilities important because patients respond differently that a global workforce brings to our business.
Product portfolio management Within our performance driven culture, we aim Maintaining the quality of our product range and to give our employees the support they need Patent protection and other types of marketing of our new product pipeline requires careful to develop their full potential and to provide exclusivity for our medicines allow us time to prioritisation both to manage the progression a working environment in which they are generate the revenue we need to continue our of promising compounds from development to energised and informed.
Optimising individual research, development, manufacturing and marketplace and to maximise the value of high and team performance, effectively managing marketing of new medicines.
Our policy is to potential marketed products.
Our Global and developing all our talent and improving our apply for patent and or other appropriate Marketing and Business Development GMBD leadership capability are core priorities, alongside intellectual property protection for all of the organisation formerly known as Product a commitment to ensuring the safety, health inventions and innovations that arise from our Strategy & Licensing, working closely with and wellbeing of all our employees worldwide.
drug discovery, development, manufacturing, our research and development community marketing and other business activities.
This and our major marketing companies, leads REPUTATION policy is designed to provide each of our the commercial aspects of drug development Our reputation rests on delivering our promises products with an effective portfolio of valid, and co-ordinates global marketing strategy.
in all aspects of our business.
We focus on enforceable patent and other intellectual This includes selecting the right products and bringing new medicines to market that make a property rights in all significant markets projects for investment, developing effective difference to patients.
Only by doing so are we to protect against unauthorised competition marketing platforms for new product launches able to deliver the value for our shareholders, during commercialisation.
This shield of and directing the creation and delivery of which, as a publicly owned company, we have intellectual property rights extends to those product marketing strategies that successfully a duty to do.
areas of target identification, genomics and align global and national plans.
other research technologies in which we invest We also know that how we do business, significant resources.
The adequacy of the In line with our strategy, while we are committed as well as what we do, is important to our patent, design, trade mark and domain name to organic growth, we also vigorously pursue reputation among stakeholders and wider portfolio for individual products is kept under licensing and acquisition opportunities to gain society.
Maintaining their trust and confidence review during product development, clinical access to new products and or technologies in AstraZeneca as a responsible company evaluation and marketing so that, wherever and to support growth products in a costmeans ensuring that wherever we have possible, additional protection may be sought effective manner.
For more information on a presence or an impact, we live up to our for new applications and other developments.
GMBD, see page 38. publicly stated standards of ethical behaviour.
Our research operating model allows For more information about our approach appropriate intellectual property strategies Risk management to managing our corporate responsibility and to be formulated and regularly updated from Our ability to identify and effectively manage an early stage in product development.
about our performance, policies and principles, the risks to our business is key to our continued see pages 41 and 42 of this Report and success.
Our Risk Advisory Group RAG, led We rigorously manage our patent portfolio also the separate Corporate Responsibility by the Chief Financial Officer and consisting through a team of intellectual property Summary Report 2005.
