Business Review 9 STRATEGY The people of AstraZeneca are PIPELINE PEOPLE Deliver a portfolio of differentiated medicines Within our performance-driven culture, dedicated to the discovery, that meet patient needs by: we aim to encourage and support all our development, manufacturing and people in delivering their best by: marketing of high quality, effective Successfully delivering the next wave prescription medicines that bring of products in development.
Providing an environment in which Further improving the productivity people feel positive and enthusiastic, benefit for patients and add value and efficiency of our drug discovery with a clear understanding of our goals for shareholders and wider society.
and their role in achieving them.
Strengthening the pipeline through Effectively managing and developing We are committed to managing effectively the appropriate external targeted acquisition, all our talent.
challenges of our business environment and licensing and partnership opportunities.
Improving leadership capability to to maximising the opportunities to deliver Rigorous management of our portfolio of enhance effective decision-making.
sustainable, profitable growth that will place products in development, to mitigate risks Creating a culture in which people are AstraZeneca among the best in the industry.
associated with new innovative products.
held accountable not only for what they accomplish, but how they get there.
Our efforts are focused on five main strategic PRODUCTIVE USE OF RESOURCES priorities that we have identified as critical Effective leadership: Make optimal use REPUTATION drivers for continued success, backed by clear of our resources by effectively managing all We aim to maintain the trust and confidence business objectives in each: opportunities and associated risks to our of patients, customers, employees, business, whilst monitoring our performance shareholders, regulators and wider PRODUCTS and learning from our experience.
society by: Maximise sales growth by: Best practice: Deliver operational excellence Understanding their needs.
Releasing the full potential of our marketed in all aspects of our business by: Ensuring that we deliver on our brands throughout their lifecycle.
Growing our position in existing markets.
Continuing to strengthen our commercial Living up to our core values and publicly Expanding our presence in key skills in sales force effectiveness, stated standards of ethical behaviour, emerging markets.
marketing excellence and understanding wherever we have a presence or Vigorously defending our legitimate customer needs.
Increasing cost-effectiveness and operational efficiency of the supply chain.
Harmonising and standardising core processes and services.
New practice: Develop new business approaches that meet the needs of customers and stakeholders by: Exploring new ways of working within our existing business model.
Assessing new models for using our resources and skills to create value for customers and profitable business for AstraZeneca.
Making strategic investments in promising new areas of healthcare.
