Business Review 43 MAIN FACILITIES INDUSTRY REGULATION We own and operate numerous production, As explained on page 8, industry regulation Ownership of Aptium Oncology provides marketing and R&D facilities worldwide.
is an important feature of the business AstraZeneca with a unique window on the Our corporate headquarters are in London, environment in which we operate.
provider sector of the US oncology market and UK and our R&D headquarters are in access to many opinion leaders in the field of Sdertlje, Sweden.
Concerns surrounding the safety of medicines oncology who can help shape early phase are having an effect across the industry.
Our principal R&D facilities are in the UK includes industry regulation as evidenced Alderley Park and Charnwood : Sweden Lund, by regulators increased emphasis on safety In 2005, Aptium Oncology continued to perform MIndal and Sdertlje : the US Boston, and patient risk management through all stages well in its cancer centre management business Massachusetts and Wilmington, Delaware : of drug development and post-marketing with positive profit and cash flow contributions.
Canada Montreal, Quebec : and India surveillance.
Drug review and approval are Early in the year, Aptium Oncology entered into Bangalore.
Other R&D activity is carried out subject to more conditions including patient a long term management agreement with at Macclesfield and Avlon in the UK, Reims risk management plans, patient registries, Trinitas Hospital in New Jersey, which resulted 2 in France and Osaka in Japan.
cancer centre opening post-marketing requirements, and conditional in a new 30,000 ft in September.
Focused on growth, Aptium and limited approvals.
Out of a total of 27 manufacturing sites in Oncology is actively pursuing consulting and 19 countries, our principal manufacturing management relationships in new markets AstraZeneca participates in various industry facilities are in the UK Avlon and Macclesfield : in the US as well as exploring opportunities to associations and other external organisations, Sweden Snckviken and Gartuna, Sdertlje : bring its unique model of cancer care to the UK.
which, among other things, seek to ensure the US Newark, Delaware and Westborough, that legislators and regulators fully appreciate Massachusetts : Australia North Ryde, New Aptium Oncology has continued development their impact on the pharmaceutical industrys South Wales : France Dunkirk, Monts and of its innovative clinical research network to ability to introduce and deliver innovative new Reims : Germany Plankstadt and Wedel : Italy improve patient care and cancer treatment drugs to the market.
Caponago : Japan Maihara and Puerto Rico with the Aptium Oncology Research Network Canovanas and Carolina.
conducting a growing number of centrally AstraZeneca also engages directly with co-ordinated trials.
the health authorities at all levels.
There is Bulk drug production is concentrated in the a continuing dialogue between regulatory UK, Sweden and France.
ASTRA TECH authorities and industry which aims at striking Astra Tech is engaged in the research, an appropriate balance between new regulation Substantially all of our properties are held development, manufacture and marketing and not impeding the availability of new drugs freehold, free of material encumbrances and of medical devices and implants for use in for patients with unmet medical needs.
we believe such properties are adequate for healthcare, primarily in urology, surgery and Regulators are willing to engage in discussions their purposes.
It has a leading position in several earlier in development as evidenced by the countries in Europe and is expanding its FDAs Critical Path and the EMEA Pipeline operations in key markets, particularly in the US.
Openness and transparency are cornerstones for effective communication All products showed good sales growth, among AstraZeneca, regulators and the OTHER BUSINESSES in particular the Dental Implant System, which industrys numerous stakeholders.
is gaining market share in several key markets.
The new LoFric Prim, a new generation The exploration of technology and drug APTIUM ONCOLOGY of LoFric urinary catheter, was successfully development in many new areas, such In 2005, Salick Health Care adopted a new launched in April.
In July 2005, the Swiss-based as targeted therapies, biomarkers, name, Aptium Oncology.
Over the past 20 company, Cresco Ti Systems was acquired, modelling, biologics, personalised medicine years, the company has evolved from a general and was fully integrated into Astra Tech and pharmacogenomics, are testing the healthcare company offering a broad range by November.
The acquisition of Cresco framework of current regulations and may lead of services, to an oncology company that strengthens Astra Tech Dental within the to new or revised legislation, regulations and focuses on developing and managing outprosthetic field, further enhancing the aesthetic guidelines moving forward.
The technology, patient cancer centres.
The new name result of implant treatment.
During the year, standards and processes are immature, represents a place for interaction and Astra Tech has expanded its dental sales and complex and difficult to manage at this early collaboration, with each cancer centre being marketing organisations and thus strengthened stage of development.
an environment that supports the delivery its position in key markets, particularly in the of outstanding patient care and high clinical US.
New, wholly-owned subsidiaries have Health authorities worldwide are collaborating achievement.
Thus, Aptium Oncology reflects been established in Australia, Switzerland and more and more in the delivery of common the companys vision for the future and Poland.
Further investments have been made approaches.
For example, the guidelines of the more clearly reflects its values, strengths in R&D, clinical research and new production International Conference on Harmonisation and objectives.
facilities to strengthen the product portfolio.
ICH, intra-agency scientific agreements and intra-agency confidentiality agreements are influencing new and revised legislation and regulations around the world.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 44 Form 20-F Information 2005 INDUSTRY REGULATION CONTINUED PRODUCT REGULATION In addition, a growing number of states have Regulations also include an overseas price Before a pharmaceutical product is approved taken action to require additional manufacturer referencing system, under which prices can for marketing, it must undergo exhaustive and supplemental rebates on Medicaid drug be adjusted according to the average price of lengthy clinical trials.
The process of utilisation for the indigent population.
four major countries the US, the UK, Germany developing a new pharmaceutical product, and France.
Reform of the price system to from discovery to marketing approval, can The Medicare Prescription Drug, avoid significant upward price adjustments, take between 10 and 15 years, but this period Improvement, and Modernization Act 2003 resulting from overseas referencing, is currently varies considerably in different cases and makes Medicare beneficiaries predominantly under discussion and changes may be made countries.
The time taken from submission of aged 65 years and above eligible to receive in April 2006. an application for marketing approval to launch prescription drug benefits Part D in 2006. of the product is typically one to two years.
The Act also legalises importation of drugs All existing products are subject to a price from Canada if the US Secretary of Health and review based on the market price at least After a product has been approved and Human Services certifies that implementation every two years.
In addition, products with launched, it is a condition of the product will pose no additional safety risk and will result generic competition are forced to reduce licence that all aspects relating to its safety, in a significant reduction in cost to American prices by a further amount.
In 2004, there was efficacy and quality must continue to meet consumers.
As with previous laws with similar a price cut averaging 4.2% on all listed drugs regulatory requirements.
During the marketing provisions, the US Secretary of Health and and an additional 6% cut on branded drugs of a product, strict procedures must be in place Human Services has not yet provided the where generic substitutes became available to monitor, evaluate and report any potential required certification.
A further price review adverse reactions.
Where drug-related adverse is expected in April 2006. reactions occur or it is judged that they may The implementation of Medicare Part D occur, changes may be required to prescribing is expected to increase the volume of Further changes in drug pricing and advice and to product licences.
Depending on pharmaceuticals sold in 2006 and beyond reimbursement are anticipated in the near the country, fines and other penalties may be but also to bring additional price pressure from future.
The possible changes include: imposed for failure to adhere to the conditions third party payers.
With many variables and introduction of generic substitution with of product licences.
This may include product unknowns in the Medicare Part D market prescribers discretion: implementation recalls or a requirement that letters be sent to formation, it is difficult to predict the longer of reference pricing: setting differential drug prescribers and other medical practitioners.
term effects on our business at this time.
reimbursement rates: and more frequent In extreme cases, the product licence may drug price revision.
be revoked resulting in withdrawal of the Europe product from sale.
Promotional and Most governments in Europe control the price Product regulation: Aptium Oncology marketing activities are also tightly controlled and reimbursement of medicines after taking Aptium provides administrative, management by regulations and self-regulating codes of into account the clinical, economic and social and consulting services to hospitals for the ethical marketing practices.
This budget-based development and operation of out-patient approach reflects increasing constraints department comprehensive cancer Manufacturing plants and processes are in overall healthcare spending.
The healthcare industry in the subject to periodic external inspection by increasingly require more assurance of the US is subject to extensive and complex federal, regulators as part of their monitoring procedures value of medicines as well as some assurance state and local legislation and regulations.
to ensure that manufacturers are complying on predicted volume.
Regulations relating to the reimbursement with prescribed standards of operation.
and control of healthcare costs, particularly In extreme cases, regulators have the power In several European countries, the pricing and those designed to prevent fraudulent billing to halt productions and impose conditions reimbursement systems are being reviewed, to the government or abuse of government which need to be satisfied before productions with the aim of controlling and limiting drug resources, are expansive in nature, and can be recommenced.
This is an ongoing process that reimbursement rates for healthcare services puts a downward pressure on pricing and are highly variable and are generally set or PRICE REGULATION reimbursement of medicines in Europe.
One regulated by federal or state authorities.
Prescription medicines are subject example of this is the increasing focus on, and to government controls on price and support of, generic versions of branded drugs, Product regulation: Astra Tech reimbursement which operate in most as seen in a number of countries such as Product registration and certified quality countries in which we sell our products.
management systems form the basis of the This often presents a complex matrix of regulatory environment relating to medical different prices across countries, which may In Germany, so-called jumbo reference price devices.
In Europe, compliance with regulatory be further aggravated by currency fluctuations.
groups were introduced in support of a general requirements involves the implementation and As a consequence, price tension and movement aim to reduce spending on drugs, by calculating maintenance of a quality management system of goods between countries are stimulated.
new and lower reimbursement price levels.
and, for certain products, a design dossier These groups are formed around drug classes review.
Medical devices in the US are regulated US such as statins and PPIs, which include through a product registration requirement.
Currently, there is no direct government branded as well as generic products, leading Astra Tech continues to maintain a European control of prices for non-government drug to significant decreases in reimbursed prices and US compliant quality management system.
Federal legislation mandates for some patented drugs.
minimum discounts to US government agencies purchasing drugs for the active Japan military, military veterans and other selected There is formal central government control populations.
Providing these substantial of prices in Japan.
New product prices are discounts to the US government is also a determined primarily by comparison with condition for the manufacturers drugs to be existing product classes.
reimbursed by state Medicaid programmes.
