Business Review 43 MAIN FACILITIES INDUSTRY REGULATION We own and operate numerous production, As explained on page 8, industry regulation Ownership of Aptium Oncology provides marketing and R&D facilities worldwide.
is an important feature of the business AstraZeneca with a unique window on the Our corporate headquarters are in London, environment in which we operate.
provider sector of the US oncology market and UK and our R&D headquarters are in access to many opinion leaders in the field of Sdertlje, Sweden.
Concerns surrounding the safety of medicines oncology who can help shape early phase are having an effect across the industry.
Our principal R&D facilities are in the UK includes industry regulation as evidenced Alderley Park and Charnwood : Sweden Lund, by regulators increased emphasis on safety In 2005, Aptium Oncology continued to perform MIndal and Sdertlje : the US Boston, and patient risk management through all stages well in its cancer centre management business Massachusetts and Wilmington, Delaware : of drug development and post-marketing with positive profit and cash flow contributions.
Canada Montreal, Quebec : and India surveillance.
Drug review and approval are Early in the year, Aptium Oncology entered into Bangalore.
Other R&D activity is carried out subject to more conditions including patient a long term management agreement with at Macclesfield and Avlon in the UK, Reims risk management plans, patient registries, Trinitas Hospital in New Jersey, which resulted 2 in France and Osaka in Japan.
cancer centre opening post-marketing requirements, and conditional in a new 30,000 ft in September.
Focused on growth, Aptium and limited approvals.
Out of a total of 27 manufacturing sites in Oncology is actively pursuing consulting and 19 countries, our principal manufacturing management relationships in new markets AstraZeneca participates in various industry facilities are in the UK Avlon and Macclesfield : in the US as well as exploring opportunities to associations and other external organisations, Sweden Snckviken and Gartuna, Sdertlje : bring its unique model of cancer care to the UK.
which, among other things, seek to ensure the US Newark, Delaware and Westborough, that legislators and regulators fully appreciate Massachusetts : Australia North Ryde, New Aptium Oncology has continued development their impact on the pharmaceutical industrys South Wales : France Dunkirk, Monts and of its innovative clinical research network to ability to introduce and deliver innovative new Reims : Germany Plankstadt and Wedel : Italy improve patient care and cancer treatment drugs to the market.
Caponago : Japan Maihara and Puerto Rico with the Aptium Oncology Research Network Canovanas and Carolina.
conducting a growing number of centrally AstraZeneca also engages directly with co-ordinated trials.
the health authorities at all levels.
There is Bulk drug production is concentrated in the a continuing dialogue between regulatory UK, Sweden and France.
ASTRA TECH authorities and industry which aims at striking Astra Tech is engaged in the research, an appropriate balance between new regulation Substantially all of our properties are held development, manufacture and marketing and not impeding the availability of new drugs freehold, free of material encumbrances and of medical devices and implants for use in for patients with unmet medical needs.
we believe such properties are adequate for healthcare, primarily in urology, surgery and Regulators are willing to engage in discussions their purposes.
It has a leading position in several earlier in development as evidenced by the countries in Europe and is expanding its FDAs Critical Path and the EMEA Pipeline operations in key markets, particularly in the US.
Openness and transparency are cornerstones for effective communication All products showed good sales growth, among AstraZeneca, regulators and the OTHER BUSINESSES in particular the Dental Implant System, which industrys numerous stakeholders.
is gaining market share in several key markets.
The new LoFric Prim, a new generation The exploration of technology and drug APTIUM ONCOLOGY of LoFric urinary catheter, was successfully development in many new areas, such In 2005, Salick Health Care adopted a new launched in April.
In July 2005, the Swiss-based as targeted therapies, biomarkers, name, Aptium Oncology.
Over the past 20 company, Cresco Ti Systems was acquired, modelling, biologics, personalised medicine years, the company has evolved from a general and was fully integrated into Astra Tech and pharmacogenomics, are testing the healthcare company offering a broad range by November.
The acquisition of Cresco framework of current regulations and may lead of services, to an oncology company that strengthens Astra Tech Dental within the to new or revised legislation, regulations and focuses on developing and managing outprosthetic field, further enhancing the aesthetic guidelines moving forward.
The technology, patient cancer centres.
The new name result of implant treatment.
During the year, standards and processes are immature, represents a place for interaction and Astra Tech has expanded its dental sales and complex and difficult to manage at this early collaboration, with each cancer centre being marketing organisations and thus strengthened stage of development.
an environment that supports the delivery its position in key markets, particularly in the of outstanding patient care and high clinical US.
New, wholly-owned subsidiaries have Health authorities worldwide are collaborating achievement.
Thus, Aptium Oncology reflects been established in Australia, Switzerland and more and more in the delivery of common the companys vision for the future and Poland.
Further investments have been made approaches.
For example, the guidelines of the more clearly reflects its values, strengths in R&D, clinical research and new production International Conference on Harmonisation and objectives.
facilities to strengthen the product portfolio.
ICH, intra-agency scientific agreements and intra-agency confidentiality agreements are influencing new and revised legislation and regulations around the world.
