AstraZeneca Annual Report and 12 Form 20-F Information 2005 MEASURING PERFORMANCE The Board and the Senior MEASURING REPUTATION Specific measures that our Board and senior The performance measures referred to above executives use when assessing performance Executive Team use a quarterly are measures of our progress in what we do in in the key areas noted above, or that are business performance report the business of delivering successful medicines otherwise judged to be helpful in enabling to measure our progress in and, thus, shareholder value.
shareholders better to understand and evaluate delivering our strategic objectives.
our business, are described and illustrated In terms of measuring the way we do business, throughout this report.
Examples include: The report provides Board and SET members we have a range of key performance indicators with shared insight into current progress against PRODUCT PERFORMANCE KPIs, by which we measure our progress short term non-financial objectives and current Sales value growth at constant exchange in important areas of corporate responsibility year milestones for longer term strategic goals.
rates CER, split between growth, CR.
Auditing of compliance is fundamental to patent expiry and base products ensuring high standards of ethical behaviour, A range of financial and non-financial see opposite page.
and compliance is integrated into many objectives are set each year, which focus of the KPIs used to measure our CR progress.
on the following key areas: Sales growth and US prescription share More details about these KPIs and our 2005 trends for growth products see opposite performance are provided in the separate Product performance page.
Corporate Responsibility Summary Report Pipeline 2005, or on our website.
Productivity and profitability Market share percentages for growth Shareholder returns products.
We also participate in leading external surveys, Reputation such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, Governance PIPELINE which are important means of evaluating our New candidate drugs CDs see page 35. performance and understanding better the The means of measuring performance in these demands of sustainable development.
areas range from quantitative, comparative Number of development projects by phase performance measures to more qualitative, see page 35.
AstraZeneca is listed in the 2006 Dow Jones discursive analysis.
Sustainability World Index, used by asset R&D investment in US dollar terms managers globally to guide their socially Together, they provide the framework for see page 5. responsible investment.
However, whilst consistently monitoring and reporting our we improved our score, we did not regain the progress towards achieving our objectives Progress against clinical trial milestones.
place we lost in the previous year in the and, ultimately, delivering enduring European Index Dow Jones STOX, wher X e shareholder value.
PRODUCTIVITY AND PROFITABILITY competition for places is increasingly fierce.
Earnings per share EPS growth see page 5.
GOVERNANCE The AstraZeneca Code of Conduct see page Cost growth rates see page 5.
157 sets out the high standards we expect from our employees, and with which compliance Gross margin, costs and operating profit is mandatory.
As part of our commitment margin percentages progression under that Code to comply with all applicable over time see opposite page.
laws and codes of practice, we apply all of the principles of good governance in the UK SHAREHOLDER RETURNS Combined Code of Corporate Governance.
Dividends and share re-purchases The way in which we do so is described in the see page 5.
We also comply with all of the provisions of the UK Combined Free cash see page 5.
Code and our corporate governance practices are generally consistent with the New York Stock Total shareholder return TSR Exchanges corporate governance listing see page 77. standards see page 63.
Our continuous assurance processes, as described on page 65 of the Directors Report, are designed to ensure we effectively monitor our compliance with these standards.
