Business Review 39 SUPPLY We measure our performance using four key COST EFFICIENCY the cartons to specific problems with a device.
metrics: customer service, supply capability, 2005 saw the continued focus on our new Lessons learned from each recall are used to cost efficiency and licence to operate.
supply system, which has demonstrated ensure that such a problem does not re-occur.
progressive benefits, with higher customer CUSTOMER SERVICE service levels, reduced manufacturing lead Safety, health and environment SHE operating A core priority is to provide first class customer times and consequently lower stock levels.
standards are increasingly stringent, with service for all products and in all markets, The programme has now been substantially regulators placing particular emphasis thereby ensuring we can support the continued implemented throughout the supply on environmental issues and the safety of growth of our business.
Our supply chains are network, and we are now focusing on driving chemicals.
AstraZenecas manufacturing sites designed to maximise flexibility and the further improvements.
operate under various regulatory and licensing application of our new supply system continues regimes and internal management systems, to deliver progressive customer service benefits.
During 2005, there was also continued focus and we are focused on meeting all applicable With a few temporary exceptions, major on a wide-ranging cost and efficiency requirements.
There are currently no SHE products and line extensions were successfully programme, leveraging the benefits arising issues that constrain AstraZeneca from fully supported with supplies available to meet from our new supply system.
This delivered utilising any sites.
significant benefits in the year, and we are expecting further progress in 2006 and beyond.
The Company continues to track, participate SUPPLY CAPABILITY actively in, and pursue internal initiatives Process improvements, investments in Cost efficiencies are also driven by continuous relating to, international research and policy additional capacity and the effective use of review of our manufacturing assets to make developments associated with emerging SHE external contractors ensure the secure and sure that they are being used most effectively, policy and legislative matters.
Examples effective supply of our products.
As part of our whilst preserving the flexibility we need to include pharmaceuticals in the environment, overall risk management, we carefully consider respond to fluctuations in demand.
Our bulk chemical control regulations and global the timing of investment to ensure that secure drug facility in Guayama Puerto Rico was climate change.
It is possible that we could supply chains are in place for our products.
We also sold our facilities incur capital or operational costs in connection We have a programme in place to provide in Naucalpan, Mexico and in Manila, the with future voluntary activities or regulatory appropriate supply capabilities for our new Philippines.
We will continue to make further developments relating to these issues products including an assessment of needs adjustments to our manufacturing base to including, for example, process or equipment for new technologies such as biologics.
ensure optimum utilisation of production facilities.
changes associated with wastewater quality, Capital expenditure on supply and raw material substitutions, green chemistry manufacturing facilities totalled $206 million The purchasing Category Management process initiatives or energy efficiency.
We are $352 million in 2004, which included the was fully implemented during 2005 and we are addressing these matters proactively for upgrading of formulation manufacturing now working on securing value delivery from example, we have started our preparatory facilities for tablets and sterile manufacturing all areas of external expenditure.
work for the implementation of the EU REACH facilities.
The total level of investment was less regulation, expected to be formally than that in 2004, when larger than average Additionally, a number of internet-enabled implemented in 2007. investments were authorised.
sourcing projects are enhancing our purchasing practices and delivering clear, Our aim for continuous improvement includes We have a wide range of suppliers.
learning from incidences of non-compliance AstraZenecas global purchasing policies and sharing good practice to further promote and processes, together with our Integrated LICENCE TO OPERATE high standards.
Risk Management IRM process, are aimed We are committed to delivering a secure basis at ensuring uninterrupted supply of raw for assured product quality that ensures both Further information and statistics about materials and other key supplies, all of which the safety and efficacy of our medicines.
our SHE performance can be found in are purchased from a range of suppliers.
Our As part of this, the outcomes of routine internal the separate Corporate Responsibility process systematically examines a range of inspections as well as those by regulatory Summary Report 2005 or on our website: risks to global supply, such as disasters that authorities are rigorously reviewed and, astrazeneca.
remove supply capability or the unavailability if required, actions are taken to further enhance of key raw materials.
It ensures that these compliance consistently across the Company.
risks are mitigated by the implementation The results of all external inspections carried of contingency plans, including the out during 2005 were satisfactory and we did appropriate use of dual or multiple suppliers not experience any material supply difficulties and maintenance of appropriate stock levels.
due to regulatory compliance issues at our Although the price of raw materials may sites or those of our contractors.
Despite our fluctuate from time to time, our global best endeavours, a small number of product purchasing policies seek to avoid such recalls were necessary during the year.
Each fluctuations becoming material in our of these recalls was productand marketbusiness.
During 2005 we have felt the effect specific and all of them were completed of increased oil prices, although the impact successfully.
They ranged from text errors on on our business has not been material.
