AstraZeneca Annual Report and 62 Form 20-F Information 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT AstraZeneca PLC is the holding company BOARD CHANGES The Company is applying all the main and for a group of subsidiaries whose principal Louis Schweitzer was appointed Non-Executive supporting principles of good governance activities are described in the Business Review Chairman with effect from 1 January 2005. in the Combined Code.
The way in which these on pages 6 to 59, which is incorporated into Mr Schweitzer was first appointed to the principles are being applied is described below.
this Directors Report by reference.
Principal Board in March 2004 and was elected as subsidiaries and their locations are given on a Non-Executive Director for the first time by The Company is complying with all of the page 129. shareholders at the Annual General Meeting provisions of the Combined Code, particularly AGM in April 2004. as Marcus Wallenberg has now stepped down The Companys dividend for 2005 of $1.30 as a member of the Audit Committee.
73.7 pence, SEK 10.01 per Ordinary Share With effect from 1 January 2005, John Patterson amounts to a total dividend payment to was appointed as Executive Director with The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 shareholders of $2,070 million.
AstraZeneca PLC American Depositary Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange In view of the Companys resources, results With effect from 14 March 2005, David Brennan NYSE and the Company is subject to the of operations and overall financial condition, the was appointed as Executive Director with reporting and other requirements of the US Directors continue to adopt the going concern responsibility for North America.
Securities and Exchange Commission SEC basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The US SarbanesOn 31 December 2005 Marcus Wallenberg, Oxley Act the Act came into force at the end Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share a Non-Executive Director, stepped down from of July 2002.
As a result of its NYSE listing, the capital during 2005, including details of the the Audit Committee.
Company is subject to those provisions of the allotment of new shares under the Companys Act applicable to foreign issuers.
Section 404 share plans, are given in Note 28 to the In July 2005, we announced that Sir Tom of this legislation requires companies to include Financial Statements.
McKillop would retire and stand down from the in their annual report filed with the SEC a report Board on 31 December 2005 and that David by management stating its responsibility for BOARD OF DIRECTORS Brennan would be the new Chief Executive establishing internal control structure and Details of members of the Board at 31 December Officer with effect from 1 January 2006. procedures for financial reporting and annually 2005 are set out on pages 60 and 61.
The Board to assess the effectiveness of such structure held six scheduled meetings in 2005.
Five of ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS and controls.
In addition, the external auditor the Board meetings were held in the UK: four All of the Directors will retire under Article 65 will be required to attest to and report on in London including one by telephone and of the Companys Articles of Association at the managements assessment.
As a foreign one in Alderley Park.
One meeting was held in AGM in April 2006.
The Notice of AGM will give issuer, AstraZeneca is first required to comply the US.
All Directors participated in all meetings, details of those Directors presenting themselves with section 404 in respect of its financial year save as set out in the following table: for election or re-election at the AGM.
Initially, compliance would have been required in respect of the Number of MANDATORY SHAREHOLDING FOR DIRECTORS financial year ending 31 December 2005, Name meetings attended The Companys Articles of Association require but the SEC extended the compliance dates Sir Peter Bonfield 6 each Director to be the beneficial owner for foreign issuers.
1 of Ordinary Shares in the Company with an David Brennan 4 aggregate nominal value of $125 500 shares.
The Company either already complies with John Buchanan 4 Such holding must be obtained within two or will comply with those provisions of the Act Jane Henney 5 months of the date of the Directors appointment.
applicable to foreign issuers as and when they Michele Hooper 5 At 31 December 2005, all of the Directors become effective.
The Board believes that, complied with this requirement and full details prior to the Act coming into force, the Company Joe Jimenez 6 of each Directors interests in shares of already had a sound corporate governance Sir Tom McKillop 6 the Company are set out in the Directors framework, good processes for the accurate Hkan Mogren 5 Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 80. and timely reporting of its financial position Erna Mller 6 and results of operations and an effective and ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING robust system of internal controls.
Consequently, Dame Bridget Ogilvie 6 2 The Companys AGM will be held on Thursday the Companys approach to compliance with John Patterson 5 27 April 2006.
The principal meeting place will the Act has principally involved the development Louis Schweitzer 6 be in London.
There will be a simultaneous and adjustment of its existing corporate 2 Jonathan Symonds 5 satellite meeting in Stockholm.
governance framework and associated processes concerning reporting, internal Marcus Wallenberg 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE controls and other relevant matters.
UK Combined Code 1 Appointed 14 March 2005.
2 on Corporate Governance For information about the preparatory work Absented themselves because the nomination of the new CEO was being discussed.
The Board has prepared this report with undertaken during 2005 to enable the reference to the UK Combined Code on Company to comply in due course with the The Board is currently scheduled to meet six Corporate Governance published in July SEC rules that implement section 404 see times in 2006.
2003 by the Financial Reporting Council the Financial Review on page 56. and related guidance.
Directors Report 63 The New York Stock Exchange Recognising the importance to shareholders ensures it has regular contact with, The Company, as a foreign issuer with American and the investment community of news about and access to, succession candidates.
Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE, must certain of the Companys key development and disclose any significant ways in which its marketed products, much of the Disclosure At its meeting in December 2005, the Board corporate governance practices differ from Committees work in 2005 focused on ensuring conducted its annual review and assessment those followed by US companies under the that accurate, complete and timely disclosures of how it operates.
This was done without NYSEs corporate governance listing standards.
were made concerning Exanta, Crestor, external facilitation and included consideration In addition, the Company must comply fully Seroquel, Symbicort, NX Y-059 previously and discussion of the nature and level of its with the provisions of the listing standards known as Cerovive, Galida, Toprol-XL and interaction with the Companys management: that relate to the composition, responsibilities Iressa.
Throughout 2005, the Disclosure the quality, quantity and scope of information and operation of audit committees.
These Committee met monthly to review a rolling which flows to the Board from management, provisions incorporate the rules concerning schedule of key news concerning the and the way in which it flows: the content of audit committees implemented by the SEC Company and its products.
The schedule was Board meetings and presentations to Board under the Act.
subsequently reviewed on a monthly basis meetings: the composition of the Board: the by the Senior Executive Team.
In addition, the practical arrangements for the work of the The Company has reviewed the corporate Disclosure Committee held frequent ad hoc Board: and the work and operation of the governance practices required to be followed meetings to review specific disclosure issues.
Overall, Board members by US companies under the NYSEs listing concluded that their view of the performance standards and its corporate governance BOARD STRUCTURE AND PROCESSES of the Board is very positive and that the Board practices are generally consistent with those Board composition, responsibilities and its committees were operating in standards.
However, while the Companys and appointments an effective and constructive manner.
Non-Executive Directors do meet without the The Board comprises Executive and NonExecutive Directors present, these meetings Executive Directors.
In the view of the Board, At the same meeting, the Chairman also are not regularly scheduled.
Additionally, not all the majority of Board members are independent reported to the Board on his conversations members of the Nomination Committee are Non-Executive Directors.
The differing roles with each Non-Executive Director about his considered independent see explanation below.
of Executive Directors and Non-Executive or her individual performance and that of the Directors are clearly delineated, with both Board as a whole, which took place during the The Companys Audit Committee complies having fiduciary duties towards shareholders fourth quarter of 2005.
The Non-Executive with the provisions of the listing standards and all being collectively responsible for the Directors reviewed the performance of the that relate to the composition, responsibilities success of the Company.
However, Executive Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer and operation of audit committees.
In August Directors have direct responsibility for business in their absence.
In addition, the Board reviewed 2005, the Company submitted the required operations, whereas the Non-Executive the performance of the Chairman in his absence, annual written affirmation to the NYSE confirming Directors have a responsibility to bring during that same December Board meeting.
its full compliance with those and other independent, objective judgement to bear applicable provisions.
More detailed information on Board decisions.
This includes constructively The Company maintained directors and officers about the Audit Committee and its work during challenging management and helping liability insurance cover throughout 2005.
2005 is set out in the Audit Committees Report to develop the Companys strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the In early 2006 the Company is planning to enter performance of management and have into a deed of indemnity in favour of each Disclosure Policy and Disclosure Committee various responsibilities concerning the integrity Board member.
Under Article 134 of the The Companys Disclosure Policy provides of financial information, internal controls and Companys Articles of Association the current a framework for the handling and disclosure risk management.
To help maintain a strong Directors and officers are already indemnified of inside information and other information executive presence on the Board, in addition in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. of interest to shareholders and the investment to the Executive Directors attending, Board However, consistent with recent changes to community.
It also defines the role of the meetings are often attended by members of the the Companies Act 1985, and in the interests Disclosure Committee.
The Chief Financial Senior Executive Team on a rotational basis.
of retaining high quality, skilled individuals, Officer, the Executive Director, Development, current market practice is for companies the Group Secretary and Solicitor, the ViceThe Board sets the Companys strategy and to enter into a separate deed of indemnity President, Corporate Affairs and from July policies and monitors progress towards in favour of each director.
2005 the Global Head of Investor Relations meeting its objectives.
To this end, it conducts were the members of the Disclosure Committee a formal strategy review annually.
The Board Independence of Directors under during 2005.
The Disclosure Committee meets also assesses whether its obligations to the the UK Combined Code regularly to assist and inform the decisions of Companys shareholders and others are During 2005, the Board considered the the Chief Executive Officer concerning inside understood and met.
This includes regular independence of each Non-Executive Director.
Periodically, reviews of the Companys financial With the exception of two of them as set out it reviews the Companys disclosure controls performance and critical business issues.
below and the Chairman, the Board considers and procedures and its own operation as part that all of the Non-Executive Directors are of work carried out to enable management There is an established procedure operated independent in character and judgement and and the Board to assure themselves that by the Nomination Committee for the that there are no relationships or circumstances appropriate processes are operating for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
that are likely to affect their independent Companys planned disclosures, such as its Appointments are based on the merits of the judgement.
The Board also considers that quarterly results announcements and scheduled candidates, who are measured against Louis Schweitzer, who was appointed Noninvestor relations events.
In addition, the objective criteria.
All of the Directors retire Executive Chairman with effect from 1 January Disclosure Committee members are members at each AGM and may offer themselves for 2005, was independent on appointment.
of the steering group that reviews the process re-election by shareholders.
The Board reviews In accordance with the Combined Code, for preparing, and drafts of, this Annual Report annually the status of succession to senior the Board has not subsequently considered and Form 20-F Information.
positions, including those at Board level, and the independence of the Chairman.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 64 Form 20-F Information 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED For the reasons explained below, the Board Professor Mller is the Chief Executive Officer Vice-President, North America David Brennan does not believe that Hkan Mogren, of the Board of the Knut and Alice Wallenberg throughout 2005, Tony Zook from 1 January Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, or Marcus Foundation, a charitable foundation in Sweden 2006 : Jan Lundberg, Executive Vice-President, Wallenberg can be determined independent that supports scientific research and Discovery Research: Martin Nicklasson, under the revised Combined Code.
However, educational programmes by awarding financial Executive Vice-President, Global Marketing the Board believes that both Dr Mogren and grants to individuals or institutions.
Although and Business Development formerly Product Mr Wallenberg have brought, and continue one of the Foundations principal investments Strategy & Licensing : Barrie Thorpe, Executive to bring, considerable business experience is in Investor AB, all investment decisions of Vice-President, Operations: and Tony Bloxham, and to make valuable contributions to the the Foundation are made by its investment Executive Vice-President, Human Resources.
In particular, Mr Wallenberg committee, of which Professor Mller is not also provided useful knowledge and expertise a member.
Her role, as Chief Executive Officer The Senior Executive Team normally meets to the Audit Committee until he stepped down of the Board, is principally to lead the scrutiny once a month to consider and decide all major on 31 December 2005. of applications for grants and maintain close business issues.
It also usually reviews those contacts with scientific and educational matters that are of a size or importance to Dr Mogren was previously the Chief Executive institutions in Sweden to develop the work require the attention of, or that are reserved Officer of Astra AB and Executive Deputy of the Foundation.
to, the Board before such matters are submitted Chairman of the Company and is now a to the Board for review and decision.
member of the Board of Directors of Investor AB, Jane Henney is a Non-Executive Director of a company that, as at 31 December 2005, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and CIGNA Business objectives and performance held approximately 3.26% of the Ordinary Corporation, both of which are customers of Each business function e. g. R&D, Operations Shares of the Company.
This holding represents the Company in the US.
The Board considered is subject to an annual budget and targeta significant proportion of Investor ABs overall these relationships and concluded that they setting process, including forecasts for the investment portfolio.
Mr Wallenberg was did not compromise her independence.
following two years together with a sensitivity a member of the Board of Directors and and risk analysis, quarterly updates of the Chief Executive Officer of Investor AB until Chief Executive Officer and forecast for the current year and regular 1 September 2005, when he stepped down.
the Senior Executive Team reporting.
Performance reviews are undertaken The Chief Executive Officer has been delegated regularly in each part of the business.
The The Board also considered, in particular, authority from, and is responsible to, the Board Companys quarterly business performance the positions of Sir Peter Bonfield, senior for directing and promoting the profitable report process uses a broad range of measures Non-Executive Director, Erna Mller and operation and development of the Company, that link directly to the achievement of key Jane Henney.
For the reasons explained consistent with the primary aim of enhancing business priorities.
Treasury operations are below, it is the Boards view that they are long term shareholder value.
centralised, operate within defined limits and independent.
Each discharges his or her are subject to regular reporting requirements duties in a properly independent manner and The Chief Executive Officer is responsible to and Audit Committee reviews.
constructively and appropriately challenge the the Board for the management and performance Executive Directors and the Board.
of the Companys businesses within the Internal controls and management of risk framework of Company policies, reserved The Board has overall responsibility for the Sir Peter is a Non-Executive Director of powers and routine reporting requirements.
Companys system of internal controls, which Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson.
Marcus He is obliged to refer certain major matters aims to safeguard shareholders investments Wallenberg is also a Non-Executive Director of defined in the formal delegation of the Boards and the Companys assets, and to ensure that Ericsson.
Investor AB, of which Mr Wallenberg authority back to the Board.
The roles of the proper accounting records are maintained was Chief Executive Officer until 1 September Board, the Boards committees, the Chairman, and that the financial information used within 2005, held approximately 5% of Ericssons the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior the business and for publication is accurate, shares representing approximately 19% Executive Team are documented, as are the reliable and fairly presents the financial position of the voting rights at 31 December 2005.
Companys delegated authorities and reserved of the Company and the results of its business The Board is satisfied that Sir Peters presence powers, the means of operation of the operations.
The Board is also responsible for on the Ericsson Board results from his broad business and the roles of corporate functions.
reviewing the effectiveness of the system of experience of the global telecommunications internal controls.
The system is designed to industry and not from any connection with The Chief Executive Officer has established provide reasonable not necessarily absolute Investor AB or the Wallenberg family.
The and chairs the Senior Executive Team.
assurance of effective operations and Board also had regard to the length of time While the Chief Executive Officer retains full compliance with laws and regulations.
that Sir Peter has served as a Non-Executive responsibility for the authority delegated to Director of the Company he was first appointed him by the Board, the Senior Executive Team Since the publication in September 1999 to the Zeneca Group PLC board in 1995. is the vehicle through which he exercises that by the Institute of Chartered Accountants authority in respect of the Companys business in England and Wales of the Turnbull Report, The position of senior Non-Executive Director including Aptium Oncology and Astra Tech.
Internal Control: Guidance for Directors of the Company was established in 2002, and on the Combined Code, the Directors have the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have The members of the Senior Executive Team are continued to review the effectiveness of only been in their roles since January 2005 and the Chief Executive Officer Sir Tom McKillop the Groups system of controls, risk 2006 respectively.
The Board therefore wishes until the end of 2005, David Brennan since management and the Companys high level Sir Peter to continue in the role for one more 1 January 2006 : Jonathan Symonds, Chief internal control arrangements.
These reviews year to provide valuable further continuity, Financial Officer: John Patterson, Executive have included an assessment of internal subject to his re-election at the AGM in 2006.
Director, Development: Bruno Angelici, controls, and in particular internal financial Sir Peter intends to step down as a Director Executive Vice-President, Europe, Japan, controls, supported by management of the Company at the AGM in 2007.
Asia Pacific and rest of world: the Executive assurance of the maintenance of control, Directors Report 65 reports from the internal audit function, as well The AstraZeneca Code of Conduct is set The processes for ensuring compliance as the external auditor on matters identified out in full on pages 157 and 158 and on with policies and procedures and external in the course of its statutory audit work.
legislation and regulation other than those It is an important demonstration of the relating to safety, health and the Underpinning these reviews is an annual Companys uncompromising commitment to environment and product regulatory letter of assurance process by which honesty and integrity.
The Company maintains compliance, which are the responsibility responsible managers confirm the adequacy procedures for raising integrity concerns, of other audit functions.
of their systems of internal financial and nonwhich include a confidential helpline for financial controls, their compliance with employees worldwide.
During 2005, 109 On an ad hoc basis, whether value for Company policies and relevant laws and employees used the confidential helpline money is obtained in terms of efficient use regulations including the industrys regulatory to seek guidance on corporate responsibility of the Companys resources.
requirements, and confirm they have reported issues or to raise concerns, all of which were any control weaknesses through the GIA also acts as a source of constructive reviewed and reported on, as appropriate, Companys continuous assurance process, advice and best practice, assisting senior to the Audit Committee.
To date, no material which was introduced by the Company in management with its responsibility to improve issues have been identified through this route.
2004 and operated throughout 2005. the processes by which risks are identified and managed and to report and advise on the The Company also has a Finance Code The Directors believe that the Company proper and effective use of resources.
of Conduct that complements the main maintains an effective, embedded system AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and applies to of internal controls and complies with the EXTERNAL AUDITOR the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Turnbull Report guidance.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on Officer and the Companys principal accounting 27 April 2006 for the re-appointment of KPMG officers.
The Finance Code of Conduct also The Company views the careful management applies to all Finance function employees Audit Plc, London as auditor of the Company.
of risk as a key management activity.
Through and reinforces the importance of the integrity the adoption by the Board of a Group Risk & of the Companys Financial Statements, of the The external auditor has undertaken various Control Policy and supporting standards, the reliability of the accounting records on which pieces of non-audit work for the Company Company has sought to confirm and formalise they are based and of the robustness of the during 2005.
More information about this work the drive to manage business risks as a key relevant controls and processes.
and the audit and non-audit fees paid by element of all activities.
the Company are set out in Note 27 to As reported in last years Annual Report, the Financial Statements on page 127.
Supporting line management activities is during 2004 the Senior Executive Team The external auditor is not engaged by the a dedicated risk management team who sponsored a review and re-structuring of the Company to carry out any non-audit work help to ensure key risks are indentified and Companys full range of policies, standards on which it might, in the future, be required to communicated appropriately.
Following formal Board express an audit opinion.
As explained more of this team are reviewed by the Risk Advisory approval early in 2005, the revised Group fully in the Audit Committees Report on pages Group, which comprises senior representatives policies were made available on a dedicated 68 and 69, the Audit Committee has established from each business function.
The Risk Advisory intranet site, the availability and purpose of pre-approval policies and procedures for audit Group considers new and emerging risks which has been communicated throughout and non-audit work permitted to be carried as well as risks across different parts of the the organisation.
out by the external auditor and has carefully organisation.
It also plays an important role monitored the objectivity and independence in promoting continuous improvement in the GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT of the external auditor throughout 2005. management of risk by sharing best practice Group Internal Audit GIA is an independent throughout the organisation.
It is chaired by appraisal function that derives its authority BOARD COMMITTEES the Chief Financial Officer and reports twice from the Board through the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee a year to the Senior Executive Team.
The Risk Its primary role is to provide reasonable and Full details about the Audit Committee, Advisory Groups reports on the Companys objective assurance about the adequacy and its composition, remit and work during 2005 risk profile are reviewed by both the Audit effectiveness of the Companys financial control can be found in the Audit Committees Report Committee and the Board.
framework, compliance with laws, regulations on pages 68 and 69. and policies and risk management processes.
CODE OF CONDUCT Remuneration Committee The policy of the Company is to require all of its GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities set The members of the Remuneration Committee subsidiaries, and their employees, to observe down in its charter by reviewing: are Sir Peter Bonfield Chairman of the high ethical standards of integrity and honesty Committee, John Buchanan, Erna Mller and to act with due skill, care, diligence and The processes for ensuring that business and Joe Jimenez.
They are all Non-Executive fairness in the conduct of business.
The risks are effectively managed.
The Board considers them each to Companys management recognises that be independent.
such standards make a significant contribution The financial and operational controls that to the overall control environment and seeks help to ensure that the Companys assets The remit of the Remuneration Committee to reinforce the standards outlined in the are properly safeguarded from losses, is, primarily, to recommend for decision by the Code of Conduct throughout the business.
Board the fundamental remuneration policy In particular, all employees are required for the Company and to ensure the proper to comply with the letter and spirit of the The controls that help to ensure the operation of all plans for employees involving AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and with the reliability and integrity of management the Companys shares.
More particularly, high ethical standards detailed by the Company information systems.
it makes specific proposals in respect of in support of it.
the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors and the Companys most senior executives.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 66 Form 20-F Information 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Further information about the membership The Company has frequent discussions with in some countries: this includes a forum in and work of the Remuneration Committee institutional shareholders on a range of issues Europe where the Chief Executive Officer meets and the Companys remuneration policy affecting its performance.
These include employee representatives from 19 countries.
and practice is set out in the Directors meetings following the announcement of the Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 80. annual results with the Companys largest The Company believes that by operating institutional shareholders on an individual according to these values and with this open Nomination Committee basis.
In addition, the Company responds style of management, employees will respond The members of the Nomination Committee to individual ad hoc requests for discussions by using their full talents and potential in the during 2005 were Louis Schweitzer from institutional shareholders.
The senior active pursuit of business objectives, which Chairman of the Committee, Hkan Mogren, Non-Executive Director is available to will correspond with the best interests Sir Peter Bonfield, Jane Henney and Joe shareholders if they have concerns that of shareholders.
All the current members of the contact through the normal channels of Nomination Committee are Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Over the last eighteen months, AstraZeneca Directors.
With the exception of the Financial Officer has failed to resolve, or for has been implementing a people strategy Chairman and Dr Mogren for the reasons which such contact is inappropriate.
defined by the Senior Executive Team in explained above, the Board considers them late 2003, identifying what people-related all to be independent.
All shareholders, including private investors, processes and outcomes should be improved have an opportunity at the AGM to put in order to prepare the Company for the The Nomination Committee met twice in 2005. questions to members of the Board on challenges facing it and the pharmaceutical The remit of the Nomination Committee matters relating to the Companys operation industry as a whole.
The objective has been is to make proposals to the Board for any new and performance.
and continues to be to implement an appointments as Directors of the Company.
organisational step-change in the way people The principal task in relation to nomination EMPLOYEES in AstraZeneca are managed and developed matters in 2005 related to the appointment People are AstraZenecas key intellectual in order to create a competitive advantage for of David Brennan as Chief Executive Officerassets.
The Companys success depends the Company.
elect to succeed Sir Tom McKillop with effect on making the best use of their knowledge, from 1 January 2006.
The Nomination skills and inventiveness.
Accordingly, its core The Company believes that every employee Committee, chaired by the Chairman, led the values include respect for individuals and should be treated with the same respect and process for nominating David Brennan, which embracing their diversity throughout the dignity.
It values the rich diversity and creative was supported by external search consultants.
It seeks to engender a global culture potential of people with differing backgrounds in which people make the best use of their and abilities and encourages a culture of equal The Nomination Committee also reviewed the talents, supporting each other professionally opportunities, in which personal success balance of the Board and the requirements for in a spirit of openness, honesty, and mutual depends on personal merit and performance.
Employees at all levels of the organisation It is Company policy that there should be are expected to observe the highest ethical no discrimination against any person for any Science Committee standards in their work, and to lead by reason.
All judgements about people for the The members of the Science Committee are personal example.
purposes of recruitment, development and Jane Henney, Erna Mller and Dame Bridget promotion are made solely on the basis of their Ogilvie.
They are all Non-Executive Directors.
The Companys management style is to ability and potential in relation to the needs be open and participative at every level, of the job.
Every manager is responsible for The remit of the Science Committee is, on which ensures that employees are informed implementing this policy.
behalf of the Board, to review and assess the continually about business issues, particularly international competitiveness and quality those matters which affect them personally and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY of science within the Company.
The Executive their jobs, both in the short and longer term.
The Company aims to set, promote and Vice-President, Discovery Research Jan Each employee can expect to have clear maintain high standards of corporate Lundberg and the Vice-President and Head performance objectives developed with his responsibility wherever it operates.
Dame of Global Project Evaluation Christopher or her input and understand how those Bridget Ogilvie, Non-Executive Director, Reilly normally attend meetings of the objectives fit within the particular employees is the Board member responsible for overseeing Science Committee.
work environment and with those of the Corporate Responsibility CR within the Company as a whole.
This focus on clarity Company, supported by a cross-functional, SHAREHOLDERS of business objectives is reinforced by global corporate responsibility committee In its financial reporting to shareholders and performance-related bonus and incentive that leads development of AstraZenecas other interested parties by means of annual plans.
The Company also encourages CR framework.
Policies and standards relating and quarterly reports, the Board aims to employee share ownership by offering various to corporate responsibility are maintained and present a balanced and understandable employee share plans which are described in widely communicated within the organisation assessment of the Companys financial Note 24 to the Financial Statements.
and the Company continues to develop position and prospects.
its established systems for monitoring In addition to employee participation as part of performance.
The Company publishes and The Company maintains a corporate website the normal management activity, the Company sends to shareholders a separate Corporate containing a wide range of information of has constructive relationships with trade unions Responsibility Summary Report.
Information interest to institutional and private investors: and arrangements exist for more formal in the Corporate Responsibility Summary astrazeneca.
consultation at the business and national level Report for 2005 was again subject to Directors Report 67 an assurance process carried out by an Since the beginning of the original re-purchase contributions and the funds were not provided independent, third party organisation.
Detailed programme in 1999, the Company has or reimbursed by any non-US legal entity.
information about the Companys approach to purchased for cancellation in total 210.55 Such contributions do not constitute political corporate responsibility can be found in the million of its Ordinary Shares with a nominal donations or political expenditure for purposes separate printed report and on its website: value of $0.25 each for an aggregate cost of of the UKs Political Parties, Elections and astrazeneca.
This number of shares represents Referendums Act 2000 and are made without approximately 11.75% of the Companys total any involvement of persons or entities outside It is not Company policy formally to comply issued share capital at the time the the US.
with the Confederation of British Industrys re-purchase programme commenced in 1999. code of practice on the prompt payment On behalf of the Board of suppliers.
It is, however, Company policy The Company continues to maintain robust G H R MUSKER to agree appropriate payment terms with all controls in respect of all aspects of the share Group Secretary and Solicitor suppliers when agreeing the terms of each re-purchase programme to ensure compliance 2 February 2006 transaction, to ensure that those suppliers with English law and the FSAs Listing Rules, are made aware of the terms of payment and, Disclosure Rules and Prospectus Rules.
subject to their compliance, abide by the In particular, the Companys Disclosure terms of payment.
The total amount of money Committee meets to ensure that the Company owed by AstraZeneca PLCs subsidiaries to does not purchase its own shares during trade creditors at the balance sheet date was prohibited periods.
At the AGM on 27 April equivalent to 70 days average purchases.
No 2006, the Company will seek a renewal equivalent disclosure is provided in of its current permission from shareholders respect of AstraZeneca PLC, as it has to purchase its own shares.
POLITICAL DONATIONS SHAREHOLDERS RETURN STRATEGY Under the UKs Political Parties, Elections and AND PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Referendums Act 2000, shareholder authority The Companys stated distribution policy is required for political donations to be made contains both a regular dividend cash flow or political expenditure to be incurred by the and a share re-purchase component to give Company or its subsidiaries in the European the Company more flexibility in managing its Union.
Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries capital structure over time.
The Board made any donations or incurred any expenditure continually reviews its shareholders return in 2005 in the European Union in respect of strategy and recently restated its intention to which shareholder authority or disclosure in grow dividends in line with earnings while this Directors Report is required under the maintaining dividend cover in the two to three Act.
Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries times range.
The Board firmly believes that the intend to make any such donations or incur any first call on free cash flow is business need such expenditure in the European Union in the and, having fulfilled that, will return surplus foreseeable future.
However, the Act defines cash to shareholders.
Accordingly, in 2006, political organisation widely and, for example, the Board intends to re-purchase shares interest groups or lobbying organisations at around the same level as 2005. concerned with the review of government policy or law reform may be caught by the definition.
As previously reported, between August 1999 and December 2003 the Company To enable the Company to continue to support re-purchased $4 billion of its own shares such organisations without inadvertently under two share re-purchase programmes.
breaching the Act, a resolution will, as in In January 2004 the Board approved a further previous years, be proposed at the AGM $4 billion re-purchase programme to be on 27 April 2006 to authorise the Company completed by the end of 2005, of which to make donations or incur expenditure in $2.2 billion was completed in 2004. the European Union up to an aggregate limit of $150,000.
In 2005 the Board approved an increase of the programme by a further $1.2 billion making In 2005, AstraZenecas US legal entities made a total of $3 billion for 2005. contributions amounting in aggregate to $255,470 2004 $323,000 to state political During 2005, the Company purchased 67.65 party committees and to campaign committees million of its own Ordinary Shares with a nominal of various state candidates affiliated with the value of $0.25 each for an aggregate cost of major parties in accordance with pre-established $3 billion.
Following the purchase of these guidelines.
All contributions were made only shares, they were all cancelled.
This number where allowed by US federal and state law.
of shares represents 4.28% of the Companys American nationals those with valid green total issued share capital at 31 December 2005. cards exercised decision-making over the
