AstraZeneca Annual Report and 34 Form 20-F Information 2005 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We remain committed to Improving productivity in Discovery remains Developments interfaces with the Discovery a core priority.
Our strategic initiatives are and GMBD organisations.
A new Development sustainable development of directly aligned to improving the quality of Projects function has been established to our business and the continued biological targets and chemical leads, so that support project management and leadership delivery of new, medically important we can eliminate, at an earlier stage, those of our global product teams.
We have and differentiated medicines.
compounds that are unlikely to make it streamlined our R&D operating model through clinical development.
For example, to achieve clearer roles, responsibilities In 2005, our research and development collaboration between clinical medicine and and improved portfolio review and decisioninvestment totalled $3.4 billion $3.5 billion basic science Discovery Medicine continues making.
A Development Productivity in 2004, $3 billion in 2003.
The results to help us gain a better understanding of Improvement programme should help us of the strong drive to increase productivity human diseases and the suitability of future to make better use of our assets and deliver are becoming evident in the sustained size medicines to prevent and treat those diseases.
more projects with the same resources.
of the early development portfolio: during Alongside continued investment in improved We are continuing to invest in China and, 2005, another 25 candidate drugs CDs lead generation capability, we are introducing, in 2005, a number of projects for accelerated were selected 18 in 2004 and 15 in 2003. where possible, high throughput testing of clinical development in China were identified.
safety and drug metabolism pharmacokinetics In Development, we aim to successfully turn BIOLOGICS much earlier into the process, so that CDs CDs into marketed medicines, as well as As a company whose success is built on chosen for development are more likely to acquiring new projects through in-licensing leading-edge science, it is essential that succeed.
We have also made changes so and acquisition to supplement in-house we continuously monitor new capabilities and that all CDs in future will undergo formal oneDiscovery efforts where appropriate.
At the identify opportunities that will help us to develop month toxicology studies before being accepted end of 2005, there were 45 projects in the the next generation of medicines that offer into development.
This should both reduce pre-clinical phase and 17, 15 and 29 projects better results for patients.
Biological molecules early attrition and speed up progress towards in clinical phases 1, 2 and 3 respectively.
present such an opportunity and, during the human exposure.
In 2005, this process was last few years, have been the fastest growing applied to some of the 25 new CDs.
In 2005, our continued commitment to R&D segment of the pharmaceutical market.
included investments in laboratory facilities DEVELOPMENT Biological molecules are usually produced in Sweden, the UK and the US and at the People in our Development organisation naturally by living organisms in response Bangalore site in India.
Training and specialise in clinical research, regulatory affairs to disease for example, anti-bodies.
New development of our employees is an and pharmaceutical development.
They work technologies have opened up the possibility integrated and continuous process.
globally in project delivery-focused teams of imitating and improving on the natural that bring together all the relevant functional response, where it is not itself being effective.
During 2005, we changed the way we manage skills and experience needed for the robust, As part of a comprehensive biopharmaceutical and prioritise our portfolio, both at the early rapid progress of new medicines and the strategy, we are determined to secure development stage and when a project reaches management of development risks.
a significant share of this market by building the point when it requires input from our on the two collaborations described below.
Global Marketing and Business Development Our focus in 2005 was the continuing By playing an active role in the development GMBD teams.
progression of the early development portfolio, of these new technologies, we aim to bring which resulted in the initiation of new phase 3 new medicines based on them to patients DISCOVERY projects for each of Zactima, AZD2171 and as early as possible.
In Discovery, our scientists work together AZD6140.
The phase 3 programme for Galida across boundaries to exchange ideas, to continued to progress well and for NX Y-059 LICENCES, ALLIANCES AND COLLABORATIONS promote best practice and to maximise the previously known as Cerovive, following the To complement our in-house R&D capabilities, opportunities that are offered by our size positive results of SAINT I, the SAINT II study over 200 new collaborations have been and global reach.
We focus on finding novel was expanded to improve the likelihood of entered into in 2005 with leading academic medicines for targeted unmet medical needs confirming the findings of SAINT I.
We also centres and biotechnology companies, bringing in our chosen areas of activities.
This work supported regulatory submissions or the total number of active R&D collaborations is supported by other specialised Discovery approvals for new uses that broaden the and agreements to more than 1,700. groups in Safety Assessment and Process claims or geographic coverage of Nexium, R&D who also support the projects in their Symbicort, Arimidex and Seroquel.
As reported earlier, in 2003 and 2004 we progress through Development and lifecycle entered into two significant collaborations with, management.
2005 saw the formation of Progression of the early development portfolio respectively, Abgenix Inc. and Cambridge three global discovery functions: Discovery has resulted in three projects achieving positive Antibody Technology.
These collaborations Enabling Capabilities & Science, Discovery proof of principle in clinical studies in 2005 and are aimed at discovering human monoclonal Information and Development Drug Metabolism eight new projects entering human testing.
anti-body drug candidates and expanding the Pharmacokinetics, each supporting all research range of disease mechanisms and targets that areas.
They provide skills platforms in compound In 2005, the Executive Director of Development, they can address.
The Cambridge Antibody management, structural chemistry, bio-imaging, who was appointed in January 2005, oversaw Technology collaboration is for respiratory and transgenics, pathway analysis, protein science, the implementation of a change programme inflammation targets, whilst the collaboration and information science and informatics.
to enhance project delivery and improve with Abgenix Inc. is for cancer targets.
Business Review 35 In December, Abgenix announced that it was Development projects The following glossary is used for the pipeline tables in the therapy areas on pages 14, 18, 21, 24, 27 and 30 to be acquired by Amgen.
We are reviewing and in the Development Pipeline on pages 36 and 37. all aspects of our research, operations and commercialisation process to ensure that the Abbreviations: 29 5HT 5-hydroxytryptamine serotonin Company can meet the challenges of bringing 5HT 1B subtype of 5HT receptor 1B these new biological medicines to market for 26 5HT 2 subtype of 5HT receptor 2 the benefit of patients as quickly and 15 ADP adenoside diphosphate 29 effectively as possible.
AF atrial fibrillation 17 AGT  17 In line with our strategy of pursuing targeted CHF congestive heart failure 12 17 COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease acquisition, licensing and partnership 12 CPU carboxy peptidase-U opportunities where appropriate, we CRC colo-rectal cancer 45 have entered into a number of significant D 2 subtype of dopamine receptor 31 2 25 externalisation transactions to strengthen our EGFR-TKI epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine midto late-stage pipeline in some of our key kinase inhibitor GERD gastro-oesophageal reflux disease therapy areas: 05 04 03 GI gastrointestinal Pre-clinical Phase 1 H half year Cardiovascular: reverse cholesterol Phase 2 Phase 3 HCTZ hydrochlorothiazide transport enhancers collaboration with IBAT ilial bile acid transport Avanir including AZD2479 in phase 1 : Includes NCEs and Line Extensions IV intravenous see pages 36 and 37 and AGI-1067 phase 3, an investigational MEK mitogen activated extra-cellular signal-regulated kinase kinase oral drug for the treatment of atherosclerosis, MI myocardial infarction with AtheroGenics Inc. NCE new chemical entity Candidate drugs nominated NNR neuronal nicotinic receptor Respiratory and Inflammation: disassociated NSAID non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug steroids with Schering AG selective NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer glucocorticoid receptor agonists SEGRAs.
05 25 PARP poly-ADP-ribose polymerase PC pre-clinical: candidate drug accepted for development but not yet administered Oncology: Anti-cancer target protein 04 18 to man kinase B Akt, with Astex Therapeutics: pMDI pressurised metered dose inhaler and acquisition of KuDOS Pharmaceuticals 03 15 PPAR peroxisome  receptor Limited, which will extend the Oncology Q quarter SMART Symbicort Maintenance and pipeline to include inhibitors of DNA repair.
Reliever Therapy SRS sarcoma Infection: CytoFab phase 2, polyclonal TLESR transient lower oesophageal sphincter antibody for the treatment of severe sepsis, relaxations with Protherics.
VEGFR-TKI vascular endothelial cell growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor VTE venous thromboembolism Neuroscience: neuronal nicotinic receptor 2008 not earlier than 2009 compounds to improve cognitive recognition in Alzheimers disease and schizophrenia with Targacept, including TC-1734 phase 2.
Further details are provided in the respective therapy area sections.
This externalisation activity supplements and complements our internal ongoing Discovery and Development projects and processes.
