SPECTRIS 01-17 4 4 06 3:36 pm Page 16 Board of directors John Poulter John OHiggins Steve Hare Chairman Chief Executive Group finance director John Poulter joined Spectris in 1988 and John joined Spectris in January 2006.
Steve Hare, a Bachelor of Commerce and was Chief Executive from 1992 until he His previous career was with Honeywell Inc, chartered accountant, joined Spectris in became non-executive Chairman in 2001. where he was latterly President of 2004.
Previously a co-founder of His earlier career was with BTR plc and Honeywell Automation and Control consultancy hba partners, he was before Cambridge Instruments.
He has been a Solutions, based in Shanghai.
Prior to this that chief financial officer and a board non-executive director of a number of he was based in Brussels in a series of senior member of Marconi PLC, where he was public companies including RAC plc and roles in the automation and industrial instrumental in achieving agreement for Kidde plc.
He is currently a non-executive divisions of the company.
Before joining the successful financial restructuring director of Smaller Companies Value Trust Honeywell, he was with Daimler Benz.
Prior to joining Marconi, Steve plc and several private companies.
Age 63. has an engineering degree from University was group finance director at GPT Limited, College Dublin, a masters degree in control a joint venture between GEC and Siemens.
Chairman of the nomination committee.
engineering from Purdue in Indiana and an Age 44.
Andrew Given Martin Lamb Professor Leo Murray Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Andrew Given was appointed to the Board Martin Lamb was appointed to the Professor Murray was appointed to the in 2001.
An engineer, he has Board in 2003.
He is a graduate of Glasgow Logica plc, initially as group finance director considerable business and technical University and was for 17 years Director of and latterly as deputy chief executive.
Prior experience both in the UK and North the Cranfield School of Management.
to that he held senior financial positions America.
Much of his career has been Before joining Cranfield, he had a successful with Plessey Company plc and with spent with IMI plc, where international business career including Northern Telecom Limited, mainly in North he is Chief Executive.
Age 46. management positions with BP, Courtaulds, America.
He is a non-executive director of AT Kearney Management Consultants and VT Group plc and Spirent plc.
He is a director of East of England International Limited and Chairman of the audit committee and the Macintyre Charitable Trust and a board senior independent director.
member of and consultant to a number of organisations.
16 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005 SPECTRIS 01-17 3 4 06 8:57 pm Page 17 Stephen Harris Jim Webster Roger Stephens Business group director Business group director Head of commercial and Stephen Harris joined Spectris in 2003.
Jim Webster, a metallurgy graduate, company secretary He is responsible for the operational joined Spectris in 1993.
He is responsible Roger Stephens is an economics graduate supervision of a number of the groups for the operational supervision of a and chartered company secretary.
Prior to joining number of the groups trading to joining Spectris in 1997, he worked Spectris he was executive director at companies.
He was previously general in engineering project management, Powell Duffryn responsible for a number manager of the European Wire and specialising in commercial negotiations of subsidiaries and, before that, held Cable Division of Raychem Corporation.
and claims resolution, and then as director several positions within APV in North He is a non-executive director of of administration in a commercial law firm.
He has a degree in engineering Raymarine plc.
Age 45. from Cambridge and an MBA from the University of Chicago.
Anthony Reading MBE John Warren Non-executive director Non-executive director Anthony Reading was appointed to the Board John Warren was appointed to the Board in 2004.
He was a director of Tomkins plc in March 2006.
From 2000 to 2005 he was and Chairman of Tomkins Corporation, USA, group finance director at WH Smith PLC.
for 11 years until he retired at the end of Prior to that he was with United Biscuits 2003.
Prior to that he held senior positions plc for 19 years, latterly as group finance with a number of international companies director.
He has been a non-executive including group chief executive of the director of Rexam plc and RAC plc and is manufacturing and engineering division currently a non-executive director of The of BTR plc.
He is a non-executive director Rank Group Plc, Arla Foods UK plc, Bovis of The Laird Group PLC, George Wimpey Plc Homes Group Plc and will be appointed a and e2v technologies plc.
Age 62. non-executive director of BPP Holdings plc from May 2006.
Chairman of the remuneration committee.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005 17
