SPECTRIS 18-22 3 4 06 9:50 pm Page 18 Directors report The directors present their report and accounts for the year Dividends ended 31 December 2005.
Results for the group are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 33 and in the supporting notes.
A final Principal activities dividend of 11.2p per ordinary share is proposed for the Spectris is engaged in the development and marketing of year to 31 December 2005 2004: 10.25p.
With the interim precision instrumentation and controls.
For 2005 reporting dividend, this makes a total for the year of 15.8p 2004: 14.5p.
purposes, the businesses were grouped into three sectors: The final dividend will be paid on 23 June 2006 to electronic controls, in-line instrumentation and process shareholders on the register on 2 June 2006. technology.
Further details of the trading companies can The terms of the Spectris plc Employee Benefit Trust be found in the Chairmans and Chief Executives review provide that dividends payable on shares held within the page 9.
Developments in the groups business activities Trust are waived to 0.01p.
are discussed in the Chairmans and Chief Executives review page 9 and financial review page 11.
Research and development Expenditure committed to research and development Acquisitions is focused on new product development, applications During the year, a small, bolt-on acquisition was made, for engineering and process integration.
Costs are expensed as which the consideration was 2.5 million, including expenses.
incurred, except where the expenditure meets certain strict criteria for capitalisation.
In the year to 31 December 2005, Disposals amounts expensed totalled 44.9 million 2004: 43.4 million, In February 2006, the company entered into an option agreement and no expenditure met the criteria for capitalisation to sell the Arcom business to Eurotech S. p. A. Eurotech paid 2004: nil.
US$2 million in consideration for the option.
Should the acquisition complete the total consideration including the Fixed assets US$2 million already received will be US$26 million.
Whilst the market values of some properties differ from During the year the company sold its remaining equity interest book values, the directors believe that the differences are in Luxtron Corporation for 1.7 million net of legal expenses.
Share capital Payment of suppliers The issued share capital at the year end consisted of The groups policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure that 124,624,405 5p ordinary shares.
terms of payment accord with contractual and legal At the 2006 Annual General Meeting resolutions will be obligations.
The company had 0.1 million of trade creditors proposed for the renewal of the authorities granted to the at the year end 2004: nil.
directors to allot shares, to allot shares on a non pre-emptive basis for cash and to purchase the companys own shares Directors either to be cancelled or to be held in treasury, all within The directors of the company are named on pages 16 and 17. specified limits.
John OHiggins and John Warren were appointed to the At 7 March 2006 interests notified to the company in Board on 10 January 2006 and 7 March 2006 respectively.
accordance with Part VI of the Companies Act 1985 comprised: Hans Nilsson resigned from the Board on 25 May 2005.
Martin Lamb and Leo Murray will retire from the Board Aegon Asset Management following the 2006 AGM.
5,234,182 shares 4.20% material interest John OHiggins and John Warren, having been appointed since the 2005 AGM, retire from the Board under the terms of Standard Life Investments the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves 4,940,303 shares 3.96% material interest for election.
All other directors of the company were either appointed or re-appointed at the 2004 or 2005 AGMs.
Liberty Wanger Asset Management LP Therefore, in accordance with Article 106 of the companys 4,120,000 shares 3.31% material interest Articles of Association, approved at the 2005 AGM, no director is required to submit themselves for re-election at Legal & General Investment Management Limited the 2006 AGM.
4,088,072 shares 3.28% material interest The directors total remuneration for the year and their interests in the shares of the company and its subsidiaries Prudential plc at 31 December 2005 are disclosed in the Directors 3,989,203 shares 3.20% material interest Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 29.
18 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005 SPECTRIS 18-22 3 4 06 9:50 pm Page 19 Auditors All directors receive detailed progress reports one week prior Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as to each Board meeting.
auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
executive directors and five non-executive directors.
The Board considers all its non-executive directors Annual General Meeting Andrew Given, Martin Lamb, Leo Murray, Anthony Reading The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the and John Warren to be independent.
In normal companys offices on Wednesday 17 May 2006 at 11.30 a. m. circumstances, the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive, is contained in a separate letter from the Chairman and that of senior independent director, are held by separate accompanying this report.
individuals and the Board has adopted written profiles for each of these.
The non-executive directors have all had senior Corporate Governance experience in other organisations and offer independent Combined Code statement of compliance judgement on Board matters.
The Chairmans other Spectris plc is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate significant interests are as a non-executive director of Smaller Governance the Combined Code that is appended to the Companies Value Trust plc and certain private companies.
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Combined The Board believes that the Chairmans obligations to the Code sets out principles and provisions relating to the good company are unaffected by these directorships.
There are procedures for individual Board members to Corporate governance has been and remains the receive induction and training as appropriate and to solicit responsibility of the whole Board.
This statement describes independent professional advice at the groups expense where how the company applied the principles and complied with specific expertise is required in the course of exercising their the provisions of the Combined Code during 2005. duties.
All directors have access to the company secretary, who The Board considers that it was throughout the year and is responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate continues to be in full compliance with the provisions set out statutes and regulations.
in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that: All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment and thereafter at a majority of the members of the nomination committee intervals of no more than three years.
are not independent non-executive directors, as required The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board by provision A4.1.
The committee consists of the committees, notably the nomination, remuneration and audit Chairman, the senior independent director and the committees.
The terms of reference of these committees are Chief Executive and the Board considers this to be the published on the companys website and the following most appropriate composition for the sensitive issues additional documents are available to shareholders on addressed by the committee: application to the company secretary: until 31 May 2005 the audit committee did not consist exclusively of independent non-executive directors, as schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: required by provision C3.1.
The Chairman, John Poulter, responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and has since resigned from the audit committee, whose the non-executive directors: composition is now in compliance.
relations with shareholders: performance evaluation: Board composition and procedures procedure for taking independent professional advice.
The Board meets formally around nine times each year to consider developments in relation to the companys strategy and long-term objectives and to review trading results and operational and business issues.
In particular it deals with those matters reserved to it for decision, including the acquisition and disposal of businesses, major capital expenditure, the appointment and, where necessary, removal of directors and Board and senior management succession planning.
Usually, two meetings each year are held at operating locations and encompass a detailed review of the relevant business.
Operational decisions are delegated by the Board to senior management at trading company level over which the Business Group Directors exercise supervision.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005 19 SPECTRIS 18-22 3 4 06 9:50 pm Page 20 Directors report continued Board and committee meeting attendance 2005 Shareholder relations Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional Remuneration Audit Nomination Board committeecommittee committee shareholders and divulges such information as is permitted Total meetings during year 13 9 3 1 within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
The content of J W Poulter Chairman 13 N A 2 1 presentations made after results announcements may be A F Given accessed by individual investors on the group website, senior independent director 11 8 3 1 www.
M J Lamb 11 8 3 N A All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual L G Murray 10 9 3 N A General Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive A J Reading 12 9 3 N A and the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination S Hare 12 N A N A N A committees are available to answer questions.
The results of S C Harris 13 N A N A N A proxy votes are declared at the Annual General Meeting after J C Webster 13 N A N A N A each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
H D Nilsson 6 N A N A N A The Board is kept informed of the views of major shareholders through periodic reports from the Chief H D Nilsson held office for part of the year only and attended all of the Executive, the companys broker Merrill Lynch and the Board meetings he was eligible to attend.
Mr Poulter attended all of the audit committee meetings he was eligible to attend before stepping companys shareholder relations adviser Makinson Cowell.
down from that committee following the 2005 AGM.
The Chairman and non-executive directors have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
Shareholders representing in excess of 3% of the companys Board appointments and performance evaluation issued share capital receive a standing invitation to meet The nomination committee consists of the Chairman, the with the Chairman, the senior independent director or new senior independent director and the Chief Executive and is non-executive directors.
Such meetings would supplement chaired by the Chairman, save in the event of discussions if necessary, but not replace, the regular meetings with the relating to his succession when the senior independent Chief Executive and group finance director.
director would take the chair.
Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of Audit committee a new director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to The audit committee comprises the non-executive directors present for Board consideration suitably qualified candidate s. and is chaired by Andrew Given.
Andrew Given and John In making such recommendations, the committee evaluates the Warren both have recent and relevant financial experience balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and as the former group finance directors of Logica plc and develops a description of the role and required capabilities.
The committee meets at least Candidates are then identified for interview, external search three times each year to consider the effectiveness of the consultants being engaged as part of this process.
The groups internal controls, policies and procedures, the process committee also makes recommendations to the Board of internal audit and the outcome of the external audit.
Its regarding the re-election and or re-appointment of any meetings are normally attended by the Chairman, the Chief director.
Similar selection processes would apply for the Executive, the group finance director, the company secretary appointment of a successor chairman.
The committee regularly confers with The nomination committee meets as the need arises.
Its the auditor without the attendance of executive directors.
Its terms of reference can be found on the companys website.
terms of reference can be found on the companys website.
The operation of the Board and its committees is evaluated The committee is responsible for making recommendations by the Board as a whole annually.
The executive directors and to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external company secretarys performances are appraised annually auditor and then for approving the external auditors against objectives established for the prior year.
The remuneration, terms of engagement and scope of work.
contributions of the Chairman and non-executive directors The committee has also adopted procedures governing are reviewed in advance of the conclusion of their initial and restricting the appointment of the external auditor for three-year term, by the senior independent director and non-audit services.
The following services are precluded: the Chairman respectively, prior to their being proposed to shareholders for re-election.
Additionally, the Chairman holds book-keeping or other services related to the accounting periodic meetings with the non-executive directors only and, records or financial statements of Spectris plc: led by the senior independent director, the non-executives financial information systems design and implementation: meet at least annually without the Chairman present.
appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or An external moderator assisted the Board during 2005 in contribution in kind reports: the evaluation of its operation and performance.
actuarial services: 20 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005 SPECTRIS 18-22 3 4 06 9:51 pm Page 21 internal audit outsourcing services: risk assessment and evaluation for each business unit takes management functions or human resources: place as an integral part of the annual strategic planning broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment cycle.
Having identified the principal risks to achievement banking services: of their strategic business objectives, each business unit is legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
required to document the management and mitigating actions in place and proposed: A cumulative annual cap of 200,000 is established for all the principal risks identified during the annual strategic other non-audit services save for acquisition due diligence planning cycle and the effectiveness of the management and taxation services above which all engagements are and mitigating actions in place are reviewed regularly by the subject to prior approval by the audit committee.
executive directors and twice yearly by the audit committee: The group employs an internal control and risk manager additionally, the executive directors consider those risks to who performs internal control reviews across the group the groups strategic objectives which are not addressed according to a work programme agreed by the committee.
within the business units and develop appropriate The group internal control and risk manager is assisted in this approaches to managing and mitigating these risks: by an internal auditor and by other group finance personnel.
annual financial plans for each business unit, significant The nature and scope of the groups internal control review capital investments or contractual commitments and major resources is reviewed by the audit committee annually.
The acquisitions or divestments are all subject to review and audit committee receives reports twice a year on the results approval by the Board: of internal control reviews.
The group internal control and there is a Group Accounting and Policies Manual which risk manager has direct access to the chairman of the audit sets out the minimum standards and procedures to be committee and may meet with him in the absence of applied in relation to those risk areas which are regarded executive management.
as significant in a group context: a process of self assessment of compliance with the Manual Internal controls and reporting thereon has been established, providing for The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of a documented trail of accountability from business unit internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, presidents and finance directors to the audit committee.
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate The necessary actions are taken by the audit committee to risk of failure to meet business objectives and can provide remedy any failings or weaknesses identified by its review only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material of the internal control system: misstatement or loss.
the executive directors report to the Board on changes Following publication of the updated guidance for directors in the business and external environment which present on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors significant risks.
The group finance director provides the on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an Board with monthly financial information which includes ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any key performance and risk indicators.
Regular reports on significant risks faced by the group, that this has been in place significant legal issues and insurance matters are received for the year under review and up to the date of approval of from the company secretary.
the annual report and accounts, that this process has been reviewed by the Board during the year and that the group Going concern accords with the guidance.
The Board affirms the importance Having reviewed the groups plans and available financial it attaches to the continuous review and application of the facilities, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the guidance, the regular and systematic assessment of the risks group has adequate resources to continue in operational facing the group and the value of embedding risk management existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason it and internal control systems within its business processes.
continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing To that end an experienced internal auditor was appointed the groups accounts.
during the year to assist the group internal control and risk manager and further such strengthening of the internal audit function is under consideration.
The processes which the Board and the audit committee have applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls are summarised as follows: Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005 21 SPECTRIS 18-22 3 4 06 9:51 pm Page 22 Directors report continued Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting annual report and the financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report the financial position of the parent company and enable and the group and parent company financial statements, in them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
They have general responsibility for Company law requires the directors to prepare group and taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard parent company financial statements for each financial year.
the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and Under that law the directors are required to prepare the other irregularities.
group financial statements in accordance with International Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors and have elected to prepare the parent company financial Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
that comply with that law and those regulations.
The group financial statements are required by law and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial integrity of the corporate and financial information included position and performance of the group: the Companies Act on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that the preparation and dissemination of financial statements references in the relevant part of that Act to financial may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply Roger Stephens them consistently: Secretary make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 7 March 2006 and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements.
22 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005
