SPECTRIS 01-17 3 4 06 8:56 pm Page 3 Mineral processing throughput up 60% Hoben Industrial Minerals, based in England, are specialists in processing hard minerals to fine powders.
Following installation of a Malvern in-line particle size analyser, product consistency and mill control has been improved and the manpower required to run the unit substantially reduced.
The silica sand processing mill now operates around the clock and throughput has increased by 60%.
In addition, Hobens ability to produce a more closelyspecified product consistently has helped its customers to access new markets.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005 3 SPECTRIS 01-17 3 4 06 8:56 pm Page 4 Improving performance for our customers Iron ore analysis times reduced Swedish company LKAB is one of the worlds leading producers of iron ore products for the steel industry.
New products are developed using their own experimental blast furnace.
The objective is to develop new pellets with better properties which will help to reduce hot metal costs at their customers blast furnaces.
Using a PANalytical XRF spectrometer to perform analyses of iron and slag has resulted in a dramatic reduction in the time spent waiting for the results, enabling more precise monitoring and control of the process in the experimental blast furnace.
Noise testing times cut by 75% The way that its cars sound and feel is a key product differentiator for automotive manufacturer SEAT, part of the Volkswagen Group.
At its research and development facility near Barcelona, Spain, sound and vibration characteristics such as interior noise from the engine along with functions such as the electric windows, wipers and sunroof are analysed and recorded.
A new model cannot be released for production until it fully conforms to its specified noise parameters.
Using Brel & Kjrs sound analysis equipment, the total measurement time has been reduced from four hours per car to one hour - a saving of 75 per cent.
4 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005 SPECTRIS 01-17 5 4 06 11:08 am Page 5 Helping our customers to address environmental issues by reducing raw material and energy consumption and measuring pollutants and emissions Continuous oil and moisture measurement increases production Pressing the oil from rape seed results in a protein-rich cake which is used as an animal feed supplement, the oil being used for a variety of consumer products.
Using NDC Infrared Engineerings on-line near infrared analyser to monitor the moisture content of the rape seed enabled Danish producer Scanola to maintain the maximum permissible amount of moisture in the cake, resulting in an additional 1,800 tonnes of cake being produced each year.
A second NDC on-line analyser measuring the oil content has enabled an additional 1% of oil to be extracted from the seed, resulting in an extra 800 tonnes of oil per year.
More accurate measurement of oil and moisture, through continuous on-line monitoring rather than intermittent laboratory sample testing, has generated additional production for Scanola worth around 600,000 per year at current prices.
SPECTRIS 01-17 5 4 06 11:14 am Page 6 Improving performance for our customers Helping our customers to improve their design and development processes, speeding up time to market Hearing aid curing process reduced to 1 minute Starkey Laboratories is the worlds leading manufacturer of custom hearing instruments.
Each highly specialised instrument comprises a mass of miniature electronic circuitry encased in plastic and is individually constructed.
However, manufacturing productivity was restricted as the glues, used to bond the speaker Semiconductor component to the silicone tube which delivers the amplified sound into the ear, required overnight curing.
Following the installation equipment damage of a Fusion UV curing unit, this process now takes just one minute.
An additional benefit is that solvent-based glues have been replaced prevented with more  silicone adhesives.
With replacement costs exceeding $1 million, preventing damage to optical equipment is a critical issue for semiconductor manufacturers.
Using instrumentation from Particle Measuring Systems to monitor and detect airborne contamination during the photolithography process, which creates the multiple layers of circuit patterns on the chip, a major North American semiconductor manufacturer was able to detect and identify a gas contaminant.
Alternative technology would have been unable to detect this event in real time, thus the company was able to prevent damage to the equipment and avoid the cost of production lost during the downtime.
SPECTRIS 01-17 3 4 06 8:56 pm Page 7 Cargo throughput increased The Port of Long Beach in California is the second-busiest port in the US, with its mile-long Pier T terminal capable of handling more than two million cargo containers per year.
To meet growing demand, state-of-the-art surveillance and intrusion detection systems are installed.
Theseinclude intelligent cameras which capture truck drivers vehicle information at the 29-lane gates.
Microscans bar code scanners then scan their ID cards on entry and the bar codes on the paperwork on exit and document the time and date the driver exited the facility.
In addition to increasing the security of the facility, the gate and access control systems have also increased cargo throughput by reducing gate waiting times and overall driver turn times which has measurably lowered the operating cost per move.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005 7
