A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 16 INVESTING IN ENERGY SAVING SOLUTIONS With rising energy prices impacting production costs, increasingly industry is looking for innovative ways in which to save energy, whilst reducing maintenance and production costs.
Spirax Sarcos global network of specialist engineers is providing customers with solutions to this growing need.
This section looks at a sample of customers who have been impressed by the innovative products and solutions available from Spirax Sarco.
compact steam trapping solution provides ease of maintenance Spirax Sarco supplied a number of compact steam trapping stations to Hyundai Oilbank Ltd, South Koreas third largest oil refinery.
Hyundai Oilbank needed to improve maintenance and ensure the solution provided was compact.
Whenever maintenance was required on the steam tracing system it was difficult to locate the isolation valves.
This resulted in even the simplest of maintenance procedures taking a long time.
In some cases there were insufficient isolation valves to allow maintenance procedures to be undertaken safely.
Spirax Sarcos knowledge, combined with the additional training and services, ensured the right solution By understanding the customers problems Spirax Sarco Korea was able to recommend the use of its pipeline connectors and steam traps.
Spirax Sarcos knowledge, combined with the additional Steam tracing manifold with training and services, ensured the right solution.
universal connector steam traps increased capacity and better quality pulp in Finland Mets-Botnia Rauma pulp plant in Finland was encountering problems with their dryer and as a result was losing drying capacity, and production.
The steam heater batteries in the dryer were severely affected by corrosion causing them to leak.
Spirax Sarco was asked to complete a survey and provided a list of interesting improvements.
In accordance with Spirax-Sarcos suggestion we installed a steam trap on each battery.
We now remove condensate in a controlled way and achieve several benefits including, reduced steam consumption and no corroded batteries.
We can see that primary costs per produced ton of pulp are now reduced, states Erkki Lhdesmki, factory designer.
In matters like this you need a real technical specialist to deviate from the mainstream said Mr Lhdesmki about Spirax Sarco.
We have made many technical improvements in order to produce better quality pulp.
MetBotnia Rauma pulp plant in Finland 14 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 17 flash steam recovery cuts energy costs by 20% A Spirax Sarco flash steam recovery system is delivering energy savings at fide Mulder & Sons in Nuneaton.
The system has dramatically cut visible plumes of flash steam from the site, which is one of the UKs largest processors of meat and poultry residues.
Spirax Sarco in partnership with the customer, designed, built and delivered a complete packaged flash steam recovery system.
With the major assembly work carried out by Spirax Sarco, the system was integrated with the existing plant over a normal weekend shutdown.
Due to improved system efficiency, one of the three boilers has now been taken off line.
'The boilers work closer to their optimal firing capacity, saving an extra 10% on top of the 10% saved directly by waste heat recovery, explains operations director Rob Ratcliffe.
The boilers work closer to their optimal firing capacity, saving an extra 10% on top of the 10% saved directly by waste heat recovery Flash Steam recovery systems tradition and advanced technology for the distilling trade Spirax Sarco Italy has contributed to automating the Marzadro Distillery, whilst maintaining its traditions of producing quality grappa.
The companys challenge was to increase its production potential, whilst maintaining quality.
Spirax Sarco worked with the customer to design the automation and supervision project for the plant.
This focussed on reducing operating costs, manpower and energy consumption, whilst optimising plant use, and improving quality.
The new system permits total production diversification, guarantees total system reliability, while the platforms have been designed to allow for future expansion.
Special attention has been paid to recycling and reducing energy consumption.
This project demonstrates how traditional methods can be combined successfully with modern plant to Distillation area guarantee product quality.
