A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 14 INVESTING IN PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT the importance of research and development An active research and development programme is the lifeblood of any long term successful organisation like Spirax Sarco.
Run effectively and streamlined, it is a vital component to future-proofing our business.
Product performance testing prior to product introduction is a key element of the development phase, reducing the investment risk and increasing both new product credibility and quality to the customer.
new technology New technology such as 3D modelling, computational fluid dynamics, finite element analysis and rapid prototyping techniques allow far more rigorous testing, over a wider range of product combinations.
This permits much greater performance fine-tuning than previously achievable and results in low investment risk.
In business terms, this means we can offer better products and respond to market needs much quicker, ultimately giving us a greater competitive edge now and for the future.
On a project involving over 3,000 components, our technology enabled us to design, develop, test and deliver to market far more quickly, cost effectively and accurately than wed ever imagined possible.
3D prototype model 3d modelling sits at the heart of the research and development advantage in that it speeds up the production of component drawings and facilitates the use of many other technologies.
rapid prototyping machines build a model layer by layer out of ABS plastic.
Depending on the size and complexity of the assembly or component, the model is complete in a matter of hours compared to weeks or months using traditional methods.
computational fluid dynamics is an advanced piece of software, which allows design engineers to evaluate how the fluid moves through a valve.
The engineer can fine-tune the performance before committing to expensive prototypes and losing valuable time on critical new product development.
finite element analysis allows the stress within the product to be evaluated so potential problems can be anticipated and designed out Computational Fluid Dynamics early on in the process.
Simulation of a control valve body.
12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 15 new control valve range The Spirax Sarco control valve has been developed using the computational fluid dynamics and rapid prototyping techniques to provide a modern valve for today's demanding industry.
The control valve has a modular design concept and incorporates many options within one body envelope.
Both ANSI and EN versions share the same internals and only three pneumatic actuators are required for valves up to DN100, 4 size.
This leads to a low number of components and a highly flexible system, where one valve can satisfy the needs of numerous industrial requirements.
The benefit for the user is a universal control valve with an exceptionally low cost of ownership.
product features that meet the customers demands The new Spirax Sarco control valve offers the following benefits to our customers: Precise control Universal application High performance stem sealing Long life internals Rationalised spares stock holding Quick and easy maintenance Pneumatic actuated control valve with smart positioner In summary, the Spirax Sarco control valve range is a perfect example of how the contribution of new product development technologies can give us clear market advantage.
Spirax Sarco, USA has developed the Cool Blue TD-52TM thermodynamic steam trap, distinguished by its blue stainless steel insulation cover and featuring a specially engineered ceramic disc material with lower heat conductivity than conventional steel alloy caps on disc traps.
The new trap offers significantly reduced life Cool Blue Steam Trap cycle energy consumption and maintenance requirements compared to conventional designs.
The new Watson-Marlow 620 series pumps were launched in September 2005, having been developed in record time using Design for Six Sigma techniques to meet precisely defined customer requirements, reduce costs, and improve manufacturability.
The new pumps provide higher flow and pressure capabilities, greater speed control, and enhanced ingress The new Watson-Marlow 620 protection.
high-flow process pump Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 13
