A R 2005 17 3 06 12:33 pm Page 12 MANUFACTURING DEVELOPMENTS manufacturing strategy - delivering results to the group The Spirax Sarco Supply Division performs a key role in supplying many of the products and services required by the sales organisations to deliver the Spirax Sarco business proposition.
To achieve this goal the Supply Senior Management team have developed a new strategy based on working together as an integrated worldwide organisation to provide innovative, high quality products and services with competitive prices and delivery lead times.
Hence LIFE Little Improvements from Everyone has been initiated, an integrated programme of projects designed to deliver these goals.
The ethos of the LIFE Project is to ensure that everyone is involved and has clear visibility of the benefits whilst implementation risks are reduced by planning, piloting testing and then progressively rolling out each project.
The LIFE project has so far laid solid foundations towards achieving improved service levels at reduced operating costs.
Through the LIFE project, Supply are ensuring that the products and services we offer are exactly what our customers want to buy - innovative products of exceptional quality and value delivered on time.
projects:- Improving supply chain management process.
Improving new product introduction process.
Improving cost accounting and performance measures.
Improving workplace organisation and visual management.
10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 12:33 pm Page 13 lean manufacturing One of the first LIFE initiatives to be established is the introduction of Lean Manufacturing, an operational strategy oriented toward improving cost, quality and service by an elimination of waste in business processes.
Spirax Sarco has adopted the well proven proprietary model as a framework for achieving the lean objectives following its proven track record in numerous reference companies and in our own USA facility.
The DP27 pressure reducing valve product line was selected as the lean pilot line in Cheltenham and a number of volume steam trap products were combined into a single lean production line in Chtellerault.
These are now fully operational, already demonstrating many of the lean benefits.
The implementations have brought substantial manufacturing lead time reductions, typically one week to less than one day.
Stocks are reducing and production is showing week on week improvement.
The introduction of Lean Manufacturing on targeted assembly lines has reduced the production lead times from one week to one day.
DP27 pressure reducing valve Encouraged by these successes, Lean Manufacturing is being rolled out across the UK and French facilities.
South America and Italy will start lean projects in 2006.
Rolling out Lean Manufacturing across Supply will take us a long way forward to our exceeding customer expectations goal.
It is a significant pillar of the Supply Strategy but it is recognised that there are many other inter-related activities, which will be improved, enabling Supply to achieve its goals.
