12 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Board of directors 12 3 4 5 6 78 9 Executive directors 7.
Anders Gustafsson, Chief Executive 45 Gran Ennerfelt was appointed to the Board in 2000.
He is President and Anders Gustafsson was appointed Chief Executive in August 2004.
Prior to Chief Executive officer of Axel Johnson Gruppen AB, a member of the Axel joining the Company he was the Senior Executive Vice President Global Johnson Group.
He is also Vice Chairman of the Confederation of Swedish Business Operations of Tellabs, Inc. Enterprise, as well as a non-executive director of Svenska Handelsbanken and the Swedish National Committee of the International Chamber of 2.
Eric Hutchinson, Finance Director 50 Commerce.
Eric Hutchinson was appointed Finance Director in 2000, having previously been responsible for all financial reporting and control within the Group.
Andrew Given 58 He is also a non-executive director and Chairman of the audit committee Andrew Given was appointed to the Board in 2003 and is Chairman of the of Trifast plc.
He was formerly Deputy Chief Executive of Logica plc.
He is also the senior independent non-executive director and Chairman of Non-executive directors the audit committees of both VT Group plc and Spectris plc.
Kurt Hellstrm 62 John Weston CBE was appointed non-executive Chairman in 2002 and is Kurt Hellstrm was appointed to the Board in December 2004.
He was Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He was Chief Executive of BAE formerly President and Chief Executive Officer of Ericsson.
He is also a SYSTEMS plc from 1998 to 2002.
He is also non-executive Chairman of member of the board of directors of Atlas Copco AB, Bharti Tele-Ventures iSOFT Group plc, Acra Controls and learndirect the University for Industry.
Limited, Kineto Wireless, Gemplus International S. A. VTI, Far EasTone 4.
James Wyness 68 Telecommunications, Symsoft AB and EQT.
James Wyness was appointed to the Board in 1979 and is the senior independent director.
He was previously Managing Partner then Senior Partner of Linklaters.
He is a non-executive director and was previously Chairman of Saracens Limited.
He will retire from the Board with effect from the date of the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Marcus Beresford CBE 63 Audit Committee Marcus Beresford CBE was appointed to the Board in 1999 and is Chairman Remuneration Committee of the Remuneration Committee.
He was previously Chief Executive of GKN Nomination Committee plc.
He is also non-executive Chairman of Ricardo plc and a non-executive All the directors are considered independent of the management of the director of Cobham plc.
Company with the exception of Anders Gustafsson, Eric Hutchinson and 6.
Frederick DAlessio was appointed to the Board in January 2004.
He was previously President of Advanced Services at Verizon Communications Inc. Further biographical details of the directors can be found on the Companys He is a general partner and founder of Capitol Management Partners and website at www.
The executive directors are supported by a sits on the boards of SS8 Networks, Inc.
Aware, Inc. Hatteras Networks, Inc. team of senior management and their biographies can also be found on and Network Equipment Technologies, Inc. the Companys website.
