Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 15 Report of the directors The directors present their Report, the audited consolidated financial Additional shareholder information, including a profile of shareholdings, statements and the parent Company financial statements for the year to appears on page 118.
Share listings Principal activities, business review and results The primary listing for the Companys Ordinary shares is on the London The principal activities, review and results for the year inclusive of financial Stock Exchange.
The Companys Ordinary shares are also traded on the New performance, likely future developments and prospects are set out on pages York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares and these 2 to 11.
Principal divisions, subsidiaries and associates are listed on page 114. are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, each one of which represents four Ordinary shares.
The Bank of New York is the authorised Dividends Depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
No interim dividend was paid during the year 2004 nil and the directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend 2004 nil.
Directors The names and brief biographical details of the current directors are shown Research and development on page 12.
All held ofce throughout the year and up to the date of this Product development and innovation are considered key strategies to Report.
James Wyness will retire from the Board with effect from the date maintain and improve the Groups competitive position and therefore of the 2006 Annual General Meeting AGM.
continue to receive high priority.
This commitment is highlighted by the 62.8 million research and development spend during the year, equivalent to Retirement and election of directors 14 per cent of sales 2004 67.3 million and 14 per cent.
The Company will Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and the revised Combined continue to commit resources as appropriate to research and development.
Code on Corporate Governance see the Directors statement on corporate governance on pages 17 to 19, John Weston will retire at the AGM on Major transactions 3 May 2006 and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
He does not On 19 September 2005, the Company announced that it had started the have a service contract with the Company.
formal process that was expected to result in the sale of its HellermannTyton Division.
On 15 February 2006, the sale of the division to funds controlled Directors interests by Doughty Hanson & Co Limited for a cash free debt free equivalent value Gran Ennerfelt has a connected notiable interest in the Spirent Ordinary of approximately 288.9 million was completed.
Further details of the shares held by Lexa BV see Substantial shareholdings on this page which, transaction are set out in notes 37 and 40 to the consolidated financial for statutory purposes, is also deemed to be an interest of the director.
statements and note 23 to the parent Company financial statements.
The directors interests including those of their immediate families and On 23 January 2006, the Company announced the acquisition of SwissQual any connected persons in the share capital of the Company are set out in Holding AG for an initial consideration of 27.7 million paid in cash, with the Report on directors remuneration on pages 20 to 26. up to a further 12.4 million payable depending on revenue growth and Save as disclosed, no contracts or arrangements have been entered into various technical and financial milestones.
On 13 February 2006 the during the year or subsisted at the year end in which any director had, Company announced the acquisition of QuadTex Systems, Inc for an initial directly or indirectly, a material interest which was significant in relation to consideration of 4.2 million with further consideration of up to 0.9 million.
Share capital Employees Changes in the Companys share capital during the period are given in note The Groups and the Companys employment policies regarding disabled 32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent persons and further information on employee training, development and Company financial statements.
involvement is explained in the Corporate social responsibility statement on pages 13 and 14.
Substantial shareholdings At the date of this Report, the Company had been notied of the following Employee share schemes interests in 3 per cent or more of its issued Ordinary share capital: The Company operates a number of share incentive schemes, details of % held which can be found in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent Company financial statements.
Barclays plc 13.2 Lexa BV 12.4 Social responsibility and donations Fidelity Investments 8.0 The Groups Corporate social responsibility statement appears on pages Prudential plc 3.4 13 and 14.
Charitable donations of 96,000 were made in the year 2004 Legal & General Group plc 3.1 63,000.
This amount excludes operating units support and participation Sun Life Assurance of Canada 3.1 in local community activities.
No political donations were made in the year 2004 nil.
