Directors Report Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2005 The directors present their annual report on the affairs of J. W. Hollis non-executive director Abbot Group plc the Company and its subsidiary undertakings G. M. Philipps non-executive director resigned together the Group, together with the consolidated accounts 17 May 2005 and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2005.
I. M. Smith non-executive director appointed Principal Activities 15 September 2005 The Groups principal activities are the provision of drilling and related G. E. Watkins non-executive director well and facilities engineering services on a worldwide basis to the energy industry.
The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are disclosed within the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the results or net 36 to 40. assets of the Group in the year are set out in note 41 to the accounts.
Substantial Shareholdings Business Review At 17 March 2006 the Company had been notified, in accordance A review of the Groups performance and comments on the financial with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following results and outlook for the future are contained in the Chairmans interests of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Statement and the Operating and Financial Reviews.
Number of Percentage Results and Dividends ordinary shares held % The Group made a profit on ordinary activities before taxation of A. J. D. Locke 30,000,000 16.25 26,261,000 2004: 27,799,000.
The audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 are set out on pages 42 to 75.
Artemis Investment Management Ltd 16,921,247 9.17 The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.3p 2004: 3.2p per Legal & General Group plc 6,384,663 3.46 ordinary share to be paid on 2 June 2006 to ordinary shareholders Prudential plc 5,570,910 3.02 on the register at the close of business on 5 May 2006, which, together with the interim dividend of 1.7p 2004: 1.6p paid on Supplier Payment Policy 4 November 2005, makes a total of 5.0p per ordinary share for The Group policy is to agree terms of payment with suppliers prior to the year 2004: 4.8p.
entering into contractual relationships and to abide by those terms of Share Capital payment.
As the Company is principally a holding company it has no trade creditors and accordingly no disclosure is made of the year end 8,791,500 ordinary shares were issued on 5 July 2005 by way creditor days.
of a placing at a price of 2.30 per ordinary share in respect of the part financing of the acquisition of Prosafe interests.
Employees Directors and their Interests The Group is committed to involving employees in the business through a policy of communication and consultation.
Arrangements have been The directors who served during the year were as follows: established for the regular provision of information to all employees A. J. D. Locke executive chairman through briefings and well-established formal consultation procedures.
M. J. L. Salter chief operating officer Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes and abilities of the applicant.
P. J. Milne finance director If employees become disabled every effort is made to ensure that their M. A.
White executive director drilling operations employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career H. W. Temmen executive director appointed development and promotion of a disabled person should, as far as 19 December 2005 possible, be identical to that of a person who does not suffer from R. A. Duncan non-executive director a disability.
J. Ferrn non-executive director appointed 17 May 2005 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Directors Report Resolution 12 Health and Safety at Work Directors authority to allot relevant securities The well-being of the employees is given the highest priority throughout the Group and it is the Groups policy not only to The Companys Articles of Association permit the directors to allot comply with health and safety measures, as required by law, but shares and other securities, in accordance with section 80 of the Act, to act positively to prevent injury and ill health, and damage to up to an amount authorised by the shareholders in general meeting.
the environment arising from its operations.
Further information At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the directors are seeking is contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report set out authority to allot shares and other securities up to an aggregate on pages 24 to 27. nominal amount of 9,205,840, being 33.24% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 17 March 2006.
This authority Directors Responsibilities would be effective for a period of 15 months or, if earlier, until the Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each next Annual General Meeting.
The directors have no present intention financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of exercising the authority proposed to be granted pursuant to of the Company and the Group, and of the profit or loss of the Group Resolution 12. for that year.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: Resolution 13 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Empowering the directors to allot relevant securities with the exception of the changes arising on the adoption of a new Resolution 13 contains details of a special resolution empowering the accounting policy as explained in note 1 to the accounts: directors to allot relevant securities for cash up to a maximum nominal make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: amount of 1,384,708, which represents just under 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 17 March 2006. state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Resolution 14 accounts: and Purchase of own shares prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is The Company is taking this opportunity to seek authority to purchase inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The directors propose that the Company be authorised to purchase which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial a maximum of 18,462,774 ordinary shares representing just under position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure 10% of the share capital of the Company in issue as at 17 March 2006 that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
within the limits described in Resolution 14 contained in the notice of They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company the Annual General Meeting.
It is intended that purchases will only be and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the made on the London Stock Exchange plc.
The directors believe that it is prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
in the best interests of all shareholders that the Company should have the flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
The authority Annual General Meeting would be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting The notice covering the Annual General Meeting to be held on or the expiry of 15 months from the date of the resolution whichever 24 May 2006, which can be found on pages 82 to 83, contains details is the earlier.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the of six resolutions which will be considered as special business.
authority proposed to be granted pursuant to resolution 14.
Resolution 11 The effect of such purchases would either be to cancel the number Directors Remuneration Report of shares in issue and the directors would accordingly only make such In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations purchases after considering the effect on earnings per share and the 2002 the Remuneration Regulations, the Company is required best interests of the shareholders generally, or the directors may elect to submit the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended to hold them in treasury pursuant to the Companies Acquisition of 31 December 2005 to a vote of the shareholders.
In accordance Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations.
with the Remuneration Regulations, approval of the Directors Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash Remuneration Report is proposed as an ordinary resolution.
or used to satisfy share options and share awards under a companys employees share scheme.
Once held in treasury, a company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings in respect of the shares.
Further, no dividend or other distribution of the companys assets may be made to the company in respect of the treasury shares.
Abbot Group plc 31 Directors Report Directors Report cont If the directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 14 they It is therefore proposed to adopt a new Article 170 to reflect the will consider holding those shares in treasury, rather than cancelling changes introduced by the new legislation referred to above, to exclude them.
The directors believe that holding shares in treasury may provide the auditors of the Company from its protection and to continue and the Company with greater flexibility in the management of its share expand the protection currently afforded to the directors and other capital.
The directors will also consider using the treasury shares to officers of the Company so that they are also covered in their capacity satisfy any share awards under an employees share scheme.
Although as officers of group companies.
In addition, the new Article grants the none of the investor groups has yet issued any guidelines in relation Board new powers to cover the costs of defending proceedings and to the purchase, holding or resale of treasury shares, the directors will seeking relief to the extent permitted by the Act as amended.
have regard to any such guidelines which may be in force at the time Auditors of any such purchase, holding or re-sale of treasury shares.
The directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting Resolution 15 to re-appoint  LLP, who were first appointed Amendment to the Articles of Association in 2001 as auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before Resolution 15 contains a proposed amendment to the Companys the Company.
Articles of Association to increase the limit for the total fees paid annually to directors from 125,000 to 250,000, as the limit has Going Concern not been increased for several years.
The amount of fees paid to the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation directors is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report which is that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue included in the Annual Report and Accounts.
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they Resolution 16 continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further amendment to the Articles of Association Re-election of Directors The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act In accordance with the Articles, Messrs Salter, Hollis and Watkins retire 2004 has amended the Act with effect from 6 April 2005 to permit by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Salters service companies to indemnify directors and officers other than auditors agreement is subject to twelve months notice by the Company.
Messrs in respect of liabilities including legal costs incurred by them in Hollis and Watkins appointments are subject to three months notice.
proceedings brought against them by third parties.
However, the The Board consider that Mr Hollis, who has been a non-executive indemnity, amongst other things, cannot cover liability incurred by director for more than six years should be re-elected as a director a director to the Company or any associated company: fines imposed as he continues to provide valuable experience to the Board and in criminal proceedings and penalties imposed by regulatory the Board considers that his independence is not impaired.
authorities: costs incurred in criminal proceedings where the director is convicted or criminal proceedings brought by the Company or an In accordance with the Articles, Mr Ferrn, Mrs Smith and Mr Temmen, associated company where judgement is given against the director: who were all appointed during the year, retire and offer themselves for or costs incurred in proceedings for relief where the court refuses to re-election.
Mr Ferrn and Mrs Smiths appointments are subject to grant relief.
Article 170 of the Articles of Association of the Company three months notice by the Company.
Mr Temmens appointment is currently provides that the directors and other officers shall be entitled subject to twelve months notice by the Company.
to be indemnified by the Company against liability incurred in defending civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or they are acquitted, and against the costs of successfully By order of the Board, applying for relief under the Act, however the Article does not reflect Alec W. J. Banyard the recent changes in legislation.
Secretary, 17 March 2006 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
