Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Directors Statement 08 Note: This Directors Statement describes profits and earnings before goodwill, net finance income from pension assets FRS 17 and the impact of deferred tax.
In 2004 05, SSE again achieved increases new, higher base from which the dividend is Southern Electric Power Distribution in profit before tax, earnings per share and expected to grow in future years.
In 2004 05, Southern Electric Power the dividend.
Distribution distributed 34.1TWh of electricity, The continuing delivery of strong an increase of 0.36TWh.
The average number Profit before tax, before goodwill, net finance performance in SSEs businesses, allied to of minutes of lost electricity supply per income from pension assets and exceptional the prospects for securing benefits from customer was 83.9, which was within the items, grew by 17.2%, from 609.7m to recent acquisitions and investment target set by Ofgem under its Information and 714.8m.
There was profit growth in Power opportunities, means SSE is in a position to Incentives Project IIP, which gives financial Systems, Generation and Supply, Gas Storage target at least 4% real growth in the dividend benefits to distribution network operators and Telecoms.
The most significant growth payable to shareholders in each of the three that deliver good performance for customers.
was achieved in Generation and Supply, years to March 2008, with sustained real The number of supply interruptions per 100 reflecting SSEs success in delivering value growth thereafter.
Subject to the outcome from its growing customer base and its of the forthcoming Ofgem review of investment in, and acquisition of, generation ENERGY SYSTEMS exceptional events, which should reduce assets in recent years.
these figures, this performance is expected to Power Systems Overview lead to additional revenue of around 5m.
2004 05 2003 04 Change Operating profit in Power Systems increased m m % by 2.3%, from 317.5m to 324.7m, The programme to upgrade and refurbish contributing 40.3% of SSEs total operating the network continued during 2004 05, Profit Before Tax PBT 785.3 607.3 29.3 profit.
with 1,680km of high voltage overhead lines Exceptional Items and 775km of low voltage lines refurbished.
TXU distribution 133.5 k Southern Electric Power Distributions The substantial programme of network Peterhead write-down 61.0 operating profit fell by 2.8% to 193.9m, automation continued, with another 86 urban Property disposal 10.2 following the over-recovery of allowable substations completed, together with 220 PBT before exceptionals 712.8 597.1 19.4 revenues that occurred in 2003 04. new radio-controlled automated switching FRS 17 income 13.4 2.2 units in rural areas, allowing for faster Goodwill 15.4 14.8 k Operating profit for Scottish Hydro Electric restoration of supply to customers.
There Underlying Profit Before Tax 714.8 609.7 17.2 Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro has also been significant investment in the Electric Transmission increased by 10.8% underground network, with 50km of high To monitor financial performance over the to 130.8m.
This followed the undervoltage cable replaced.
medium-term, SSE continues to focus on recovery of allowable revenues that earnings per share before the non-cash items occurred in the previous year.
Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution of goodwill, the impact of deferred tax and net and Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission finance income from pension assets.
On this The key responsibility of SSEs Power In the Scottish Hydro Electric area, 8.748TWh basis, and after excluding the impact of the Systems businesses is to maintain safe and of electricity were distributed during 2004 05, exceptional items, earnings per share reliable supplies of electricity, and to restore compared with 8.743TWh in the previous increased by 15.0%, from 54.1p to 62.2p.
supplies as quickly as possible following year.
Excluding the 11 January storm, the interruptions.
In line with that, SSE has average number of minutes of lost electricity The Board is recommending a final dividend invested 780m in its electricity networks supply per customer was 86, which was of 30.3p, an increase of 14.8%, making a fullsince 2000, including 176m in 2004 05. within the IIP target, as was the number of year dividend of 42.5p, an increase of 12.7%.
interruptions per 100 customers, which was This compares with 27.5p five years ago, in Ofgems valuation of the physical assets of 89.
Subject to the Ofgem review of exceptional 2000, since when the dividend has increased the transmission, distribution and metering events, which should reduce these figures, by 54.5%, which represents a compound businesses the Regulated Asset Base was this should lead to additional revenue of annual growth rate of 9.1%.
2.47bn on 1 April 2005 and is expected to around 3m under IIP.
grow by around 120m over the next five The dividend increase for 2004 05 is years, excluding any major transmission The January storm was described as the significantly ahead of SSEs target for the year investment, thus supporting the ongoing worst to affect the north of Scotland for 20 of 4% real growth, reflecting the underlying value of the Power Systems businesses.
It resulted in more than 2,000 separate performance of the business and its prospects.
instances of damage being inflicted on the It is also being recommended to establish a electricity network in the Scottish Hydro Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 09 Delivering in 2005 !
Electric area and around one in five customers losing their electricity supply.
The companys response to it drew praise from, amongst others, the First Minister of Scotland.
The ongoing programme of investment in the Scottish Hydro Electric area continued during 2004 05, with another 1,990km of high voltage overhead lines being refurbished, along with 245km of low voltage lines.
The programme of network automation has also continued, with another 16 urban substations completed, together with 315 new radio-controlled Power Systems automated switching units in rural areas.
SSE aims to ensure that its electricity network has the minimum number of faults and the maximum robustness in the face of severe weather and other supply Distribution Price Control Review interruption risks.
Throughout the process for determining the new electricity Distribution Price Control for Making the network robust includes replacing some low voltage overhead lines with 2005-10, SSEs objective was to reach aerial bundled conductor ABC, which involves replacing four separate wires with agreement with Ofgem on an overall package individually insulated lines which are then woven together to form one robust line.
of measures in respect of Southern Electric It also includes replacing high voltage overhead lines with new cable covered in very Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro strong polyethylene called BLX.
Electric Power Distribution which would allow it to deliver a quality service for customers It is also important to automate networks so that when supply is interrupted, it can be while achieving a reasonable return for restored as soon as possible.
Agreement was reached in December 2004.
In the DTI-commissioned report into network emergencies published at the end of 2002, falling trees or clashing branches were recognised as a major source of supply Ofgems review confirmed that SSE is the interruptions during windy weather.
To improve performance in this area, SSE now most efficient operator in electricity employs directly most of the people involved in cutting trees to maintain safe clearances distribution in Great Britain.
Looking forward, from its overhead lines.
SSE believes that, taken together, the arrangements for future allowed operational One advantage in operating the electricity networks at either end of the country is that and capital expenditure, operational when severe weather leads to major interruptions to supply in one network, engineers expenditure efficiency assumptions, the from the other network can be brought in to reinforce the effort to restore supply.
This treatment of pensions costs and rising tax is exactly what happened in the January 2005 storm in the north of Scotland: over 100 charges, the level of real post-tax cost of engineers from places such as West London and Hampshire travelled north to help capital, the incentive framework for delivery restore supply to communities in the Western Isles, other islands and on the mainland of better than expected performance and the of Scotland.
treatment of other company-specific issues meet its objective.
For example, during the review, SSE argued Above that the incremental costs associated with Power Systems: balancing electricity generation and demand Remote switching from the Network on Shetland should become a liability of Management Centre in Perth.
Tree cutting near high voltage conductors Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution to maintain safe clearances.
under BETTA the new British Electricity Trading and Transmission Arrangements see page 11 and that these costs, of around v Far left Customer minutes lost Electricity distributed TWh Energy Systems: Automating an urban substation.
05 05 84 42.8 v Left 04 04 82 42.5 Energy Systems: Engineers from the south of England 03 03 91 41.2 working in Scotland during Januarys 02 02 storms.
101 40.8 01 01 116 40.2 Combined figure for Southern Electric Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution.
Excludes the impact of major storms in 2003, 2004 and 2005 as allowed by Ofgem Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Directors Statement Continued 10 Gas Distribution SSE is becoming a major player in gas distribution during 2005 with its investment in the Scotland and the South of England gas distribution networks.
Britains gas network is made up of the high pressure National Transmission System NTS and the lower pressure distribution system, which is split into eight regional distribution networks, including Scotland and the South of England.
These are physically discrete networks which are connected to the NTS.
Unlike its electricity distribution networks, SSE will not be the sole owner of Scotland Gas Networks and Southern Gas Networks.
Two Canadian financial institutions Borealis Infrastructure and Ontario Teachers each own 25%.
SSE will, however, provide certain corporate and management services to the networks.
k Left and right Gas Distribution: From 1 June, SSE will have a 50% interest in two of Britains regional gas distribution networks.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 11 The acquisitions received approvals from the 7m a year, should in future be recoverable targets for the generation of electricity Department of Trade and Industry and Ofgem from all electricity customers.
Ofgem agreed, from renewable sources are to be achieved.
in January 2005 and from the Office of Fair and this outcome confirms, the importance It is likely that the construction of the Trading in April 2005, and the two networks of adopting a thorough and constructive replacement line will require an investment became separate companies within the NGT approach to engagement with the regulator of around 250m.
Final approvals from and other stakeholders.
Ofgem and the Health and Safety Executive SSE expects to submit within the next few are still required, but the acquisitions are on More broadly, the review resulted in weeks an application to Scottish Ministers course for completion at the start of June 2005. significantly increased allowances for for consent to build the line.
On this basis, capital expenditure to maintain and improve and subject to the timely progress of the A programme of work to complete the electricity networks.
As a result, SSEs planning application, the replacement line acquisition process, and to put in place all regulated capital expenditure in Power could be operational in 2008 09. the necessary arrangements for the change Systems is likely to increase by over 20%, of ownership, is now well advanced.
In addition, a preliminary public consultation materials management, finance, billing document on options for connecting possible and human resources systems have been Overall, SSE expects the outcome of the renewable generation in the Western Isles developed for the two gas networks.
To Distribution Price Control Review to enable to the transmission infrastructure on the support the implementation of these systems, it to increase the revenue earned by its Scottish mainland has led to the identification a major training programme, involving over electricity distribution businesses in future of three options which require further 2,000 Scotia Gas Networks staff and over years.
The priority now is to maintain the technical and environmental study.
While 1,000 staff of contractors, is now close highest standards of customer service and this work remains at a relatively early stage, to completion.
efficiency within the new price control it could require investment of around 400m framework.
towards the end of this decade.
Longer-term, it is clear that there are significant opportunities to create value Transmission Gas Distribution Networks through delivering efficiencies.
The SSE also reached agreement with Ofgem on In August 2004, a consortium now named acquisitions may also provide other business the price control for Scottish Hydro Electric Scotia Gas Networks in which SSE holds opportunities, such as in gas metering and Transmission for the two years to 31 March 50% of the equity entered into an agreement in the provision and maintenance of gas 2007.
This will enable a new five-year price to acquire the Scotland and the South of equipment.
The first priority will, of course, control to be set for Great Britains three England gas distribution networks from be to deliver gas safely and reliably.
electricity transmission companies at the National Grid Transco.
In total, they comprise same time.
73,000km of gas mains, delivering gas to SSE will equity account for the networks as a around 5.6 million industrial, commercial joint venture and its accounts will show SSEs Since BETTA was introduced on 1 April 2005, and domestic customers.
As their borrowings will be National Grid Transco NGT has become non-recourse, they will not be consolidated Great Britain System Operator, responsible The total value of the acquisitions will be 3,162m, of which 2,082m is expected to on SSEs balance sheet.
The networks are for balancing the supply and demand of be funded by already-committed nonexpected to enhance SSEs earnings from the electricity across Great Britain.
Scottish recourse borrowings, with the balance being first year.
Hydro Electric Transmission remains funded by equity.
responsible for operating, maintaining and GENERATION AND SUPPLY investing in the transmission network in its This means that, in return for a cash area, which covers around 70% of Scotland.
consideration of 540m, SSE will Generation and Supply Overview These new arrangements have worked receive 50% of the distributable earnings Operating profit in Generation and Supply well so far.
Upon completion of the rose by 29.5%, from 298.5m to 386.5m, acquisitions, SSE will also provide certain contributing 48.0% of SSEs total operating In August 2004, Ofgem stated that investment corporate and management services for profit.
Within SSEs integrated business had been approved to allow the replacement the gas networks under an agreement with model, the use of generation assets supports of the electricity transmission line connecting Scotia Gas Networks.
When completed, performance in energy supply and value in Beauly in the Highlands with Denny in the the acquisitions will make SSE the second Generation and Supply is, therefore, assessed Central Belt of Scotland to go ahead.
This largest energy distributor in the UK.
work has to take place if the governments Power Systems capital expenditure m 05 176.7 04 147.9 03 143.7 02 161.2 01 150.3 Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Directors Statement Continued 12 Delivering in 2005 !
During 2004 05, SSEs power stations trading of both electricity and gas necessary wholly-owned and owned by joint ventures to optimise the short-term position in Generation generated 37.9TWh of electricity, an increase volatile energy markets.
SSE owns and operates four main gasof 14.7TWh on the previous year.
SSE supplied fired power stations in the UK: Keadby: 47.5TWh of electricity to industrial, commercial EU Emissions Trading Scheme and BETTA Medway: Peterhead: and Fife.
It also and domestic customers, an increase of The electricity generation market in the UK owns 50% of Seabank Power Station, 8.1TWh on the previous year.
was the subject of two important developments in the first few months of 2005: the launch of 49.5% of Derwent Power Station, 22% of With the acquisition of Ferrybridge and the EU Emissions Trading Scheme EU ETS Barking Power Station and a number of Fiddlers Ferry, SSE now owns and operates and the introduction of BETTA.
embedded power stations which are nearly 10,000MW of electricity generation.
connected directly to the electricity Comprising a balanced mix of baseload, It is regrettable that, despite the launch of the distribution network.
mid-merit and peaking plant, SSEs portfolio EU ETS on 1 January 2005, there remains a of power stations is now the second largest dispute between the UK government and the Overall, SSEs gas-fired power stations and the most diverse in the UK.
European Commission about the total number are among the most thermally efficient of carbon emissions allowances to be issued in the UK, and the efficient conversion of Growth in operating profit was achieved to operators of participating installations in the primary fuel into electricity makes a mainly as a result of benefits from five main the UK.
It is very disappointing that any factors.
These were: the first full year of shortfall between the UK governments significant contribution to sustainability.
ownership of Medway Power: the ending of proposed National Allocation Plan and that the contract under which SSE took output agreed by the EC will be met by reducing the The most recent addition to SSEs from Scottish Powers coal-fired power number of allowances given to the electricity portfolio of gas-fired power stations stations in Scotland, resulting in lower generating sector.
Nevertheless, SSEs is Fife, which was acquired during 2004 capacity costs: the acquisition of the allocation of emissions allowances, of around and which returned to full service in Ferrybridge and Fiddlers Ferry power 20 million tonnes, is reasonable in comparison December of that year.
stations: increased output from hydro electric to the rest of the UK generation sector, stations, including more output qualifying for although less than the level of emissions that Renewable Obligation Certificates ROCs : is likely to be required in practice.
and sustained growth in energy supply customer numbers.
These benefits were The BETTA arrangements were successfully partly offset by the impact of rising wholesale introduced on 1 April 2005.
As expected, the gas prices.
establishment of the England-Scotland interconnector as part of the wider transmission In addition, SSEs flexible generation assets system has made it easier for the output from continued to perform well in NETA the New SSEs flexible power stations in Scotland to be Electricity Trading Arrangements, with deployed to meet demand from the electricity success in the balancing market contributing market in England and Wales.
24m to operating profit during the year.
NETA has now been superseded by BETTA.
Gas-fired Generation SSE now owns 4,300MW of gas-fired electricity Generation and Supply accounted for almost generation capacity including its share of joint all of the 2.3bn increase in SSEs turnover ventures.
The 120MW power station in Fife in 2004 05.
This was mainly due to: retail was acquired for 12.5m in February 2004, sales to the significantly increased number and during the year SSE invested 4.0m in of electricity and gas customers: higher upgrading the plant to support its operational wholesale and retail prices: and new performance.
It returned to full service on businesses acquired.
Around one third of schedule, in December 2004. the increase reflects additional wholesale k Right Electricity generated TWh Coal and Biomass Generation: Biomass storage at Fiddlers Ferry 05 37.9 Power Station.
04 23.2 k Far right Hydro Generation: 03 23.1 Kingairloch Power Station 02 turbine hall.
19.2 01 22.6 Electricity generated by power stations wholly-owned and owned by joint ventures Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 13 SSEs acquisition of the balance of the they also co-fire fuels from renewable Hydro Generation equity interests which it did not already own sources in order to displace fossil fuels, Performance in Generation and Supply during in Medway Power for 241.1m in November thus reducing the level of carbon emissions 2004 05 benefited from the increase in SSEs 2003 added another modern, flexible and resulting from their operation.
This output electricity output qualifying for ROCs, which efficient power station to its group of qualifies for ROCs.
From the date of the attracted a premium price of around generation assets and gave SSE the economic acquisition, their output qualifying for ROCs 45 MWh.
The increase was attributable to benefit from having a 100% interest in was 573GWh, an increase of 79% on the same the growing proportion of SSEs hydro electric Medways contracts to supply power.
As a period in the previous year, when they were capacity which has been refurbished, so that result of this acquisition, Medway Power under their former ownership.
its output qualifies for ROCs, and to higher contributed an additional 41.0m operating than average run-off of water flowing into profit in 2004 05, an increase of 25.0m on At the time of the acquisition, SSE undertook SSEs reservoirs.
the operating profit achieved, also as a result to examine all options for maximising the of the acquisition, in the final five months of longer-term value of the assets, particularly The output of refurbished hydro electric 2003 04. with regard to biomass.
In line with this, stations with capacity of up to 20MW qualifies SSE is now investing around 20m in the for ROCs, and in total, SSE has 394MW of As with NETA, good performance in BETTA development of additional facilities to capacity in its sub-20MW stations.
During will be dependent on plant reliability, and increase further the ability to co-fire fuels 2004 05, refurbishment was completed on the number of unplanned outages at SSEs from renewable sources at both power 95MW of hydro capacity, taking the overall wholly-owned gas-fired power stations was stations.
The installation of new direct total of refurbished capacity to 370MW.
The slightly fewer than in 2003 04 and around injection burners at the stations is expected refurbishment of the remaining 24MW will 50% lower than in the year before that.
SSE to give them the ability to generate around be completed by the end of December.
believes that this is a good performance, but 1,500GWh per year of output qualifying for one which can be improved in future years.
The work to install the burners is Water running off into reservoirs during expected to be completed by the end of the 2004 05 was 14% above the long-term Coal and Biomass Generation financial year 2005 06. average and the sixth highest in over 30 SSE acquired the Ferrybridge and Fiddlers years.
This unusually high level of run-off Ferry power stations, with a total capacity of Having experienced the benefits arising added around 15m to operating profit almost 4,000MW, and associated coal stocks, from owning a mix of gas-fired and coal-fired compared with an average year.
This equates to capacity in its generation portfolio, SSE is output was 3,544GWh, compared with around 20 per kilowatt of installed capacity.
also examining in detail the case for opting 2,640GWh in the previous year.
As a result Fuel in transit and contracts to supply fuel for in to the Large Combustion Plant Directive of this and of the investment in refurbishing the power stations were acquired for 43.0m some of the capacity at Fiddlers Ferry and or hydro capacity, SSEs ROC-qualifying hydro and 80.3m respectively.
To do this would require the output increased to 1,448GWh, compared with installation of Flue Gas Desulphurisation 916GWh in 2003 04.
Assuming average runBoth are flexible, mid-merit stations FGD equipment and an investment off, SSEs ROC-qualifying output from hydro which have added to the diversity of SSEs estimated to be in the range of 75m-90m electric stations is again expected to be over generation portfolio and help it to meet peak per GW of capacity.
A detailed tender exercise 1,400GWh in 2005 06. demand for electricity.
They also allow SSE is now under way and, in line with the to manage its exposure to changes in fuel Directive, a final decision on this must be The new 3MW hydro electric station at prices by balancing its gas portfolio with made by the end of 2005.
Kingairloch, near Fort William, began a coal portfolio.
In the first eight months generating electricity earlier this year and of ownership, the two power stations More broadly, it is becoming increasingly work on the development of the 7MW of ROCcontributed around 50m to operating profit recognised that coal and other fossil fuels qualifying capacity at Fasnakyle is well under after amortising 53.0m of the payment for will play a central part in meeting future way.
The planning application for consent to the contracts to supply fuel.
New technologies will have build a new 100MW hydro electric station at to be developed to reduce and capture carbon Glendoe near Loch Ness is still being dioxide emissions caused by the use of all of One of the benefits arising from the considered and the initial tendering process these fuels and SSE is actively involved in acquisition of the stations was that SSE for the project has now been completed.
The developments in this field.
received with them a significant allocation of project is unique, and SSE will determine carbon emissions allowances.
In addition, whether to proceed with the development Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Directors Statement Continued 14 following a full risk reward analysis, focusing These seven developments comprise the first k Renewable Technology Ventures Ltd on: any conditions which must be met as part phase of SSEs wind energy development RTVL, the joint venture between SSE and of the planning consent: the outcome of the plans and around 80m has now been The Weir Group, has invested 2.4m on the tendering process: and further assessments invested at Tangy, Spurness, Artfield Fell and development of a tidal power generating of the income which the station would be Hadyard Hill.
An additional 140m will be device.
Following this work, RTVL is now likely to generate.
required to complete Artfield Fell and seeking to build a full-sized commercial Hadyard Hill and to develop Drumderg, demonstrator device, with a capacity of The abolition of Hydro Benefit on 1 April 2005, Gordonbush and Tangy 2.
2.4MW, and hopes to deploy the device at announced by Ofgem in 2003, and its the European Marine Energy Centre in replacement by a separate scheme to assist SSE is also continuing to develop plans for Orkney.
This is subject to ongoing customers with the high costs of distributing the second phase of its investment in wind discussions with the Department of Trade electricity in the north of Scotland, means energy and is in the process of applying for and Industry and the Scottish Executive, SSEs profit from its generation activities will consent to develop a further 318MW of and could require investment by SSE of increase by around 37m a year from capacity at four sites in Scotland.
The profitability of its distribution development of these four sites, if consented, largest of its kind in the world and includes businesses will be unaffected.
will require investment of around 250m over unique design features.
Other sites are also being Wind Generation developed with a view to seeking planning k SSE entered into an agreement with The increase in the UKs target for electricity consent in future years.
Swift Turbines Ltd, a technology company generated from renewable sources, to 15% providing accessible renewable energy by 2015, emphasises the important part that As a result of its ongoing programme of solutions, in October 2004.
It has developed wind generation will have to play in helping investment in renewable energy, SSE remains what is believed to be the worlds first to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and on course to have around 1,000MW of ROCfeasible rooftop-mountable wind energy in increasing the amount of electricity that qualifying wind and hydro generating capacity system, which is capable of delivering can be generated from the UKs indigenous by 2008.
Of this, it already has in place, or significant amounts of energy to resources.
The framework for investment has secured consent to develop, 566MW of businesses, offices and homes.
Under in renewable energy remains encouraging.
capacity 395MW in operation and 171MW the agreement, SSE is investing almost in construction or refurbishment.
300,000 in Renewable Devices to acquire SSEs first wind farm, at Tangy in Argyll, has 20% of the share capital and will also been operating successfully for over two New Technologies provide opportunities to market its rooftop years and SSE is seeking consent to add Investment in the research, development wind system to a wide range of customers.
another 6MW Tangy 2 to its capacity.
Its and demonstration of new technologies for Devices are being installed at a number second wind farm, at Spurness on the Orkney generating electricity is a key part of the of locations around the country, including Islands, was officially opened in March, taking governments energy policy, and is part of the NaRECentre in Newcastle and a zeroSSEs operational wind farm capacity to SSEs strategy to remain the UKs leading emissions property development at Bow 22MW.
Construction work at the 20MW wind generator of electricity from renewable in London.
farm at Artfield Fell in Wigtownshire, and on sources.
the 120MW wind farm at Hadyard Hill in k SSE has acquired a 7.5% stake in Ayrshire, is advancing well and both should k In August 2004, SSE and Talisman Energy solarcentury, the largest independent begin to generate electricity during 2005 06.
UK announced plans to construct a 28m solar photovoltaics company in the UK, wind farm demonstrator project, with a for 1m.
The two companies have also The progress of other applications for capacity of up to 10MW, adjacent to the entered into a collaboration agreement.
consent to build wind farms, including those Beatrice Oil Field, 25km off the coast of As a result of this, solarcenturys expertise proposed by SSE, is proving to be slow, Scotland, in deep water in the Moray Firth.
in solar energy will be brought together reflecting a planning regime which the The project is being funded by the Scottish with SSEs electrical contracting business Scottish Executive itself has described as Executive, the Department of Trade and to market the provision and installation stringent.
The applications to build wind Industry and the European Commission, of solar energy solutions to a growing farms at Drumderg 32MW and Gordonbush in addition to the two companies.
SSE is number of customers throughout the UK.
87MW have been in the planning process for contributing 7m to the project.
Electricity They have already combined to provide and 21 months and two years respectively, but from the demonstrator project should begin have yet to be finally determined.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 15 Delivering in 2005 !
install solar PV for a variety of Although all the other major energy supply organisations, including the National companies raised their prices for domestic Trust in Swindon and Spitalfields market customers at least twice during 2004, SSE in London.
made just one increase, in line with its policy of responsible pricing.
It eventually raised With growing interests in emerging prices for most customers in March 2005 technologies, allied to its established but, in doing so, gave a commitment to hold capability in generating electricity from the electricity prices at their revised levels until more mature technologies of hydro, onshore at least the start of 2006.
SSE aims to do the wind and biomass, SSE is now a genuinely same with gas prices, but its ability to do so pan-renewables company, and is well-placed will be determined by trends in wholesale gas to maintain its current position as the UKs prices.
leading generator of electricity from renewable sources.
SSE remains the most efficient energy New Technologies supplier in the UK, incurring the lowest cost All types of wind energy from major Energy Supply when serving customers, according to a study wind farms to rooftop turbines SSEs energy supply business had 6.1 million by Datamonitor published in January 2005. contribute to a reduction in the level customers at 31 March 2005.
It grew by 16% The study said that SSEs cost to serve is of emissions of carbon dioxide and an in 2004 05, with a net gain of 850,000 between 10% and 23% lower than that of increase in the amount of electricity customers, including over 300,000 customers other suppliers.
from Atlantic Electric & Gas Atlantic in April generated from the UKs own resources.
Growth in customer numbers has Customer Service continued at a similar rate since the end of Equally important to success in energy supply SSE is now in partnership with Swift March.
Overall, SSE now has 1.5 million more is maintaining the highest possible standards Turbines to manufacture, market and customers than at the start of 2002, an of customer service.
install the Swift Rooftop Wind Energy increase of one third.
The Swift SSEs one-stop fully integrated customer turbine augments existing electricity and The final acquisition cost of the Atlantic service system continues to offer the hot water systems, is rooftop-mounted, customers and the customer debt book was broadest range of functions in the sector and simple to install and provides around 85.2m.
Since April 2004, 60m from the debt was enhanced during 2004 05 to improve 30% of the electricity needs of a typical book has been collected.
A year on from the further standards of service while at the same acquisition, the number of customers with time keeping pace with changing technology.
This reduces carbon dioxide Atlantic is still over 300,000.
Since December 2004, on-line billing services emissions by around 1.6 tonnes per have been available to SSE energy supply annum per house.
Growth achieved during the year also includes customers, allowing them to view and pay a net gain of business customers covering their bills, submit meter readings and raise around 85,000 sites throughout Great Britain.
Already, around 25,000 customers SSE won the tender to supply electricity to the have registered for this new service.
NHSs 800 large sites in England in a threeyear deal worth over 220m.
In total, SSEs Despite the significant growth in customer business customers now cover 415,000 sites numbers, SSE secured during 2004 05 a throughout Great Britain.
reduction of 48% in the number of customer complaints sent to energywatch for resolution The increase in customer numbers has been to fewer than 1,400 excluding Atlantic.
aided by growing success in retaining existing This follows the 23% reduction achieved customers.
By the end of 2004 05, the during the previous year.
In the statistics number of customers leaving SSE for other published by energywatch in March 2005, suppliers had fallen by around 20% compared SSE had the lowest rate of complaints in with the previous year.
respect of all three categories: account and billing matters, transfers between companies and direct selling.
v Far left Wind Generation: Spurness wind farm on Sanday in the Orkney Islands.
v Left Customer Service: Advisors in Cardiff Customer Service Centre.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Directors Statement Continued 16 Delivering in 2005 !
The leading independent study, by JD Power, SSEs ability to provide a broad energy published in November 2004, found that SSE services offering should also increase its Supply has the highest level of customer satisfaction scope to secure additional business Scottish and Southern Energy is one of among UK gas suppliers and the third highest opportunities in electrical contracting, local the largest suppliers of electricity and among electricity suppliers.
electricity networks, street lighting and gas in the UKs competitive energy energy supply to major customers.
supply market, with around 6.1 million Product Development customers.
It brings together Southern During the year, SSE launched new products, With that aim in mind, SSEs Energy Services demonstrating the strength of its commitment Unit was established during 2004 to provide Electric, SWALEC, Scottish Hydro to product development as a key contributor to a comprehensive range of beyond the meter Electric and Atlantic.
long-term success in energy supply.
The work of the unit will focus initially on public sector organisations such SSE offers a range of energy-related k power2 is a unique package which offers as local authorities, and then extend to products and services.
For example, customers a commitment that electricity customers in the commercial sector such as every day, fossil fuels are burned to will be generated from SSEs hydro electric housebuilders and other developers.
In due meet the electricity needs of British schemes along with a tree-raising scheme course, the aim is to market SSEs package households.
power2 is a new product to offset carbon emissions resulting from of energy services to domestic customers.
launched by SSE which is based on their consumption of gas and disposal of hydro electricity and therefore doesnt household waste.
It has already attracted CONTRACTING AND CONNECTIONS almost 20,000 customers.
Contracting and Connections delivered k easywarm is a fixed-price energy product operating profit of 47.5m during 2004 05, In addition, to offset the carbon dioxide for customers aged over 50 which has compared with 48.7m in the previous year.
created by households using gas for been piloted in south Wales.
It has space and water heating and the attracted over 20,000 customers.
SSE is The Contracting businesses are already greenhouse gases resulting from the assessing whether to offer easywarm to leaders in their sector and their plans for disposal of household waste, SSE raises customers in other parts of the country.
future growth are continuing to develop six trees per year for each power2 effectively.
The tree planting programme k energyplus care is a new tariff and is independently audited.
package of services for SSEs most k Southern Electric Contracting acquired the vulnerable customers which should electric contracting division of what was enable a qualifying family living in a previously Eastern Contracting in January In keeping with its focus on the three-bedroom semi-detached house to 2005, in a transaction with a value of environment, power2 is based on reduce their total energy bills by around around 2m.
As part of the deal, SEC also payment by Direct Debit, which cuts 30%, or 200 a year.
It was described by acquired the Eastern Contracting name.
down on paper, and people interested in energywatch as a big stride forward The acquired business is based in Bury St the product can apply for it online at in the development of effective and Edmunds, employs around 200 staff and thepower2.
extends significantly SECs area of operation.
The energyplus care product is designed to help customers with multiple problems: k A joint venture comprising SEC and a low income that needs to be supported by Interserve was awarded the Ministry particular benefits: special needs such as a of Defences Prime contract covering disability: and a home that has particularly London and the south-east of England.
While SSE does not The contract is to provide mechanical believe that the energy supply industry is and electrical maintenance for over 100 responsible for fuel poverty, it does believe MoD sites, and is worth around 400m that it is in the long-term interests of the over an initial seven years.
Work started industry to make a real effort to play its part in April 2005. in dealing with the problem.
k In partnership with the asset finance Overall, SSE believes that its work on product division of The Royal Bank of Scotland, development, emphasis on customer service SEC has contracts worth around 350m and its policy of responsible pricing means to replace and maintain street lights for that its energy supply business should be able three local authorities in England under to extend further the period of growth which the Private Finance Initiative.
These Supply customer numbers million began at the start of 2002. contracts are progressing well.
05 6.1 Energy Services k Thermal Transfer has significantly 04 5.2 An increasing number of supply customers increased its presence in the healthcare are likely to seek a wider range of energysector, acting as a specialist contractor 03 4.8 related services, covering renewable, in the design and build of laboratories, sustainable and energy efficient products.
containment areas, cleanrooms and 02 4.6 With well-established Contracting, support facilities at major hospitals 01 4.7 Connections and Appliance Retail businesses, throughout the country.
and a growing portfolio of micro-generation technologies, SSE is very well-positioned to capture a significant proportion of this developing market.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 17 Contracting Southern Electric Contracting has contracts with three local authorities to replace and maintain street lights, under the Private Finance Initiative.
Work commenced in the summer of 2004 to implement a programme which will see 80% of the lights in Newcastle and North Tyneside replaced over the next few years.
A total of 50,000 new lighting columns and 8,000 traffic signs and bollards are being installed, with older lighting columns being replaced with state-of-the-art modern lights.
The new lights increase visibility, making roads safer and reducing fear of crime.
Although the streets will be brighter, there will be less light pollution because the new lighting columns are more environmentally friendly, with light being concentrated where it is most needed.
k Right Contracting: SSEs Contracting Group maintains around one fifth of the street lights in England and Wales.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Directors Statement Continued 18 The Connections business completed around Hornsea has continued to be 100% available EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 42,000 electrical connections during 2004 05, to customers except in instances of planned a similar number to the previous year.
Looking ahead to the 2005 06 TXU Europe Energy Trading Limited addition, it has continued to expand its winter, all of the capacity at Hornsea has On 30 March 2005, SSE received its first portfolio of electricity networks outside the already been sold.
net distribution, of 159.1m, from the Southern Electric and Scottish Hydro Electric administrators of TXU Europe Energy Trading Power Distribution areas.
SSEs Connections SSEs joint venture with Statoil UK, in which Limited and certain of its subsidiaries, with business now owns and manages 16 SSE is investing 150m, to develop what will regard to its agreed claim of 294.2m in electricity networks outside SSEs two become the UKs largest onshore gas storage respect of a 14-year contract originally electricity distribution areas.
facility at Aldbrough, is continuing to make entered into in 1997. good progress.
With a total new capacity of It is also a licensed gas transporter, owning around 420 million cubic metres, of which After extinguishing a debtor balance, the and operating gas mains and services in SSE will have the ownership interest in 280 net receipt of 111.2m was taken as an many parts of the country.
The rate of million cubic metres, Aldbrough will provide exceptional credit to the results for 2004 05. connecting new premises to its gas networks essential additional gas storage for the UK To this has been added SSEs share 22.3m continued to grow, and during the year, it energy industry.
of the distribution paid by the administrator connected a further 7,000 premises, up 20% to Barking Power Ltd, the operators of on the previous year, taking the total number Consent was received in March 2005 from Barking Power Station.
of connections to more than 27,000.
DEFRA to begin leaching the nine caverns that will be used to store gas.
Leaching of the SSE expects to receive further distributions of An illustration of the business progress is first cavern is now well under way and work up to a total of 100m from the administration, its success in winning a major contract to on other caverns will follow during 2005 06. in the autumn of 2005 and the spring of 2006, provide, own and operate the electricity and The process will take around four years to but these have not been recognised in the gas networks for the Braehead development complete, with the first cavern expected to results to date as the value and precise at Renfrew, part of the Clydeside area be ready to store gas by 2007. timing of the receipts are uncertain.
The development SSE now expects that over 85% of its agreed consists of around 2,000 residential units, TELECOMS claim will be settled.
with retail and commercial accommodation, including a large indoor ski slope and leisure SSEs combined Telecoms business SSE Peterhead Power Station centre.
Preliminary work has started on site Telecom and Neos achieved an operating In line with the decision announced in and the first connection is expected in the profit of 10.6m in 2004 05, compared with November 2003, the structural agreement second half of this year.
The benefits from under which Scottish Power paid a capacity fee establishing in 2003 04 a national telecoms each year for the use of part of the capacity of GAS STORAGE network, a UK-wide sales force and a Peterhead Power Station ended on 31 March competitive range of products targeted at 2005.
The agreement was in respect of the Gas storage delivered an operating profit of commercial and public sector customers original station, which was not re-powered in 18.3m, an increase of 60.5% compared with are now being realised.
As part of SSE, Neos 2001, and had been intended to run until 2012. the previous year.
Demand for gas storage is also able to position itself as one of the Its end has led to a reappraisal of the power facilities in the UK remains high and, in a UKs most financially secure telecoms station and, in particular, the carrying value of volatile gas market, SSE has continued to network operators.
the assets which were subject to the contract.
enter into new contracts to provide storage This concluded that certain parts of the at a significantly higher value than the The improvement in performance is partly original station ought to be written-down.
the result of higher sales, and important Consequently an exceptional impairment of contracts have recently been signed with 61.0m has been taken as a charge to the The onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea, major companies including Opal Telecom results for the year.
In addition, an improvement in gross which SSE acquired in 2002, is currently the margins and a reduction in overhead costs largest in the UK and has a good record of has been achieved, partly through synergy reliability.
It therefore provides customers savings achieved by combining the SSE with a means of managing their changing Telecom and Neos businesses.
In this respect, meeting customers nominations is vital and Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 19 Gas Storage SSE has begun creating the nine caverns that will be used to store gas at its Aldbrough gas storage facility.
The project, a joint venture with Statoil U. K. Limited, will create enough storage for up to 420 million cubic metres of working gas.
Once completed, the Aldbrough facility will be able to provide enough gas in a day to supply around four million homes.
The nine caverns are created by directionally drilling from a Central Processing Area down to the salt strata.
Seawater is then pumped into the boreholes to dissolve the salt and form the caverns a process known as leaching.
The process will take around four years to complete with the first cavern expected to be ready to store gas by 2007. k Right Gas Storage: Onshore drilling at SSEs new Aldbrough gas storage facility.
v Far Left Contracting: The barracks overlooking Horseguards Parade in London are one of over 100 MoD sites maintained under the Prime contract.
v Left Gas Storage: The UKs largest onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Directors Statement Continued 20 borrowings, with the balance held as cash The re-powered station, which comprises FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT on deposit to contribute to the funding of three combined cycle gas turbines and a the gas networks acquisition.
steam turbine, with a total capacity of Treasury Policy 1,140MW, continues to be held at its full net SSEs operations are financed by a In November 2004, a new five-year 650m book value as it remains one of the most combination of retained profits, bank committed Revolving Credit Facility was flexible power stations in Europe and is borrowings, long-term debt issuance and signed to provide standby liquidity and to considered to be an asset with very significant commercial paper.
As a matter of policy, backstop SSEs commercial paper future economic life.
a minimum of 50% of SSEs interest rate programme which was increased to 1.5bn exposure is kept at fixed rates of interest.
This facility replaced more GROUP CAPITAL EXPENDITURE expensive facilities at both SSE plc and Within this policy framework, SSE borrows Southern Electric Power Distribution plc, Group investment and capital expenditure, as required, at both fixed and floating rates, while an increase in the total size of available excluding acquisitions, totalled 383.5m with interest rate swaps and forward rate committed funding reflects the larger during 2004 05, compared with 289.7m agreements being used to achieve the desired potential borrowing requirements of SSE in the previous year.
All borrowings in foreign currencies going forward.
are swapped back into Sterling.
Capital expenditure in Power Systems was Interest 176.7m, compared with 147.9m in the At 31 March 2005, 97.6% of SSEs borrowings SSEs net interest charge in 2004 05 was previous year.
Of this, 100.3m was invested were at fixed rates, after taking account of 90.9m, compared with 85.5m in the in network refurbishment and 76.4m on interest rate swaps.
This reflects the acquisitions network expansion.
Following the Distribution made during the period, offset by continuing Price Control Review for 2005-10, SSEs Liquidity policy requires SSE to ensure that strong cash flow.
The average interest rate capital expenditure in Power Systems is likely it has committed borrowings and facilities for SSE during the year was 5.91%, compared to increase to around 210m in 2005 06. equal to at least 105% of forecast borrowings with 5.96% in the previous year.
Underlying over a rolling 12 month period.
As at interest cover was 9.0 times, compared with Another important feature of capital 31 March 2005, SSE had undrawn committed 8.4 times the previous year.
expenditure in 2004 05 was investment bank facilities of 650m, with a weighted of 119.3m for growth in generation, with average period, until maturity, of 4.7 years.
TAX the refurbishment work being carried out at hydro electric power stations and the There is relatively little direct exposure to The effective current tax rate, before development of new hydro electric and wind foreign currency risk as the United Kingdom exceptional items, was 25.5%, compared energy schemes which will lead to the is SSEs main area of operation.
If either fuel with 24.1% in the previous year.
As deferred production of ROC-qualifying energy.
In or plant are contracted in foreign currency, tax liabilities are only a potential exposure, addition, 31.7m was invested in the ongoing SSEs policy is to hedge all material discounting has been applied to reflect the development of the new gas storage facility purchases through the use of forward long-term nature of the assets and this at Aldbrough.
purchases of foreign currency and derivative impacts on both the profit and loss account instruments.
Indirect foreign exchange and on the balance sheet.
An additional Within the overall total, capital expenditure exposures created through SSEs gas discounted liability of 21.5m has been for growth was 174.0m during 2004 05. purchases are similarly hedged on an recognised on the balance sheet as at This mainly comprised renewable energy ongoing basis.
The tax charge, before and gas storage.
As previously stated, capital exceptional items, including the deferred expenditure will be significantly higher in Borrowings and Facilities tax element, was 30.1%, compared with the next few years, with investment in The objective for SSE is to maintain a balance 26.3% in the previous year.
renewable energy, electricity networks and between continuity of funding and flexibility, gas storage, and is expected to be around with a range of maturity dates.
Its average BALANCE SHEET 500m in 2005 06.
All investments are debt maturity profile as at 31 March 2005 expected to achieve returns which are greater was 12.0 years, compared with 13.9 years SSE continues to maintain one of the strongest than the cost of capital and are expected to as at 31 March 2004. balance sheets in the global utility sector, enhance earnings.
which continues to give it significant The maturity profile continues to reflect competitive advantage in terms of cost of NET DEBT AND CASH FLOW the medium to long-term nature of SSEs funding and supporting new developments.
underlying assets and means its debt In February 2005, the rating agency Moodys During 2004 05, SSEs net debt increased by structure is in a strong position going re-affirmed SSEs credit rating as Aa3 or 31.7m to 1,448.8m, following acquisitions forward, with around 1.65bn of borrowings strong.
In line with the FRS 17 treatment of totalling 339.0m and capital expenditure for in medium to long-term funding in the form pension scheme assets, liabilities and costs, growth, principally in renewable energy and of issued Bonds and European Investment a net pension scheme liability of 143.6m is gas storage, totalling 174.0m.
A total of 1.7% of SSEs recognised in the balance sheet at 31 March total borrowings will mature in the 12 months 2005, including, for the first time, 19.6m of The fact that the increase in net debt is small to March 2006. deficit in respect of the scheme for employees reflects the strong underlying free cash flow at Ferrybridge and Fiddlers Ferry.
generated by SSE and the inflows of: 159.1m SSE issued its first convertible bond, of cash from the TXU administration: the 300m, in October 2004.
Holders of the Bond During 2004 05, employer cash contributions recovery of 60m from the debt book of may elect to convert their holdings into to the Scottish Hydro Electric scheme Atlantic: and the cash generation of 53m ordinary shares of SSE at a conversion price amounted to 8.9m and 3.0m was from the contract book purchased with of 900p per share until its final maturity date contributed to the scheme for employees Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge.
In return, SSE benefits from at Ferrybridge and Fiddlers Ferry.
stated, these positive benefits were offset by a low interest coupon of 3.75%, contributing cash outflow on higher capital expenditure for to the reduction in its average interest rate Contributions to the Southern Electric growth and the acquisitions of the two power payable.
The net proceeds of the Bond pension scheme amounted to 10.0m stations and Atlantic.
were partly used to reduce SSEs existing during 2004 05.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 21 The actuarial valuation of the Southern International Financial Reporting Standards In support of this principle, and in the light Electric scheme as at 31 March 2004 was IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
of a wish to give additional recognition to finalised.
As expected, the results showed a In advance of that, SSE will re-state its employees performance in the year, the gross deficit of 275.5m, compared with the accounts for 2004 05 in accordance with IFRS, Board has decided to make a special award FRS 17 deficit on the same date of 253.0m.
and make the re-stated accounts available of 50 free shares in the company to everyone The FRS 17 gross deficit on 31 March 2005 via its website.
A seminar for analysts and employed by SSE on 31 March 2005 and still was 282.0m.
investors on the transition to IFRS will be held in employment on the date the shares are in September, and the presentation will also awarded.
Under the arrangements for the Following discussions with the Trustees be made available on SSEs website.
SSE does award, the shares will be held in trust for on how this deficit might be repaired, a not believe that the adoption of IFRS will five years.
contribution towards the deficit of 29.5m per have any impact on its dividend policy.
year increasing each year in line with RPI A description of the issues in respect of IFRS STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK was agreed in March 2005, in addition to an appears on page 62. ongoing contribution rate of 19.9% of salaries.
SSE has consistently set out four areas in As part of the Distribution Price Control SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT which it can enhance and create value for Review for 2005-10, it was agreed that shareholders: maintaining and investing in allowances for 76% of deficit repair SSE aims to create value for shareholders by energy networks: adding to its leading-edge contributions should be included in price running the business with a strong emphasis generation portfolio: growing its energy controlled revenue.
on safety and on caring for the environment.
supply business: and developing its growing During 2004 05, the number of lost time and presence in businesses such as contracting, Similar discussions have been concluded with reportable accidents within the company was connections, telecoms and gas storage.
the Trustees of the pension scheme that 17, which was the lowest ever and which This focus on energy and energy-related exists for the benefit of employees at Fiddlers compared with 27 in the previous year.
The businesses in the UK has delivered growth in Ferry and Ferrybridge power stations where a number of serious, or potentially serious, road the dividend of 54.5% between 2000 and 2005, gross deficit of 13.7m has been calculated traffic accidents involving employees driving and it will continue, with the clear objective as at 31 March 2004.
An additional company vehicles fell from 0.52 per 100 of delivering the new dividend target in the contribution of 8% of salary around 1.3m vehicles to 0.42 in 2004 05. years ahead.
per year has been added to the employers contribution rate in order to repair the deficit.
To benchmark its environmental activities, In practice, this means that SSEs emphasis SSE took part in Business in the Communitys during 2005 06 will continue to be on the PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Environment Index, the results of which were effective day-to-day management of its published in April 2005.
Its score was 98.8%, businesses and on securing value from its During 2004 05, the Directors of SSE did not making SSE the joint top performing company acquisitions and its investment programme.
exercise their authority to purchase, in the in its sector, placing it in BitCs Premier Following a period in which the scale and market, the companys own shares.
In the League of participating companies.
scope of SSEs activities has increased previous year, 1,760,000 of the companys significantly, the highest importance during 50p ordinary shares were purchased and The Environment Index is part of a wider 2005 06 will be attached to delivering Corporate Responsibility Index, in which SSE cancelled at an average price of 633p per significant value for shareholders from the participated in full for the first time.
The Directors will seek renewal of opportunities that have been created over was 93%, which positioned it joint 14th out of their authority to purchase, in the market, the the past two years.
companys own shares at the Annual General Meeting on 28 July 2005.
It remains the policy EMPLOYEES of the Board of SSE to take opportunities to return value to shareholders through the The progress made by SSE is largely due to the purchase of the companys own shares outstanding work done by employees in every should the conditions be appropriate.
There is no doubt that 2004 05 was the most eventful year so far in the INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING development of SSE.
At the same time, one of STANDARDS SSEs eight principles of corporate responsibility is to provide opportunities for employees to SSEs interim results for 2005 06, to be become shareholders in the company.
published in November 2005, will comply with Ian Marchant Chief Executive Colin Hood Chief Operating Officer Gregor Alexander Finance Director Alistair Phillips-Davies Energy Supply Director
