Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Directors Report 32 Principal Activities Results and Dividends Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Scottish and Southern Energy plc is a holding The Group profit attributable to shareholders Special Resolution 10 company.
Its subsidiaries are organised into for the financial year amounted to 543.2m.
Resolution 10 proposes as a special the main businesses of: generation, The Directors recommend a final dividend resolution to renew the Directors authority, transmission, distribution and supply of of 30.3p per ordinary share which, subject under section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, electricity: energy trading: storage and supply to approval at the Annual General Meeting, to allot shares for cash in certain of gas: electrical, environmental and utility will be payable on 23 September 2005 to circumstances otherwise than pro rata to all contracting: domestic appliance retailing and shareholders on the register at close of the shareholders.
This authority, which was telecoms.
A review of the years operations business on 26 August 2005.
With the interim last renewed at the Annual General Meeting and future developments is contained in the dividend of 12.2p per ordinary share paid on in 2004, gives the company greater flexibility Chief Executives Review and the Directors, 24 March 2005, this makes a total dividend in its financing arrangements.
Corporate Responsibility and Corporate of 42.5p per ordinary share.
Governance Statements on pages 6 to 29 This resolution deals with the allotment of which form part of this report.
Share Capital shares for cash under a rights issue, power Details of the companys authorised and to make adjustments to deal with overseas Directors issued share capital at 31 March 2005, which shareholders, fractions of shares and other The Directors at the date of this report are: includes options granted under the Groups such matters.
It also permits the Directors employee share option schemes, are detailed to make additional issues of shares for cash Executive Non-Executive in notes 23 and 27 to the Accounts.
up to 21,470,614 nominal share capital, Gregor Alexander Sir Robert Smith representing 5% of the issued share capital Colin Hood Chairman Annual General Meeting Special Business as at 17 May 2005, the latest practicable date Ian Marchant Ren Mdori Authority to Allot Shares Resolution 9 before the printing of the Notice of Meeting.
Alistair Phillips-Davies David Payne This resolution renews the Directors This limit is in line with current institutional Susan Rice authority, under section 80 of the Companies shareholder guidelines.
There is no present Kevin Smith Act 1985, to allot shares.
The authority to allot intention of exercising this authority.
is limited to shares with a nominal value of On 24 June 2004 Kevin Smith was appointed 143,137,431 representing one third of the For the purposes of this resolution, allotment as a non-Executive Director.
issued share capital as at 17 May 2005, the of shares includes the sale of treasury latest practicable date before the printing of shares see the note to resolution 11 for Sir Graeme Odgers retired as a non-Executive the Notice of Meeting.
This authority was last further details.
Director on 18 May 2004, Dr Bruce Farmer renewed at the Annual General Meeting in retired as Chairman on 31 December 2004, 2004.
The authority, if renewed, will terminate David Sigsworth retired as Generation at the conclusion of the Annual General Director on 31 March 2005 and Henry Casley Meeting in 2006.
The Directors have no retired as a non-Executive Director on present intention of issuing any shares other 17 May 2005. than pursuant to existing rights under employee share schemes.
Any allotment The former Deputy Chairman, Sir Robert of shares would be offered to existing Smith, was appointed Chairman and David shareholders first, subject to the limited Payne was appointed Deputy Chairman, pre-emption disapplication contained in both with effect from 1 January 2005. resolution 10.
The authority is in line with current institutional shareholder guidelines.
Colin Hood, Ren Mdori and Sir Robert Smith, retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible and in accordance with the Articles of Association, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographical details for all Directors are set out on page 30.
Details of the service contract for Colin Hood and letters of appointment for Ren Mdori and Sir Robert Smith, all of whom are standing for re-election, are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 and 36 respectively.
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the company are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 37.
Resolution 2 to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting seeks shareholders approval of the Remuneration Report.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 33 Purchase of Own Shares and Treasury Substantial Shareholdings Shares Special Resolution 11 As at the date of this report the company In certain circumstances it may be had received the following notifications of advantageous for the company to purchase beneficial interests of 3% or more in the its own ordinary shares, and resolution 11 companys issued share capital: will, if approved, renew the companys Number of shares Percentage authority from shareholders to make such purchases until the Annual General Meeting Barclays plc 33,002,425 3.84% in 2006 or 28 October 2006 whichever is the Legal and General earlier.
Purchases will only be made if the Group plc 30,142,070 3.50% Directors believe that to do so would result in an increase in the Groups earnings per share Creditor Payment Policy and would be in the best interests of The company complies with the CBI Prompt shareholders generally.
The main features of the Code are that payment terms are agreed at the The resolution which will be proposed as a outset of a transaction and are adhered to: special resolution specifies the maximum that there is a clear and consistent policy that number of shares which may be acquired bills are paid in accordance with the contract: 10% of the companys issued share capital and that there are no alterations to payment and minimum and maximum prices at which terms without prior agreement.
The company they may be bought.
There are options has no trade creditors, and the numbers of outstanding at the date of this report over 5.9 suppliers days represented by trade creditors million ordinary shares, representing 0.7% of of the Group was 30 at 31 March 2005. the issued share capital: if the authority given by resolution 11 were to be fully used, these Auditors options would represent 0.8% of the share Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as capital in issue on that date.
auditors, and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration, will be proposed at the Any shares purchased in this way will either forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly or held in treasury Annual General Meeting under the Companies Acquisition of Own The 16th Annual General Meeting of the Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003. company will be held on 28 July 2005 at Shares held in treasury may subsequently 12 noon at the Pitlochry Festival Theatre, be sold for cash within the limit of the Port-na-Craig, Pitlochry PH16 5DR.
The shareholder pre-emption disapplication Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 63 referred to above, cancelled, or used for the and 64. purposes of employee share schemes.
By Order of the Board Holding its own shares as treasury shares Vincent Donnelly would give the company the ability to re-issue Company Secretary them quickly and cost effectively, and would 17 May 2005 provide the company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The Directors believe that it is desirable for the company to have this flexibility.
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will be exercisable in respect of treasury shares.
Treasury shares transferred for the purposes of the companys employee share schemes will count towards the limits in those schemes on the number of new shares which may be issued.
During the year no ordinary shares were purchased by the company.
The company does not currently hold any treasury shares.
