Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Directors Biographies 30 Sir Robert Smith Chairman Ian Marchant Chief Executive Gregor Alexander Finance Director Colin Hood Chief Operating Officer Alistair Phillips-Davies Energy Supply Director Ren Mdori Audit Committee Chairman David Payne Deputy Chairman Susan Rice CBE Non-Executive Director Kevin Smith CBE Non-Executive Director Sir Robert Smith accountants Arthur Andersen for five years Alistair Phillips-Davies 60 Chairman before joining Scottish Hydro Electric in 1990, 37 Energy Supply Director Sir Robert joined the Board as a non-Executive six months before privatisation.
Alistair joined the Board in January 2002.
Director in June 2003 and was appointed Deputy He was previously Director of Energy Supply Chairman in November 2003.
He became Colin Hood Operations, overseeing the introduction of the Chairman following the retirement of Dr Bruce 50 Chief Operating Officer New Electricity Trading Arrangements.
He joined Farmer on 31 December 2004.
He is Chairman of Colin joined the Board of Scottish and Southern Southern Electric in February 1997 having The Weir Group plc and a non-Executive Director Energy as Power Systems Director in January previously worked for HSBC and the National of 3i Group plc, Standard Bank Group Limited 2001, becoming Chief Operating Officer in Westminster Bank in corporate finance and and Aegon UK plc.
Sir Robert was formerly Chief October 2002.
Previously he was Director of business development roles.
He is Chairman of Executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management Distribution for Southern Electric, having joined the Risk Committee and has Board level Limited, a member of the Financial Services the industry with the North of Scotland Hydro responsibility for Energy Trading, Electricity and Authority and the Financial Reporting Council, Electric Board in 1977.
He is a Fellow of the Gas Supply, Marketing and Energy Services.
a Governor of the BBC, a Board Trustee of the Institute of Electrical Engineers.
Colin is the lead British Council and Chairman of Stakis plc.
Director for the Environment and Health and Susan Rice CBE Safety matters and has Board level responsibility 59 Non-Executive Director Ian Marchant for Generation, Power Systems, Customer Susan joined the Board as a non-Executive 44 Chief Executive Service, Human Resources, I. T. and Contracting.
She is Chief Executive of Ian was appointed Chief Executive in October Lloyds TSB Scotland plc, having previously been 2002 having been Finance Director since 1998.
Ren Mdori Managing Director, Personal Banking, for the He joined Southern Electric in 1992 and joined 47 Audit Committee Chairman Bank of Scotland.
Susan is a member of the the Board on becoming Finance Director in 1996.
Ren joined the Board as a non-Executive Audit and Nomination Committees.
Previously he worked for Coopers & Lybrand Director in June 2003.
He is Group Finance now PwC, including a two year secondment to Director of BOC Group plc, having been Chief Kevin Smith CBE the Department of Energy working on electricity Financial Officer of BOC Gases, Americas.
Ian is Deputy Chairman of the Previously he worked for Accenture and Kevin joined the Board as a non-Executive United Kingdom Business Council for Schlumberger Limited.
He is Chairman of Director in June 2004.
He is Chief Executive of Sustainable Energy, and a member of the Forum the Audit Committee and a member of the GKN having previously been Managing Director, for Renewable Energy Development in Scotland Remuneration Committee.
Prior to GKN, he held various and Ofgems Environmental Advisory Group.
He positions in BAE Systems over a 20-year period, is a member of the Nomination Committee and David Payne latterly as Group Managing Director New is lead Director for Corporate Responsibility.
Kevin is a Vice-President of The David joined the Board as a non-Executive Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders Ltd, Gregor Alexander Director of Scottish Hydro Electric in June 1998 and President of The Society of British Aerospace 42 Finance Director and became Deputy Chairman in January 2005.
He is a member of the Gregor joined the Board of Scottish and Southern He held a number of senior positions with the BP Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Energy as Finance Director in October 2002.
He Group and was Deputy Chief Executive of BP Oil.
was appointed Group Treasurer and Tax Manager He is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman in 1998 having held a number of senior positions of the Remuneration Committee and a member within the Finance team.
He worked with of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
