SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 02 Our Brands Our Brands Durex Scholl Locally owned brands Trusted for its quality, reliability Specialist, scientific and insightful, Our commitment to innovation, and innovation, Durex is not just the Scholl range of footcare marketing and establishing our the leading condom brand products and footwear is other consumer brands was it is rapidly evolving to become continuing to revolutionise the rewarded when SSL scooped a globally renowned sex expert way people think of and care for two awards and was highly dedicated to inspiring people their feet just as they did 100 commended twice at the recent to have better sex.
OTC Marketing Awards in the UK.
Our broad portfolio of products includes a number Durex condoms Scholl footcare of category leading names including: Durex accounts for 29 per cent of the global Scholl Party Feet is the latest high profile innovation branded condom market making it the number in the Scholl footcare range, allowing consumers Syndol one condom brand in the world.
Long recognised to shop all day and party all night.
Other categories The UKs fastest growing adult oral analgesic.
for innovation, its new range of pleasure enhancing include skin and nail care products, insoles, corn, condoms such as Play Tingle and Performa callus and bunion treatments, odour products are designed to give extra intensity of feeling.
Meltus Meltus cough medicine has been re-packaged and supported by an amusing advertising Durex Play personal lubricant Scholl footwear campaign in the UK.
Designed to help enhance sex lives by increasing Work, rest or play, Scholl footwear products are lubrication and adding a special sensation to create guaranteed to inspire your every step.
Based on a more sensual, exciting and enjoyable experience consumer insight the footwear brand is shaped to Mister Baby and Proxima Baby Mister Baby, sold in Italy, is a mother and baby for both partners.
be therapeutic, give freedom and offer urban style without compromise.
range which includes baby feeding bottles, teats, dummies and toys.
The product range has recently Durex Play vibrators been revitalised and re-launched in Spain under Durex Play vibrators are about just that playing.
From Dr Scholls original signature sandal, the new name, Proxima Baby.
Our range of personal massagers is ideal for the footwear range is evolving to become an exploring and experimenting with what feels best.
iconic brand that every woman of any age And we hope that, through our range of products, will love to wear.
Sauber Long established in Southern Europe particularly we can give people the means to develop happier, healthier and more fulfilling love lives.
Italy Sauber comprises compression hosiery and deodorant products.
