SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 24 Group Board Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Group Board Garry Watts Ian Martin Chief Executive Non-Executive Chairman Appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2004, Chairman of SSL since September 2001, Ian was, after joining the Group as Group Finance Director until February this year, also Executive Chairman in February 2001.
He was previously an Executive of Heath Lambert Holdings Ltd and has held a Director of Celltech Group plc and Finance Director number of other Chairmanships including Baxi of Medeva plc.
Garry is a Non-Executive Director of Group plc and Uniq plc.
Ian was Group Managing the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Director and Deputy Chairman of Grand Agency MHRA and also of Protherics PLC.
Mark Moran Peter Read Group Finance Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed in June 2004 as Group Finance Director, Appointed in March 2002, Peter is Chairman of Mark was previously Finance Director with Porvair the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He is a member of the Board of the South East of England Development Agency and is Non-Executive Ian Adamson Director of Vernalis plc.
Previously, Peter was a senior Managing Director, Europe executive with Hoechst and a President of ABPI Appointed as Executive Director in April 2004, and Non-Executive Director of Celltech Group plc.
after joining Seton Healthcare plc in 1991 as Age 66.
He subsequently held a number of senior sales and marketing positions Richard Adam in the organisation and previously held marketing Non-Executive Director positions at Johnson & Johnson and W. L. Gore.
Appointed as Non-Executive Director and Chairman Age 46. of the Audit Committee of SSL in November 2003.
Richard is currently Group Finance Director of Mike Pilkington Associated British Port Holdings PLC.
He is a Fellow Group Supply Chain Director of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Appointed as Executive Director in February 2004, England & Wales.
Age 47. after joining SSL in April 2002.
Previously, Mike was Head of European Distribution and Supply Chain Anna Catalano Development and Director of Manufacturing at Non-Executive Director Kelloggs.
Appointed in November 2004, Anna has held senior global marketing and sales positions in Amoco and BP plc where, until recently, she was Group Vice President, Marketing.
Susan Murray Non-Executive Director Appointed in January 2005, Susan was Chief Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited and, prior to that, Worldwide President & CEO of The Pierre Smirnoff Company for Diageo plc.
Susan is a NonExecutive Director of Enterprise Inns PLC, Imperial Tobacco PLC and The Advertising Standards Authority.
Company Secretary Antony Mannion Appointed in September 2004, Antony qualified as a solicitor with Freshfields in 1986 and has also Garry Watts Ian Martin worked as an investment banker with Citicorp Investment Bank and Standard Chartered Bank.
Mark Moran Peter Read Ian Adamson Richard Adam Susan Murray Mike Pilkington Anna Catalano Antony Mannion
