SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 10 Growing Brand Contribution Growing Brand We have established brand contribution Contribution as one of our key objectives to measure our success in growing the value of our global brands, Durex and Scholl and our portfolio of locally owned brands.
Through consumer-led innovation, effective advertising and by exploiting new markets and distribution channels we can grow the value of our brands.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 11 Growing Brand Contribution Product innovation Other products include pleasure Product innovation responding to enhancing lubricants Play Warmer consumer needs has been the key focus Heat, Play Tingling, Play Longer and for SSL over the past 12 months.
Play More which have enjoyed particular success in North America, where they Durex has uncovered and is seeking have been branded as unique and to capitalise on a gap in the international innovative by the trade.
marketplace with the launch of Durex Play an exciting range of sexual Scholl meanwhile is continuing to enhancement products designed develop into an iconic, high profile, to add spice and sparkle to consumers consumer brand.
Innovative footcare products such Mark Critchley, Group Marketing as Scholl Party Feet which combats the Controller, said: People today have problem of the burning sensation on a greater expectation of good sex the balls of feet often experienced by especially women.
Our Global Sex party-goers have received extensive Survey which covered 350,000 people TV coverage and are now on prominent in 37 countries, showed 45% of female show in retail outlets and department respondents owned a vibrator.
This has helped reach a new, younger, fashion conscious audience Our Play range is all about inspiring and propel the brand into becoming people to have the confidence to enjoy a mainstream consumer product.
For footwear, International Marketing The new range includes three massagers Director, Prabhu Kashap is determined the classic Wand: Charm, which has to see Scholl become a brand that every been designed with shared foreplay in woman whatever her age will love to wear.
mind: and the small, innovative Little Gem.
To date, the vibrators have been Along the traditional therapeutic range, launched in Germany, Holland, the US, sold mainly in pharmacies, exciting new Canada and the UK.
styles are being created for the freedom and urban ranges.
Case study Play vibrator launch When Durex launched its pleasure enhancing lubricants, it was able to introduce a new subbrand Durex Play creating a platform on which to add further innovations, such as vibrators.
Extensive market research into global acceptance and use of vibrators had also led Durex to decide there was a major unfulfilled opportunity.
For example, the Global Sex Survey found 45% of female respondents owned a vibrator.
Using this knowledge Durex decided to develop a vibrator specifically for the 21st century woman and called in the help of designers Seymour Powell, sexpert Tracey Cox and leading sexologist Alan Riley.
As well as being feminine, stylish and discreet, online sales and partnerships with UK retailers like Superdrug, have also ensured the vibrators are easily accessible and desirable to women.
Durex Play Wand: Enjoying better sex the classic vibrator SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 12 Growing Brand Contribution Exploit brand potential outlet, Superdrug, in the UK.
The popular Growing Brand With the launch of the new Durex Play dental gum, V6, which was previously range of vibrators, pleasure enhancing sold in groceries, convenience stores Contribution condoms and lubricants, the company and pharmacies throughout Spain, was is now firmly established as an expert recently repositioned as an exclusive continued provider of mainstream products which pharmacy brand to capitalise on its inspire people to enjoy a better benefits in oral care.
Spain has also recently re-launched the Indeed, the Play range has the potential well-established brand Mister Baby under to position Durex as THE worldwide a new range name Proxima Baby to sex expert.
It embraces the heritage, expertise New designs, new packaging and new and reputation we already have for products have revitalised the portfolio and providing the highest quality condoms: opened up new business opportunities it taps into the high vitality potential of throughout the country.
Such has been the sexual products: and it reflects the shift success that Portugal launched the range in retail attitudes towards vibrators.
this spring and other markets are assessing whether or not to introduce the brand.
Alongside this evolving brand positioning, we have also been able to encourage This commitment to embracing new consumers to move up the value product ranges, moving consumers up chain switching from our standard the value chain and exploiting a variety condoms to premium quality products, of marketing channels is already such as Pleasuremax, Performa and paying dividends.
We have also been exploring how we market our products through different distribution channels.
The Play range of vibrators is now sold through the retail Case study Proxima Baby The recently re-launched Proxima Baby range for baby care in Spain offers convenient solutions to mothers to help make their lives easier and enable them to enjoy more time with their babies.
The brand has five clearly identifiable product lines feeding bottles, teats, dummies, accessories and skincare products.
Proxima feeding bottles are the first branded products to have been certified to verify compliance with European Standards and quality procedures.
To support the launch of Proxima Baby into the pharmacy distribution channel the focus of the launch plan has been on product displays, in-store promotions, point-of-sale material and samples.
Building on the initial success of the launch earlier this year, a magazine advertising campaign will be held over the summer of 2005.
Revitalised Enjoying time product range with your baby SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 13 Growing Brand Contribution Advertising Viral marketing campaigns have also Advertising has once again played proved a popular means of appealing a key part in helping to raise the profile to todays modern high-tech consumers.
Killer Scholls depicting a woman kicking off her wooden shoes and killing her A Brownie Point initiative adopted by boyfriend, and Mums Here, a video Durex Pleasuremax condoms won a UK of a mother discovering her daughters Best OTC Consumer Advertising award vibrator, have successfully reached for its witty take on the way men and large audiences.
women relate to each other.
Meltus cough medicine has recently The campaign, aimed at men, suggests been subject to a major re-launch they can earn one Brownie Point for programme in the UK, supported by asking her if shes lost weight, two for an amusing and effective TV advertising massaging her feet and a seemingly campaign featuring Max Meltus and infinite number for using a Pleasuremax the evil Chestikov.
A similar campaign was also adopted for women.
This spring also saw the launch of a soluble version of the popular Paramol The launch of Scholl Party Feet has pain relief tablet.
SSL believes Paramol been supported internationally to be one of the strongest, if not the through television and print advertising strongest, painkiller available over the campaigns.
The adverts dramatise and counter a message that is being backed raise awareness of the burning pain in up by an extensive trade, PR and national the ball of the foot from wearing high television campaign.
heels, presenting Scholl Party Feet as the effective product solution.
Case study Party Feet ad campaign The Party Feet proposition and advertising communication has been based on our insight and understanding of women internationally and their relationship with shoes!
This confirms that women who wear shoes that are hard on their feet for certain occasions are prepared to sacrifice comfort in their desire for achieving the right look.
These women havent found or more importantly have not expected to find effective product solutions, which are relevant for use on these occasions.
Therefore the creative behind the new TV commercial dramatises and raises consciousness Stills from new Scholl of the burning pain in the ball of the foot from Party Feet TV advertising wearing high heels, and presents Scholl Party Feet as the effective product solution.
New Scholl Party Feet packaging SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 14 Growing Brand Contribution Channel development Durex has expanded from being Growing Brand Many of SSLs brands have been a pharmacy brand into one that has going through a transitional channel high point-of-sale positioning in Contribution development process.
convenience stores, supermarkets and vending machines.
continued Scholl, for example, while maintaining and building its brand in pharmacy has The new Durex Play range of vibrators is also widened its area of distribution to being sold through the high street retailer, include stylish department stores, such Superdrug, as well as online.
In the US, as Selfridges, Harvey Nichols and Harrods, Play lubricants are being marketed as well as top European image through Socialdiva.
The entire Play range can Scholl footwear is now sold through also be bought online through a specific fashionable high street chains such as e-commerce section on Durex websites.
Office and Sole Trader and Scholl Party Feet is available from a broad range of retailers, including River Island, New Look, Oasis, Tesco and Asda.
Case study Scholl footwear Historically, Scholl footwear has been sold in the pharmacy distribution channel in Europe.
It is time to break out of the traditional pharmacy route and expand distribution for the up-dated Scholl summer sandal range into the mainstream retail stores for todays fashion conscious consumer.
Widening distribution to image positioning accounts in some of Europes most prestigious department stores, such as Selfridges and Harrods in the UK and Printemps in France is helping to position the brand differently with consumers.
Without losing the heartland of the classic range of Scholl footwear which we continue to sell through pharmacies, this approach is widening the appeal of Scholl footwear by taking it to a much broader, younger audience.
Mainstream retail outlets SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 15 Growing Brand Contribution Co-branding initiatives Developing markets Creating an icon for the 21st century SSL has operations in India and China has been the target of Prabhu Kashap through joint ventures and is well the International Marketing Director for placed to take advantage of the growth Scholl footwear.
opportunities in these markets for both Durex and Scholl.
A significant part of this has been to create a new look brand offering Both the Indian and Chinese markets consumers style without compromise.
However, with well-positioned and well-established To achieve this Scholl has teamed up with Durex businesses in both markets Celine and Burberry designer brands and through working with our local dedicated to luxury fashion to develop business partners, as India and China a new range of co-branded footwear for move through a period of economic todays style conscious consumer.
expansion, we can look to strengthen our foundations and build future business.
In the Far East, Scholl is working with Hong Kong fashion designer Pacino Wan The China joint venture was established in who is well known for his flair in adding 1998 and manufactures Durex condoms simple, yet creative details to his designs.
solely for the Chinese market.
The Indian business manufactures Durex condoms for global distribution, Kohinoor condoms for the local Indian market and unbranded condoms for distribution to governments worldwide to support their sexual health programmes.
More recently, SSL has also invested in a manufacturing facility in India from which to source Scholl footcare products.
Consumers in India The fast developing Iconic wooden sandal coChinese economy branded with Burberry
