S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 D IRECTORS R EPORT The directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the fty two weeks ended 29 July 2005.
Activities The activities of the Group comprise offset magazine printing: book printing and binding: direct response and general commercial printing: corporate and financial security printing: point-of-sale materials and services for major retailers and brands: and printing for the multimedia and music industries.
2. Review of operations and future prospects A detailed review of the activities of the Group and its future prospects can be found in the Chairmans Statement and the Review of Operations.
Post balance sheet events are set out in note 33 to the financial statements.
Results and dividends The Group profit for the year before taxation amounted to 11,446,000 2004 14,899,000.
The directors propose a final dividend of 12.15p for each ordinary share payable on 2 December 2005 to holders on the register at 4 November 2005.
If approved, the final dividend will make total dividends for the year of 17.15p per ordinary share: 000 Ordinary dividends interim 5,158 proposed final 12,517 4.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
Substantial interests As at 11 October 2005, the only notied share interests in excess of 3 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: Number of ordinary shares % Silchester International Investors Limited and its subsidiaries 20,887,997 20.18 Prudential plc and its subsidiaries 10,522,925 10.17 Legal & General Group plc and its subsidiaries 4,172,727 4.03 6.
Directors The present membership of the board is set out on page 13.
The directors interests in shares of the Company are set out on page 28 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Employment policies The Group is an Equal Opportunities Employer and no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of age, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, race, colour or creed.
It is the policy of the Group that disabled people, whether registered disabled or not, should receive full and fair consideration for all job vacancies for which they are suitable applicants.
Employees who 14 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 ORS R EPORT continued become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and will be given help with any necessary rehabilitation and retraining.
The Group is prepared to modify procedures or equipment, wherever this is practicable, so that full use can be made of an individuals ability.
Employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are regularly consulted by local managers and kept informed of matters affecting them and the overall development of the Group.
Details of the Groups pension schemes are set out in note 4 to the financial statements: all of the schemes are independently managed.
The Groups principal UK pension scheme is a dened contribution scheme which has been available to all eligible employees to join since it was established in 2002 on the closure of the former dened benets scheme to new members.
The investments of the Groups closed dened benets scheme are managed separately, partly passively and partly actively under the direction of a trustee company The Trustee.
The fund managers of the actively managed portfolios are proscribed from holding any investment in the Group.
No fund manager is permitted by the Trustee to lend to the Group.
The number of directors of the Trustee is split equally between member-nominated and Company-nominated trustee directors.
Environmental policy The board applies an environmental policy that is implemented through the Groups management structure.
The policy concentrates on achieving a deliverable improvement in performance in consultation with suppliers, customers and employees.
Specic areas targeted for continuous attention include the adoption, where practicable, of processes which reduce the Groups emissions of volatile organic compounds, noise and dust, minimising and recycling of waste products, recycling of water and securing reductions in energy consumption.
The Group has made good progress towards improving its performance in the areas identied for attention.
The targets set for 2004 2005 to minimise the net financial impact on the Group of the Climate Change Levy have been met and new targets set for 2005 2006.
Copies of the Groups Environmental Statement and the Groups latest Environmental Report on the Groups performance are available, on request, from the Company Secretary.
Supplier payment policy It is the Groups normal practice to agree terms of trading, including payment terms, with all suppliers.
Provided suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, it is the Groups policy that payment should be made accordingly.
The average creditor days outstanding at 29 July 2005 for the Group and the Company were 40 and 20 days, respectively 2004 37 and 23 days.
Political and charitable contributions The Group made charitable donations of 11,000 during the year 2004 32,000 principally to local charities serving communities in which the Group operates.
No political donations were made in either year.
11. International Financial Reporting Standards For these financial statements St Ives plc has prepared its Group financial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The Group will report under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time in its interim results for the twenty six weeks to 27 January 2006 and the Groups first full year of reporting under IFRS will be for the 2006 financial year.
Further comment is made in the Chairmans Statement on page 5.
15 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 D IRECTORS R EPORT continuedD IRECT 12.
Special business a Authority for the directors to allot ordinary shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 30 November 2000 the directors were authorised, for the purpose of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate of 4,000,000.
Resolution 9 set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be proposed to give the directors a new and unconditional authority, for the purposes of Section 80 of the Act, to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,780,000.
This amount approximates to one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, together with relevant securities which may be issued pursuant to outstanding options under the Groups discretionary share option schemes and savings-related share option schemes.
b Partial disapplication of pre-emption rights The Act requires that pre-emption rights must be applied to any issue of shares for cash unless shareholders have given their consent to the waiver of such rights.
Resolution 10 set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will therefore be proposed to enable the directors to issue shares for cash other than by way of a rights issue or pursuant to the Groups share option schemes up to a maximum of 5,150,000 ordinary shares, representing approximately 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital, without applying pre-emption rights.
Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
c Authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 1 December 2004, the directors were authorised on behalf of the Company to purchase the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be proposed to renew this authority to purchase up to 10,300,000 ordinary shares, being approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The directors will continue only to exercise such power if it is anticipated that it would result in an increase in the earnings per share attributable to the ordinary share capital of the Company and would be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
d Alteration to Articles of Association Following a consultation process in respect of director and auditor liability, an amendment to the Act came into force on 6 April 2005 under which companies may indemnify directors against liabilities including against legal costs to a greater extent than was previously possible.
The amendment to the Act addresses concerns that exposure to liabilities arising from legal action brought against directors by third parties and the cost of lengthy court proceedings were affecting the recruitment and behaviour of directors.
Pursuant to the new provisions, the Company will not be permitted to indemnify any director against any liability incurred by the director to the Company or any associated company: to pay a ne imposed in criminal proceedings or by a regulatory authority: in unsuccessfully defending any criminal proceedings or any civil proceedings brought by the Company or an associated company: or in failing to obtain certain types of relief.
Subject to the above, in the case of liabilities arising from an action by a third party, both the costs of the director and of the third party and any damages awarded against a director may be paid by the Company.
The new legislation requires that indemnities provided to directors must be disclosed in the Directors Report and made available for inspection at the 16 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 ORS R EPORT continued Companys registered ofce.
The relaxation of the legislation does not apply to auditors.
However, there is now no longer any restriction on indemnifying other ofcers such as the Company Secretary and managers.
The board wishes to continue to attract good quality directors and therefore believes it is in the interests of the Company to take advantage of this amendment to the law.
Accordingly, Resolution 12 will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting with the proposed effect that a new Article 141 be inserted in the Companys Articles of Association to give its directors and ofcers the benefit of the new provisions to the extent agreed by the board and within the limitations contained in the Act, as revised.
Auditors The Audit Committee has considered both the effectiveness of the external audit and the objectivity and independence of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups Auditors in the light of their internal quality and control procedures, the promptness and accuracy of their work, and other services obtained from them.
As a result of this review, the Audit Committee recommended to the board that Deloitte & Touche LLP be re-elected and a resolution to re-appoint them as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Shareholder relations The board attaches considerable importance to the maintenance of good relationships with shareholders.
Effective two-way communication with institutional shareholders and analysts is established through regular presentations, sometimes at production sites, involving the Chairman, Managing Director and Finance Director.
Major shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with the non-executive directors.
The Annual General Meeting is regarded as an opportunity to communicate directly with shareholders and the chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer shareholders questions.
The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting has been circulated more than twenty working days prior to the meeting, in accordance with the Combined Code.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources and borrowing facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of directors responsibilities The following statement is made for the purpose of clarifying for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in the preparation of the accounts.
The auditors responsibilities are contained within their audit report on pages 30 and 31.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
17 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 D IRECTORS R EPORT continuedD IRECT 16.
Statement of directors responsibilities continued The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Group keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the Company and the Group enabling them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act.
The directors are also responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and they have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by Philip Harris Secretary 11 October 2005 18
