S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 R EVIEW OF O PERATIONS continued F INANCIAL Traditional one-off transactional corporate finance work has continued to decline, through a combination of a growth in private equity funded deals and AIM activity requiring less documentation, over-capacity and the growth of the distribution of documents in electronic form.
In response to this we have implemented further cost reductions and we continued to develop our smartproducts smartapps, smartforum and smartEDGAR designed to enable companies and mutual funds to compile documents more efficiently and cost effectively.
In addition we have strengthened our offering by merging the print and mailing operations at Woolwich with the Groups site at Romford, thereby providing from a single site a full range of services, from document compilation and printing through to distribution and fullment services.
In the US we have relocated our Philadelphia ofce and expanded our digital printing and binding capabilities to increase the amount of short-run and personalised work we can produce in-house.
In the FTSE 100 annual reports market we have further consolidated our position as market leader, producing, amongst others, reports for BP, Rolls-Royce, Centrica, HSBC Bank, Rio Tinto, Unilever and WPP.
In the USA we produced annual reports for Archer Daniels Midland Company, Delphi Automotive Systems, Ford Motor Company, DTE Energy, Tellabs, National City Corporation, Steel Dynamics Inc, and A. Schulman.
Additionally our award-winning factory, St Ives Westerham Press, printed the documentation for Londons successful bid for the 2012 Olympics.
Within the corporate finance markets we were involved in a small number of high prole deals, including transactions for O2, HBOS, National Grid, TowerGroup and Feldman Equities.
We were also active in the securitisation market working for Morgan Stanley, Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and RBS Greenwich Capital.
M AGAZINES Market conditions in the magazine sector in the UK have remained UK competitive.
Oversupply is a prominent feature and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future.
Following consultation with the employees the decision was made to close our Caerphilly factory and production ceased in June.
Caerphilly was suited to long-run magazines and commercial work where competition has become most erce, and our customers scheduling 10 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 requirements meant that we suffered considerable capacity underutilisation each month.
We were able to transfer all of Caerphillys regular work to our other factories.
Our drive to reduce costs of production and improve efficiency has continued and the investments we announced last year have now been installed and are fullling our expectations.
The new 72-page MAN Lithoman single web presses installed at our Peterborough and Roche factories were running in April 2005 and are now in full production.
The Ferag high speed stitching line installed at Peterborough at the end of last year will allow us to improve productivity and service levels.
During the year we ordered a new generation Publica-Rollstream perfect binding line designed and built in partnership by two leading post press suppliers, Ferag and Kolbus.
This equipment, which will be capable of signicantly increasing net outputs from the bindery in our Plymouth factory, was commissioned in September 2005.
We were successful in renewing our agreement with IPC for producing Marie Claire, Instyle and Wallpaper and added their mens monthly magazine Loaded and specialist titles including Yachting World, The Field, Uncut and Country Homes & Interiors to the portfolio of titles to be produced.
Other new work included The National Trust Magazine: Navy News: Golf International: the wisden cricketer: and a number of smaller-run titles and one-off supplements.
We have recently seen a build up in forward loading in line with seasonal trends, although it is difficult to predict whether this will continue into the New Year.
Our recent investments in the latest presses and nishing equipment will provide a good platform to react to whatever market conditions we encounter.
USA The difficult trading conditions in the US magazine marketplace have remained unchanged and we have continued to reduce our exposure to longer-run titles which are subject to the ercest price competition by broadening our shorter-run magazine customer base.
In this regard, we further consolidated our trading with Editorial Televisa, who awarded us the printing of National Geographic en Espaol, Harpers Bazaar and ESPN Deportes, to add to eight titles already regularly produced for them and produced numerous new shorter-run titles for other customers.
