Directors 1 Robert Speirs, Non-Executive Chairman 6 Iain Duffin, Non-Executive Director A non-executive director of the Group since March 1995.
In July 2002, he was Iain Duffin became a non-executive director of the Group in September 2001.
He appointed by the Board as Non-Executive Chairman.
He is currently a non-executive was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2003 and is director of Victoria Mortgage Funding Ltd and Chairman of the Miller Group Ltd.
He also a member of the Audit Committee and Health, Safety and Environmental is a former Group Finance Director of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
He is a non-executive Chairman of Origo Services and Beattie Media is a member of the Nomination Committee.
He has previously held executive positions in the UK and the US with a number of organisations including Macfarlane Group plc, LucasVarity plc, ITT Corporation and Hughes Aircraft.
2 Brian Souter, Chief Executive The co-founder of Stagecoach, Brian Souter is the architect of the companys 7 Ann Gloag OBE, Non-Executive Director strategy and philosophy.
He has extensive knowledge of the ground transportation industry around the world and is responsible for managing all of the Groups Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach in 1980 and served as an executive director until operations.
He is also Chairman of ScotAirways Group Ltd.
She became a member of the Health, Safety and Environmental Businessman of the Year at the Insider Elite Awards 2004 and is a Chartered Committee in June 2005.
She is a past winner of the Businesswoman of the Year Accountant.
Brian Souter is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Award and European Women in Achievement Award.
She is a trustee of the Princess Royal Trust for Carers, an international Board member of Mercy Ships and a non-executive director of OPTOS.
In June 2004, she was awarded an OBE for 3 Martin Griffiths, Finance Director services to charity.
Appointed Finance Director in April 2000, Martin Griffiths is responsible for the Groups overall financial policy, taxation and treasury management.
He also has 8 Dr Janet Morgan, Non-Executive Director responsibility for the overall management of the Groups property portfolio and supports the Group Chief Executive in all aspects of new business development Dr Janet Morgan, Lady Balfour of Burleigh, became a non-executive director in April across the Group.
He won the Young Scottish Finance Director of the Year Award in 2001.
She is Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee and is a 2004 and is a Chartered Accountant.
Aged 39. member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
She is also Chairman of the Nuclear Liabilities Fund and is a non-executive director of BPB plc and other companies.
She was a non-executive director of Cable & Wireless until 23 July 2004.
4 Graham Eccles, Executive Director Rail Dr Morgan is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a Trustee of the Graham Eccles has over 35 years experience in the rail industry and has held a Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland and a Trustee of the National Library number of senior management posts.
He has been a member of the Board since of Scotland.
She was a member of the Central Policy Review Staff of the Cabinet September 2000 and prior to that was managing director of South West Trains Office.
He is responsible for the management of all the Groups rail operations and business development opportunities in the rail market.
In addition, he has main 9 Russell Walls, Non-Executive Director board responsibility for Group safety matters and is a member of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
Graham Eccles is co-chairman of Virgin Rail Group Appointed as a non-executive director in June 2000, Russell Walls is the Chairman Holdings.
Aged 58. of the Audit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is the senior independent non-executive director.
He is a non-executive director of Signet Group plc and Aviva plc.
He was previously Group Finance Director of 5 Ewan Brown CBE, Non-Executive Director BAA plc and Wellcome PLC.
For many years he worked abroad with Coats Viyella plc Ewan Brown has been a non-executive director of the Group since 1988.
He was where he was Group Finance Director from January 1990.
He is a fellow of the appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee in June 2004 and is a member Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
Aged 61. of the Audit Committee.
He is a former executive director and is currently a non-executive director of Noble Grossart Ltd. His other non-executive directorships include John Wood Group plc and Lloyds TSB Group plc.
He is also Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc and Tie Ltd.
Key to photograph 483219567 Stagecoach Group plc page 15
