Operating and Financial Review Severe flooding affected our Carlisle operations in January 2005, with Thanet, Chesterfield and Caerphilly.
We have achieved similar success with 85 vehicles in the fleet written off due to water damage.
However, the projects of our own, including in Swindon, following the success of our company was able to maintain services to passengers and a 4m fleet of initial pilot project in Perth, Scotland, where passenger volumes are still 39 low-floor vehicles was delivered in June this year, making all inner city growing nearly five years after the initial investment.
services in Carlisle easy access for the elderly, people with disabilities and parents with young children.
The financial impact of the flooding was largely mitigated by insurance, although an exceptional loss of 0.8m was North America reported for the year to 30 April 2005, representing the excess on the insurance policy and other additional costs.
Overview North American trading has been very encouraging.
Excluding discontinued operations, turnover increased 12.7% from US$351.3m to US$396.0m.
London Including discontinued operations, turnover at our North American Our London bus business has achieved further significant growth this year.
operations was US$409.1m compared to US$576.4m in the previous year.
Turnover increased by 21.0% during the year as a result of winning and Operating profit was US$27.4m 2004: US$25.4m, representing an retaining contracts operated on behalf of Transport for London TfL.
improvement in operating margin from 4.4% to 6.7%.
Converted to During the year, we began operating an 11m contract for an articulated sterling, turnover was 220.8m 2004: 336.8m and operating profit was bus service out of our new 2.3m depot in Stratford.
invested a further 1m in improved operational and engineering facilities at our existing depots.
Our excellent operational performance, which has followed a close focus on the recruitment and retention of drivers, has North East resulted in quality incentive payments from TfL and increased operating In the North East region, we have achieved further significant passenger profits.
Nearly 90 new double-decker vehicles were introduced in our and revenue growth in our highly successful New York Sightseeing operations in the capital during the year and our London fleet is now operation.
28.6% more tickets were sold in the year following the addition 100% low floor.
of new tours to our product offering.
A fleet of 20 new open-top doubledecker sightseeing coaches entered service in spring 2005, bringing the fleet to 74 open-top vehicles for the 2005-06 season.
A further six new Partnership trolley buses have also entered service on a new tour in partnership with Stagecoach continues to work closely with a range of stakeholders at local the History Channel.
and national level to improve the quality of bus provision for our customers.
We agree with the Government that strong partnerships are Express and commuter coach services have also performed well.
Services the key to improving services and delivering value for money to taxpayers.
between New York City and New York State Eastern Pennsylvania, for In Scotland and Wales, we continue to work with the devolved example, have generated turnover growth of 6.8% while a marketing administrations to successfully deliver the concessionary fares schemes.
We campaign targeted at Newark Airport has produced further growth in our have been working with the Scottish Executive to help shape the new Newark Airport Express service.
Scotland-wide concessionary fares scheme and we welcome the recent During the year, we have won a number of new contracts with private commitment by the Government to introduce free travel for the elderly in and public sector organisations, including business operated on behalf of England.
Stagecoach is working with a number of local authorities on New Jersey Transit and Newark Airport.
smartcard, multi-operator ticketing schemes and real time information, in places such as Manchester, Cambridge and south-west England, to make travel easier for passengers.
We are also working with businesses and North Central educational establishments to encourage travel by public transport.
Our work in Devon has been identified as an example of best practice by the Scheduled services in the North Central region have seen significant Energy Saving Trust, a non-profit making organisation set up by the growth, partly as a result of increased air travel in the United States and Government to help tackle climate change and improve air quality.
In following a bolt-on acquisition of a small business in Rockford, Illinois.
Oxford, we have also established a new network in partnership with Charter sales have grown steadily over the period following increased Brookes University.
These partnerships are delivering results, attracting marketing, operational improvements and targeted pricing initiatives.
more people to bus travel and helping to address congestion in our towns and cities.
North Centrals Sightseeing and tour operations have seen overall turnover growth of 11.7%.
Our Chicago Sightseeing and tour operation, which offers a mix of double decker and trolley tours, has achieved significant Park and ride turnover growth.
Plans are in place to develop new and improved tours in We believe there is significant potential to develop park and ride around the coming year.
the UK as a solution to the problem of increasing congestion in and We have won a number of college shuttle contracts in the Pittsburgh around our main towns and cities.
Stagecoach is a partner with local market and our growing Wisconsin school bus business, which accounts authorities in a number of major and growing park and ride sites.
Ferrytoll for around 27.3% of the North Central regions turnover, has successfully in Fife, Scotland, doubled in size this summer to offer 1,000 car parking retained a number of contracts that were re-tendered during the year.
spaces and we are now running 12 buses an hour across the Forth Road Bridge into Edinburgh as car users are attracted to the benefits of public transport.
There has been significant growth in car users using the five award-winning park and ride services in and around Cambridge, where Canada every one of the 20 buses used by Stagecoach has low-floor access for Coach Canadas charter C$ turnover is up 34.7% on the previous year.
people with disabilities and parents with young children.
During the year, Charter business, which was impacted by the SARS outbreak in Toronto we won a contract for a park and ride facility in east Hull to give a public two years ago, has recovered strongly.
Stagecoach is now investigating the potential of commercial park and ride operations around the UK, where During the year, we purchased a small sightseeing operation in Montreal the operator would also buy and manage the facility.
This approach has and have introduced four heritage double-decker buses from the UK as been successfully delivered in the United States and we believe there is part of the expansion of the operation.
potential to introduce the concept in the UK.
A major three-year contract to run services on behalf of the town of Whitby was renewed in November 2004, with annual revenues worth Kick Start C$3.7m.
Stagecoach was successful in the first round of funding allocations following the decision by the Department for Transport, the Scottish We are pleased that our retained North American operations have Executive and the devolved administration in Wales to take forward our delivered our plan to out-perform the operating margins being achieved Kick Start proposal for targeted funding to support the introduction of by the division prior to restructuring.
This has been achieved despite a new bus services.
We have already achieved high levels of passenger background of rising fuel and insurance costs and an unpredictable claims volume growth after only six months of starting partnership projects in environment.
