Operating and Financial Review Fuel hedging Pensions We currently use the equivalent of 1.8m to 1.9m barrels per annum of The Group continues to account for pensions on the basis of SSAP 24, diesel fuel in our bus operations.
As a result, we are exposed to the Accounting for pension costs.
Under SSAP 24, total pension costs in movement in the underlying price of crude oil, which is the major driver the year ended 30 April 2005 were 38.6m 2004: 32.9m.
We manage the year on year volatility in our fuel costs by charge for the year includes additional costs relating to the funding of maintaining an ongoing fuel hedging programme where we use past service deficits, and is similar to the cash contributions paid by derivatives to effectively fix or cap the variable unit cost of a percentage the Group in the year that amounted to 38.0m.
of our current and future diesel volumes.
If we had no hedging in place a Under the transitional arrangements of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, US$10 a barrel movement in the underlying prices would affect our fuel the Group continues to account for pensions in accordance with costs by US$18m-US$19m per annum.
SSAP 24 as explained above and also provides the additional For the financial year to 30 April 2006, we have fixed or capped disclosures required by FRS 17.
The Group contributes to a number of approximately 85% of our variable fuel costs at an equivalent crude oil defined benefit pension schemes for its bus and head office price of US$48 a barrel.
If crude oil prices remain at around US$55 a employees, and also to the relevant sections of the Railway Pension barrel, fuel costs for the year ending 30 April 2006 could increase by a Scheme RPS.
Under both FRS 17 and International Financial further 15m to 20m, when compared to 2004 5.
Reporting Standards, we would expect to recognise only that part of the RPS deficit or surplus that the Group is expected to fund over We continue to manage fuel costs as part of our overall cost base, and the life of the franchise, as calculated by independent actuaries.
This our total costs of operation are taken into account when setting fares and revised basis of estimate is considered by the Directors to best reflect contract prices.
The Group is continuing to discuss the calculation and reporting of RPS arrangements with its advisors.
Excluding any adjustments required to reflect the revised basis of Liquidity and funding estimate for RPS, the post-tax deficit on our defined benefit schemes, measured in accordance with FRS 17, was 177.7m at 30 April 2005, Our policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank and hire up from 130.0m at 30 April 2004.
The deficit has increased primarily purchase debt, capital markets issues and retained earnings.
As at 30 April because FRS 17 requires liabilities to be discounted using the yield on 2005, the Groups committed credit facilities were 688.8m 2004: AA-rated bonds of similar maturity.
Bond yields are now close to 430.1m, 327.4m 2004: 310.5m of which were utilised, including record lows and the reduction on bond yields results in an increase in bank guarantees.
Under FRS 17, the defined benefit pension schemes in respect of the Groups UK Bus and head office employees showed a net liability at 30 April 2005 of 148.0m 2004: 115.8m after Treasury risk management taking account of deferred tax.
In addition, the defined benefit pension The main areas of financial risk associated with our businesses are schemes in respect of the Groups Rail employees showed a net liability managed by our centralised Group Treasury function.
The Board regularly of 29.7m 2004: 14.2m after deferred tax.
reviews these risks and approves the Groups treasury policy, which covers the management of these risks.
Financial instruments are held to finance Group operations, to manage the financial risk exposures and to achieve International Financial Reporting Standards greater certainty of future costs.
The use of financial instruments is The Group will be required to produce consolidated financial statements restricted to financing and treasury management only.
and annual reports in line with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, also known as International Accounting Standards IAS.
The Groups first full set of IFRS accounts, including Interest rate risk management comparatives, will be prepared for the year ending 30 April 2006.
Interim IFRS accounts, including comparatives, will be prepared for the To provide some certainty as to the level of interest cost, it is our policy six months to 31 October 2005. to manage interest rate exposure through the use of fixed and floating rate debt.
Derivative instruments are also used where appropriate to Our steering committee, set up to oversee the convergence to IFRS, has generate the desired interest rate profile.
At 30 April 2005, 63% 30 April identified the main differences between IFRS and the current Group UK 2004: 49% of the Groups gross borrowings were fixed or capped.
GAAP policies and has established the accounting policies or changes required.
The adjustments required to reconcile our UK GAAP numbers to those that will be reported under IFRS as at 1 May 2004 and for the six Currency rate risk months to 31 October 2004 have been calculated.
The Group is exposed to limited transactional currency risk due to the small number of foreign currency transactions entered into by The Group has chosen not to re-state its results for the year ended subsidiaries in currencies other than their functional currency.
Where 30 April 2005 for financial instruments.
The figures for the year ended necessary, forward buying of currencies is carried out by the Group 30 April 2005 will therefore not fully reflect the requirements of IAS 32, Treasury function.
Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Group will apply IAS 32 The Group now has overseas investments in Canada, the USA and New and IAS 39 with effect from 1 May 2005.
To minimise balance sheet translation exposure, the Group aims to hedge the sterling book value of overseas operations through The most significant areas of difference affecting net assets and EPS are borrowings denominated in their functional currency or through the use expected to be in respect of pensions, goodwill, share based payment, of derivative financial instruments which effectively convert sterling dividends, and from 1 May 2005, B shares and other financial borrowings into borrowings of the functional currency, and through instruments.
It is Group policy to examine each We expect to publish our results for the year ended 30 April 2005, overseas investment individually and to adopt a strategy based on re-stated to IFRS, prior to the next half year-end at 31 October 2005. current and forecast political and economic climates.
The policy aims to allow the Group to maintain a low cost of funds and to retain some potential for currency appreciation whilst partially hedging against Current trading and outlook currency depreciation.
While still early in the new financial year we have made a promising start and, despite some industrial action in New Zealand in the early part of May, overall trading is in line with our expectations.
Credit risk There are a number of exciting new opportunities across the Group that It is our policy to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
To control credit risk, counterparty credit limits are set by reference to published credit we are pursuing this year and this, combined with our focus on innovation in our existing businesses and our strong cash generation, ratings and the counterpartys geographical location.
The Group considers the risk of material loss in the event of non-performance by a financial means there is real potential to deliver further growth and shareholder value.
