We are also working with the SRA, Transport for London, rolling stock New Zealand leasing company Porterbrook, and the train manufacturer, Bombardier, on Turnover and operating profit from our New Zealand businesses were in a 67m project to refurbish our 91 unit Class 455 fleet.
Launched in line with our expectations.
Turnover was similar to last year at November 2004, the project will deliver improved reliability and a better NZ$160.6m 2004: NZ$160.9m.
Operating profit was NZ$23.7m 2004: train layout for passengers on suburban routes.
The operating margin of 14.7% 2004: 18.4% remains satisfactory but does reflect ongoing cost pressures and increased A major initiative to update ticketing systems and infrastructure competition from railways in the Auckland market.
Converted to sterling, technology is to be implemented at South West Trains in the summer turnover was 59.0m 2004: 58.3m and operating profit was 8.7m and autumn of 2005.
Passengers will benefit from new touch screen ticket 2004: 10.7m.
machines, faster ticket printing, more ticket machines and acceptance of credit cards at most self service outlets.
Trading in the Auckland region continued to be challenging due to a combination of fewer foreign language students, competition from the upgraded local rail system and a tougher tendering environment for Punctuality and customer improvements service contracts.
However, contracts for services in the North Shore sector South West Trains has achieved a major improvement in train punctuality of the Auckland region were re-tendered during the year and we successfully retained a similar volume of work to that covered by previous during the year.
Since the introduction of the new timetable in December 2004, punctuality has progressively improved, with over 90% of trains contracts.
We have launched a trial of a Unirider pass at Auckland now arriving on time measured using the SRAs Public Performance University to encourage the 30,000 students and staff to purchase Measure.
This is one of the best performances of any operator on the discounted travel for a year or a semester in advance.
London and South East network.
We are confident the new improved In Wellington, turnover was 9.0% more than the previous year and there timetable and its inherent reliability will stimulate further passenger has been particularly good passenger volume growth in the Hutt Valley volume growth.
A number of contracts for services in the region were also retained at re-tender.
The companies are also adopting the telemarketing This dramatic improvement for passengers has followed the most radical timetable change for nearly 40 years.
The new timetable provides programmes that were successful in the UK, and the New Zealand roll-out of the initiative has started successfully in the Lyall Bay area of Wellington.
consistency for customers, additional peak time services and capacity into London Waterloo and a series of measures to reduce the effect of The New Zealand businesses operate with three-year labour agreements incidents and promote better timekeeping.
The labour contracts for Auckland and Wellington We are also pleased that the Wessex Integrated Control Centre at are both due to be re-negotiated in the year to 30 April 2006 and in Auckland the process is already underway.
The parties have not yet London Waterloo, a concept pioneered by Stagecoach and operated in conjunction with Network Rail, is continuing to improve our joint reached agreement and the Auckland business was disrupted by a six-day response to incidents and ensure delays and disruption to passengers strike in May 2005.
We are continuing negotiations to try and reach are minimised.
agreement but further industrial action cannot be ruled out.
This action is likely to impact overall financial performance in New Zealand in the year South West Trains has placed excellent operational management and to 30 April 2006. customer service at the heart of its business during the year and has been rewarded with a number of awards.
Our customer service team at London Waterloo was named the top Frontline Customer Service Team at the Rail National Customer Service Awards, which cover a wide range of sectors Overview including transport.
South West Trains also achieved its highest customer Our UK Rail division has had an excellent year.
We are extremely pleased satisfaction score in the National Passenger Survey, out-ranking most with the strong growth in turnover and passenger volumes at South West other commuter operators.
E-motion, our innovative customer magazine Trains, which has been stimulated by improvements for customers centred and website, also received a Best in Business award from the National on punctuality and the quality of the travelling environment.
Turnover for our wholly-owned rail subsidiaries in the year was 479.4m At the National Rail Awards, South West Trains won Maintenance Team 2004: 438.9m, with passenger volumes at South West Trains up 4.8% of the Year, London Operational Team of the Year, Major Station of the on the prior year.
Operating profit was up 10.2% to 48.6m 2004: Year for London Waterloo, and Project of the Year for the introduction of 44.1m, representing an operating margin of 10.1% 2004: 10.0%.
This the new Desiro trains with Siemens, while a number of our frontline includes liquidated damages of 2.6m in relation to late delivery of new employees were shortlisted for their own personal contribution.
Desiro trains and reliability of class 458 trains.
Further measures have been undertaken to improve passenger and Our strong performance at South West Trains has also benefited the employee safety and security at South West Trains, which already has one taxpayer, with 46.0m 2004: 27.9m in revenue and profit sharing of the best records in the UK rail industry.
The TravelSafe Officers payments being payable to the SRA in respect of the financial year ended initiative, our ground-breaking security and anti-crime partnership with 30 April 2005.
British Transport Police, has played a major part in cutting crime on the network by 20% in the last six months of 2004, compared with the same Stagecoach Group has taken a leading role in helping to shape the future period in 2003.
We are also pleased to report that seven more South direction of the railways during the Governments recent review.
A number West Trains stations have received the Secure Station award.
This brings of Stagecoach proposals on better integration on the network have been the total number of stations on our network with this status to 43 the put in place and the results are assisting our own measures to improve highest of any of the UKs train operating companies.
South West Trains Commercial activity Marketing activity at South West Trains has been focused on two key The new three-year franchise at South West Trains, which commenced in February 2004, is running extremely well and management has achieved areas: developing leisure off-peak travel to increase revenue and a wider campaign to improve customer perception of our services.
We have significant improvements in train service delivery and passenger satisfaction.
Therefore, we are well placed to continue to operate services achieved further success with our Apex and SuperAdvance ticket promotions, and our leisure and reduced fare income is increasing at a beyond the end of the existing South West Trains franchise in February 2007. faster rate than other train operators in London and the South East.
Around 400,000 passengers use South West Trains services every day New trains and technology improvements and a major newspaper, TV and cinema advertising campaign was Our programme to introduce 155 new Desiro trains is almost complete.
undertaken in autumn 2004 to promote our improvements for customers.
New Mori research suggests that the campaign to reinforce This has been achieved with very few delays affecting passengers.
We are the first London operator to have phased out the last of the old Mark I the benefits of the new Desiro trains, refurbishments to other rolling stock and personal security initiatives has delivered a marked slam door trains and have completed the fleet replacement programme more quickly than any other train company.
Stagecoach Group plc page 7 Operating and Financial Review Under the Letter Agreement, the SRA sets an annual budget, including Island Line the level of financial support, for each franchise.
The SRA has set Island Line, the Isle of Wights rail franchise, is operating on a three-year challenging budgets for VRGs financial year to 4 March 2006.
In particular, franchise that runs concurrently with the South West Trains contract until discussions are continuing with the SRA regarding CrossCountrys 2007.
Island Line remains Britains best performing railway in terms of requirement for additional cash funding from July 2005. punctuality and reliability.
Within the SRAs community rail framework, we are working with local stakeholders to find a suitable solution for the long-term future of public transport on the Island.
West Coast A 1.2 billion fleet of Pendolino tilting trains, operating at up to 125mph, has successfully entered passenger service on what is one of Sheffield Supertram the main arteries of the UK rail network.
Journey times for passengers Sheffield Supertram, Britains first state-of-the-art tramway, has achieved on some routes are being cut by more than 20%, On the key Londonfurther passenger volume growth during the year.
The network has carried Manchester route, journey times have been reduced by more than half a record 12.8m passengers during the year and has delivered further an hour, while the frequency of services between the two cities has been growth in profits.
Passenger volume growth has been achieved, boosted doubled.
by the regeneration of residential areas along the tram routes as well as improved leisure and retail facilities in Sheffield.
A number of passenger As predicted, the twin challenges of infrastructure work and introducing improvements are being introduced across the network, including the new trains impacted performance on the West Coast mainline during the roll-out of CCTV technology and the launch of an automated passenger autumn and winter of 2004.
However, now that teething issues around announcement system.
the new trains have largely been resolved, West Coasts performance has markedly improved and there is a continuing focus on driving up punctuality.
Rail business development Increasing numbers of customers have been attracted to travel on the new The Group is in an excellent position to expand its rail portfolio and state-of-the-art trains.
Passenger volumes on the West Coast mainline currently has an involvement in three shortlisted franchise bids that are an have risen by approximately 20% in the period since the new Red excellent fit with our strategy of concentrating on long-distance inter-city Revolution timetable and faster Pendolino trains were introduced in and high-volume commuter franchises.
Stagecoach is shortlisted for the Greater Western and Thameslink Great Northern Rail franchises.
Covering the West Country to London, the The new trains and timetables have increased VRGs share of the Greater Western franchise includes long-distance, regional and local Manchester-London travel market with an 39% increase in the number of services in the Thames Valley, Cotswolds, Bristol and the surrounding area rail journeys from north-west England to London between September and the West of England, with some cross-border services into South 2004 and January 2005.
In the same period, the number of passengers Wales.
The seven-year franchise will run from 1 April 2006 with a using the Manchester-London air route dropped by more than 7%.
potential three-year automatic extension if agreed performance targets are VRG will recommence negotiations with the Government in the autumn met.
The enlarged Thameslink Great Northern franchise, serving large of this year with a view to agreeing a re-negotiated franchise through to numbers of commuters, will cover services between Bedford and Brighton, 2012.
Earlier this year, VRG and the SRA agreed that more time was as well as between Peterborough, Kings Lynn, Cambridge and London.
required to assess revenue, passenger and operational data.
Both parties The four-year franchise is expected to begin operations on 1 April 2006, agreed to allow a full years impact of the new West Coast timetable to with two extra years if agreed performance targets are met.
There is also a be assessed up to September 2005.
In the meantime, VRG will continue possible further extension for up to three years to facilitate work on the to operate the West Coast franchise under the terms of the Letter Thameslink 2000 project.
Agreement signed in July 2002 and is committed to working with all While we were disappointed that our joint bid with Virgin for the Inter other stakeholders to further improve services to passengers.
We believe City East Coast franchise was unsuccessful earlier this year, we believe we this sensible and constructive approach will help deliver a re-negotiated can develop strong bids for these new franchises that deliver first-class franchise agreement that is sustainable and in the long-term interests of passenger service, excellent value for taxpayers and a good return to passengers, taxpayers and shareholders.
We also have a 29.9% stake in the Danish State Railways DSB bid for CrossCountry the Integrated Kent franchise.
The franchise includes routes on the CrossCountry, which is serviced by a fleet of modern Voyager trains, has national rail network currently operated by South Eastern Trains achieved further improvement in performance during the year.
Since the throughout Kent, parts of Sussex and South East London.
It will also start of 2005, more than 80% of trains are arriving on time as measured incorporate new domestic services on the Channel Tunnel Rail Link by the SRAs Public Performance Measure and, VRG is working hard to CTRL.
DSB operates the majority of passenger rail services in Denmark, improve this further.
as well as franchise operations in other Scandinavian countries, and is one of the best performing operators in Europe.
We believe our UK experience The improvements have helped transform travellers perceptions, with of both commuter and inter-city services will help deliver a powerful bid CrossCountry being named the top performer in the InterCity sector of the for the franchise.
SRA-commissioned National Passenger Survey last year.
Like the West Coast Mainline franchise, the Virgin CrossCountry franchise Virgin Rail Group continues to operate on the basis of annual budgets set by the SRA, while we await its decision on the future of the franchise.
If the SRA decides to Stagecoach has a 49% share in Virgin Rail Group VRG, which operates put the franchise out to open competition, we are confident that VRG, as the West Coast and CrossCountry inter-city rail franchises that link more the incumbent operator with an excellent track record of sustained than 130 stations across the UK.
Both franchises continue to operate on improvement, will be in a strong position to win the franchise.
the basis of annual budgets set by the SRA.
Our share of Virgin Rail Groups turnover for the year amounted to 315.2m 2004: 288.4m and our share of operating profit was Joint ventures and associates 12.7m 2004: 13.5m.
Our share of joint venture and associates operating profits before Both VRGs franchises operate on the basis of a Letter Agreement goodwill amortisation was 12.3m compared to 17.7m in the prior signed with the SRA in July 2002.
Negotiations will re-commence on year.
This includes 12.7m 2004: 13.5m in respect of the Groups the West Coast franchise in September 2005 with a view to agreeing share of operating profits in Virgin Rail Group, as referred to earlier in this report.
0.4m 2004: 0.4m of losses arose from other smaller revised commercial terms for the franchise through to 2012.
The SRA has terminated negotiations on the CrossCountry franchise and has the joint ventures and associates.
The prior years results included our share of trainlines operating losses which, up to the date of disposal, was right to re-tender this franchise, although it is required to give at least 12 months notice to VRG if it intends to terminate the existing 2.4m, and our share of profits in Road King, up to the date of disposal, of 7.0m.
page 8 Stagecoach Group plc Depreciation and amortisation Net assets Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, goodwill amortisation and Net assets at 30 April 2005 were 219.0m 2004: 390.0m with the exceptional items pre-exceptional EBITDA amounted to 224.4m 2004: decrease principally reflecting the return of capital and dividends during 214.7m.
Total depreciation for the year was 67.7m 2004: 67.2m.
the year, partly offset by the strong reported profits.
The annual goodwill amortisation charge was 22.5m compared to 17.8m in 2004.
Total goodwill amortisation has increased by 4.7m, with the principal movement being a 6.5m increase in the amortisation of Net debt goodwill related to the Groups investment in Virgin Rail Group.
The During the year, we returned 241.3m of capital to shareholders by Directors reviewed the period over which the goodwill in respect of Virgin issuing new redeemable B shares.
Of the 241.3m shares issued, Rail Group was being amortised, in light of the status of the negotiations 227.4m have been redeemed for cash during the year and are included on Virgin Rail Groups franchises and the possibility that the SRA could in the increase in net debt which has increased from 67.6m to 214.6m.
terminate the CrossCountry franchise with 12 months notice.
As a result, 13.9m of the B shares have yet to be redeemed and are therefore not the amortisation of goodwill in respect of Virgin Rail Group has been included in the net debt of 214.6m as at 30 April 2005. accelerated, resulting in an increased charge.
Excluding the impact of the redeemed B shares of 227.4m, net debt reduced by 80.4m.
This includes the benefit of ongoing cash generation Restructuring costs from our core operations, 30.2m received in respect of joint ventures Non-exceptional restructuring costs included within operating profit and 14.7m received from the disposal of businesses including a amounted to 1.4m 2004: 7.2m.
The prior year figure included 5.7m negotiated early settlement of the deferred consideration from the prior relating to the restructuring at North America.
The restructuring costs at year disposal of Coach USAs West and South Central Regions.
North America for the year ended 30 April 2005 were 0.1m as the restructuring programme was largely completed in the prior year.
The strong cash generative nature of the Group is once again highlighted by free cash flow of 173.6m 2004: 209.5m.
Free cash flow per share decreased from 15.9 pence to 15.0 pence.
The prior year Exceptional Items free cash flows included one-off tax refunds of 25.6m and 23.6m of Net exceptional charges before tax of 6.0m 2004: 6.6m were one-off cash inflows arising from the close-out of fixed to floating recorded of which 1.4m 2004: Nil is included within operating profit: interest rate swaps.
0.8m 2004: Nil relating to flooding at the UK Bus Divisions Carlisle depot, 0.3m 2004: Nil relating to costs associated with the return of The impact of capital expenditure for the year on net debt was 100.0m capital and 0.3m 2004: Nil relating to the write-down of an 2004: 83.0m, partly offset by proceeds from the sale of tangible investment.
Non-operating exceptional charges comprised a loss of 5.9m fixed assets of 7.1m 2004: 4.2m.
This primarily related to 2004: 7.1m on the disposals and closures of businesses and a net gain expenditure on passenger service vehicles, and comprised cash of 1.3m 2004: 0.5m on the sale of properties.
A tax credit of 1.6m 2004: charge of 0.2m was recognised in respect of exceptional items resulting in net exceptional charges after tax of 4.4m 2004: 6.8m.
Capital Expenditure Additions to tangible fixed assets for the year were: Finance charges Net finance charges decreased from 27.3m to 19.9m as a result of a 2005 2004 lower average net debt during the year and favourable foreign exchange rate movements.
The ratio of pre-exceptional EBITDA to net finance m m charges was 11.3 times compared to 7.9 times in 2004, reflecting the reduced finance charges.
UK Bus 51.4 50.5 North America 33.8 23.1 Taxation New Zealand 10.8 7.0 Profit before tax for the year was 108.3m.
The Groups tax charge of Citybus Hong Kong Nil 3.0 29.5m represents an effective rate of 27.2% on this profit 2004: 33.6% UK Rail 7.8 3.2 excluding impact of exceptional tax credit of 41.0m.
103.8 86.8 Earnings and dividends Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items The differences between the amounts shown above and the impact of were 9.0 pence, compared to 6.7 pence in 2004, reflecting the strong capital expenditure on net debt arose from movements in fixed asset performance at each of our core divisions.
Basic earnings per share taking deposits and creditors.
account of all exceptional items and goodwill amortisation were 6.8 pence 2004: 7.9 pence : the prior year amount of 7.9 pence included 3.1 pence in respect of the exceptional tax credit.
Acquisitions and disposals The total proposed dividend in respect of ordinary shares for the year is Cash of 4.8m was paid on new acquisitions in the year, and 1.1m was 3.3 pence 2004: 2.9 pence.
This represents dividend cover before paid in respect of deferred consideration on acquisitions completed in goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 2.9 times 2004: previous years.
0.4m 2004: Nil of dividends on B shares have been recognised in the year.
Cash of 14.7m was received during the year in respect of disposals, which included the negotiated early settlement of deferred consideration on disposals completed during last financial year.
Shares in issue The weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year used to calculate basic earnings per share was 1,154.5m 2004: 1,321.7m.
Return of Capital Following the return of capital in September 2004 and the related 19 for Following the passing of a special resolution at the 2004 AGM, we have 24 consolidation of ordinary shares, the number of shares ranking for successfully completed the return of 241.3m of capital to shareholders, dividend at 30 April 2005 was 1,063.0m, with a further 6.5m of ordinary with 77.2m B shares 13.9m still to be redeemed.
shares held by employee trusts and not ranking for dividend.
Having taken account of the cashflow generation of the Group and the The Group has authority to repurchase a further 134,073,290 ordinary potential bonding requirements on current rail franchise bids, the Board is shares.
This authority expires at the 2005 AGM and we will seek to renew now comfortable with the Groups current capital structure.
The Board will, the general authority to repurchase up to 10% of the issued ordinary however, continue to keep the Groups capital structure under review.
