Board of Directors 1 Lord Steinberg 68 2 Bob Wiper 50 4 Michael Riddy ACA 49 Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Managing Director Gaming Division Founded the business in the mid 1950s Joined the Board in April 1999.
He was Michael became Managing Director of the and has been responsible for the strategic formerly divisional Chief Executive of Gaming Division in September 2004 having development and growth of the Group.
He National Express Group plc for five years.
joined the Board in September 1998 as has received numerous awards for his business Bob previously held senior management Finance Director.
Prior to joining the Group he and charitable work including an Honorary positions within National Tyres and NFC plc.
was Finance Director of Hamleys plc, having Doctorate by the University of Salford and He is a council member of the British Casino previously held senior financial positions with in 2004 was awarded a peerage.
BAT Stores Limited, Hertz Europe Limited and many years experience in the gaming industry the Burton Group plc.
He is a council member he is considered by many to be a leading 3 Colin Child FCA 47 of the British Casino Association.
authority on gaming and related matters.
Finance Director In addition to his involvement with a number Appointed to the Board on 13 September of charitable committees he has become 2004.
He was formerly Finance Director and Non-Executive Chairman of Empire Online Chief Operating officer at Fitness First plc Limited.
until it was taken private in 2003.
Before that he was Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director of National Express Group plc.
Colin qualied as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young.
2 1 8 5 Robert Waddington 63 7 Tim Weller 42 Board Committees Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Appointed in December 1998, Robert is Appointed in July 2003.
He qualied as R. Waddington Committee Chairman the Senior Independent Director.
He was a Chartered Accountant with KPMG and Lord Baker of Dorking and T. Weller a Director of Hambros Bank Limited until became a partner in 1997.
He was appointed Remuneration Committee 1997.
He is also a Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director of RWE Thames Lord Baker of Dorking Committee Chairman of a number of private companies.
Prior to joining R. Waddington and T. Weller Thames Water he was Group Finance Director 6 Lord Baker of Dorking 70 of Innogy Holdings plc.
Tim joined Innogy Nomination Committee Non-Executive Director in January 2002 from Granada plc where he T. Weller Committee Chairman Appointed in September 2001.
He was a worked for a number of years as Director of Lord Baker of Dorking, Lord Steinberg, Conservative MP from 1968 to 1997.
R. Waddington and R. Wiper Cabinet posts included Environment Secretary, Donations Committee Education Secretary and Home Secretary.
8 Sarah-Jane Goulbourne 40 Lord Baker of Dorking Committee Chairman Lord Baker is currently the Chairman of Company Secretary Lord Steinberg, R. Waddington, T. Weller and Teather & Greenwood Ltd, Business Serve plc Joined the Group in May 1999 from Trinity plc.
R. Wiper and Lehman Brothers Merchant Banking She was previously with Capital Bank plc European Advisory Council.
He is also President and DLA Solicitors.
She is a Solicitor and Banking and Finance Committee of the Royal London Society for the Blind.
R. Waddington Committee Chairman C. Child, Lord Steinberg and T. Weller 3 4 7 5 6 12 13 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report
