Pharma and Fine Chemicals Sales Divisional operating profit 82.2 million 10.9 million Nine drug master files registered The value of sales for our Pharma and Fine Chemicals businesses again experienced the impact of the normal pattern of price erosion for our major generic products as the market matures post patent expiry.
Volume growth was achieved, but despite good process development reducing product costs, unit margins contracted.
Sales in the last quarter of the year were particularly slower than expected as customers and regulatory approvals delayed the benefits of new initiatives in the contract manufacturing business.
Our strategy remains to strengthen and deepen the range of generic products with an eye to the medium and long term as patents expire.
In addition, we continue to offer cost effective manufacturing and development services to the wider pharmaceutical industry.
During 2005 there was a full programme of development and nine drug master files were registered in the USA and Europe.
A number of important customers have used these files to support the development of their future product launches.
The year saw the completion of two major investments in a new research centre in Spain and a cGMP pilot plant at our facility in Italy.
These, along with strengthened development teams, were applied to product development enabling the filing of process patents covering a number of new products.
Results from our flavour and fragrance businesses were held back by generally weaker market conditions and pressure from customers seeking manufacturers in low cost countries was also experienced.
Pharma The Uquifa business in Spain experienced a good year from a volume standpoint, particularly in the field of generics.
Sales volumes of omeprazole active again rose by 20% with demand growing in the important US market and good sales of product in pelletised form.
New equipment to bring in-house the manufacture of pellets was commissioned in the year, but delays in the regulatory process meant Spanish Ministry of Health approval for our process only came at the very end of the year.
Benefits from this investment will not only support omeprazole margins, but permit the development of other active pharmaceutical ingredients which are supplied in pellet form.
Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Pharma and Fine Chemicals 08 Ranitidine sales were strong in the USA and Europe with largely stable margins.
Progress was also achieved in scaling up new processes for other proton pump inhibitors.
Antibacterial and antidepressant volumes grew, but here the rise in solvent prices constrained margin development.
Progress was sustained in developing relationships with large pharma companies with the transfer of a number of long-established products to our plant from multinational locations.
The pilot plant featured strongly, being highly utilised throughout the year.
A good part of this was in the manufacture of smaller scale products for customer development programmes within the ethical market.
For our Italian operation, 2005 was a challenging year.
Further delays within a customers approval process for a substantial contract were experienced and sizeable take up of generic products remains some way off.
Additionally, a product in phase II III of drug development, which used the particular manufacturing capabilities of our Agrate plant, was withdrawn.
On a brighter note, an important contract was agreed for the supply of a cytotoxic product.
The necessary investment to modify part of our new pilot plant is currently in progress and will be commissioned in the second half of 2006.
This creates an important new opportunity to develop business in a rapidly growing market area.
While sales levels from our Mexican company were largely similar to the previous year, the mix has altered with the generic products growing at a time of slower offtake by ethical customers.
Ciprofloxacine was particularly strong and sales of the antipsychotic zolpidem to Europe increased.
This latter product will come off patent in the USA in the second half of 2006 and that, coupled with good ethical demand, is anticipated to aid performance in the months ahead.
Terbinafine, an antifungal, saw sales rise rapidly to become the leading product made by Uquifa in Mexico.
This opportunity was supported by our pharmaceutical dossier registration programme in Europe.
The search for cost competitive intermediates to utilise as precursors to our registered products and processes is a key feature of the pharmaceutical market.
The opening of our group representative office in China will assist in accessing this ever more important supplier base for such starting materials.
Flavour and Fragrances The flavour and fragrance market saw another year of weaker demand and the search for reduced input costs encouraged customers to seek product from low cost countries, particularly in Asia.
Oxford Chemicals quality standards and niche product offerings were used to great effect to combat this threat, but margin was somewhat impacted.
Raw materials on which to base a range of natural products have now been secured and these are in the process of being introduced to the market.
The fragrance business of PFW has suffered through a sharp rise in its main petrochemical based raw material at a time when new competition has entered their market.
Important certification approval targets were reached for sales throughout the European Union which will assist in sustaining sales volumes.
Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Pharma and Fine Chemicals 09
