Performance Chemicals Sales Divisional operating profit 85.2 million 5.8 million 7.7% increase in divisional operating profit underlying performance 2005 was an active year of restructuring and reshaping for our Performance Chemicals businesses.
Underlying sales achieved from ongoing activities fell by 5.5%, but the associated operating profits moved forward by 7.7%.
There were some significant achievements in the disposal of operations with Autoclenz listed on AIM in December with a total value of 18 million.
Earlier in the year the disposal of Brencliffe and the Holliday Dispersions operations for a combined value of 3.9 million were successfully concluded.
Restructuring within the remaining businesses continued with the announcement of the closure of the James Robinson manufacturing site in Huddersfield and the decision to exit the sulphur dioxide derivatives business of William Blythe.
All of the above is a direct response to changes in our customer base and positions our operations to deliver more effectively our speciality products which are technically demanding in both specification and manufacture.
The continuing activities are beginning to see the benefits of this process, aided by new product initiatives.
In particular, the speciality inorganic operations have achieved some important advances and the high margin photochromic products are demonstrating a sharp increase in sales.
To set against this, the weakness of the US Dollar to Sterling and the Euro remains a concern: and the rapid rise in the price of gas will impact the costs of the ultramarine pigment manufacturing process.
China is a major market for our performance chemical companies.
They have been the first to take advantage of our new representative office by stationing technical sales representatives in Guangzhou to support customer contacts.
Inorganic Chemicals Stability has now been achieved in the timber treatment business with the opportunity for growth as other UK manufacturers withdraw from the market.
Major progress can be reported in the development of high purity copper chromate for catalyst manufacture.
Significant breakthroughs in new business in this area were achieved in the latter months of the year.
Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Performance Chemicals 10 Tin products, used in non-toxic flame retardants, progressed well in overseas markets as did sales of products directed at the pharmaceutical and glass manufacturing industries.
New applications in brake pads and flame retardant paints hold promise for the future.
Iodine based products saw sales of speciality products to the electronic and printing sectors, most notably high purity periodic acid.
The continuation of the difficult trading conditions in the SO2 market has resulted in our decision to vacate the manufacturing site at Hapton.
The transfer of other profitable processes to the main William Blythe site at Church will commence in the near future.
This should lead to a more efficient single site operation focussed on products with a growing future.
Organic Chemicals and Pigments James Robinson has for some time been going through a period of change to rationalise its facilities.
After the final closure of manufacturing in the UK due in mid-2006, customers will be served from the high technical capabilities of our German facility and, for large volume products, the low operating cost base of our Indian joint venture.
Exciting opportunities lie within the photochromic market where the technical excellence and range of our products enabled sales to double in 2005.
New opportunities outside the important ophthalmic sector in the areas such as security marking are being pursued.
Hair dye sales were sustained, but margins of the larger volume products came under pressure from Asian manufacturers.
Colour developer sales fell back as the move to digital photography gathered pace, but an agreement to make a range of fuel markers will substantially expand our Indian operations.
The ultramarine business had a challenging year with a downturn in sales as distributors reduced stocking levels.
In France the operations performed well delivering a good all round performance.
On the other hand, the UK operation was plagued by production issues that restricted output.
Actions to alter this position are in hand with good progress being achieved towards key performance targets.
Our products remain the standard by which the ultramarine market judges quality and there remain numerous applications to grow volumes, particularly in the increasingly important China market.
The acceptance process for new products in automotive, construction and ink continues but customer testing regimes, by definition, remain a lengthy process.
Other Activities Our Consumer Chemicals products faced mixed market conditions throughout the year, exacerbated by rising raw material costs.
Little growth was seen in the markets we serve and further reshaping of the cost base was initiated.
A marked increase in customer confidence was seen in the last quarter of 2005 resulting in a strong order book for the early part of 2006.
Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Performance Chemicals 11
