Operating and financial review continued Our objectives and strategy Grow our Value Added Products Invest in Joint Ventures and Acquisitions Serve our Customers We are committed to continuing to grow our Tate & Lyle has expanded its business It is our aim to ensure that we can help our value added products such as our specialty into new geographic regions and product customers develop more successful and food starches and sweeteners and offerings through selected acquisitions.
Tate & Lyles SPLENDA Sucralose and to develop other As this has been successful in the past, strategy is to move from supplier to partner.
Alongside our we continually evaluate opportunities that At the highest level this involves getting a broad range of distinctive high quality would add strategic value by enabling us better understanding of our customers sweeteners and food ingredients, we will to enter new markets or add products and longer term strategic direction and offer solution sets so that our customers can technologies more efficiently than we could strengthening our relationships.
To develop select unique combinations of ingredients organically.
We expect to grow our business our customer relationships throughout our from across our portfolio.
Using our by forming joint ventures and partnerships to business, we have set up cross-functional traditional skill in cost and process develop and distribute new products.
As we teams consisting of people from research innovation, we have developed formulations have found with our global alliance with and development, marketing, sales, finance for balancing calories, carbohydrates, vitality, McNeil Nutritionals for SPLENDA and customer service.
These teams work texture and taste, using selected ingredients Sucralose, using joint ventures and alliances with our customers to provide both processed into high value solutions which can be an efficient way to lower our cost of consumer and customer insights and are available only from Tate & Lyle.
Growing investing in new areas and markets and help look at support and product innovation the SPLENDA Sucralose business and secure access to technology and expertise.
developing similar products which meet todays market demands such as the Integrate our Business Targets demand for convenience and low-fat foods Tate & Lyle has adopted a new customerDetails of the Groups targets are set out in will be a core part of executing this strategy focused global approach to marketing.
the Chief Executives Review on page 7. which allows us to provide innovative To support this new approach, all of our solutions to our customers while benefiting divisions have been brought together under from higher margins and greater earnings the Tate & Lyle name, while existing stability.
consumer brands are being retained.
We believe these steps will allow us to build a consistent global portfolio of distinctive, profitable, high value solutions with our customers while continuing our commitment to being low-cost by focusing on operational efficiency.
Our purpose is to create the worlds leading renewable ingredients company.
Our products are already at the heart of what our customers sell to consumers around the world.
Every day, to succeed in our aim of growing the business, we are working to improve all aspects of how we turn renewable raw materials into products our customers value.
Over the past year, attention to detail, application and a dedicated workforce have delivered significant success throughout our global operations.
Enhancing Customer Focus Embedding Innovation Delivering Quality Improving Efficiency Nurturing Relationships Delivering Better Safety Displaying Leadership Contributing to the Community More details on pages 15 to 34.
