Our business Tate & Lyle is a world leading renewable Sugar and Related Products ingredient, its proven stability means that ingredients company with operations We are a world leading producer of sugar, products using SPLENDA Sucralose will predominantly throughout Europe, the processing cane and beet for both industrial retain their sweetness over time, helping to Americas and South East Asia.
Operating customers and retail sale.
We also produce preserve the optimal balance of sweetness through 41 manufacturing plants and 20 value added and consumer branded sugar and flavour.
SPLENDA Sucralose can be additional production facilities in 28 products such as Lyles Golden Syrup and used successfully in high temperature countries, and in numerous partnerships and Tate & Lyle Light Cane a sugar and processing, such as sterilisation, joint ventures, we develop, manufacture and sucralose blend.
We have strengthened this pasteurisation, canning and extrusion.
distribute a range of ingredients used in a core business by adding a variety of other It is used today to sweeten more than variety of food and industrial products.
products which are produced from natural by- 4,000 foods and beverages worldwide.
Our core competence is to take renewable products of the refining or processing of sugar.
resources corn, wheat and sugar and, Acidulants, Ethanol, Proteins and through technology and innovation, add Cane and Beet Sugar Other Products value to these raw materials to produce Sugar is produced from either sugar cane Acidulants an ever-wider portfolio of versatile and or sugar beet.
Refined sugar, syrups and From a base of sugar, dextrose or molasses, functional products, used by both food and treacles are used to provide natural we produce acidulants such as citric acid, industrial customers across the world.
Our sweetness, texture, colour and flavour fumaric acid, malic acid, potassium citrate principal product groups are outlined below.
across a full range of food and drink and sodium nitrate.
We are one of the applications.
worlds leading producers of citric acid.
Citric Cereal Sweeteners and Starches We are the largest producer of cane sugar acid is used as a flavour enhancer and to Cereal Sweeteners in the EU.
We are the UKs sole cane sugar retard spoilage in a wide range of foods and We are one of the leading producers of refiner, and produce over 1.3 million tonnes beverages, as well as forming the basis of cereal sweeteners and starches in the world.
of cane sugar per annum from our refineries detergents and pharmaceuticals.
We are among the top three producers of in Silvertown, London and Lisbon, Portugal.
sweeteners and starches in the European We are a leading retail brand in the UK, Ethanol Union EU and hold a large share of the supplying a full range of retail and domestic We have expanded our product offering by current EU quota for isoglucose the sugars as well as more specialised products using the raw ingredients of corn, wheat and European name for high fructose corn including Lyles Golden Syrup.
We also sugar to become a producer and distributor syrup HFCS.
This aspect of our business operate cane sugar refineries in Canada of ethanol, which is a form of alcohol.
involves the production and marketing of and Vietnam and a joint venture in Mexico Ethanol can be used in the manufacture of value added ingredients produced from corn which supply customers in those regions.
alcoholic beverages and vinegar, in industrial or maize and wheat for the food, consumer In addition, we operate a joint venture products such as paint, or blended with products and industrial sectors.
Our corn processing beet sugar in Central and gasoline and used as a fuel.
We produce sweeteners, such as HFCS, glucose syrup, Eastern Europe.
fuel-grade ethanol in the US and, in Europe, fructose, dextrose and maltodextrins, are In addition to refining sugar, our global potable grain ethanol is found in some of the widely employed in the production of soft trading operation purchases and trades UKs leading brands of spirit-based drinks.
drinks and as fermentation agents in the sugar in markets across the world.
We supply approximately In general, we purchase sugar from major Proteins 20% of all US corn sweetener production.
sugar producing regions such as Thailand In addition to starches and sweeteners, the and Brazil and sell it into countries with processing of corn and wheat produces Starches sugar deficits such as Israel, Indonesia, proteins.
Wheat proteins such as vital wheat Our highly functional value added food Egypt and Russia.
gluten and soluble wheat proteins can be starches add texture and body to food as employed in a variety of food and animal well as bind together ingredients offering Molasses feed products to provide valuable functional stability and moisture retention.
Our starches Molasses is the versatile by-product of cane and nutritional benefits.
For example vital can also improve the shelf-life of processed and beet sugar production.
It offers various wheat gluten is used in baking to reinforce foods and snacks and are used to produce benefits as an animal feed, provides a raw the flour, guarantee stable dough processing the texture and other quality features of material for fermentation and is also used in and improve loaf volume.
consumer products such as chewing gum, a diverse range of other industrial processes.
cosmetics, toothpaste and pharmaceutical We have been able to leverage our position Other Products applications.
We are also a key player in as a leading sugar manufacturer to become We also produce bio-gums, polyols and the production of non-food starches for a market leader in the international trading, Aquasta.
Bio-gums are used by the food industrial markets.
We supply textile, distribution and storage of molasses with industry as low-calorie fat replacers and paper, corrugated board and plasterboard operations in over 25 countries.
stabilisers and can also be used to provide manufacturers and the building industry with We have developed the expertise we texture and viscosity to sauces and industrial starches.
In the paper industry, gained from storing molasses to establish dressings.
Polyols, such as sorbitol, are native and specialty starches are used to an ancillary business of storing for our used by both food and pharmaceutical increase dry paper strength and improve customers other non-hazardous companies to retain moisture and can be surface conditions.
Specialty starches are commodities in bulk liquid storage facilities found in toothpaste and chewing gum.
used in the manufacturing of corrugated around the world.
Aquasta is an essential nutrient for board to bond the different layers of paper.
farm-raised fish which we manufacture in Starches are used in adhesive and building SPLENDA Sucralose joint venture partnership with Igene product applications, and in the textile SPLENDA Sucralose is a no-calorie, high Biotechnology Inc.
It replaces previous industry to increase weaving efficiencies.
intensity sweetener that is made from sugar.
nutrients that have been chemically derived SPLENDA Sucralose offers the taste of from synthetics as opposed to fermented sugar without the calories.
As a food from renewable sources.
