Directors report Principal Activities of the Group or more or any non-material interest of 10% Research and Development The principal activities of Tate & Lyle PLC and or more of the issued voting capital of the The Group spent 19 million 2004 its subsidiary and associated undertakings Company.
17 million on research and development the Group are developing, manufacturing and The Company was given authority at the during the year.
marketing food and industrial ingredients that 2004 AGM to make market purchases of up have been made from renewable resources.
to 48,300,520 of its own ordinary shares.
Employment This authority will expire at the 2005 AGM The average number of employees in the Group Financial Year and approval will be sought from shareholders during the year is given in note 6 on page 71.
The accounting period under review is for at that meeting for a similar authority to be Group companies operate within a the year ended 31 March 2005.
Comparative given for a further year.
The Company has not framework of human resources policies, figures used in this report are for the year acquired any of its own shares during the year.
practices and regulations appropriate to their ended 31 March 2004. own market sector and country of operation.
Directors Policies and procedures for recruitment, Business Review The current members of the Board, together training and career development promote The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5, with biographical details of each director, are equality of opportunity regardless of gender, the Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 9 set out on page 38. sexual orientation, age, marital status, and the Operating and Financial Review on Kai Nargolwala was appointed as a disability, race, religion or other beliefs and pages 10 to 37 report on the activities during non-executive director from 1 December ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to the year, post balance sheet events and likely 2004 and Dr Barry Zoumas was appointed encourage a culture in which all employees future developments.
as a non-executive director from 1 May 2005. have the opportunity to develop as fully as Four non-executive directors retired from possible in accordance with their individual Dividend the Board during the year.
Keith Hopkins and abilities and the needs of the Group.
A final dividend of 13.7p per share is Mary Jo Jacobi both retired on 29 July 2004 The Group is committed to effective recommended for the year to 31 March 2005. and Larry Pillard retired on 31 December communication with employees, including If approved, it will be due and payable on 2004.
David Fish stepped down from the information on its performance and 3 August 2005 to shareholders on the register Board on 30 September 2004 due business environment.
It follows appropriate on 8 July 2005.
This dividend amounts to to the pressure of other commitments.
consultation procedures and has an 65 million and makes a total for the year of established European Forum.
Training is 19.4p per share, compared with 18.8p per Retirement and Re-election of Directors concentrated on multi-skilling to encourage share for the year to 31 March 2004.
In accordance with its Articles of Association, flexibility in working practices.
The Group one-third or the nearest whole number below runs a series of international management Annual General Meeting one-third of the directors of Tate & Lyle PLC programmes to develop management skills The Annual General Meeting AGM will be are required to retire at each AGM, together and create valuable opportunities for the held at the Queen Elizabeth II Centre, with directors appointed by the Board since cross-fertilisation of management ideas Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P the previous AGM.
In addition, under the across the Group.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Enclosed with this report is a letter from the directors are required to submit themselves for Donations Chairman to shareholders.
Attached as an re-election by shareholders every three years.
Worldwide charitable donations during the appendix to the letter is the Notice convening The directors retiring by rotation at the 2005 year totalled 778,000 2004 607,000, the meeting which includes five items of AGM and offering themselves for re-election of which 317,000 2004 297,000 was special business.
The letter includes an are Sir David Lees and Simon Gifford.
More details of the Groups explanation of all the resolutions to be Allen Yurko will also be retiring by rotation at involvement in the community can be found in proposed at the AGM.
the 2005 AGM but will not be offering himself the Corporate Social Responsibility report on for re-election.
In addition, Kai Nargolwala and pages 28 to 37.
Share Capital Dr Barry Zoumas, who were appointed as During the year, in line with the Groups The Company issued 3,605,986 ordinary directors since the last AGM, will be retiring policy, no political donations were made in shares during the year, all on the exercise of and offering themselves for re-election.
Outside the EU, employee share options.
The total value of Simon Gifford, an executive director, is the Groups US Food & Industrial Ingredients ordinary shares issued at the issue price for employed under a service contract, the details business formerly known as Staley, made cash was 10,911,764.
Offers made under of which are set out on page 50.
Sir David contributions during the year totalling the Groups executive share option scheme Lees, Kai Nargolwala and Dr Barry Zoumas US$29,000 16,000 2004 US$8,000: and the UK sharesave scheme during the year do not have service contracts.
5,000 to state and national political party together resulted in the grant of 706 options At no time during the year has any director committees and to the campaign committees to individuals to buy 6,370,996 shares.
More had any material interest in a contract with of state candidates affiliated to the major information about the Companys share capital the Group, being a contract of significance parties.
Contributions were only made where and options granted under the schemes is in relation to the Groups business.
allowed by state and federal law.
A statement of directors interests in shares includes US$12,000 7,000 2004 Details of shares purchased by the Tate & of the Company is given on page 56.
US$5,000: 3,000 contributed by the Staley Lyle Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options Political Action Committee PAC.
The PAC granted under the Groups long-term incentive Corporate Governance is funded entirely by employees.
Employee plans are given in the Directors Remuneration The report on Corporate Governance is on contributions are entirely voluntary and Report on page 56. pages 42 to 46.
The Directors Remuneration no pressure is placed on employees to Details of substantial interests in Tate & Lyle Report is on pages 47 to 56. participate.
No funds are provided to the as at 1 June 2005 are given on page 93.
PAC by the Groups US business but under Apart from these holdings, the directors have US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear not been notified of any material interest of 3% the name of the employing company.
40 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 Payment to Suppliers It is the Groups policy that UK operating companies should follow the CBI Prompt Payers Code.
The Code requires the Company to agree the terms of payment with its suppliers, to ensure its suppliers are aware of those terms and to abide by them.
It is the Groups policy also to apply the requirements of the Code to wholly owned companies around the world, wherever possible.
Tate & Lyle PLC is a holding company and had no amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 March 2005.
The Groups creditor days outstanding at 31 March 2005 were 33 days 2004 38 days.
Directors Responsibilities for the Accounts The directors have a specific responsibility for reporting to shareholders and for the assets of the Group.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to present for each period financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the accounting period and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, suitable accounting policies, framed by reference to reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have to be used and applied consistently.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal financial control, for ensuring that arrangements are made for the maintenance of adequate accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Group, and for ensuring that steps are taken with a view to preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have signified their willingness to continue in office and a resolution re-appointing them as auditors will be proposed at the 2005 AGM.
On behalf of the Board Robert Gibber Company Secretary 1 June 2005 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 41
