Operating and financial review continued treasury company, Tate & Lyle International The following items are not included in net Financial Risk Controls Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the debt under UK GAAP.
Management of financial risk business units on an arms-length basis.
Our European Food & Industrial The main financial risks faced by the Group The Group manages its exposure to Ingredients business receives cash from are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, currency liquidity risk by ensuring a diversity of selling amounts receivable from customers.
risk and certain commodity price risks.
funding sources and debt maturities.
Group The facility allows the sale of up to US$85 Tate & Lyle also faces risks which are policy is to ensure that, after subtracting the million 45 million of receivables, and was non-financial or non-quantifiable, for total of undrawn committed facilities, no fully utilised at both 31 March 2005 and example country and credit risk.
more than 30% of gross debt matures within 31 March 2004.
From 1 April 2005, the The Board of Tate & Lyle PLC regularly 12 months and at least 50% has a maturity amounts used under this facility will be reviews these risks and approves written of more than two and a half years.
At the included in debt under IFRS.
policies covering the use of financial end of the year, after subtracting total Where economically beneficial, operating instruments to manage these risks and sets undrawn committed facilities, there was no leases are undertaken in preference to overall risk limits.
All the Groups material debt maturing within 12 months and 98% of purchasing assets.
Commitments under financial instruments are categorised as debt had a maturity of two and a half years operating leases to pay rentals in future being held either for trading or risk or more 2004 0% and 100%.
The years totalled 212 million 2004 180 management.
Financial instruments held for average maturity of the Groups gross debt million and related primarily to railcar leases trading within the Group are severely limited, was 5.8 years 2004 4.9 years.
We do not expect the treatment confined only to tightly controlled areas At the year end the Group held cash and of these commitments to change under within the sugar and corn pricing operations current asset investments of 355 million IFRS.
The derivative 2004 154 million and had undrawn Net debt of joint ventures and associates financial instruments approved by the Board committed facilities of 327 million totalling 45 million at 31 March 2005 2004 to manage financial risks include swaps, 2004 277 million.
These resources are 66 million is not consolidated in the both interest rate and currency, swaptions, maintained to provide liquidity back-up and Group balance sheet.
20 million of this caps, forward rate agreements, financial and to meet the projected maximum cash debt was subject to recourse to the Group.
commodity forward contracts and options, outflow from debt repayment and seasonal Tate & Lyles share of net debt of joint and commodity futures.
working capital needs foreseen for at least ventures and associates totalled 20 million.
a year into the future at any one time.
As we intend to proportionately consolidate Control and direction of treasury joint ventures under IFRS, our share of their Tate & Lyles group treasury function Funding not treated as debt net borrowings will be included in Group net operates within a framework of clearly In respect of all financing transactions, the debt from 1 April 2005. defined Board approved policies and Group seeks to optimise its financing costs.
A description of the impacts on Group net procedures setting out permissible funding debt arising from the adoption of IFRS is and hedging instruments, exposure limits provided on page 107. and a system of authorities for the approval of transactions.
Most of the Groups Going Concern financing, interest rate and foreign exchange After making enquiries, the directors have a risks and other treasury activities are reasonable expectation that the Company managed through a central treasury Innovation and the Group have adequate resources to company, Tate & Lyle International Finance continue in operational existence for the PLC, whose operations are controlled by its Having pioneered the use of wheat as foreseeable future.
For this reason they Board.
The treasury company is chaired by an industrial ingredient, we were the continue to adopt the going concern basis the Group Finance Director and has other first to develop functional proteins in preparing the accounts.
Board members independent of the treasury from wheat gluten.
year, Meripro 711 is a great example Group interest rate and currency of our technical excellence.
An exposures are concentrated either in the emulsifying wheat protein, it delivers treasury company or in appropriate holding a rich, creamy mouthfeel in foods companies through market-related such as creamed coffee, soups and transactions with Group subsidiaries.
These sauces without using dairy acquired positions are managed by the ingredients.
Suitable for lactose treasury company within its authorised limits.
intolerant consumers, Meripro 711 has great potential with Asia Interest rates expected to be a key market.
The exposure to fluctuating interest rates is managed by fixing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt which aims to optimise net interest costs and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
For the year ended 31 March 2005 only, the Groups policy was that between 30% and 90% of Group net debt was fixed or capped excluding out-of-the-money caps for more than one year and that no 22 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 Innovation Backed by increased investment in Other launches have included solutions Sensory and nutrition profile for ice cream research and development, consumer for ice cream, snacks and crackers, Vanilla research and sensory testing, our and granola bars.
Carbohydrates Sweet global food ingredients teams have The integration of SPLENDA delivered great business results.
Sucralose into our European portfolio Continual innovation is ensuring we has stimulated innovation in the Sugar Off flavours build substantially on this success.
sugar-free confectionery sector and Our new ingredient solutions are being created opportunities for other Fat Iciness introduced to many of our customers ingredients such as powdered sorbitol with a positive reception.
In addition, our European Total calories Creaminess a major UK breakfast cereal teams have developed new ingredients manufacturer has recently incorporated including emulsifying proteins and Tate & Lyle Rebalance ice cream Source: our Rebalance ingredients into a two new consumer products Consumer brand: full calorie Leatherhead Food premium family brand: helping to Tate & Lyle Light Cane and Fruit Consumer brand: reduced calorie International reduce sugar content without Sugar, now commercially available.
consistently first Efficiency Group water index for five calendar years We work hard to ensure our operations Since May 2004, the average loss that are as efficient and cost-effective occurs when sugar remains in the 0.95 as possible.
This delivers real financial waste water stream that flows into the 0.89 0.84 and environmental benefits.
At our internal site sewer for treatment has 0.81 0.79 London sugar refinery the environmental been cut from 0.20% of the total sugar team has more than halved monthly used in production to 0.02%.
Over the effluent treatment costs by substantially same period, the amount of waste reducing the volume of sugar lost to water sent to sewer has been reduced waste water and by cutting the amount by 52%.
This scale of improvement of water discharged to sewer prior to requires the hard work of a wide team clean-up treatment.
of people utilising a broad range of skills and experience.
00 01 02 03 04 The smaller the index, the better the performance consistently first Operating and financial review continued interest rate fixings were undertaken for The weighted average exchange rate used more than 12 years.
For subsequent to translate US dollar profits was US$1.85 accounting periods under IFRS, the upper 2004 US$1.69, compared with the yearlimit of net debt fixed and capped excluding end rate of US$1.88 2004 US$1.84.
out-of-the-money caps reverts back to our The only material risks from economic usual level of 75%.
At the year end the foreign currency exposures are to the UK longest term of any fixed rate debt held by sugar refining business from sterling the Group was until November 2014.
The appreciation against the euro.
proportion of net debt which was fixed or capped for more than one year at the year Use and Fair Value of Financial end was 85% 2004 50%, excluding 145 Instruments million of out-of-the-money interest rate In the normal course of business the Group options capping euro rates at 4.83%.
uses derivative financial instruments with If the interest rates applicable to the off-balance sheet risk, and non-derivative Groups floating rate debt rise from the levels financial instruments included on the at the end of March 2005 by an average of balance sheet.
1% over the year to March 2006, this would The fair value of Group net borrowings reduce Group profit before tax by at year-end was 483 million against a book approximately 4 million.
value of 451 million 2004 fair value 427 million, book value 388 million.
Foreign currency Financial instruments used to manage the The Group has transactional foreign currency interest rate and currency of borrowings had exposures arising from sales and purchases a fair value of 2 million liability against a by subsidiaries in currencies other than their book value of 4 million asset 2004 fair functional currencies.
The Groups foreign value 4 million liability, book value 6 million currency exposure management policy asset.
The main types of instrument used requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional are bankers acceptances, loans and currency exposures against their functional deposits, interest rate swaps, interest rate currency once they are probable, mainly options caps or floors, cross-currency through the use of forward foreign exchange interest rate swaps and currency loans contracts.
The Groups accounting policy is to The fair value of other financial instruments translate profits of overseas companies hedging future currency and commodity using average exchange rates.
It is the transactions was nil million against a book Groups policy not to hedge exposures value of 5 million asset 2004 fair value arising from profit translation.
13 million asset, book value 8 million The Group has significant investment asset.
In currency exposure management in overseas operations, particularly in the the instruments used are spot and forward Americas and Europe.
Movements in purchases and sales, and options.
exchange rates between balance sheet The fair value of financial instruments held Efficiency dates can affect the sterling value of the for trading was 1 million liability 2004 Groups consolidated balance sheet.
The 4 million asset arising in the sugar trading Our Canadian sugar refinery in Toronto currency profile of net debt is managed to and reinsurance operations.
The net gain uses 2 million litres of water every mitigate the effect of these translational included in operating profit from trading day to process raw sugar.
In order exposures arising on the Groups net financial instruments was 3 million 2004 to save energy we have implemented investment in overseas operations.
new systems to recover and reuse achieved by borrowing in currencies, where water resulting in savings over practicable and cost effective, which Commodities financial year 2005 of more than provides a match for the Groups foreign Derivatives are used to hedge movements 212,000 litres per day.
The team in currency assets and which can be serviced in the future prices of commodities in those our Canadian refinery have a goal to from foreign currency cash flows.
domestic and international markets where reduce water consumption by a further Given the current profile of the Groups net the Group buys and sells sugar, corn and 20% in the financial year 2006. operating assets and operating cash flows wheat.
Commodity futures and options are the Group aims to maintain a target currency used to hedge inventories and the costs of profile of net debt such that US and raw materials for unpriced and prospective Canadian dollars combined should exceed contracts not covered by forward product 40%, euro should exceed 25%, sterling sales.
The options and futures hedging should not represent more than 25% and contracts generally mature within one year other currencies should not exceed 10%.
and all are with organised exchanges.
At the year-end net debt was held in the following currencies: net borrowings of US Credit risk and Canadian dollars 75% 2004 74%, The Group controls credit risk by entering euro 46% 2004 45% : and other into financial instruments only with highly currencies 0% 2004 3% with sterling credit-rated authorised counterparties.
Counterparty positions are monitored on a regular basis.
