Board of directors David Lowden Andy Boland Donald Brydon Paul Murray Alice Perkins Pedro Ros Sharon Studer Rmy Sautter 32 TNS annual report 2005 Donald Brydon CBE Pedro Ros Rmy Sautter Chairman Managing Director Age 60.
Joined the board as Chairman Global Clients and Sectors He is Chairman of RTL Radio and Viceon 12 January 2006.
Joined the board on 16 January Chairman of the board of Channel 5. of Smiths Group plc and The London 2006.
He has worked in a variety of He is also a non-executive director of Metal Exchange and is Senior positions within the syndicated and PartnerRe Ltd. a NYSE-listed global Independent Director of Scottish custom business of TNS since joining reinsurance company and two media Power plc.
Following 20 years with the group in 1985.
Most recently he has companies listed in France: Barclays Group, during which time he had responsibility for the Southern M6-Mtropole Tlvision SA and was Chairman and Chief Executive of Europe, Middle East & Africa and Latin Pages Jaunes SA.
BZW Investment Management, he America regions.
Dr Sharon Studer joined AXA Group in 1997 and is Non-executive directors Age 54.
Joined the board in 2003. currently Chairman of AXA Investment Paul Murray She sits on the Oxford University Audit Managers SA.
In the past five years, Senior Independent Director Committee.
Previously she was the he has also been Chairman of Age 44.
Joined the board in May 2005 partner responsible for KPMGs Amersham plc and Senior Independent and was appointed Senior Independent Information, Communications and Director of Allied Domecq plc.
He was Electronics consulting practice, was Executive directors Finance Director of Carlton Vice President of Control Datas David Lowden Communications plc from 2001 to worldwide Marketing and ran 3Coms Chief Executive 2004.
Prior to that he was Finance home office international networking Age 48.
Joined the group as Finance Director of LASMO plc.
Director in 1999 and was appointed a non-executive director of Thomson Note Chief Operating Officer, with SA and a partner in Tangent LLP.
Mike Kirkham will retire from the responsibility for the groups regional Alice Perkins CB board at the AGM on 10 May 2006. operations, in 2003.
Joined the board in March 2005.
Board committees She left the civil service and her role in He previously worked for a number of Audit committee the Cabinet Office as the civil services international companies, including Paul Murray Chairman Group HR Director in September 2005 ACNielsen and Federal Express Alice Perkins and is now building a portfolio across Corporation.
Sharon Studer the private and not-for-profit sectors.
Andy Boland She became a non-executive director of Nomination committee Finance Director BAA plc on 1 March 2006 and, from Rmy Sautter Chairman Age 36.
Joined the group and was 1997-2001, was a non-executive director Donald Brydon appointed to the board in 2004.
Prior to of The Littlewoods Organisation plc.
Alice Perkins that he held a number of senior finance Remuneration committee positions at WPP Group plc and Sharon Studer Chair Cordiant Communications Group plc.
Paul Murray Alice Perkins Rmy Sautter Ian Portal Company Secretary the sixth sense of business 33
