Andrew Dougal Chairman Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Appointed a director in Director Appointed a director and October 2003.
He is a member Appointed a director in November Chairman in July 2003.
He is an of the Executive Committee 2002.
He chairs and an Operations Director of he is Chairman of the Audit the Nomination Committee and Taylor Woodrow Developments Committee and a member of the is a member of the Limited.
He was previously Chief Nomination Committee.
Executive of Wilson Connolly Chief Executive of Hanson PLC His current appointments Holdings Plc.
He is a nonuntil 2002, having previously include the Chairmanship of executive director of The National been Group Finance Director.
He IMI plc, Derby Cityscape and of House Building Council and has was until recently a non-executive the Board of Governors of the had over 27 years experience in director of BPB plc.
Mike Davies Independent Non-Executive Chief Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a director in January Director, Appointed a director in January 2002.
He chairs the Executive Senior Independent Director 2004.
He is a member of the Committee and is a member of Appointed a director in Audit, Remuneration and the Nomination Committee.
He is the Senior Nomination Committees.
He is is a non-executive director and Independent Director and a also a non-executive director of joint Vice Chairman of Imperial member of the Audit, Pearson plc and of Zurich Tobacco Group plc.
Formerly Remuneration and Nomination Financial Services AG Swiss.
Chief Executive of Bass Brewers, Committees.
He is non-executive He is Chairman of Photo-Me a Director of Bass plc and a Chairman of Marshalls plc, a nonInternational plc, Deputy member of the Executive executive director of Pendragon Chairman of Vividas Group plc, Management Committee of plc and Chairman of Vi-Spring a supervisory board member of Interbrew SA.
He was formerly a Cofra Holding AG Swiss and Age: 56 director of Williams Holdings plc.
Chairman of The Really Effective Age: 58 Development Company Limited.
Peter Johnson Age: 56 Finance Director 6.
Lady Robin Innes Ker Appointed a director in November Independent Non-Executive 2002.
He is also a member of Director the Executive Committee.
An Appointed a director in July 2001. experienced financial executive She is Chairman of the with a strong background in Remuneration Committee and a financial services and property member of the Nomination investment, conducting business Committee.
She has considerable both in the UK and North America, experience as a financial analyst he has held Board positions with gained with leading UK City Henderson plc, Pearl Assurance financial houses with a particular and Norwich Union Life.
His interest in the media sector.
career also includes experience Previously a non-executive with Hammerson Property director of Bryant Group plc, she Investment and Development is Chairman of Shed Productions Corporation plc.
Her other directorships executive director of Shanks include Fibernet Group plc, Group plc.
Williams Lea Group Limited and Age: 51 Wickham Capital Limited.
Age: 45 30 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 1.
Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 31
