Directors report Profits and dividends Substantial holders of share capital The profit for the year to 31 March 2005 on ordinary activities As at 1 September 2005 the latest practicable date prior to the after taxation and minority interests amounted to 21 million approval of this report, the Company had been notified, pursuant to 2004: 153 million loss.
Sections 198 to 202 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following holdings of 3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital: The Board has determined that no dividend will be declared in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005 2004: nil.
AMVESCAP PLC as agent for INVESCO Perpetual UK Investment Series 18.95% Review of the Group Barclays plc 3.89% An analysis of results, net assets and liabilities for the Company, its FMR Corp and Fidelity International Limited 13.86% subsidiaries, and its share of joint ventures and associates is shown in HBOS plc 4.95% note 2 to the accounts.
A commentary on the activities of the Group Legal & General Group Plc companies 3.25% and outlook is given in the Chief Executives review on pages 4 and 5 AMVESCAP PLC has also made various disclosures under rule 3 of and the Operating and financial review on pages 6 to 17.
A review of the rules governing substantial acquisitions of shares on Form SAR3, the Groups research and development activities can be found in the the most recent of which as at 1 September 2005 confirmed an Technology overview on pages 20 and 21. interest in 61,087,332 shares 29.13% of the issued ordinary share The Company acts as a holding company: its subsidiaries and capital on behalf of discretionary managed clients of AMVESCAP.
associated companies are principally engaged in the provision of telecommunications equipment and services together with associated Payment of creditors support applications.
Further details of the principal subsidiaries, joint It is the policy of the Group that operating subsidiaries agree with ventures and associates are shown in note 14 to the accounts.
suppliers the best available terms taking account of quality, delivery, price and period of settlement and abide by those terms.
Acquisitions and disposals Marconi Corporation plc is a holding company and, as distinct from The disposal of the Groups Outside Plant and Power business in the Group, has no revenue and no trade creditors.
It is therefore not August 2004 was the only material disposal made during the year possible to provide statistics for the Company as required by the ended 31 March 2005.
Directors Employees The directors are listed on page 23, together with their biographical A report on people in the Group can be found on pages 18 and 19. details.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment from Mr P C F Hickson was appointed to the Board on 6 May 2004 and people with disabilities having regard to their aptitudes and abilities: reappointed at the 2004 annual general meeting.
special arrangements are made to support the continued employment Mr M J Donovan resigned from the Board on 1 November 2004. of those who become disabled.
Wherever practical, access, facilities and training programmes are made available allowing people with Mr M W J Parton and Mr M K Atkinson will retire from office at the disabilities to participate at work to the best of their ability.
2005 Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
Individual employees and their representatives are kept informed of current business issues through the Groups intranet website, telephone Further details of the committees of the Board are given in the conference calls, briefing groups, training seminars and professional Corporate governance report on pages 24 and 25 and details of the networks as well as through more formal consultative procedures.
remuneration packages of the directors and their share interests in the Company are contained in the Remuneration report on pages 31 to 41.
Share option plans The Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity in In anticipation of the completion of the financial restructuring in May favour of all of the directors of the Company that, subject to the law, 2003, the Company conditionally adopted two new share option plans: indemnifies the directors from the assets of the Company against the Marconi Corporation plc Senior Management Share Option Plan any liability incurred by them in defending any proceedings in which the Management Plan and the Marconi Corporation plc Employee judgement is given in their favour or otherwise disposed of without Share Option Plan the Employee Plan, which became effective on any finding or admission of any material breach of duty on their 19 May 2003.
Summaries of the plans were contained in the prospectus part.
Provisions exist in the letters of engagement of each of the of 31 March 2003, the plans are also described in the Remuneration non-executive directors reflecting the indemnity contained in the report on pages 31 to 41.
During the year, no options were granted to Articles.
The Company also maintains appropriate insurance cover directors or senior managers under the terms of the Management Plan.
in respect of legal action against the directors.
Options over a total of 747,000 shares were granted to employees under the terms of the Employee Plan.
As at 31 March 2005 options over 10.2 million shares were outstanding under the terms of the Management Plan and options over a total of 5.4 million shares were outstanding under the terms of the Employee Plan.
The Marconi Corporation plc Sharesave Plan was approved at the 2004 annual general meeting of the Company.
As at 31 March 2005, options over 1.7 million shares were outstanding to employees of the Group under that plan.
28 Corporate social responsibility Resolution 4 proposes the reappointment of Mr M W J Parton as a A report on corporate social responsibility, including social, ethical and director of the Company.
Mr Parton became the Chief Executive Officer environmental conduct, can be found on pages 42 and 43. in September 2001 and led the Group through its financial restructuring in 2003.
Since that time he has delivered the repayment of the Charitable donations Junior and Senior Loan Notes and continues to be instrumental Charitable donations made by Marconi Group companies during the in the reshaping of the Group to meet the challenges of todays year amounted to 57,000 2004: 57,000 of which 25,000 2004: nil telecommunications industry.
His biographical details can be found was donated to charities in the UK.
These amounts exclude non-cash on page 23.
The Chairman confirms that, following formal performance support provided by operating businesses to charitable organisations evaluation, Mr Partons performance continues to be effective and that and educational establishments.
Further information on charitable he demonstrates commitment to his role.
activities can be found in the report on Marconi people on pages The special business to be conducted at this years Annual General 18 and 19.
Meeting relates to: Political donations Resolution 7: which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, No political donations were made during the year 2004: nil.
authorising the directors to allot relevant securities up to a maximum value of 17,458,071, representing just under one third of the nominal At the 2004 annual general meeting shareholders gave a four year amount of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of authority for the Company and a number of its subsidiaries to make this report.
This resolution is in place of the existing authority and political donations or incur political expenditure, subject to financial will be effective until next years annual general meeting or, if earlier, limits, as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in the 31 December 2006.
It is the present intention of the directors to seek Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
These authorities a similar authority annually.
No treasury shares were held by the have not been used and there is no intention to change the Groups Company at the date of this report.
The directors have no present policy of not making political donations.
intention of exercising this authority except in relation to the allotment of ordinary shares of 25p each on the exercise of warrants.
Capital reduction On 21 May 2003 the Court approved a reduction of capital of the Resolution 8: which will be proposed as a special resolution, Company from 300,000,000 to 156,687,463.25 and the cancellation authorising the directors to allot equity securities for cash other than of 4,369,742,176.73 standing to the credit of the share premium on a pre-emptive basis.
This authority will enable the directors to issue account.
One of the requirements of the reduction of capital involved shares in connection with a rights issue and otherwise to issue shares the Company giving an undertaking to the Court to create a special for cash up to a nominal amount of 2,600,000 representing just reserve comprising the excess of the cancelled share capital and share under 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of premium account over the deficit on the Companys profit and loss this report, which includes the sale on a non pre-emptive basis of any account as at 31 March 2003, which would be transferred to the profit shares the Company holds in treasury, if required.
This resolution is in and loss reserve as losses were incurred or when all of the creditors as place of the existing authority and will be effective until next years at 22 May 2003 had been satisfied.
Company losses of 97 million have annual general meeting or, if earlier, 31 December 2006.
It is the been transferred during the year under review.
present intention of the directors to seek a similar authority annually.
Resolution 9: which will be proposed as a special resolution, Post balance sheet events authorising the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 20,900,000 A disclosure of post balance sheet events can be found in note 29 to of its ordinary shares of 25p each in the market, representing just the accounts.
under 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the date of this report.
The price paid for any shares purchased will not be Going concern less than the nominal value of 25p per share nor more than 5% above A statement is made in the Operating and financial review, on page 16 the average of the middle market quotation of the Companys ordinary in relation to this matter.
shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the day on which the shares are Annual General Meeting purchased.
This resolution will be effective until next years annual The Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 November 2005. general meeting or, if earlier, 31 December 2006.
It is the present The notice of meeting is set out in full on pages 90 to 92, and a proxy intention of the directors to seek a similar authority annually.
card is enclosed, for shareholders, with this report.
The directors have no current intention of using this authority but feel Resolution 3 proposes the reappointment of Mr M K Atkinson as a that the granting of this authority provides for greater flexibility in the director of the Company.
Mr Atkinson, who joined the Board shortly management of the Companys share capital.
before the financial restructuring of the Group in 2003, is the Senior Independent Director and chairs the Audit Committee.
His biographical The directors will only use this authority if they are satisfied that any details can be found on page 23.
The Chairman confirms that, following purchase will lead to an increase in the earnings per share of the formal performance evaluation, Mr Atkinsons performance continues ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and, accordingly, to be effective and that he demonstrates commitment to his role that the purchase is in the best interests of shareholders.
The directors as an independent non-executive director of the Company, also that will also give careful consideration to the gearing levels of the Mr Atkinsons reappointment is consistent with the plans for the Boards Company and its general financial position.
development that are subject to periodic review.
29 Directors report continued If the directors use this authority, they may consider holding any shares purchased in treasury, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, rather than cancelling them.
Shares held in treasury may subsequently be sold for cash, cancelled or used to satisfy share options or share awards under share incentive schemes.
Once held in treasury, the Company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings, in respect of those shares.
No dividend or other distribution of the Companys assets may be made to the Company in respect of treasury shares.
The directors will have regard to the guidance issued from time-to-time by investor groups in relation to the purchase, holding or sale of treasury shares.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding on 1 September 2005 the latest practicable date prior to the approval of this report was 16,347,782.
The proportion of issued share capital that they represented at that time was around 7.80% and the proportion of issued share capital that they would represent if the full authority to purchase shares is used would be 8.66%.
Resolution 10: which will be proposed as a special resolution, approving the deletion of Article 111 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The reason for the deletion of Article 111, which is to allow executive directors and senior executives to participate in the Companys Annual Incentive Plan, is set out in more detail in the letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to shareholders accompanying this report.
By order of the Board Marconi Corporation plc M A Skelly Company Secretary New Century Park, PO Box 53 Coventry CV3 1HJ 19 September 2005 30
