Technology overview Introduction Marconis Series 4 SMA is a comprehensive value-added IP-based services.
The Access Marconis core business is the provision of range of optimised STM1 4 multiplexers Hubs revolutionary Combo card, which offers equipment and services to suitable for smaller Metro networks voice and ADSL services on the same card, telecommunications service providers and where higher port densities are required.
provides flexibility of deployment as new other telecommunications network operators.
The implementation of PacketSpan Ethernet services are enabled remotely from the Marconi sells the hardware and software to technology brings next-generation SDH network management system, significantly enable its customers to increase the capacity, functionality to these and previous generations reducing the provisioning time and cost.
predictability and reliability of voice, video and of Marconis SMA & MSH multiplexers via a The introduction of a protocol-agnostic data communications carried over their range of simple plug-in cards.
switching card to the Access Hub will allow networks.
Marconi also provides services from In further support of Ethernet services, Marconi to meet the increasing demands of design and implementation through to Marconi has unveiled the OMS2400, which operators planning to migrate from ATM and ongoing continuous support and operation of offers a resilient and highly scalable Ethernet hybrid networks to distributed IP environments.
platform, interoperability with existing SDH, During 2004 Marconi also announced a new During the last year it has become even more WDM and MPLS networks.
Very High Speed Digital Subscriber Line evident that the traditional telecommunications Marconi has added the GigaEdge 8200 VDSL version of the Combo card and a new operators business model, which is based on & GigaEdge 2330 to its family of Optical fibre-to-the-home card that uses Ethernet a connection between revenue and usage, is Multiservice Edge products.
Intended for use technology to deliver video at speeds of up breaking down.
As operators struggle to in Metro-access rings and point-to-point to 100 Mbit s to every subscriber.
profitably sustain their infrastructures, they applications, this reconfigurable CWDM have begun to consider transforming their system offers flexibility and simplicity, whilst Focus on Bulldog Communications networks to capture revenue and reduce delivering carrier-class service.
Marconi has been awarded a multi-year frame costs.
Next-generation networks will enable contract by Bulldog Communications to operators to create new infrastructures, In June 2004, Marconi took part in the supply the UK broadband plus phone capable of delivering multiple services, worlds first multi-carrier optical network company with Marconis next-generation lowering costs, simplifying operations interoperability demonstration, involving Access Hub platform.
The initial phase of the and improving responsiveness to 15 vendors and seven carriers worldwide, three-year deal comprises the installation of customer demands.
simultaneously in China, Germany, Italy, Japan Marconis MSAN platform, the Access Hub, and the USA, intended to give carriers and Marconi is well positioned to help operators across 38 local exchanges in central London.
their customers confidence to move forward drive their network transformation projects.
with their next-generation network plans.
Focus on Wind The following section provides further details Wind, the Italian operator offering integrated of the technologies which the Group offers Focus on Telstra fixed, internet and mobile telecommunications to its customers.
Readers may find it Following on from Telstras decision in 2003 solutions, uses functionality within Marconis helpful to refer to the glossary of terms on to award Marconi a contract for the supply Access Hub to deliver a suite of broadband pages 93 to 96. of 10 Gbit s transmission equipment, Telstra services to its customers.
awarded Marconi the sole supply contract Optical Networks for its next-generation transport network Fixed Wireless The Optical Networks business has focused technologies.
The enhancements to the MDMS is Marconis broadband wireless local on satisfying its customers requirements by Telstra network will cover its Access layer, loop point-to-multipoint access radio solution.
continuing to evolve existing products Metropolitan and Regional networks, MDMS serves small and medium sized while at the same time developing new Core transport layer and associated network businesses with high customer densities products that enable operators to evolve to management systems.
demanding a high quality of service or next-generation networks.
can be used as a feeder in cellular backhaul Focus on Deutsche Telekom Marconis field-proven optical core solution networks especially 3G UMTS networks.
In January 2005, Marconi announced that is based on a range of optical core switches, In addition, we have recently reduced the size T-Com, the fixed-network unit of Deutsche the OMS3200 and MSH families, offering of the point-to-point radio product, MDRS Telekom, is to use Marconis Multihaul 3000 unprecedented scalability and flexibility in a long haul, by 70% and the associated power platform as the first building block of Europes compact footprint, and the new Multihaul consumption by 50% to significantly improve first 40 Gbit s, high-capacity optical network.
3000 DWDM optical core transmission its competitiveness.
The Multihaul 3000 will act as an expressway system that is a single platform for spans of carrying high-bandwidth traffic between AXR is Marconis new Access Radio up to 4,000km.
switching nodes in the network, with a designed for Metro-access feeder networks.
At the heart of Marconis Metro solution is capacity of 3.2 Tbit s on each optical fibre pair.
The cell packet based AXR can be used in the optical multiservice Metro OMS1664 point-to-point and point-to-multipoint family for high capacity, traffic consolidation Access Networks configurations via a single platform, and grooming in Metro Core or larger Todays network operators want a multi-service reducing operating costs of spares, logistics Metro Edge applications.
This platform offers triple play.
The Marconi Access Hub is a next and training.
TDM and data aggregation, switching and generation multi-service access node MSAN Marconi also continued to drive forward transport at line rates of 2.5 and 10 Gbit s combining copper and fibre delivery of standards-based broadband wireless access in a single platform.
It supports an this year, by bringing Marconis wireless extensive range of copper and optical line and heritage and ETSI experience to the WiMAX back-haul interfaces that provide operators Forum, established to drive the deployment of with a smooth, future-proof migration to high 20 IEEE 802.16-based wireless networks Adjusted research & development expenditure on Continuing Operations and help ensure the compatibility and interoperability of broadband wireless 41 access equipment.
Focus on E-Plus 3 Marconi and German mobile network provider E-Plus Mobilfunk have worked together continuously since 1994.
In January 2005, Marconi announced that it had renewed a Product area 200405 % frame contract for the supply of PDH wireless 1 Optical Networks 43 technology until 2007, including delivery, 2 Access Networks 36 deployment and implementation, plus a 3BBRS 18 2 4 Network Services 3 wide range of after-sales support such as a hotline, helpdesk, training and swap & repair services.
Impact SoftSwitch and voice solutions Focus on Gamma Telecom Broadband Routing and Switching The Marconi Impact SoftSwitch provides a In January 2005, it was announced that The BXR-48000 is an extremely versatile full range of traditional telephony and new Gamma Telecom is installing Marconis multiservice router, providing up to 480 Gbit s IMS-enabled services across a variety of next-generation Impact SoftSwitch platform of full-duplex, deterministically non-blocking protocols and is capable of delivering to deliver IP-based services and to meet throughput 960 Gbit s simplex, through a new services to residential and business confirmed and forecast growth requirements unique architecture that is optimised to communities.
It has carrier-class functionality from its indirect reseller channels.
handle IP routing, MPLS switching and built in, based on Marconis experience of ATM switching simultaneously.
building and delivering voice services for Multiservice Network Management network operators.
The total solution is further Marconis ServiceOn network management The ASX-4000 can switch at transmission enhanced with a range of partnerships with portfolio supports all the Groups Access, speeds ranging from 10 Gbit s to 40 Gbit s leading edge suppliers of CPE, gateways Data, Optical and Switching solutions and can be positioned either within the Core and applications.
including IP, ATM, DWDM and SDH, xDSL, or at the Edge of service provider networks Radio and Impact SoftSwitch technologies.
For instance, Marconi and Operax are working It also supports selected partner products, together to provide a bandwidth management During 2004, Marconi announced a new provides operators with end-to-end, scalable, solution that enables service providers to set networking device, the MPG-1000, a media carrier-class network management solutions policies for the use of bandwidth resources and protocol gateway that extends the and value-add software modules, to optimise on a converged network.
Marconi also has a benefits of high-speed encryption to a variety the efficiency of customers networks.
strategic product development partnership of network interfaces in use over local-area, with Newport Networks for session border The Groups cross-domain management wide-area and storage-area networks.
controllers, and a relationship with NewHeights solution, ServiceOn Integrator, provides Marconi has also announced enhancements that will enable Marconi and its service provider a converged platform that consolidates to its ViPr virtual presence communications customers to offer softphone capabilities to existing management resources into an system, to give ViPr users new tools for end users.
Marconi can also offer to service easy-to-use application.
remote SIP-based video communications, providers Impact Ultrakey, a hosted IP key During 2004 Marconi launched a range of including up to 15-way videoconferencing and system application, developed in conjunction value-add software modules including improved display of streaming video.
ServiceOn Client Circuit Centre and ServiceOn Marconis Impact SoftSwitch has been Automatic Switched Transport Node ASTN.
Data communications successfully proven in operator trials and live ServiceOn Advantage Client Circuit Centre In May 2005, Marconi and Huawei networks.
When combined with the Marconi provides automated end-to-end provisioning Technologies Co Ltd of China signed a Access Hub as an MSAN, Impact SoftSwitch of Ethernet circuits.
The Groups ServiceOn mutual distribution agreement, whereby is capable of transitioning PSTN infrastructure Advantage ASTN Module supports the the two companies will resell parts of each to next-generation network architecture, in dynamic provisioning and restoration of others product portfolio.
order to deliver a greater end user experience services.
It has been tried and tested within Under the agreement, Marconi will and significant operating expenditure savings.
the global optical market and is being resell a full range of Huawei carrier-class deployed in live networks in Europe.
data communications products to Focus on Kingston Recently, Marconi was selected as project telecommunications service providers, During 2004, Kingston Communications leader in Europes advanced network research for example the Quidway NetEngine and became the first mainland UK operator to project, MUPBED, in which it was the only AR series.
The extended portfolio will accept a fully configured Impact SoftSwitch vendor providing a core network solution, complement and augment a suite of data into its network, laying the foundation for featuring ASTN on its optical core switches.
communications products that Marconi next-generation services development.
currently develops and sells, including the Kingstons deployment uses eight Impact ASX, TNX and BXR multiservice switching SoftSwitches to provide Kingston with the and routing platforms.
foundation of a next-generation network that will enable the development of new IP-based services.
21 Statutory and financial contents 23 Directors 24 Corporate governance 28 Directors report 31 Report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration 42 Corporate social responsibility 44 Statement of directors responsibilities 45 Independent auditors report 46 Consolidated profit and loss account 47 Balance sheets 48 Consolidated cash flow statement 48 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movements in net monetary funds debt 49 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 49 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders interests 50 Notes to the accounts 86 Statistical information 2001 to 2005 87 Information for shareholders 89 Shareholder services 90 Notice of Annual General Meeting 93 Glossary of terms 22
