Operating and financial review continued Tesco.
com sales grew by 24.1% to 719m and profits Our formats are rapidly being rolled out in our key international increased by 51.8% to 36m.
During the year, we added markets.
With our large destination store networks now welleDiets and Legal Store to the tesco.
com offer, as well as a established and with first class supply chain infrastructure in significant expansion in the non-food ranges available online.
place in many of our main markets, a growing part of our new space is coming through our smaller formats, such as compact Tesco Personal Finance TPF total profit has increased by 26.5% hypermarkets and convenience stores.
These serve the needs of to 202m 2004 160m of which our share is 101m.
TPF customers in smaller catchments, as well as costing less to build.
is providing excellent returns in only its seventh year.
100m of surplus capital, representing 20% of the original investment At the end of the year, our international operations were in the joint venture, was returned to Tesco and Royal Bank of trading from 585 stores, including 273 hypermarkets, with Scotland through a cash dividend.
We now have almost five a total of 27.6m sq ft of selling space.
million customer accounts, an increase of 700,000 on last year.
Rest of Europe Sales increased by 15.7% at constant exchange International Our international operations have continued rates and by 13.4% at actual exchange rates.
Profits grew by to make good progress, delivering strong profit growth and 18.5% at actual exchange rates and by 21.4% at constant improving returns.
In Hungary, we have grown our business in a more difficult These businesses are well adapted to the needs of their economic and retail environment.
We have strengthened local customers.
They are run by strong local management our market leading position by lowering prices, expanding teams who share Tesco Group expertise.
In almost every country our store network and developing our infrastructure.
We we are continuing to grow market share as we build our store opened nine new stores in the year, adding 13% to our networks and improve our like-for-like sales.
In the current year, a further 14 stores with At constant exchange rates, sales increased by 18.3% in the 688,000 sq ft of sales area, are planned.
At actual rates, sales grew by 13.1% to 7.6bn.
Profit opened our new 226,000 sq ft fresh food distribution centre grew by 20.9% to 370m, with operating margins rising to at Gyl, which now accounts for over 95% of our volume.
At constant exchange rates, international In Poland, the economic background is improving and profit grew by 26.5%.
signs of renewed consumer confidence, combined with International returns continue to rise.
On a constant currency an improving offer, have been reflected in strengthening basis, cash return on investment CROI has increased to 11%, like-for-like sales.
We have invested significantly in cutting despite a high level of immature capital.
CROI on like-for-like prices during the year.
Our business is strong, we are stores in our four largest international businesses Thailand, growing market share and we remain well placed to benefit Korea, Ireland and Hungary where 60% of our international from a sustained economic upturn.
The performance of capital is invested, is running at over 15%.
This demonstrates the former HIT stores has been particularly pleasing.
95% that our international model is not only delivering good growth of our volume now goes through our two new central but also developing good returns as we gain strong market distribution centres our 400,000 sq ft ambient depot positions, and our stores mature.
which opened in January 2004 and our new 160,000 sq ft fresh depot which opened in March 2005.
A total of 98 stores with 3.1m sq ft of selling area, were In the Republic of Ireland, we have again traded well.
opened during the year, including 47 hypermarkets.
In addition Sales growth has benefited from strong like-for-like we acquired 25 Frec stores in Japan, and since the end of performance and an acceleration in the growth of our space.
the financial year we purchased 12 stores in Korea from Arum We opened seven new stores with 202,000 sq ft of new sales Mart.
We plan to open 207 new stores, adding 5.4m sq ft of area, an increase of 11%.
A further six new stores, with selling area.
108,000 sq ft of sales area, are planned for the following In September, we successfully completed the acquisition year.
Our new formats, led by Irelands first Extra at Clare of a 50% holding in Ting Hsins Hymall business in China, Hall, Dublin, have all been very well received by customers.
extending our presence into Asias largest market.
Hymall now In recent months we have been meeting the more trades from 31 hypermarkets, and will open its first store in competitive market conditions in the Czech Republic Beijing this summer as part of an enlarged new store development with our largest ever programme of price reductions and programme of 15 hypermarkets.
Since the joint venture was promotions.
This has involved substantial investment, paid established, Hymalls sales have grown strongly and the business for by higher sales and the benefits of improved buying and made a small profit, of which our share, 1m, is included in our improved productivity.
We have also accelerated our new share of operating profit of Joint ventures and Associates.
store development, with three openings in the year, including 6 Tesco PLC
