Operating and financial review continued and price.
Building on the constructive relationships we have This debt reduces interest risk by diversifying our funding with our suppliers, we recently conducted an anonymous portfolio.
The balance of our debt is in floating rate form.
supplier survey to understand what is good and where we The average rate of interest paid during the year was 5.4% can improve.
The results were very positive, and although excluding Joint venture interest 2004 5.4%.
A 1% they show we are not perfect, the majority of our suppliers movement in UK interest rates would change profit before think we are professional, committed to our customers, fair tax by less than 1%.
Foreign currency risk management Our principal objective is Financial risks and treasury management The treasury to reduce the risk to short-term profits of exchange rate volatility.
function is mandated by the Board to manage the financial Transactional currency exposures that could significantly impact risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs.
the profit and loss account are hedged, typically using forward The Board establishes the functions policies and operating purchases or sales of foreign currencies and currency options.
parameters, and routinely reviews its activities, which are also At the year end forward foreign currency transactions equivalent subject to regular audit.
The function does not operate as a to 479m were outstanding 2004 240m.
See note 21. profit centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
We hedge the majority of our investment in our international subsidiaries via foreign exchange transactions in matching The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the currencies.
Our objective is to maintain a low cost of borrowing availability of funds to meet business needs, the risk of default and hedge against material movements in our balance by counterparties to financial transactions credit risk, and sheet value.
During the year currency movements increased fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
These risks the net value of the Groups overseas assets by 19m are managed as described below.
The balance sheet positions 2004 157m decrease.
at 26 February 2005 are representative of the positions throughout the year.
We translate overseas profits at average exchange rates which we do not currently seek to hedge.
Funding and liquidity The Group finances its operations by a combination of retained profits, long and medium-term debt Credit risk The objective is to reduce the risk of loss arising capital market issues, commercial paper, bank borrowings and from default by parties to financial transactions.
The objective is to ensure continuity of funding.
The managed by spreading financial transactions across an policy is to smooth the debt maturity profile, to arrange funding approved list of counterparties of high credit quality.
The ahead of requirements and to maintain sufficient undrawn Groups positions with these counterparties and their credit committed bank facilities, and a strong credit rating so that ratings are routinely monitored.
maturing debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
Tesco Personal Finance TPF TPF lending is predominantly The Groups long-term credit rating remained stable during to individuals through its credit card and unsecured personal the year.
Tesco Group is rated A1 by Moodys and A by loan products.
TPF has also developed a significant insurance Standard and Poors.
New funding of 1,231m was arranged business, with motor insurance a major component.
TPF risk during the year, including a net 740m from property Joint is managed by observing and adopting industry best practices ventures, 368m from long-term bank debt and 123m from and drawing upon the expertise and systems of the Royal new medium-term notes.
At the year end net debt was 3.8bn Bank of Scotland Group, including its subsidiary, Direct Line.
2004 4.1bn and the average debt maturity was eight All policies pertaining to risk within TPF are subject to the years 2004 nine years.
governance procedures of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group and ratified by the TPF Board, which has representation from Interest rate risk management The objective is to limit both Tesco and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group.
This has our exposure to increases in interest rates while retaining delivered a portfolio of products with strong asset quality.
the opportunity to benefit from interest rate reductions.
This asset quality is maintained through proactive risk Forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps, caps and collars management both at the time of acquisition and ongoing are used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate account maintenance.
The policy is to fix or cap a minimum of 40% of actual and projected debt interest costs.
At the year end, 2.6bn, 67% of net debt was in fixed rate form 2004 2.9bn, 71% with a further 745m, 19% of net debt, collared or capped as detailed in note 21.
Fixed rate debt includes 454m of funding linked to the Retail Price Index 2004 441m.
