one compact hypermarket, and a further eight openings In Japan, C Two-Network completed its acquisition of 25 planned this year, so that over two years we will have added Frec stores in August.
We are making good progress with 26% to our space.
Profits grew by over 20% during the year.
the integration of the two businesses, combining Frecs expertise in fresh foods with C Twos excellent grocery We have taken similar action in Slovakia where we have operation to improve the overall offer for customers.
Customers quickly responded business now trades from 104 stores, with 15 new stores to our lower prices, with like-for-like sales showing an planned for 2005. immediate improvement.
Our new store programme is now supported by the growth of our compact hypermarket Corporate social responsibility As a responsible company, format.
We now have five such stores, with five more we work hard to bring real benefits to the communities we planned.
Our new fresh food central distribution depot serve, the environment and the economy.
Our commitment at Beckov will open this summer.
is embedded in the way we run our business.
In Turkey, we have traded well, achieving good sales Communities We are committed to making a difference growth, improved margins and had a strong profit to the communities around us in many different ways.
For increase, whilst lowering prices and raising staff levels example, every year we adopt a Charity of the Year to support in our Kipa stores.
Our first new store, a 55,000 sq ft and in 2004 our staff and customers raised 3m for Help the hypermarket at Bodrum, will open in June 2005.
This year we will be supporting Age Concern.
Asia Sales increased by 21.8% at constant exchange rates and Healthy Living Our customers tell us that they want us to make by 12.8% at actual exchange rates.
Profits rose by 24.6% at healthy living easier, so we are further improving the labelling actual exchange rates and by 34.2% at constant exchange rates.
of our products, increasing our Healthy Living own brand range Lotus has made further good progress in Thailand, to nearly 500 lines and reducing salt content in many of our delivering strong sales, profit and market share growth products.
We are trying to help keep the nation active and despite a slowing economy and some restriction on were the main sponsor of Cancer Research UKs Race for Life.
We now have 107 stores Over 18,000 of our staff took part, raising over 20m for the trading across four formats, including 46 Express stores charity.
We are again sponsoring Race for Life and supporting and 12 Value stores.
All the newer formats are performing a new event that will encourage men to take part for the first well, giving us more opportunities to develop our national time.
The Tesco Charity Trust adds 20% to money raised by our store network.
In Korea, Homeplus has continued to make excellent Environment Our award winning store regeneration partnerships progress, delivering increased sales, including solid likein deprived areas have now helped 2,000 long-term for-like growth, profits and returns.
During the year, we unemployed people back into work through our unique jobs opened three new hypermarkets, and since year end, we and training guarantee.
We completed three schemes this year, opened our first 45,000 sq ft compact hypermarket in bringing the total to 12, and have another nine planned.
We also introduced the Express convenience help protect our open spaces, we used brownfield previously format and we now have seven stores trading.
Following developed land for over 96% of all new store developments.
year end, we acquired 12 stores in Pusan, from Arum Mart.
Our organic store development programme is accelerating, Tsunami Support As our staff and customers would expect, with a total of 31 stores, with 550,000 sq ft of space, we were one of the first companies to react to the tsunami planned for the current year.
tragedy in South East Asia.
Within hours of the disaster, we made a donation to the British Red Cross.
Our total donations are over In Taiwan, our stores have made good progress in the 310,000 so far, from across the Group.
A two day collection in year, delivering strong sales performance, increased our UK stores for the British Red Cross and our own in-store market share and sharply reduced losses.
We opened collections raised a total of 2.8m.
As well as money, we provided our fifth hypermarket, in Ching Hai, and in the current lorry loads of food, water and shelter materials in Thailand, year our sixth in Hsin Tien.
In Malaysia, we have seen strong sales growth and with five new stores under construction, including two Suppliers Tesco welcomed the findings of the recent review hypermarkets, and more sites in the pipeline, we are by the Office of Fair Trading OFT of the Supplier Code of making good progress towards building scale.
After a lengthy independent audit of the workings anticipate trading from 11 stores by the end of 2005. of the code, the OFT announced in March that no breaches Our sixth hypermaket, with 107,000 sq ft of space, of the code had been found at Tesco and that consumers opened in Penang, in December.
benefit from vigorous market competition on both quality Tesco PLC 7
