Diversity We try to ensure that at all times and in every walk to their local Tesco as a result of the growth of Express.
aspect of employment, including recruitment, training We converted 202 T&S stores during the year, bringing and development, everybody receives the same treatment, the total number of Express stores to 546. regardless of factors such as gender, age, colour, creed, race, A further 26 T&S stores will be converted this year.
Thereafter, ethnic origin, disability, marital status, religion or belief, trade the expansion of Express will be mainly through organic union membership or sexual preference and orientation.
growth, with the One Stop fascia retained as a successful Core UK business UK sales grew by 11.9% in the year, on convenience format in over 500 smaller stores.
a 52 week basis, including a like-for-like increase of 9.0%.
We have also completed the conversion to Express of the Over two million more customers are choosing to shop at Adminstore stores in London Cullens, Europa and Harts.
Tesco today compared with a year ago, with most of the On average, these stores have seen sales more than double growth coming from our existing stores.
Average spend per and are nearly 20% above our forecasts.
visit excluding Express convenience stores is also up by over 2% despite deflation in our stores, reflecting the success A total of 1.5m sq ft of new sales area was opened during the year of our efforts to improve our inclusive offer on all fronts.
across all formats, of which 350,000 sq ft was in extensions to existing stores.
This includes the ten former Safeway stores We have continued to invest in the things that matter for which we acquired last autumn sales in these stores have customers.
For example: almost doubled and are also nearly 20% above our forecasts.
On-shelf availability has improved significantly during the Looking forward, we are aiming to maintain our rate of growth year.
Our measure of this, which is based on our in-store in selling area, from a combination of extensions and new stores.
com orders, shows that availability improved by a full percentage point compared with last year.
We are planning a more normal year in terms of like-for-like Self-service checkouts, which save time for customers, are sales growth and we are keeping an eye on costs, especially now in over 100 stores, with over half a million shoppers energy, with oil prices up 70% year on year, and the huge rise now regularly using them.
We have again strengthened our position as the UKs best Non-food We have made further progress with our non-food value retailer by investing 230m in improving our price offer.
Sales growth, in the UK alone, was 17% during the year position through a series of price campaigns during the year.
with total non-food sales increasing to 6.0bn 2004 5.1bn.
A further 67m of cuts were announced in early April 2005.
Volume growth was even higher at 18%.
The development of our Value brand continues and the In all our large non-food categories we have seen strong range now extends to 2,200 products, including many growth.
For example, our home entertainment sales grew non-food items.
Our Finest range also continues to by 20% and the stationery, news and magazines category develop, with 400 new lines launched in the year, bringing by 26%.
We saw particularly good performance from many the total to 2,300. of our seasonal non-food ranges up 27%.
Tesco re-invests efficiency savings for the benefit of our Our clothing brands Cherokee and Florence Fred have customers.
Our Step-Change programme has delivered savings once again achieved significant growth, and remain the this year of 270m, on top of almost 200m achieved last year.
fastest expanding in the UK market in both value and volume.
We have made good progress with the development of our Clothing sales grew by 28% in the year.
The fashion press store formats.
During the second half, we opened our 100th has again regularly featured our products.
Extra hypermarket in the UK, having opened the first at Pitsea Retailing services Our efforts to try to bring simplicity in only 1997.
We anticipate being able to open up to 20 new and value to sometimes complicated markets are behind Extras a year, mostly through extensions to existing superstores.
the success of our retailing services businesses.
The new Extra stores at Dumfries, Stockport and Stafford, In Telecoms, we now have a million customer accounts after which opened in the year, were part of a programme of only one full year of operation.
We entered the broadband regeneration development partnerships, bringing jobs and internet access market in August.
We now have a very competitive modern retail standards to deprived urban areas.
We have offer in mobiles, domestic fixed line and internet access with nine more such projects currently under development.
considerable scope for future growth.
The business, which is Across the country more customers have access to our Express still in its start-up phase, made a small operating loss of 4m.
convenience stores as we bring the Tesco offer and lower prices to new neighbourhoods.
Over four million of our customers Tesco PLC 5
