8 REVIEW 2005 BUSINESS CASE STUDY The Quick-Lok Growth Story THE FLUID POWER BUSINESS WHY IS QUICK-LOK A KEY GROWTH STORY?
Fluid Power manufactures hydraulic hoses, Quick-Lok provides a solution to the problems assemblies, connectors and port-to-port solutions of threaded couplings and will be the product of that are the arteries and veins of the mobile choice in a wide range of applications.
By reducing hydraulic equipment used principally in the installation and maintenance costs, Quick-Lok construction, mining and agricultural industries.
lowers the customers cost of ownership dramatically The global business operates in 19 plants in eight when compared to threaded assembly.
Fluid Power is a leading player in a market estimated to be in excess of $2.5 billion, We like Quick-Lok because its simple, easier with a market share of around 20 per cent.
to put together and saves on re-work, which THE FLUID POWER MARKET allows us to produce more machines.
Each year there are over 400 million connections made in hydraulic equipment and with existing TIM WOLLES, FROM THE ADVANCED PRODUCT GROUP AT GEHL threaded technology the key issues are the time taken to make a connection and the difficulty in controlling In 2005, Fluid Power was awarded $3.5 million the process to ensure a leak-free environment.
Fluid of sales of its new Quick-Lok technology and this Power has responded to the customers needs and contributed to total sales growth in the business of developed a new technology known as Quick-Lok 10.6 per cent over 2004 and double-digit operating that provides a quick and leak-free solution to margins.
Looking to 2006 and beyond, a number hydraulic hose assembly.
of significant new Quick-Lok contracts have been awarded.
Customers who are using Quick-Lok include Quick-Lok is a family of threadless hydraulic major industry names such as Gehl, Bobcat, JCB couplings that have a simple snap-in and veriable and Workhorse Custom Chassis.
connection that eliminates torque and requires no assembly tools.
Since the process is virtually error-free there is a reliable, leak-free connection.
Once in place, the assembly cannot be inadvertently disconnected, or released under pressure, which is an important safety feature.
QUICK-LOK IN ACTION FOR SPEEDY CHANGEOVER QUICK-LOK APPLICATIONS EASY TO SERVICE, NO Live eld demonstrations showed The Quick-Lok family of SPECIAL TOOLS NEEDED that it took one tenth of the time connectors is designed to replace No special tools are needed to assemble the Quick-Lok threaded connections in up to 70 to remove the Quick-Lok per cent of hydraulic equipment connectors compared to the adaptor from the port just standard threaded connections.
applications, such as the mobile a common wrench.
TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 QUICK-LOK FROM FLUID POWER Quick-Lok connections are designed to increase productivity and safety with quick, easy, leak-free connections.
10 REVIEW 2005 BUSINESS CASE STUDY The Contours Bathware Range Growth Story THE LASCO BATHWARE BUSINESS The showers feature steam and body spray systems Lasco Bathware is one of the largest manufacturers and a teak oor insert to create a spa-like environment.
of bathtubs in the United States, producing nearly a quarter of all bathtubs sold.
Lascos products include The Contours Radius Series of baths luxury whirlpools, bathtubs, showers and shower are incredible were placing the new units.
The business operates from nine manufacturing facilities across the United States with national Contours Radius whirlpool in our distribution to builders, home centres and wholesalers.
THE BATHTUB AND FIXTURES MARKET BRENDA JOHNSON, SHOWROOM MANAGER AT FERGUSON Since 2000, the United States bathtub, shower and whirlpool baths market has been growing at WHY IS THE CONTOURS RANGE A KEY GROWTH STORY?
an annual rate of around 3.0 per cent.
In 2005, The Contours range has created a higher prole the overall market was estimated at $1.9 billion and brand recognition of Lasco Bathware in multiple by 2013 is forecast to be around $2.4 billion, with market segments.
The exposure the Contours a particularly strong annual growth rate in showers product range received at the International Builder and whirlpool baths.
The drivers for this growth are Show and the Kitchen & Bath Industry Show has record new housing sales to historic levels and a trend resulted in increased sales in all product categories.
towards increased re-modelling spend, with more In 2005, Lasco Bathware achieved 15.7 per cent people renovating ageing properties and installing sales growth and double-digit operating margins, additional baths and showers in their homes.
in part due to the success of the new Contours range.
Lasco Bathwares market share is expected WHAT IS THE CONTOURS RANGE BY LASCO BATHWARE?
to grow in 2006, as new products are added to By positioning itself at the high-end of the product the Contours line and exposure to the hotel offering with the Contours range, Lasco Bathware and leisure market increases.
is gaining market share through both the quality of its Customers who are featuring the Contours products and design features.
The Contours range product range in their showrooms and new homes of baths and showers includes features such as an include industry leaders such as Ferguson, Hajoca air-and-water hydrotherapy system that creates a and KB Homes.
stress-reducing massage and an in-line heater that guarantees a constant temperature while bathing.
CONTOURS RANGE IN ACTION ROBOTICS CONTOURS RADIUS RESIDENTIAL HOUSING ROUND BATH Lasco Bathware is driving Lasco Bathware manufactures The Radius Round is roomy enough innovation in its business through nearly a quarter of all bathtubs for two, with individual headrests, the use of robotics to produce its sold in the United States.
lumbar jets and therapeutic air products.
A robot is used to spray massage with pre-warmed bubbles.
gel coat onto the outside layer of a non-acrylic bath.
TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Lumbar jets and side-wall air injectors help you to relax by concentrating the water movement and massage action.
The electronic panel offers one-touch functionality for control of the variablespeed blower, pump and lighting effects.
12 REVIEW 2005 BUSINESS CASE STUDY The Innovision Beam Blade Growth Story THE TRICO WIPERS BUSINESS WHY IS INNOVISION BEAM BLADE A KEY GROWTH STORY?
Trico is one of the worlds largest windscreen wiper The Innovision line continues to grow because Trico blade manufacturers and a leading producer of wiper is able to offer the latest technology to t the vast systems.
Trico operates eight plants around the world, majority of vehicles on the road today.
Consumers supplying customers in 67 countries, including General appreciate the unique styling, performance and easy installation of the beam blade.
Innovision has Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Honda, Inniti, Land created a new Premier category in the wiper market.
Sales to the automotive aftermarket now represent over 40 per cent of Tricos total sales.
Trico has managed to creatively bring newness and innovation to the wiper WIPER BLADE TECHNOLOGY The main requirements of a wiper blade are that it blade category.
I have been very pleased delivers a consistent wipe and is durable.
Traditional with these new blades, both as a retailer wiper blades have struggled to deliver the required performance, especially in bad weather conditions and a consumer, and sales have exceeded such as snow and ice.
Trico has developed a my expectations.
revolutionary wiper blade design known as the Innovision beam blade that provides a solution MONIQUE SHEPARD, AUTOMOTIVE BUYER AT FRED MEYER to these problems.
Innovision was launched in 2004, and during 2005 WHAT IS THE INNOVISION BEAM BLADE?
revenue capacity was tripled to meet the continually The Innovision beam blade features a unique low rising demand, with nearly 2.6 million units sold.
prole that reduces wind lift at higher speeds.
The Management estimates that in 2006, the beam blade blade has an innite number of pressure points that aftermarket will be approximately $100 million, with a provide continuous pressure across the length of the growth rate of 10 per cent in each of the next few years.
The design of the blade with a jointless structure Innovision is currently being supplied to major also maximises durability and ensures a quieter, more names in the North American automotive aftermarket efficient operation.
Innovision blades outperformed including Canadian Tire, NAPA, CARQUEST, Pep Boys, traditional blades in all snow and ice tests.
Fred Meyer and OReilly Auto Parts.
BEAM BLADE IN ACTION INNOVISION WINDOW INNOVISION AWARDS INNOVISION AIR FLOW As with all Trico blades, The Innovision Beam Blade won The unique low prole reduces Innovision is easy to install.
six awards at the APEX Global windlift at higher speeds of up It comes with a pre-assembled Design awards, including two to 115 mph.
connector for simple installation on the most popular arm style, right out of the package.
TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 The rubber element in the Innovision line has a unique prole with two hinges that dampen noise for a quieter, smoother wipe.
Innovision blades are designed with a jointless structure with only three main components a laser cut spring steel beam, wiping element and coupler to maximise durability and enable a highly efficient operation.
