Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2005 The directors present their report and group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal activity The principal activity of the group during 2005 continued to be software development and distribution and related support and maintenance services.
The group has significant activities throughout Europe, North America, Asia and Australia, with additional operations in Brazil and Argentina.
Review of developments and 2005 Results Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2005 was $96.0 million, an increase of 48% from $64.8 million for 2004.
Net profit was $9.0 million for 2005 compared with net profit of $6.1 million for 2004.
During the year the company completed two significant acquisitions, cementing the companys position as the industry leader.
The Financial Review beginning on page 5 provides further comment on the developments and the results for the year.
Research and development The company continues to develop new software products and expects further product launches during 2006.
The total amount incurred for research and development expenditure during 2005 was $21.9 million, as compared with $14.3 million in 2004.
During 2005 the company launched major product upgrades, including continued development of the companys core IDOL Server product, with similar launches expected during 2006.
Dividends and share repurchases The Board reviews uses of cash resources on an ongoing basis.
In light of the companys continued need for cash for potential trade investments and expected significant investment in further research and development, the company to date has not paid or declared dividends on its shares, in common with most of its peer companies in the high technology sector.
The policy will be kept under continual review.
Accordingly the directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 2004 - Nil.
During 2005 the company continued its open-market share repurchase program returning capital to shareholders, purchasing for cancellation 593,942 of its own ordinary shares, nominal value 1 3p per share, at an average price of 1.97 per share.
In total, the company has purchased for cancellation 20,997,824 shares, representing approximately 11.7% of the company's total issued share capital at 31 December 2005, at an average price of 1.65 per share.
The aggregate consideration paid by the company for the shares was 34.4 million.
As of 31 December 2005, the company had remaining authorization to purchase 15,566,058 shares.
The companys continuation of its repurchase program during 2006 will depend on market conditions.
At the end of the year, the directors had authority to purchase through the market 9,830,453 of the companys ordinary shares.
Financial instruments In relation to the use of financial instruments, the directors' objectives are to minimize risk whilst achieving maximum return for the groups liquid assets.
The directors are averse to principal loss and manage the safety and preservation of the companys invested funds by limiting default and market risks by investing with high rated financial institutions.
The companys portfolio is comprised entirely of cash and cash equivalents.
All short-term investments have a fixed interest rate.
The company does not use derivative financial instruments.
The company historically has not faced material exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk or cash flow risk, outside of the ordinary course of business.
Further information about the companys financial assets and liabilities is provided in the notes to the financial statements.
Future developments The company's stated objective is to establish its technology as the infrastructure standard for automating operations on all forms of unstructured information.
The directors continue to believe that to achieve this goal it is important to expand the number and range of potential customers for its technology.
To this end, the company intends to sign further licence agreements with new customers and to establish relationships with third-party value added resellers, services providers and OEMs to ensure that the company's products are distributed as widely as practicable.
The company also plans to develop new technology to license to new and existing customers.
As a result of its position as an emerging standard in its industry, the company is presented with opportunities from time to time to acquire complementary technology or resources.
Re-election of directors The companys Articles of Association require at least one third of the Directors to be subject to re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Messrs. Gaunt and Perle were re-elected as Directors at the companys Annual General Meeting in 2003 and thus are standing for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Each individuals performance continues to be effective and they demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Biographies for all directors, including those standing for re-election, appear on page 19.
7 Autonomy Corporation plc Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2005 Directors and their interests A list of the directors who served during the year, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the company and details of any share options over the ordinary share capital of the company is set forth in the Remuneration Committee report on page 13.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Supplier payment policy The company's policy is whenever it is reasonable to do so, to settle payment terms with those suppliers when agreeing terms for each transaction and to ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the payment terms by their inclusion in the relevant contracts.
Generally the company pays suppliers at the end of the month following that in which the supplier's invoice is received.
Creditor days outstanding as at 31 December 2005 calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 for the company was 22 days 2004 - 19 days and for the principal U. K. subsidiary was 50 days 2004 - 42 days.
Charitable and political contributions The group made 26,640 in charitable donations during 2005 to a variety of charities including The Princes Trust, Comic Relief and Children in Need 2004 - 25,000.
The group did not make any political contributions during 2005 2004 - Nil.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the companys offices in Cambridge, UK, on 7 June 2006, at 1:00 pm.
The company will convey the results of proxy votes cast at the Annual General Meeting, and the results of the meeting will be announced through the regulatory news services.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying this annual report.
The company is committed to the policy of one share one vote.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, the companys independent auditors, have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and Autonomy Corporation plc 8 Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2005 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
So far as the directors who are in office as of the date of these financial statements are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board, Dr. Michael R. Lynch Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder Cambridge Business Park Cowley Road Cambridge CB4 0WZ 13 April 2006 9 Autonomy Corporation plc
