REVIEW 2005 7 Industrial and automotive aftermarket revenue showed equipment has decreased to less than 22.0 per cent of good growth in 2005 and is expected to grow steadily sales.
The industrial and automotive aftermarkets are in the future.
We plan to expand our market share expected to stay strong.
by growing our product lines and leveraging our In our Building Products group, the residential strong brand names and distribution network, construction market is expected to fall slightly from the especially in China where aftermarket sales grew record level of 2005, but to remain very healthy, while in 2005 by 9.6 per cent.
commercial construction is expected to grow steadily The businesses within our Building Products over the next few years.
group performed well in 2005, helped by new OUR PEOPLE product introductions such as the Lasco Contours We closely aligned the interests of management luxury whirlpool and shower range.
Lasco is one of the with those of our shareholders through our annual largest manufacturers of bathtubs in the United States.
bonus incentive plan introduced in 2003 under In 2005, we made significant investments in our which managers participate in the value creation bathware manufacturing facilities to increase efficiency of the businesses they manage.
This has changed through robotics and to comply with increased our corporate culture by creating an entrepreneurial government emissions requirements through the spirit within the Tomkins Group.
Our managers installation of concentrators.
We believe this will give understand the importance of value creation and in us a significant competitive advantage going forward addition to operational excellence are now focused in dealing with those national and regional competitors on key growth objectives such as new product that have not made these necessary investments.
development, geographic expansion and acquisitions.
Our Air Systems Components group also introduced a number of new products in 2005, such as the LOOKING TO THE FUTURE hurricane-resistant louvers and energy recovery Our solid performance this year reects our commitment ventilators, and is expected to continue to grow to strengthen our businesses.
I am particularly pleased through product innovation and bolt-on acquisitions, with the success achieved on our strategic initiatives, benefitting from an anticipated upturn in the including our new product introductions, the integration commercial construction sector in 2006. of our five recent acquisitions and our expansion in China and India.
The operational initiatives taken MARKET DRIVERS during 2005 should result in our Group continuing The 2006 outlook for our end-markets is mostly this success and achieving growth in 2006. positive.
In our Industrial & Automotive group, automotive production is expected to remain at in North America and in Europe, with accelerated growth in South America and China.
We expect to benefit from increased outsourcing of highly engineered power transmission systems in automotive original JAMES NICOL equipment and from a continuing growth in industrial CHIEF EXECUTIVE production industrial sales becoming increasingly important, as our exposure to automotive original DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 4.3% VALUE CREATION STRATEGY 10% REVENUE GROWTH Strategic acquisitions Geographic 05 05 23.79 expansion Organic growth 04 22.81 0 6 12 18 24 30 Organic growth Acquisitions pence 5% 5% 2005 2004 TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
