16 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OVERVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL & AUTOMOTIVE Our Our Business Business Industrial & Automotive Industrial & Automotive OTHER INDUSTRIAL & AUTOMOTIVE INTRODUCTION This includes the manufacture of hose clamps, power The Industrial & Automotive group I&A manufactures steering hose assemblies and air and lubrication a wide range of systems and components for the products for use in automotive and industrial markets: industrial and automotive markets through five business axles for the industrial utility market: and trailers and units: Power Transmission, Fluid Power, Fluid Systems, frames used in the recreational vehicle and mobile Wiper Systems and Other Industrial & Automotive.
home markets: and the manufacture and installation This group has 85 manufacturing facilities located of material handling systems used in the automotive, in 21 countries and employs 25,439 employees.
postal and bulk handling markets.
BUSINESS DESCRIPTIONS OUR END-MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS POWER TRANSMISSION The Industrial & Automotive group sells globally into Manufactures from various materials accessory drive the automotive original equipment market AOE, belts, synchronous timing belts, pulleys and tensioners, the automotive aftermarket AM, the industrial automatic transmission gear carriers, high strength original equipment market IOE and the industrial gears and oil pumps used primarily in automotive aftermarket IAM.
Sales are diversied across these engines and transmissions and also industrial four principal markets as highlighted by the chart belt products.
The Other markets include the recreational vehicle market and the manufactured housing market.
FLUID POWER General Motors, the largest customer, represents 6.0 Manufactures hoses, connectors and port-to-port per cent of Group sales 2004: 6.9 per cent.
Ford and systems used in hydraulics and other liquid transfer DaimlerChrysler represent 4.4 per cent 2004: 5.5 per systems used in mobile equipment, typically in the cent and 3.3 per cent 2004: 3.7 per cent respectively construction, mining, agriculture, food processing of Group sales.
A list of the top fifteen customers is and railroad markets.
These customers represented 39.4 per cent of Industrial & Automotive sales in 2005.
FLUID SYSTEMS Manufactures radiator, oil and fuel caps, engine KEY MARKET DRIVERS thermostats for use in automotive fuel systems, and tyre Automotive sales are linked to consumer spending valves including remote tyre pressure monitoring systems.
in the various economies of the world, which in turn WIPER SYSTEMS affects demand for new automotive vehicles and Manufactures windscreen wiper systems and impacts the spending on vehicle maintenance and components for use in the automotive original automotive replacement parts.
Consumer spending equipment market and aftermarket.
is affected principally by interest rates and taxation REVENUE BY MAJOR PRODUCT CATEGORY REVENUE BY REGION AND END-MARKETS Rest of Belts and tensioners 38% World Powertrain 5% Asia Hydraulic and hose 16% Wipers 10% Europe RTPMS 2% North America Other Fluid Systems 8% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Other 21% % AOE IOE Other IAM AM TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
