Directors Biographies Dr. Michael Lynch OBE, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, 40, co-founded Autonomy and has served as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer since our inception in March 1996.
Dr. Lynch is also a non-executive director of Isabel Healthcare Limited.
Dr. Lynch holds an M. A. in electrical and information sciences, a Ph.
D in adaptive techniques in signal processing and connectionist models and held a research fellowship in adaptive pattern recognition from Cambridge University.
Dr. Lynch won the Achievement Medal from the Institute of Electrical Engineers in 1996.
Dr. Lynch was appointed to the Board when Autonomy was founded in 1996.
Richard Gaunt, Executive Director, 38, co-founded Autonomy and has served as an executive Director since our inception in March 1996.
Mr. Gaunt holds a BSc in electronic engineering and an MSc from the University of Natal in Durban.
Mr. Gaunt was appointed to the Board when Autonomy was founded in 1996.
Sushovan Hussain, Board Director and Chief Financial Officer, 41, has served as our Chief Financial Officer since June 2001 and was appointed a Director in June 2003.
Prior to joining Autonomy, Mr. Hussain worked for LASMO plc, one of the world's largest independent oil and gas exploration companies, where he held a number of senior international financial positions, including three years in the Corporate Development department, charged with acquisitions and divestments.
Mr. Hussain received his BA in Economics from Cambridge University, England, and became a qualified Chartered Accountant while employed at Ernst & Young in London.
Mr. Hussain was appointed to the Board in June 2003.
Barry Ariko, Board Director, 60, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since January 2000.
From November 2003, Mr Ariko has served as CEO and President of Mirapoint, Inc. a leader in messaging networks.
From January 2000, until it was acquired by Peregrine Systems in May 2001, he was Chairman, CEO and President of Extricity, Inc. a provider of software for the management of inter-company transactions and workflow.
Prior to Extricity, he was Senior Vice President of AOL, which had acquired Netscape Communications Corp. where he was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer with primary responsibility for the enterprise software business since August 1998.
From April 1994 to August 1998, Mr. Ariko was Executive Vice President in charge of the Americas operations for Oracle Corp. Mr. Ariko also serves as a director of Incyte and Aspect Communications.
Mr. Ariko holds a B. S. in Management from Golden Gate University in San Francisco and in 1992 completed the Advanced Executive Program at Northwestern University's J. L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management.
John McMonigall, Board Director, 62, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since July 1998.
Since April 1990, Mr. McMonigall has worked for Apax Partners Worldwide LLP, a private equity firm, where he is responsible for Apax' investments in private companies in telecommunications, software and related fields.
From 1986 to 1990, Mr. McMonigall held a variety of positions at British Telecom where he served as a member of the Management Board.
He currently serves on the board of Dialog Semiconductor Plc.
Mr. McMonigall also serves on the boards of several privately owned companies as a non-executive director.
Richard N. Perle, Board Director, 62, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since February 2000.
Mr. Perle has served as Resident Fellow of the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research since 1987.
From 1981 to 1987 he was the United States Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy.
Mr. Perle is a director of Hollinger International, Inc. a publicly traded company that publishes English language newspapers in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Israel, and Tapestry Pharmaceuticals, Inc. a pharmaceutical company focused on the development of proprietary therapies for the treatment of cancer.
Mr. Perle attended the London School of Economics with Honors Examinations, received an M. A. in politics from Princeton University and a B.
A. from the University of Southern California in international relations, and completed various fellowships at Princeton University, the Ford Foundation and the American Council of Learned Societies.
Mr. Perle was appointed to the Board in February 2000.
