46 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors David Newlands James Nicol Ken Lever Jack Keenan Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive officer Finance Director Independent Non-executive Aged 59 Aged 52 Aged 52 Director Aged 69 Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board August 1999 and became in February 2002.
He is President and Chief Operating executive director of iSOFT presently a non-executive Chairman of KESA Electricals plc officer of Magna International Group plc.
He is a Chartered director of Marks and Spencer and PayPoint plc, and a director Inc. the Canadian automotive Accountant and a member Group p. l. c. and The Body Shop of a number of other companies.
He joined of the ICAEW Financial International plc, and is the He was formerly Finance Director Magna in 1987 as ViceReporting Committee and patron of the Centre for of The General Electric Company, President, Special Projects, Chairman of the Hundred Group International Business and p. l. c. and Chairman of Britax following a successful career as Financial Reporting Committee.
Management at Cambridge International plc.
He left He has held executive University.
Previously he was in 1992 to set up TRIAM directorships at Albright and Chairman of Kraft International, Automotive Inc. and returned to Wilson plc, Alfred McAlpine PLC Chief Executive of Guinness Magna as Vice-Chairman when and Corton Beach plc and was United Distillers & Vintners Ltd Magna acquired TRIAM in 1998. a partner in Arthur Andersen.
and an executive director of Diageo plc until he retired in October 2001.
Richard Gillingwater Struan Robertson Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director Aged 49 Aged 56 Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in December 2005.
He is currently Head of Shareholder Executive, a non-executive Director of Forth the body responsible for the Ports PLC, Henderson TR Pacic Governments shareholdings in Investment Trust plc and major publicly-owned businesses.
He was He previously held a number of Group Chief Executive of Wates senior investment banking Group Limited between 2000 positions with CSFB, BZW and and 2004, having previously Kleinwort Benson after spent 25 years with BP in a qualifying as a solicitor with number of senior positions.
He was the Senior Independent Director at WS Atkins plc from 2000 to 2005.
TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 GOVERNANCE 47 Sir Brian Pitman Marshall Wallach Norman Broadhurst Ken Minton Senior Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Non-executive Director Aged 63 Director Director Aged 74 Aged 64 Aged 69 Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board August 1999.
He is President of in June 2000.
He is Wallach Capital Advisors which executive director of The currently Chairman of Chloride Executive Chairman of 4Imprint is based in Denver, Colorado Carphone Warehouse Group Group PLC and Freightliner Group plc and a non-executive and advises the Gates family on PLC, Singapore Airlines Limited, Limited.
He is also Deputy director of Solvay SA and its interests in the Groups Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited Chairman of Cattles plc and a Elementis plc.
He spent most of perpetual preference shares and ITV plc, and is a senior non-executive director of Old his career at Laporte plc where and other investments.
He Mutual plc and United Utilities he was Managing Director for retired in April 2001 from Lloyds PLC.
He was Group Finance five years and then Chief TSB Group plc where he was Director of Railtrack PLC from Executive for ten years.
Chief Executive for 13 years and 1994 to 2000.
Subsequently he was Executive Chairman for 4 years.
He was Chairman of Arjo Wiggins also non-executive Chairman of Appleton PLC.
He was also NEXT Group plc from 1998 until non-executive Chairman of John May 2002.
Mowlem & Company PLC and SGB Group Plc.
David Richardson Independent Non-executive Director Aged 54 Appointed to the Board in March 2006.
He is currently a non-executive director of Serco Group plc, Dairy Crest Group plc, Forth Ports PLC and fide Vere Group Plc.
He held a number of senior financial management and strategic planning positions in Whitbread PLC from 1983 to 2005 becoming Group Finance Director in 2001.
Prior to his time at Whitbread, he had worked for ICL plc and Touche Ross & Co. now Deloitte & Touche LLP.
