OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 17 PREDATOR POWERBAND VV PUMP The Predator Powerband belt that The Stackpole variable vane is used in the Petroleum industry for transmission pump is used its strength and durability.
in small to medium-sized front wheel drive cars and SUVs.
The relative prices of the vehicle two strategic acquisitions during 2005, namely Eifeler and population growth are also key factors that will Maschinenbau GmbH EMB and L. E. Technologies, together with the Mectrol business at the end of 2004. impact demand for new automobiles.
All these businesses have been fully integrated into the Demand for our products will also be impacted by inventory or stock levels of vehicles or replacement Group and have added new technologies and, in the parts.
A number of factors drive the long-term demand case of EMB and Mectrol, brought access to the for aftermarket products such as the number of growth market of China.
vehicles on the road, the age of the vehicles, the distance travelled and the average cost of repair.
NEW PRODUCTS The demand for industrial products is driven by In 2005, new products developed in the previous three industrial production levels in the economies of the years accounted for 8.5 per cent of Industrial & world, with capital spending by the major Automotive sales.
Examples include: manufacturers of mobile equipment used in the Predator Powerband, Power Transmission: a series construction, mining, and agricultural sectors directly of belts that provide a longer run-time for oil pump impacting our business.
Sales of products into the equipment and reduced maintenance costs.
industrial aftermarket are affected by stock levels Variable Vane Transmission Pump, Stackpole: the in the distribution channel.
business has designed a variable vane transmission pump consisting of a modular construction that OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION AND STRATEGY provides added fuel efficiency benets and is a cost The businesses in the Industrial & Automotive group competitive solution compared to conventional have market leading positions and strong brand systems.
Stackpole has won contracts for over names.
They are able to supply their customers one million units in 2006 and expects to win globally and offer a range of technology-driven further contracts during the year.
The principles of lean Quick-Lok, Fluid Power: this leading technology manufacturing continue to be applied in their provides a quick and leak-free solution to hydraulic businesses to improve efficiency.
Product and process hose assembly.
innovation is also key for all Tomkins businesses to Innovision Beam Blade, Wiper Systems: this sustain and enhance our competitive position, and the is a revolutionary wiper blade that outperformed next section features examples of several successful traditional blades in all snow and ice tests.
product introductions in the Industrial & Automotive group.
Our geographic expansion continues, particularly in the high growth Asian markets, with contract wins in the year including Hyundai, Toyota and SAIC.
The Industrial & Automotive group made MARKET SHARE BY MAJOR PRODUCTS MAJOR CUSTOMERS IN INDUSTRIAL & AUTOMOTIVE Markets where businesses are number 1 50% General Motors Nissan 25% Ford Toyota 52% DaimlerChrysler Volkswagen 41% Genuine Parts 77% Company NAPA PSA Peugeot 50% Motion Industries Advance 53% CARQUEST Ozark Automotive 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Redneck Hyundai Power Transmission Wiper Systems synchronous belts aftermarket blades Renault Stackpole oil pumps Fluid Systems closure caps Fluid Power industrial Fluid Systems thermostats curved hose Fluid Systems RTPMS TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 18 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OVERVIEW OF BUILDING PRODUCTS Our Business Building Products INTRODUCTION OUR END-MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS This group of companies manufactures air handling The principal markets for the Building Products components, bathtubs and whirlpool baths, doors group are the residential, industrial and commercial and windows, and other building components through construction markets.
The Other markets include two business segments: Air Systems Components the recreational vehicle and manufactured housing ASC and Other Building Products OBP.
The products are sold through a variety group has 47 manufacturing facilities located in the of manufacturers representatives, wholesalers, United States, the United Kingdom and Asia, and distributors and retailers.
A list of the top ten employs 11,750 people.
customers in the Building Products group is shown on the next page.
These customers represent BUSINESS DESCRIPTIONS 15.7 per cent of Building Products sales in 2005.
AIR SYSTEMS COMPONENTS KEY MARKET DRIVERS Manufactures air handling components supplying Sales to the residential construction market are driven the heating, ventilation and air conditioning markets, by the level of new homes constructed and the home principally in North America.
Both of these markets are linked are sold under the brand names of Hart & Cooley, directly to consumer spending in the United States, Milcor and American Metal Products, and the which is affected by interest rates and taxation rates industrial and commercial products are sold under in the economy.
the brand names of Titus, Ruskin, Krueger, Actionair The long-term trend of new home building is and Rooftop Systems.
related to the balance of demand and supply, which is determined by demographics and affordability and OTHER BUILDING PRODUCTS is connected to disposable income and interest rates.
This business comprises Lasco Bathware, Lasco Fittings The re-modelling market is affected by the age of the and Philips Doors and Windows.
Lasco Bathware housing stock and the disposable income of home manufactures acrylic and breglass baths and shower occupants in the United States.
cubicles, and a range of luxury whirlpools that are all The non-residential market is driven by rental sold through distributors and the retail market.
Lasco rates and occupancy rates that are affected by Fittings manufactures a range of PVC pipe ttings and macroeconomic factors such as growth in GDP, the accessories for pressure applications including irrigation level of employment and industrial production levels.
and drain, waste and vent applications.
Philips Doors and Windows manufactures uPVC doors and windows OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION AND STRATEGY for the residential and manufactured housing markets, In Air Systems Components the products are sold sold through national distributors.
under strong brand names and the business has a REVENUE BY MAJOR PRODUCT CATEGORY REVENUE TO END-MARKETS Air handling Residential components 56% construction 43% Bathtubs, showers Industrial and whirlpools 22% and commercial construction 46% Doors and windows 13% Other 11% Other 9% TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 19 RUSKIN HURRICANENRG INDUSTRIES RESISTANT LOUVERS The energy recovery ventilator has The hurricane-resistant louvers a patented wheel design that rotates are able to withstand wind loads out of the airow when not needed.
of up to 160 psf and nearly 9 inches This means the incoming outside air of rainfall.
Ruskin was the first is not warmed, only then having to manufacturer to gain approval be cooled back down again.
for its louvers from the Florida Building Compliance Ofce.
The business has national to win significant new contracts, including the Miami manufacturing and distribution capabilities and Performing Arts Center in the state of Florida.
an established relationship with manufacturers Energy recovery ventilators, NRG Industries: in September 2005, Tomkins acquired NRG Industries representatives, architects and engineers.
In Other which manufactures commercial air conditioning Building Products the Lasco Bathware business products including energy recovery ventilators ERVs.
manufactures nearly a quarter of all baths sold in the The ERV meets the growing need for energy United States, and has positioned itself at the high-end conservation among building owners.
of the bathtub, shower and whirlpool market with the The Contours bathware range, Lasco Bathware: new Contours range.
This market has grown with during 2005, Lasco Bathware launched a new range record sales of new homes and a trend towards of luxury whirlpools, baths and showers known as increased spend on re-modelling of homes.
Lean the Contours range that is receiving industry manufacturing continues to be extended across acclaim and has helped the business to grow sales the businesses.
A number of new products were by 15.7 per cent in 2005. successfully launched in the year and some examples are included in the new products section below.
The acquisition of Milcor and NRG Industries Inc. has given the group access to new product lines and customers, and a manufacturing base in China.
Milcor has been successfully integrated and NRG is nearing full integration.
Both businesses are performing ahead of expectations, with additional synergies expected to be realised in 2006.
NEW PRODUCTS In 2005, new products developed in the past three years accounted for 6.5 per cent of Building Products sales.
Examples include: Hurricane-resistant louvers, Ruskin: in response to the widespread failure of the various buildings in the southern United States, Ruskin has developed hurricane-resistant louvers.
The louvers can hold up under pressure in severe weather by preventing wind and rain damage.
This technology is helping Ruskin MARKET SHARE BY PRODUCT MAJOR CUSTOMERS IN BUILDING PRODUCTS Markets where businesses are number 1 Ferguson Enterprises 56% Home Depot 45% Watsco 30% Fleetwood Enterprises 33% Tom Barrow 28% Thor Industries 61% Norman S Wright 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 % Insight Glass ASC grilles, registers & diffusers Bathware gelcoat Trane Co. ASC terminal units Fittings pressure products York International ASC dampers Philips doors & windows TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
