TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Directors and professional advisers Chairman Tim Stevenson O.
B. E. aged 57, joined the board in September 2001 and became chairman on 1 November 2001.
He is a barrister and held a number of senior positions in Burmah Castrol plc between 1975 and 2000, including chief executive from 1998.
He is also a non-executive director of National Express plc.
He is chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Chief executive Geoff Cooper aged 52, joined the company in February 2005 and was appointed chief executive on 1 March 2005.
He is a chartered management accountant and worked in management consultancy before joining Gateway now Somerfield plc as finance director in 1990.
In 1994 he became finance director of UniChem plc now Alliance UniChem plc, where he was appointed deputy chief executive in 2001.
He is a non-executive chairman of Dunelm Group Ltd. Finance director Paul Hampden Smith aged 45, qualified as a chartered accountant in 1985 and joined Sandell Perkins in 1988.
Following the merger with Travis & Arnold, he was appointed regional finance director.
In 1992, he became finance director of Travis Perkins Trading Company Limited and was appointed finance director of Travis Perkins plc in 1996.
He is a non-executive director of DX Services plc.
Chief operating officer John Carter aged 44, joined Sandell Perkins as a management trainee in 1978.
Having held posts as regional sales director and regional managing director for London, he was appointed as managing director, operations in 1996, and became a director of Travis Perkins plc in July 2001.
He was appointed chief operating officer on completion of the acquisition of Wickes in February 2005.
28 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Secretary Non-executive director A. S. Pike Chris Bunker aged 59, was appointed as a non-executive director in January 2004.
He is a chartered management Audit Committee accountant and was finance director of Thames Water plc, C. J. Bunker Chairman, now a division of RWE A. G. from 2000 until March 2004.
He was previously finance director of Tarmac PLC and Westland Group PLC.
He is a non-executive director of Remuneration Committee D S Smith Plc and formerly was a non-executive director M. B. Dearden Chairman, of Mowlem plc and Baltimore Technologies plc.
He is T. E. P. Stevenson, chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the A. H. Simon.
Nominations Committee Non-executive director T. E. P. Stevenson Chairman, John Coleman aged 53, was appointed as a nonC.
He is a chartered Executive Committee management accountant and has been chief executive G. I. Cooper Chief Executive and of House of Fraser plc since 1996.
He was previously Committee Chairman, chief executive of Texas Homecare and of a number R. S. Bird Managing Director Wickes, of businesses within Burton Group PLC.
J. P. Carter Chief Operating Officer, I. R. Goldsmith Group Strategy and Corporate Development Director, P. N. Hampden Smith Finance Director, M. R. Meech Group Property Director, A. S. Pike Company Secretary & Lawyer.
Non-executive director Michael Dearden aged 63, was appointed as a nonRegistrars executive director in November 2000.
He held a number Capita Registrars, of senior posts with Burmah Castrol plc from 1980 until The Registry, his retirement at the end of 2000.
He was a member of the 34 Beckenham Road, group board from 1995, most recently as chief executive of Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU Castrol International.
He is chairman of Minova International Investment Bankers Limited and a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey HSBC Bank plc plc and of The Weir Group plc.
He is the senior independent director, acting chairman of the Remuneration Corporate Brokers Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
HSBC Bank plc, Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Non-executive director Andrew Simon O.
B. E. aged 60, was appointed as a Bankers non-executive director on 20 February 2006.
He is The Royal Bank of Scotland plc: non-executive deputy chairman of Dalkia Plc and a Barclays Bank plc non-executive director of Associated British Ports Holdings PLC, Finning International Inc and Brake Bros Solicitors Ltd.
He was previously chairman and or chief executive Clifford Chance LLP, London: of Evode Group plc from 1980-93, and has also held Hewitsons, Northampton: non-executive directorships with Severn Trent Plc, Linklaters, London Ibstock PLC and Laporte Plc.
He is a member of the Auditors Remuneration Committee.
