40 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Board of Directors C A B D E F G H 41 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations A. Sly Bailey 44 D. Sir Angus Grossart 68 F. David Ross 40 Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sly joined the Board in February 2003.
Sir Angus joined the Board in September David joined the Board in February 2004.
She started her media career in advertising 1999 having previously been a director He qualified as a chartered accountant sales at the Guardian and then The of Mirror Group since 1998.
He is qualified with Arthur Andersen & Co.
In 1989 she joined IPC as both a chartered accountant and founded and is currently Deputy Chairman Media Limited as Head of Classified advocate and practised for some years of The Carphone Warehouse, Europes Advertising Sales and joined their Board at the Scottish bar.
He founded and chairs leading mobile communication retailer.
In 1997 the Scottish merchant bank Noble Grossart.
He took a lead role with The Carphone Sly was appointed Managing Director of Warehouse IPO in July 2000.
He is IPC tx, the TV listings division.
In December He is a former vice chairman of The Royal Chairman of National Express Group Plc 1999 she was appointed Chief Executive Bank of Scotland Plc and is a director and Chairman of Gondola Plc.
He also of IPC Media Limited and subsequently of Scottish and Newcastle Plc.
He is a holds non-executive directorships at led the sale of the business to AOL Time former Chairman of the National Galleries Wembley National Stadium Limited, Warner.
Sly was previously a non-executive of Scotland and Trustee of the National Big Yellow Self Storage Plc and Cosalt Plc.
Currently she Heritage Memorial Fund.
He has been is also a non-executive director at EMI as a director of a wide range of public G. Vijay Vaghela 39 well as President of NewstrAid, a charity companies in the UK, Canada and the Group Finance Director for the newstrade.
United States, involved in investment, Vijay qualified as a chartered accountant investment management, insurance, and worked in private practice with B. Peter Birch CBE 68 construction, property, media and Deloitte.
He joined Mirror Group in 1994 Senior Independent Director other sectors.
He was subsequently Peter joined the Board in March 1998 and Group Treasurer and then Director was Chairman of Trinity until September E. Gary Hoffman 45 of Accounting and Treasury.
He started his commercial career Non-Executive Director appointed Group Finance Director at Nestl and then moved to Gillette, Gary joined the Board in March 2005. in May 2003. eventually becoming Managing Director, He was appointed Chairman, Barclays Gillette UK.
He then joined Abbey National UK Banking and Chairman, Barclaycard H. Paul Vickers 46 where he served as Chief Executive in December 2005 having previously Secretary and Group Legal Director Paul joined the Board in September 1999 between 1984 and 1998.
He is currently been Chief Executive of Barclaycard since Chairman of Land Securities PLC and 2001.
Gary joined Barclays Main Board having been a director of Mirror Group Kensington Group plc.
He is a director in January 2004.
He began his career in since 1994.
He originally qualified as of Travelex plc, Sainsburys Bank plc and Barclays in 1982 and held various positions a barrister and was in private practice Dah Sing Financial Holdings Limited.
He is until he was appointed Managing Director, at the bar.
He was legal manager of the also an adviser to N M Rothschild & Sons Marketing and Distribution in 1998.
Gary London Daily News, which he left to join Limited and Cambridge Place Investment was responsible for the launch of internet the breakfast television company TV-am Management LLP.
banking as well as setting up Barclaycall, where he subsequently became Assistant the telephone banking service.
He was previously C. Sir Victor Blank 63 board member of both Visa International a non-executive director of Virgin Radio.
Sir Victor joined the Board in 1999 having been Chairman of Mirror Group since July 1998.
Having originally qualified as a solicitor, Sir Victor became a partner at Clifford-Turner now Clifford Chance in 1969.
In 1981 he joined the merchant bank Charterhouse as Head of Corporate Finance, subsequently becoming Chief Executive and Chairman and a director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
He is currently Chairman of GUS plc.
He serves on the Council of Oxford University and is Chairman of the charity WellBeing.
He is a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
42 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations The Executive Committee From left to right Steve Bird, Tony Pusey, Rupert Middleton From left to right Vijay Vaghela, Sly Bailey, Paul Vickers From left to right Humphrey Cobbold, Nick Fullagar, Georgina Harvey 43 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Sly Bailey Georgina Harvey Chief Executive Managing Director, Regional Newspapers Vijay Vaghela Georgina joined the Company in February Group Finance Director 2005.
She started her media career at Express Newspapers where she was Paul Vickers appointed Advertising Director in 1994.
Secretary and Group Legal Director She joined IPC Media in 1995 as Group Advertising Sales Director for SouthBank The biographies of the above three and went on to form IPC Advertising in directors are on page 41.
1998, where she was Managing Director.
Georgina became a member of the Steve Bird Board of IPC Media in 2000 and was Group Human Resources Director subsequently appointed Managing Steve joined Trinity Mirror in 2005.
Director of Wallpaper Group in 2003.
Previously he was Group HR Director at Lend Lease Corporation, a global property Rupert Middleton business best known in the UK for its Director of Manufacturing development of the Bluewater shopping Rupert joined Trinity Mirror as Group centre and the Greenwich peninsula.
Director of Manufacturing in March 2004.
Steve has also held senior positions He is responsible for developing an at NatWest Group, Glaxo Wellcome integrated manufacturing division.
Prior to and Ford Motor Company.
joining Trinity Mirror, Rupert was previously Managing Director of a division within Humphrey Cobbold The Stationery Office TSO.
Director of Strategic Development Humphrey joined Trinity Mirror as Director Tony Pusey of Strategic Development in June 2003.
Group Information He has responsibility for corporate finance Technology Director Tony was appointed Group IT Director and strategy and manages two of the Groups specific businesses Sports and in December 2000.
Prior to joining Trinity Magazines & Exhibitions.
He acts as Trinity Mirror, he was Group CIO and Business Mirrors Board member of fish4, the on-line Change Director at Storehouse plc, classified business, where he will be which incorporates BHS and Mothercare.
Prior to joining Trinity Mirror, Humphrey had been a partner at management consulting firm McKinsey & Co. for six years.
Nick Fullagar Director of Corporate Communications Nick joined Mirror Group as a reporter for the Daily Mirror in 1980.
He is responsible for Group communications including investor and public relations.
He was appointed to the Executive Committee in 2002.
