57 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Directors report Statement of directors responsibilities Principal activities and future development The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The principal activity of the Group is the publication and printing the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare of newspapers, primarily in the United Kingdom.
The analyses accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial of revenue and operating profit are included as note 4 to the Reporting Standards IFRSs and have chosen to prepare financial statements.
A review of the Groups business and company financial statements in accordance with United activities during the period is contained in the statement of the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Chief Executive on pages 6 to 9, the review of each of the Groups principal businesses on pages 10 to 25 and the financial In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to review on pages 26 to 30. prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and The Groups strategic intent is to create a more broadly based of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing leading media and information group by growing organically, by these financial statements, the directors are required to: acquisition and by developing opportunities for expansion in the new information markets.
The directors will develop opportunities select suitable accounting policies and then apply in print and electronic form.
them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Results and dividends prudent: and The profit for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2006 after tax state whether applicable accounting standards have been and minority interest was 146.9 million 2004: 145.1 million.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and An interim dividend of 6.4 pence per shares has been paid on the explained in the financial statements.
The directors now recommend a final dividend In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 of 15.5 pence per share making a total dividend for the year of requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial 21.9 pence per share.
Payment of the recommended final year the Companys financial position, financial performance and dividend, once approved by shareholders at the Annual General cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects Meeting, will be made on 9 June 2006 to shareholders registered of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the at the close of business on 5 May 2006.
Further details of definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and dividends paid and proposed are disclosed in note 10 to the expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards financial statements.
Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation Charitable and political donations will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International During the year contributions for charitable purposes totalled Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: 60,000 2004: 287,000, principally to various charities connected or associated with the newspaper, printing or properly select and apply accounting policies: advertising industries and local charities serving the communities present information, including accounting policies, in which the Group operates.
No direct political contributions in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable were paid during the year 2004: nil.
and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the The editorial stance of the Groups National titles, and in particular specific requirements in International Financial Reporting that of the Daily Mirror and the Daily Record, is politically left of Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the centre and often supportive of the Labour Party.
Although the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions Group does not make direct political donations, it has been in on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
the best interests of the Daily Mirror and Daily Record to sponsor, on commercial terms, certain events in aid of the Labour Party.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting This is a practice that has been followed for many years.
At the records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Companys AGM held in 2004, various of the Groups subsidiaries financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of received authority from shareholders under the Political Parties, fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors Elections and Referendums Act 2000 to make donations to report and directors remuneration report which comply with the political parties of up to 75,000 in aggregate per annum.
requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
58 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Directors report continued Employment policies Directors and officers liability insurance The Group pursues a policy of equal opportunities to all employees During the year, the Company has maintained cover for its directors and potential employees.
The Group has continued its policy of and officers and those of its subsidiary companies under giving fair consideration to applications for employment made by a directors and officers liability insurance policy, as permitted disabled persons bearing in mind the requirements for skills and by section 310 3 of the Companies Act 1985. aptitude for the job.
In the areas of planned employee training and career development, the Group strives to ensure that Directors disabled employees receive maximum possible benefits, including The directors of the Company who served during the 52 weeks opportunities for promotion.
Every effort is made to ensure that ended 1 January 2006 are listed below: continuing employment and opportunities are also provided for employees who become disabled.
Within the limitations of Executive commercial confidentiality and security, it is the policy of the Sly Bailey Company to take views of employees into account in making Vijay Vaghela decisions, and, wherever possible, to encourage the involvement Paul Vickers of employees in the Groups performance.
Group companies evolve their own consultative policies.
Methods of communication Non-executive used include advisory committee meetings, newsletters, bulletins, Sir Victor Blank pension trustee reports and management briefings.
The Group Peter Birch CBE has operated a savings-related share option scheme since 1987 Sir Angus Grossart and all eligible employees are encouraged to participate.
Gary Hoffman appointed 3 March 2005 Penny Hughes retired 5 May 2005 Payment of suppliers David Marlow retired 5 May 2005 The Group has a supplier payment policy which provides for David Ross payment of all suppliers other than those with agreed alternative terms at the month end following the month of receipt of invoice.
Their remuneration is summarised on page 53 in the All companies within the Group are encouraged to make payments remuneration report.
in accordance with those terms and conditions provided that the supplier has also complied with them.
At 1 January 2006, the Details of the directors beneficial and non-beneficial interests Company had an average of 32 days 2004: 23 days purchases in shares can be found on pages 54 and 55. outstanding in trade creditors.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the directors Share capital are required to retire every three years.
Details of the movements in the Companys share capital are Sly Bailey and Sir Angus Grossart, who were each last elected included as note 30 to the financial statements.
in 2003, retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Substantial shareholdings Sir Victor Blank will retire at the conclusion of the AGM.
So far as is known the only persons interested in 3% or more of the ordinary shares of the Company at 27 January 2006 were: Auditors In accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985 a Holding Number of shares in Company resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the Annual General Barclays plc 37,557,085 12.82% Meeting.
Capital Group Companies Inc 29,068,256 9.93% By order of the Board Harris Associates, L. P. 26,122,500 8.92% Aviva plc Morley Fund Management Ltd 20,999,539 7.17% Paul Vickers Tweedy, Browne Company LLC 14,831,758 5.06% Secretary and Group Legal Director Standard Life Investments 11,731,465 4.00% 2 March 2006 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 11,312,244 3.86% Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 9,063,350 3.09% Fidelity International Ltd 8,872,747 3.03%
