NW Europe Tullow intends to continue to grow as a leading producer and operator of gas in the UK, steadily building influence in this key market.
In NW Europe, Tullow focuses on gas in the UK Southern Operating over 60% of its UK production, Tullow has significant North Sea, where the Group has material interests in two control and influence over its production strategy and the major infrastructure hubs: the Caister-Murdoch System CMS management of its assets.
This strong position continues and the Thames-Hewett Area.
The Groups interests comprise to be enhanced through asset acquisitions and organic over 40 licences and 14 producing gas fields with commercial growth resulting from active development, exploration drilling, reserves of 356 bcf and current production of approximately participation in licensing rounds and third party business.
The area accounts for approximately 31% of the Groups reserves and 50% of its production.
In recent years, the UK has become a net importer of gas, particularly during the high-demand winter period.
While a The Thames-Hewett Area, in the south of the Southern Gas number of gas import initiatives are planned to increase Basin, is a mature area where Tullow has a dominant position the UKs supply capability, the recent extreme volatility in in the offshore Thames infrastructure and is the operator of European gas markets provides further evidence that the the offshore Hewett complex and the onshore Bacton terminal prospects for independent producers in the UK gas market which processes gas from these fields.
In this area, Tullow remain very favourable.
Tullow, with a rising production profile, has established itself as a low-cost and efficient operator, is ideally placed as a flexible source of gas supply and can successfully extending the life of mature fields, developing benefit from periods when gas prices are elevated for marginal fields and attracting third party business to generate seasonal or structural reasons.
2005 Review The Groups UK operations had a number of notable successes in 2005 including: Tullow operates over 60% of its UK gas production, giving EHS the UK operations maintained an excellent safety performance and full ISO 14001 environmental the Group greater autonomy accreditation: in managing its interests Schooner and Ketch significantly improved uptime, reversed production decline and commenced a The CMS Area, in the north of the Southern Gas Basin, is a redevelopment programme: less mature region, where Tullow has a large concentration of acreage and produces from eight fields, including the Horne & Wren achieved first gas in June with current flow rates at maximum pipeline capacity of 110 mmscfd: operated Schooner and Ketch fields.
The region has significant opportunities for further exploration and development growth.
Munro development came on stream in August 2005: A near-field exploration programme has resulted in four discoveries in the last two years which are being developed CMS infill and sidetrack drilling MD04 Murdoch and through the CMS infrastructure.
This programme has reduced the exploration risk on a number of prospects in the area that McAdam CMS III wells drilled and brought on stream: will be drilled over the coming years.
Exploration K3 and Opal gas discoveries, followed by the Humphrey gas discovery in early 2006.
8 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 NW Europe NW Europe Aberdeen South Central Graben Area CMS Area Hewett Thames Area Area Bacton London Key Producing Assets Thames-Hewett Area Since its first entry into the Thames-Hewett Area in 2001, Assets Under Development Tullow has steadily increased its ownership and influence throughout the area.
In parallel, Tullow has continued to prove itself as an effective operator of the Hewett offshore fields Country Producing fields Tullow % area fields under and the Bacton terminal with an excellent safety record.
development UK Tullow further consolidated its position in the Hewett-Bacton infrastructure through the acquisition of a 12.87% interest from Centrica.
The deal increases Tullows interest in the CMS Area Boulton 9.50 asset to 51.69% and is expected to complete in April 2006.
E D P 1 CMS III 14.10 The Hewett complex has a large inventory of wells and Ketch 100.00 infrastructure and Tullow has made it a priority as operator to focus on projects and initiatives with the potential to enhance Munro 15.00 production, reduce costs and extend the life of the Hewett Murdoch 34.00 Area.
Planning and procurement activities are well advanced to enhance the production performance of a number of Hewett Schooner 90.35 wells.
The Delilah 48 30-16 subsea well, which failed in mid 2003, was horizontally sidetracked and put on stream in ThamesGawain 50.00 March 2006 at approximately 30 mmscfd, contributing to the long-term viability of the Hewett-Bacton infrastructure.
Hewett Area 2 3 Hewett 51.69 E D P Rising gas prices and advances in technology have allowed Horne & Wren 50.00 Tullow to progress the development of previously marginal Orwell 100.00 discoveries through the Thames and Hewett complexes.
The operated Horne & Wren field development came on stream 4 Thames 66.67 in June 2005 at an initial rate of 90 mmscfd.
Subsequent 5 optimisation of the dedicated compression plant at Thames Thurne 66.67 has permitted sustained flow rates of 110 mmscfd over the winter.
The Horne & Wren development employs a reusable Exploration Activities only: minimal-facilities platform, the first occasion where such an approach has been employed in the UK Southern Gas Basin.
6 6 Northern North Sea, Central North Sea, South Central Graben Tullow has taken an innovative approach in preparing a development plan for the 49 28-14 Thurne discovery, which minimises project costs by re-using existing, but redundant, infrastructure.
The project, which will be submitted for partner sanction in the second half of 2006, entails drilling a long-reach horizontal sidetrack from the depleted Deben E Exploration D Development PProduction subsea production well into the Thurne reservoir.
Studies on Notes: the potential developments on the Blythe and Fizzy discoveries 1 CMS III includes Boulton H, Hawksley, McAdam, have continued, in each case with the application of new Murdoch K and Watt.
technologies to maximise value from these reservoirs.
2 Hewett includes Hewett, Deborah, Delilah, Della.
3 Tullow interest on completion of deal with Centrica.
4 Thames includes Thames, Bure, Wensum and Yare.
5 First gas scheduled for early 2007.
6 These areas are not shown on map.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9 The third party Arthur field was brought on stream from one well in January 2005 via the Thames and Bacton infrastructure and production from a second well increased the throughput from Arthur to in excess of 100 mmscfd.
CMS Area Tullow has had a significant non-operated production position in the CMS Area since 2001, however, this changed significantly with the acquisition of the operated Schooner and Ketch fields in March 2005.
These large gas fields, which produce via the CMS infrastructure, have been in production for a number of years but with limited recent investment they were declining.
Tullows extensive knowledge of the CMS area, and the appointment of a dedicated technical team, allowed it to move quickly to add value in two key areas: 1 Facilities maintenance and well optimisation a concentrated campaign has resulted in a material improvement in production performance and reliability within the first few months of assuming operatorship.
2 Redevelopment programme in parallel with the basic remedial work, Tullow is working to exploit the significant reserve base.
In November, the Ensco 101 rig commenced a concurrent drilling and well optimisation programme across the two fields to substantially increase existing Schooner and Ketch production levels and achieve ultimate recovery in excess of 50% of the estimated 1.5 tcf gas initially in place.
Tullow acquired the Schooner and Ketch fields in March 2005 and now operates both fields.
The drilling programme includes three new production wells The combined field size has been mapped at to access previously undrained compartments and sidetracks 1.5 tcf Gas Initially in Place, of which only of two further wells.
The well optimisation programme 380 bcf has so far been recovered.
comprises nine well workovers and stimulations.
The first well, Schooner-10, encountered the reservoir and is being prepared for production in April 2006.
This is to be followed At the time of acquisition production rates by a sidetrack of the Schooner-7 well and the plan thereafter were approximately 50 mmscfd and were is to move to the Ketch field in mid 2006. expected to decline to below 28 mmscfd within 12 months.
Tullows facilities The Schooner and Ketch area also contains a number optimisation and well management programme of appraisal opportunities and a second rig, the Borgsten has achieved a sustained production rate of Dolphin, has been contracted to drill an appraisal well on around 50 mmscfd and raised facilities uptime a NW extension to the Schooner field during the second to over 95%.
This opportunity has been accelerated to allow the project, in the event of success, to come on stream Through the application of innovative earlier, to capture the benefit of the 2007 08 winter gas 3D reservoir modelling, well optimisation and market and to minimise weather downtime by drilling in the drilling technologies, Tullow is focused on summer months.
If the well is successful, it could be tied back and on stream by late summer 2007. accelerating production from existing wells and accessing undrained areas of the field The non-operated CMS area fields continued to perform well with new wells.
Concurrent drilling and the throughout 2005.
Infill drilling on existing CMS fields and the use of coiled tubing has limited disruption rapid development of recent gas discoveries are a key part to ongoing production and minimised costs.
of the long-term CMS growth strategy: Tullows redevelopment programme aims to Murdoch D4 sidetrack shut in since 1998, this well improve production stability, double reserves was sidetracked in 2005 and put on production in January recovery and more than double existing 2006 at a gross rate in excess of 30 mmscfd: production rates by mid 2007.
McAdam infill well to accelerate production from the McAdam field, this well was drilled in 2005 and brought on stream in October at a rate in excess of 50 mmscfd: Munro development following the success of the exploration well in 2004, this fast-track development achieved first gas in August 2005, six weeks ahead of schedule at a rate of 80 mmscfd.
10 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 NW Europe In 2006, three further infill opportunities will be evaluated on In the Central North Sea, Tullow plans to participate in the Munro, Murdoch and Boulton fields.
Similarly, evaluation the drilling of two exploration wells during 2006.
The Acer of development concepts for the 2005 gas discoveries K3 and prospect lies in the South Viking Graben, and an exploration Opal are ongoing and will be considered in conjunction with well is scheduled for September.
Tullow also hopes to the results of the 2006 exploration programme in this region, participate in a well in the Central Graben, the terms of which which has already yielded the Humphrey discovery.
Subject to completion of this deal, the well is likely to spud in the third quarter 2006.
The CMS infrastructure provides opportunities for attracting third party business and Tullow is continuing to capitalise Tullow applied for six blocks in the 23rd Licence Round in on this position.
During 2005, a new third party satellite, 2005, all in the greater CMS Schooner Ketch core area.
the Hunter field, was tied in to the CMS with first gas in early All six blocks were subsequently awarded, two with Tullow January 2006.
Tullow is currently in active negotiations with as operator with 100% equity.
a number of other third party field owners on potential future CMS tariff business.
UK Portfolio Management In April 2005, Tullow sold its non-core minority interests in UK Exploration the Alba and Caledonia fields to Itochu Corporation for a total In 2005, Tullow drilled three exploration wells in the Southern headline consideration of US$112 million.
Gas Basin, of which two were gas discoveries.
Romania Exploration The first discovery was on the West Boulton prospect In Romania, the Costisa-1 well intersected some potentially subsequently renamed Opal in block 43 25a and found gas-bearing intervals but not of sufficient materiality to merit gas in the targeted Lower Ketch reservoir sands.
The second continued Tullow participation in the licence.
discovery was on the K3 prospect subsequently renamed Kelvin, located northeast of the Murdoch field and found 2006 Operational Outlook gas in the Lower Ketch reservoir sands.
This discovery has The Group has a full and active programme for its UK assets reduced the exploration risk on six prospects in adjacent in 2006, primarily those operated by Tullow: blocks, two of which will be drilled as part of the 2006 exploration programme.
The Oval prospect in Block 54 1a was Schooner and Ketch drilling and completion of four drilled in July but failed to find hydrocarbons and was plugged wells and commencement of the nine-well optimisation and abandoned.
programme: Delilah well completion and tie-in of the development well: Seven wells are planned for the 2006 exploration drilling campaign, which commenced in January with the Humphrey Thurne development completion of the single-well project exploration well, to the west of Tullows 2004 Munro gas at the Thames Complex: discovery in the CMS area.
This well encountered gas-bearing Exploration participation in seven exploration wells: sands in the targeted Lower Ketch interval and has been plugged and abandoned pending review of development Bacton-Hewett gas infrastructure continued cost options.
The second well in the programme, targeting the reduction programmes including the demanning of Cygnus prospect, which lies to the north of Humphrey, was offshore platforms: spudded in February and is scheduled to reach its target Development projects progress with the Blythe and Fizzy depth in early April.
A further three wells are planned in developments and the development of the CMS discoveries: the CMS area.
Licensing participation in the 24th licensing round.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11
