Africa Tullow has an extensive portfolio and detailed knowledge of the petroleum provinces and basins of Africa developed over 20 years activity and exploration.
In Africa Tullow has oil and gas production, development With the benefit of 20 years of experience in Africa, Tullow and exploration interests across 11 countries.
The Groups is viewed as a good partner and has an extensive knowledge assets in Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, Congo Brazzaville and a detailed database of the African petroleum provinces and Cte dIvoire produce over 35,000 bopd, accounting for as well as access to a large range of opportunities on the approximately 50% of the Groups total production.
In 2005 Tullow signed two new licences in Angola.
an active programme of development and infill drilling in each The Group has recently announced an additional new licence of these countries, which has contributed to African reserve in Madagascar and is looking at further opportunities.
Entry replacement of over 174% in 2005.
Current Commercial into new licences, including a new country entry, are in the Reserves for the region are 117 million barrels, accounting process of being negotiated and are expected to be announced for approximately 61% of the Groups total.
Key growth projects undertaken in 2005 will add materially 2005 Review to production in 2006.
These projects include the Okume Gabon Complex development in Equatorial Guinea, the West Espoir Gabon is a mature oil and gas province and in recent years development in Cte dIvoire and further development drilling the Government has increasingly focused on promoting the on the MBoundi field in Congo Brazzaville.
involvement of independent operators to extend the lives of existing fields, manage costs and develop new exploration An important longer-term project for Tullow in Africa is the plays.
Tullow has been an active participant in this process development of the Kudu gas field, offshore Namibia.
The and, through highly successful infill drilling and exploration development of approximately 1 tcf to supply an 800 MW programmes, has increased its net reserves by 31% in 2005 power station is expected to be sanctioned in 2006 and two while maintaining production at rates in excess of 17,000 boepd.
wells to appraise the multi-tcf upside potential are planned In 2005, Tullows net production averaged 17,480 bopd, for early 2007.
Tullows portfolio comprises eight producing fields, three operated and two non-operated exploration licences and Africa accounts for approximately two undeveloped fields.
The Group has back-in rights on two half of the Groups production licences, allowing entry into the Avouma - South Tchibala field, which is currently being developed, and two further discoveries and in 2005 reserve replacement that are being considered for development.
In each case, these rights may be exercised at the time of first production.
was over 174% On the onshore Niungo field, eight appraisal and development wells were drilled and brought on stream during 2005, Tullow has an active exploration programme in Africa, participating in six wells in 2005 and plans to drill a further contributing to a 77% upgrade in net field reserves.
In addition, one exploration well was drilled, proving up a 13 wells in 2006.
In the last 12 months, wells have been drilled with encouraging results in two previously underexplored northern extension to the field.
This area will be tested during 2006 with a series of up to five step-out and six infill wells regions in Mauritania and Uganda.
These have proven the existence of working petroleum systems in both regions within the main body of the field.
and provide significant encouragement for the potential of both basins.
Offshore, a development well on the Etame field, ET-6H, was brought on stream in July allowing gross production to be maintained at 2004 levels of approximately 19,000 bopd.
12 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Africa Africa Mauritania Senegal Cte dIvoire Cameroon Equatorial Guinea Uganda Gabon Congo Brazzaville Angola Namibia Madagascar Key Producing Assets In the same licence, development approval was received for the Avouma - North Tchibala discovery.
These fields are Assets Under Development expected to be on stream before the end of 2006 through the existing Etame facilities.
Country Producing fields Tullow% fields under development On the Tchatamba field, daily gross production averaged approximately 32,000 boepd for a second year, a contrast Congo MBoundi 11.00 to the production decline seen in previous years.
In addition, Brazzaville 5,000 boepd of sour crude has been shut in to preserve the D P premium price paid for Tchatamba crude: Tullow, in conjunction with the operator is actively investigating options for restoring Cte dIvoire Espoir 21.33 this production.
E D P Exploration in Gabon is tax-efficient for Tullow, as the Group benefits from favourable licence terms whereby it can offset Equatorial Ceiba 14.25 1 exploration costs in one licence against profits from another.
Guinea Okume Complex 14.25 In developing its exploration programme in Gabon, Tullow E D P has continued to focus on targets close to existing infrastructure and on enhancing previously sub-economic Gabon Echira 40.00 undeveloped discoveries.
EDPEtame 7.50 Limande 40.00 Since the end of 2005, exploration wells on the Equata Niungo 40.00 prospect in the Kiarsseny permit, the Dogbolter prospect Tchatamba Marin 25.00 in the Gryphon Block, and the Akoum West and Soulandaka Tchatamba South 25.00 prospects in the Akoum licence yielded negative results.
TchatambaWest 25.00 2 Avouma - South Tchibala 7.50 In November, Tullow took over operatorship of the Azobe Turnix 27.50 exploration licence and is negotiating an extension of the licence for a further two exploration periods.
This block 3 contains a number of undeveloped fields discovered in the Namibia Kudu 90.00 early 1990s, which are only 10 km from the main crude D export terminal at Cap Lopez.
Subject to the availability of rigs, further exploration wells may be drilled in Azobe, Exploration Activities only: Kiarsseny and Akoum in 2006 and 2007, as well as on the onshore Nziembou licence adjacent to the Niungo field.
Angola, Cameroon, Madagascar, Mauritania, Senegal, Uganda In addition to these activities, numerous other exploration, development and production opportunities have been examined, with a view to enhancing and adding value to Tullows portfolio in Gabon.
In 2006 the Group will continue to pursue such opportunities, aiming to become a significant operator in the country over the coming years.
E Exploration D Development P Production Notes: 1 Okume Complex includes the Elon, Okume, Ebano and Oveng fields and is due on stream in late 2006.
2 Tullow has back-in rights to this field which is due on stream in late 2006.
3 Final project sanction not due till end 2006 early 2007.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 Congo Brazzaville In Congo Brazzaville, Tullow is a partner in the MBoundi field, one of the most significant onshore discoveries in Africa in the last 10 years.
Since the discovery, ongoing development drilling has resulted in regular increases in reserves and production.
Since the beginning of 2005, gross production has increased from approximately 35,000 bopd to over 60,000 bopd and reserves net to Tullow have been increased by 22%.
The number of rigs drilling has increased from three to four and 23 new wells were drilled during the year.
Following the facility upgrades reported last year and the success of the 2005 drilling programme, a further facility upgrade from 60,000 bfpd to 90,000 bfpd was approved.
Installation of these facilities is currently in progress.
An additional 3D seismic survey has been completed and interpreted.
In conjunction with drilling results the new data has helped to better define further extensions to the field.
Additionally, new wells in the northeast area have found higher productivity reservoir, contributing to the production increases.
Up to 30 wells are planned for 2006, mainly in the north and south of the licence, to further delineate the field.
A pilot water-injection project will commence in 2006, with a view Okume to extending it to full field scale, enhancing oil recovery and with the potential to further increase reserves.
Following discovery of the Ceiba field in Engineering work at the export terminal has facilitated the September 1999 in Equatorial Guinea, a blending and export of MBoundi crude with the higher quality number of further exploration wells were NKossa blend, adding value by significantly reducing the drilled in the north of the same block, discount of MBoundi oil to Brent from 1 January 2006. yielding a total of seven further discoveries.
Tullow sold its 4% minority stake in the offshore Haute In July 2004 the Government approved the Mer permit, which included the non-core NKossa field, for a development of five of these discoveries as consideration of 39 million US$71 million with an effective part of a US$1.1 billion development known date of January 2005. as Okume Complex.
These lie in water depths from 50 m to 550 m and are of a similar Equatorial Guinea geological nature to Ceiba.
Tullows interests in Equatorial Guinea are centred on the Ceiba field, which has been on production since 2000, and the US$1.1 billion Okume Complex development, which together The Okume Complex development is situated represent over 20% of Tullows worldwide commercial reserves.
20 km northeast of the Ceiba field and comprises four fields, Elon, Okume, Ebano and Oveng.
First oil is scheduled for late Equatorial Guinea has become 2006 and is expected to reach 60,000 bopd at full production, more than doubling one of the important new Tullows existing production from Equatorial provinces in African exploration Guinea.
Subject to the performance of this first phase of development two further fields, and production Abang and Akom North, may be tied in at a later date.
Tullow has a 14.25% interest in the Okume Complex development.
In recent years, the careful reservoir management of the Ceiba field has enabled production to reach its highest level since 2002.
In 2005, a programme of four infill wells enabled daily gross production to average 42,500 bopd and resulted in a field reserves upgrade at year end.
At the end of 2005, 13 production wells and seven water injection wells were active in the field, with three additional injection wells temporarily shut in as part of an ongoing and successful water management plan to optimise recovery.
Furthermore, sub-sea infrastructure upgrades in the northern area of the field were approved, allowing for four further productions wells and two injection wells to be drilled in 2006.
These operations are expected to maintain field production at the current levels throughout the year.
14 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Africa The Okume Complex development comprises four oil 5 km to the Espoir FPSO for processing and export, along with fields, which will be developed using two tension leg platforms the East Espoir production.
The drilling of five production and TLPs, four fixed platforms and the drilling of over 40 wells.
two water injection wells at West Espoir is scheduled to follow During 2005 the two TLPs were constructed in Korea and the the infill drilling campaign at East Espoir.
The West Espoir Central Processing Facility and other shallow water facilities project is progressing within budget and first oil is scheduled were constructed in the US Gulf Coast.
The development in the third quarter of 2006. remains on budget and on schedule for first oil by the end of 2006, with production building to a plateau of 60,000 bopd Namibia gross.
Oil will be blended with the Ceiba crude and exported Tullow has a 90% interest in the Kudu gas field offshore via the Ceiba FPSO, located 24 km south of the Okume Namibia, which has potential for up to 9 tcf of gas reserves Complex Central Processing Facility.
1.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
Tullow operates the offshore component of the Kudu development, a joint Tullow also participates in exploration activities in Equatorial project supported by Tullow, the Namibia Power Corporation Guinea.
Current activities are focused on the Block L permit NamPower and the South African electric utility, Eskom.
where, following a recent farmout, the farminee will The project is focused on developing the gas field, as part substantially carry Tullow through a deepwater well on the of a gas-to-power project.
high-risk Banyan prospect planned for the second quarter of 2006.
The final phases of the Block F and Block G exploration permits expired in 2005 and both licences were relinquished.
The giant Kudu gas field has the potential to transform Namibias Cte dIvoire In Cte dIvoire Tullow has production, development and energy future: 2006 is an exploration interests in three offshore blocks.
Block CI-26 comprises the producing East Espoir oil field, the West Espoir important year for this project field, which is currently under development, and the Acajou discovery, which is expected to be developed as a subsea tie-back.
Current exploration focus is on Blocks CI-107 and Kudu is a high profile project for Tullow and represents an CI-108 where the Group plans a seismic survey to identify important part of Namibias Energy Strategy and regional prospects for drilling in 2007.
Tullow is also negotiating terms economic development over the coming years.
The Southern to acquire further offshore licences.
African Development Community SADC, of which Namibia is a member, is experiencing a steady increase in power demand, East Espoir production averaged 18,960 boepd in 2005, which is not being matched by a corresponding growth in including gas sales of 5.4 mmscfd.
Historically Namibia has been dependent was impacted by natural decline and a platform shut-in to on the importation of electricity from South Africa, however accommodate the installation of a tender-assisted drilling rig rising demand will limit this potential source of supply over for the infill drilling programme.
Despite only two of the four the coming years.
Namibia is therefore seeking to identify planned infill wells being put on stream by the end of the year, and access new sources of supply, of which Kudu represents production rates increased to 26,000 boepd.
The infill an important option.
In addition to addressing growing programme is still in progress and two further wells will be indigenous power demand, the Kudu project will have wider put on production in the second quarter of 2006. economic benefits to Namibia, allowing the country to make the transition from a net importer of power to an exporter The West Espoir development plan was approved in May 2004 of surplus power.
and the principal West Espoir facilities, comprising a 12-slot tripod wellhead tower, were successfully installed in November 2005.
All of the pipeline and facility tie-backs have been completed to enable the oil and gas production to be exported Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 Under the current project structure, NamPower will develop an 800 MW power station near Oranjemund in south west Namibia.
The station will be fuelled by gas from the Tullow-operated Niungo Kudu gas field, with the electricity being sold in both Namibia and South Africa.
The Kudu power station will be based on Tullow has a 40% interest in the Niungo combined cycle gas turbine technology and will be the first field, onshore Gabon.
Since 2004, 15 appraisal power plant in Southern Africa to use this technology.
and development wells and one exploration During 2005, Tullow has made good progress on the well have been drilled, increasing reserves upstream phase of the gas-to-power development: the from 2.8 mmbbls at the time of acquisition Front End Engineering Design FEED study for a four well to 7.9 mmbbls at the end of 2005 and raising subsea development and onshore gas conditioning plant was gross production from 6,500 boepd to over completed and invitations to bid for the various construction 14,000 boepd.
activities are expected to be issued during 2006.
In parallel with these technical preparations, significant progress has An active drilling campaign is planned been made on commercial and regulatory arrangements.
for 2006 07, designed to sustain current The Gas Sales Agreement negotiations are nearing completion, production rates and to test the northern in parallel with the Power Purchase Agreement negotiations extent of the field.
A play of similar type between NamPower and Eskom, and an agreement in principle will be tested during 2006 in the surrounding has been reached on a pipeline route.
Nziembou exploration block, in which Tullow In addition to the ongoing gas-to-power development, which also has a 40% interest.
will utilise approximately 1 tcf of gas over its life, Tullow has identified significant additional reserve potential in the greater Niungo typifies the type of project in which Kudu area.
Should additional reserves be proved, development Tullow is endeavouring to be involved in possibilities include a further gas-topower project, export Gabon, namely low-cost near-field appraisal to regional gas markets or a floating LNG project.
Tullow has and exploration leading to early incremental contracted a rig to drill two important appraisal wells in early production with operational synergies, at a 2007.
These will increase the understanding of the ultimate low cost per barrel and with rapid payback reserve potential of Kudu and allow refinement of potential at current oil prices.
High Impact Exploration in Africa In Africa Tullows exploration strategy aims to have a balance between exploration in lower risk areas close to infrastructure where Tullow has a competitive advantage, such as Gabon, and to expose the Group to high impact frontier exploration in countries such as Uganda, Mauritania, Angola and Equatorial Guinea, where success is likely to yield significant discoveries.
Six high impact wells have been drilled over the last year: one in Mauritania, two in Uganda and three in Angola.
16 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Africa In Block 1 Mauritania, the Faucon prospect yielded a gas 2006 Operational Outlook discovery, proving that there is a working petroleum system In 2006, in Africa, the Group has ongoing development in the region, and hence reducing the risk of the prospects projects in Gabon, Congo Brazzaville, Equatorial Guinea, Cte on the block and in the neighbouring St Louis block in Senegal, dIvoire and Namibia and a comprehensive exploration in which Tullow has a 60% interest.
programme in these and other countries.
Key milestones for 2006 include: In Blocks 2 and 3A in Uganda, Tullow conducted onshore and offshore 2D seismic surveys in the Lake Albert Graben in Niungo 11 appraisal and development wells planned to 2005.
This led to the definition of several onshore structures enhance production and delineate the extent of the field: in Block 2, two of which have resulted in oil discoveries from Okume Complex Development first oil expected in the Mputa-1 and Waraga-1 wells in early 2006, proving this December 2006, building to a plateau of 60,000 bopd: to be a potentially prolific petroleum basin.
Both discoveries will be production tested in the second quarter of 2006, MBoundi Development 30 development wells planned, followed by more detailed seismic to improve the resolution along with a facility upgrade to 90,000 bfpd and the across the discoveries and the region.
Plans are now under initiation of water injection: way for exploratory drilling to start on the Kingfisher prospect West Espoir Development first oil scheduled for the in mid 2006, followed by further onshore and offshore third quarter of 2006, building to a plateau of 12,000 bopd: exploration wells.
At least two appraisal wells will be drilled on the Mputa and Waraga discoveries to assess reserve size Uganda a further five exploration wells in Uganda and determine the ultimate commercial potential of the region.
including the Kingfisher prospect in Block 3A and additional onshore exploration and appraisal wells in Block 2: Equatorial Guinea a high impact deep water exploration Our exploration objectives well is to be drilled in the second quarter of 2006 on the Banyan prospect in Block L. are to replace production, increase reserves and acquire additional assets Late in 2005, Tullow farmed in to a 15% interest in Blocks 10 and 24 in Angola on the basis of a very large structure favourably located to receive an oil charge.
However, the Ngueve prospect proved to be dry and two other wells Henda and Kabetula were also unsuccessful.
In 2005, substantial 2D surveys were conducted in Blocks CI-107 and CI-108 in Cte dIvoire.
These surveys identified prospective structures analogous to those in the Espoir and Baobab fields, which provide most of Cte dIvoires oil production.
These structures will be delineated with 3D surveys in 2006.
In Cameroon a major 3D survey commenced early in 2006 in the Ngosso Permit, which contains several oil and gas discoveries.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17
