South Asia Tullow has an attractive and growing portfolio of potentially high impact exploration acreage in three countries with developing energy markets.
In South Asia, Tullow has interests in Pakistan, India and Bannu West exploration blocks, and also agreed to acquire Bangladesh where demand for oil and gas for regional power interests in the Kalchas and Kohlu blocks.
Tullow now holds generation and industrial development is steadily growing.
a significant working interest in 10 licences, eight of which it Tullows strategy in the region is to discover and develop oil operates.
Seismic operations have commenced in the Kohat and gas reserves to help satisfy this demand.
Block and drilling is planned for early 2007.
Negotiations to commence work in four other blocks are ongoing.
Tullows production from the region in 2005 was from the declining Suri gas field in Pakistan, which averaged around Elsewhere in Pakistan, Tullow conducted 2D and 3D seismic 400 boepd 2.5 mmscfd, contributing less than 1% to total surveys on the Nawabshah licence and identified multiple Group production.
While this is modest, two development potential targets.
A well to test the Shahpur prospect, was projects, Chachar in Pakistan and Bangora in Bangladesh, spudded in February 2006 and is expected to reach total are due to start production in 2006, significantly enhancing depth in early April.
The prospect is close to recent gas production and hence revenue for reinvestment in the region.
discoveries in the adjacent block and a discovery here Tullow is currently conducting a number of seismic surveys could be quickly brought into production.
to identify prospects for drilling in 2006 and 2007.
Bangladesh Pakistan In early 2005, Tullow obtained approval from the Bangladeshi In 2005, government approval for the development of the authorities for its appraisal programme for the Bangora and Chachar field was received and development planning is now Lalmai discoveries in Block 9.
The programme involves a in the final stages with the drilling of the first of two wells long-term test of the Bangora-1 well, acquisition of 3D seismic expected to commence in May 2006.
First gas from the data and the drilling of at least two appraisal wells.
field is scheduled for the third quarter of 2006 at a rate of 20 mmscfd.
The gas will be sold for use in regional power During 2005, significant progress was made on the pipeline generation, where significant incremental gas demand exists.
tie-in for the long-term test, which will supply much needed gas The cash generated from Chachar will fund an exploration into the local market and provide valuable information on the size programme in Pakistan over the coming years.
of the reservoir and potential gas volumes in place.
The bulk of the civil engineering work is complete and facilities equipment has been delivered, with first gas due to commence in the second quarter of 2006 at a rate of approximately 50 mmscfd.
Our objective is to actively participate in this region through A 620 sq km 3D seismic survey was completed in February 2006 over the whole of the Bangora-Lalmai structure and the discovery and development initial data are currently being processed.
The survey will allow detailed re-mapping of the field and will serve to better of reserves for local markets define the expected volumes and reservoir connectivity and help to identify future appraisal and development well drilling locations.
The two-well appraisal drilling programme is Production from Pakistan declined gradually through the scheduled to commence in the second quarter of 2006 year, with the Suri gas field producing 4 mmscfd by year end.
with two further appraisal wells contingent on results.
Various options for maximising the return from this asset are under review.
If results of the appraisal programme are positive, it is likely that commerciality will be declared and a development plan In 2004, Tullow made a strategic decision to expand its Pakistan for Bangora-Lalmai will be submitted by the end of 2006. exploration portfolio and activities.
The primary objective was to build an exploration portfolio in higher-risk but high-potential While Block 9 has been the focus of much activity in areas which has recently delivered some very large oil and gas recent years, there has been limited work on the offshore discoveries.
In April 2005, Tullow was awarded the Kohat and 18 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 South Asia South Asia Pakistan India Bangladesh Key Producing Assets Blocks 17&18 in the Bay of Bengal since the drilling of the Reju-1 well some years ago.
During 2005, however, a number Assets Under Development of large discoveries have been made in the region, which provide important additional information in relation to overall Country Producing fields Tullow % fields under development prospectivity, with potentially significant implications for appraisal Blocks 17&18.
In December 2005, Total signed a farm-in 1 Bangora 30.00 Bangladesh agreement to acquire a 60% interest in the blocks.
The new E D Lalmai joint venture partnership is currently undertaking a 2D seismic survey in the block and is planning to carry out an extensive 2 3D offshore survey in late 2006 before making a decision Pakistan Chachar 75.00 on any future drilling.
E D P Sara Suri 38.18 India Exploration Activities only: Block CB-ON 1 in the Cambay basin is Tullows principal Indian asset.
This block in which Tullow has a 50% interest, India is advantageously situated in a region that has a number of existing producing fields to the south and where, to the north, E Exploration D Development P Production very sizeable new discoveries have been made in recent years.
Notes: Following the award of the Petroleum Exploration Licence in 1 Bangora discovery on long-term test from second quarter of 2006.
September 2004, extensive seismic reprocessing was 2 Chachar Field due on stream in second half of 2006. completed during the year and in November 2005 a survey to acquire over 1,000 km of 2D seismic commenced, almost double the commitment for the block.
The information gained from the survey will be integrated with Tullows existing regional knowledge to select prospects for what is likely to be a multi-well drilling programme in 2007.
2006 Operational Outlook 2006 is a significant year for Tullows interests in South Asia both for development projects and exploration: Chachar Development due to come on stream in the third quarter of 2006: Bangora Pakistan Exploration completion of extensive seismic programme across potentially high impact exploration acreage and planning for exploration drilling in early 2007: In 2001, Tullow signed the Block 9 licence in Bangladesh as operator.
Following two gas Bangora Long-term Test due to come on stream in the discoveries on the same structure, Bangora second quarter of 2006: and Lalmai, Tullow has started an extensive Bangora Appraisal an integrated programme of new appraisal programme to determine the 3D seismic and appraisal drilling leading to declaration ultimate reserve potential of the structure.
of field commerciality: The programme comprises two appraisal India Exploration completion of ongoing seismic wells, seismic, and a long-term test of the acquisition and interpretation on the CB-ON 1 block in Bangora-1 discovery well, which will supply preparation for a multi-well exploration programme.
much needed gas into the local market.
First gas is targeted for the second quarter of 2006 at an anticipated rate of 50 mmscfd.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19
