BOARD OF DIRECTORS GEOFF UNWIN Chairman Geoff Unwin was appointed to the board as a non-executive director in 1996, and became chairman in November 2002.
He was previously chief executive officer of Cap Gemini Ernst & Young, one of the largest management and IT consulting firms in the world, and remains a non-voting member of the board of that company.
He is also chairman of Halma plc, a leading safety and environmental technology group, Liberata plc and The Cloud Networks Ltd.
He is a member of the advisory board of Palamon Capital Partners and chairs one of their investments: OmniBus Systems Ltd. Geoff chairs the Nomination Committee.
3 DAVID LEVIN Group Chief Executive David Levin was appointed as group chief executive in April 2005, having previously been chief executive of Symbian, a mobile phone software licensing company, since April 2002.
He joined Symbian from Psion plc, the handheld computing company, where he was chief executive from February 1999.
Prior to that, he spent five years with the international businesspublishing group Euromoney Institutional Investor, as chief operating officer and before that as president of Institutional Investor in New York.
Previously he worked with the venture capital group Apax Partners and with the consultancy firm Bain and Company for five years, mostly in Asia.
David has an MBA from Stanford University and an MA from Oxford.
David is also a member of the finance committee of the Oxford University Press, a department of Oxford University.
NIGEL WILSON Chief Financial Officer Nigel Wilson was appointed to the board as chief financial officer in 2001.
Prior to that he was group finance director of Viridian Group plc from 1996 to 2000, and became managing director of Viridian Capital in 2000.
Nigel is a non-executive director of Halfords PLC where he also chairs the audit committee.
Previous appointments include group finance director at Waste Management International plc, Chief Executive, Corporate G. P. A. head of corporate finance and group commercial director of Dixons Group plc, managing director of Stanhope Properties plc and a consultant at McKinsey.
Nigel has a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
CHARLES GREGSON Executive Director Appointed to the board in 1996, Charles Gregson is chief executive of PR Newswire.
He joined MAI plc in 1974 as group solicitor and became a director of that company in 1984.
He is chairman of ICAP plc, and deputy chairman of Provident Financial plc.
Charles graduated from Trinity Hall, Cambridge.
He has an MA in Law and is a qualified solicitor.
JOHN BOTTS Non-Executive Director Appointed to the board in 1997, John Botts is chairman of Botts & Company Limited, a private equity investment company, and also chairman of LongAcre Partners Limited, a mid-market corporate finance house focusing on the broad media and communications sectors.
Other directorships include Euromoney Institutional Investor plc and Tisbury Europe Master Fund Ltd. Graduate of Williams.
He is the senior independent director.
2 3 p. 22 from left to right top to bottom GEOFF UNWIN DAVID LEVIN NIGEL WILSON CHARLES GREGSON JOHN BOTTS CHRIS POWELL JONATHAN NEWCOMB LORD ADAIR TURNER CHRISTOPHER HYMAN LORD SANDY LEITCH CHRIS POWELL Non-Executive Director Appointed to the board in 1996, Chris Powell was a non-executive director of MAI plc from 1995.
He has been chief executive and chairman of BMP DDB, one of Britains largest advertising agencies, of which he was co-founder, and is a past president of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising.
He is chairman of Nesta National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts.
1 JONATHAN NEWCOMB Non-Executive Director Jonathan Newcomb was appointed to the board in 2001.
He was chairman and CEO of Simon & Schuster, one of the worlds largest book publishers and providers of educational and training materials from 1994 until 2002, having been president and chief operating officer from 1991.
From 2002 to 2004 he was a principal with the New York based private equity firm of Leeds Weld & Co.
Previous employment included McGraw Hill where he was responsible for Standard & Poors and Data Resources and Dun & Bradstreet.
He is a board member of Journal Communications NYSE and the BNA Corporation.
He is currently a Senior Advisor at the New York based investment firm Coady Diemar.
1 2 LORD ADAIR TURNER Non-Executive Director Appointed to the board in 2000, Adair Turner was previously director general of the Confederation of British Industry and prior to that a director of McKinsey & Co.
He is vice-chairman of Merrill Lynch Europe and a director of Siemens Holdings plc.
He is a visiting professor at the London School of Economics.
In December 2002 he was appointed by the Government to chair an independent commission on pensions.
He is chairman of the audit committee.
Adair became a member of the House of Lords in 2005.
He graduated in 1978 from Cambridge University with an MA in History and Economics.
1 2 CHRISTOPHER HYMAN Non-Executive Director Appointed to the board in 2004, Christopher Hyman is chief executive of Serco Group plc, which he joined in 1994 and where he has served in a number of roles, including company secretary and group finance director, before becoming chief executive in 2002.
Serco is one of the world's leading service companies.
It provides governments and companies with management and consulting expertise across a range of sectors including home affairs, science, technology, transport, defence and local government.
Chris has a BCom and PhDip Acc from Natal University and qualified as a Chartered Accountant in South Africa.
2 LORD SANDY LEITCH Non-Executive Director Appointed to the board in January 2005, Sandy currently chairs the National Employment Panel, which advises government on employment issues and has recently been appointed to chair an independent review of skills in the UK.
He is deputy chair of the Commonwealth Education Fund and non-executive Director of Lloyds-TSB plc and Bupa.
He is also chairman of Intrinsic Financial Services.
Sandy was previously chairman and chief executive of Zurich Financial Services UK, Ireland, Southern Africa and Asia Pacific, holding senior positions at Allied Dunbar, Eagle Star and Threadneedle.
He was also chairman of The Association of British Insurers.
Sandy was appointed to the House of Lords in 2004.
He is chairman of the remuneration committee.
1 3 1 Member of the remuneration committee 2 Member of the audit committee 3 Member of the nomination committee p. 23
