Directors Report The directors present their report on the audited financial statements for the business provides valuable insight during Board discussions and enables a year ended 31 March 2005. detailed assessment of the Companys performance.
Principal Activity and Review of the Business The Chairman has undertaken an evaluation of the non-executive directors The Groups principal activity is the provision of express collection and delivery submitting themselves for re-election and confirms that their performance services for parcels, mail and palletised goods.
A review of the Groups continues to be effective and that they commit sufficient time to the fulfilment business during the year and its prospects for the future is set out in the of their duties as a director and committee member, as appropriate.
Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and Financial Review.
Directors Interests Results and Dividend The interests of the directors and their families as appearing in the register The profit for the financial year of 13.8 million is reported in the Group Profit and maintained under the provisions of section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 in Loss Account.
An interim dividend of 6.4p per share was paid on 4 January 2005, the share capital of the Company on 31 March 2005 are set out in the and the directors recommend a final dividend of 12.8p per share payable on 21 Remuneration Report.
July 2005 to shareholders on the register on 1 July 2005.
This, when added to Substantial Shareholders the interim dividend, will make a total of 19.2p for the year 2004 :18.0p.
In addition to the interests of Peter Kane 33.6% and Michael Kane 13.0%, as at Corporate Governance 26 May 2005 the Company had been notified that Ms Joanna Bailey and Mr John A statement on corporate governance and the Groups compliance with the Kane, the adult children of Peter Kane, are each beneficial holders of 3,333,333 Combined Code is set out in the Corporate Governance statement.
shares, each representing 6.2% of the issued share capital of the Company.
In addition, the Company had been notified that Fidelity International Limited and its Charitable Donations direct and indirect subsidiaries are non-beneficial holders of 2,109,878 shares During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 98,702 2004: 58,434, representing 3.9% of the issued share capital of the Company.
including 86,444 2004: 58,434 to the National Childrens Home Charity for general charitable purposes, and 5,958 2004: Nil to the DEC Tsunami Earthquake Annual General Meeting - special business Appeal.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 July 2005 may be found at the back of the Report and Accounts.
In addition to the routine Directors business of the meeting, the special business set out below will be transacted.
Details of the directors are shown in the Directors and Advisers statement together with their biographical details and dates of appointment.
On 13 July 2004 resolutions were passed by the Companys shareholders whereby the directors were given authority, under Section 80 of the In accordance with the Articles of Association, Bill Cockburn, Michael Kane Companies Act 1985, until the conclusion of the 2005 Annual General and Alec Ross retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being Meeting, to allot shares up to a maximum of the authorised but unissued share eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Details of their terms of appointment capital of the Company.
The directors recommend by Resolution 8 to be can be found in the Remuneration Report.
The Board strongly supports their proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting that this authority re-election and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of their reshould be renewed so that it applies until the conclusion of the next Annual election.
Bill Cockburn and Michael Kane are both non-executive directors.
General Meeting of the Company.
Bill Cockburn, having been on the Boards of large organisations including The Post Office, WH Smith and BT, and a non-executive director of a number If Resolution 8 is approved by shareholders the directors will have authority of other companies, brings substantial experience of corporate and staff to allot up to 16,062,262 ordinary shares, representing 29.8% of the ordinary management which is of considerable assistance to the Company.
In his role shares currently in issue of which 2,759,292 5.1% of the ordinary shares as Deputy Chairman, he provides advice, counsel and support to the Chief currently in issue are currently reserved for issue under the Companys share Executive, and his knowledge of Royal Mail Group and operating in a regulated option schemes.
The balance available for allotment is therefore 13,302,970 environment at BT has proved of considerable benefit in the development of ordinary shares, representing 24.7% of the ordinary shares currently in issue.
The Company does not currently have any treasury shares in issue.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority except in Michael Kane joined his brother Peter Kane, who founded the company, in connection with the issue of shares under the Companys Sharesave Scheme 1974 and, for over 20 years, assisted in its day to day running, including as or under the Business Post Group plc Franchise Share Option Scheme 2002.
Managing Director and Chief Executive.
His detailed understanding of the 37 Business Post Group plc Directors Report In addition, the directors were given authority under Section 95 of the Employment Policy Companies Act 1985 until the conclusion of the 2005 Annual General Meeting The Groups policy is to maintain, as far as practicable, close consultations to allot equity securities for cash, other than to existing shareholders in with employees on matters likely to affect their interests and, to this end, proportion to their holdings, up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 5% established an Employee Consultative Group in April 2003.
The Company is an of the issued ordinary share capital.
The directors recommend by Resolution 9 equal opportunities employer and holds an Investors in People certificate.
to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting that this authority The Groups policy and practice is to encourage the recruitment and should be renewed up to an aggregate nominal amount of 269,689, being subsequent training, career development and promotion of disabled persons equal to 5% of the ordinary shares currently in issue, until the conclusion of according to their aptitudes and abilities and the retention and retraining of the 2006 Annual General Meeting or 12 October 2006, whichever is the earlier.
employees who also become disabled during their employment.
The Companies Act 1985 allows shares purchased by the Company to be held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or used to meet Further information concerning the Groups human resource management the Companys obligations under its share option schemes.
The requirements activities is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility statement.
to allot equity securities for cash to existing shareholders in proportion to their Directors and Officers Liability Insurance holdings will also apply to the sales by the Company of any shares it holds as The Company maintains insurance against certain liabilities which could arise treasury shares.
These requirements may be similarly disapplied by from a negligent act or a breach of duty by its directors and officers in the shareholders.
The authority sought, and limits set, by Resolution 9 will then discharge of their duties.
apply also to a sale of treasury shares.
However, the directors have no present intention of holding shares in treasury pursuant to the Companies Act 1985.
Supplier Payment Policy The Groups policy concerning the payment of its trade creditors is to follow At the 2004 Annual General Meeting the Company was given authority under the CBIs Prompt Payers Code.
The Group endeavours to agree standard terms Article 9 of its Articles of Association and Section 166 of the Companies Act of payment with its major suppliers at the commencement of business.
1985 until the conclusion of the 2005 Annual General Meeting to make market Suppliers fulfilling the conditions of supply are paid in accordance with the purchases of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital for cancellation at agreed standard terms.
Other suppliers are paid in accordance with a price of not less than 10 pence per ordinary share and not more than 105% contractual terms as agreed from time to time.
The Company does not have of the average of the mid-market quotations for an ordinary share of the trade creditors and accordingly no creditor days calculation is presented.
Company as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days prior to the date of purchase.
Environmental Responsibility and Health and Safety A statement on the steps taken to operate the business in pursuit of good The authority sought by Resolution 10, to make market purchases of its own environmental and health standards is set out in the Corporate Social ordinary shares, is intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the Responsibility statement.
Company as treasury shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
However, as mentioned above, the directors have no present intention of holding shares Auditors in treasury pursuant to the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Group will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The directors recommend by Resolution 10 to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting that this authority should be renewed until the By order of the Board conclusion of the 2006 Annual General Meeting or 12 October 2006, whichever is the earlier.
The directors did not exercise the Companys power to purchase Peter Fitzwilliam its own shares in the year ended 31 March 2005 and do not intend to exercise Company Secretary this power other than in circumstances where they consider this to be in the 26 May 2005 shareholders interests and where this would result in an increase in earnings per share.
If they do utilise this authority, the directors will neither be encouraging nor recommending shareholders to buy or sell shares in the Company nor in any way suggesting that it is an appropriate time to deal in such shares.
