02 Business Post is the UKs leading independent express delivery company WHAT DO WE DO?
We provide time-definite deliveries anywhere in the world, to both business and residential addresses.
Shipments vary in weight from under 60 grammes, for a letter, to over one tonne, for a pallet load.
Most customers in the UK choose next day deliveries.
However, our Courier businesses provide a same day service, whilst UK Mail offers a two day service.
Nearly all of them are UK businesses.
Parcel collections and deliveries in the UK are made by almost 1,500 drivers.
Parcels and mail bags are fed into one of 59 depots nationwide which are linked by a complex network of vehicle movements.
UK Pallets operates through a partnership network with over 70 independent haulage businesses throughout the UK linked via a central hub in Staffordshire.
Shipments for delivery outside the UK are passed to one of our international partners for their onward journey.
The very latest technology is used to control and report on every item that moves through our networks.
Reliability: Our on-time delivery record is the envy of our competitors.
Technology: Our deliveries are supported by information systems which are at the forefront of the industry.
Innovation: We were the first company to offer nationwide mail delivery services as an alternative to the Royal Mail and, more generally, we are consistently at the forefront of the express delivery industry.
FedEx: We are the chosen UK partner of FedEx, the worlds leading express delivery company.
Flexibility: Our highly efficient operation provides customers with a wide range of collection and delivery options.
Entrepreneurship: Almost two-thirds of our depots are franchised.
Nearly all of our collection and delivery drivers are self-employed.
Specialism: Different types of deliveries have different requirements.
We have a number of specialist business units, run by experts.
OUR BUSINESS UNITS Express UK B2B parcel delivery.
International International parcel and mail delivery, primarily B2B.
UK Pallets UK palletised delivery.
