We have completed the implementation of an SAP We support efforts to create a more open competitive based system, which simplies and harmonises processes across environment through the liberalisation of international trade.
Arabia, Israel and Turkey a project successfully delivered in an We support the full implementation of the Single European Market extremely challenging environment.
and inclusion of other European countries in the European Union.
An initiative to standardise operational IT processes and Distribution and selling procedures globally started in 2005 and has delivered on plan.
Unilevers products are generally sold through its sales force and We have set world-class objectives for this programme and the through independent brokers, agents and distributors to chain, implementations in 2005 won the best project of the year in the wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery accounts, food 2005 ITsmf awards.
To support the innovation agenda, service distributors and institutions.
Products are distributed the internal management system had a significant upgrade and through distribution centres, satellite warehouses, companyhas been deployed to 16 000 users world-wide.
operated and public storage facilities, depots and other facilities.
Corporate venture activities Exports Unilever has allocated 250 million to its venturing activities in We sell our products in nearly all countries throughout the world order to create business opportunities that will help build our core and manufacture in many of them.
We export a wide range of business interests in Foods and Home and Personal Care.
These products to countries where we do not make them.
For example, activities include: inside the European Union we make many of our products in only Unilever Technology Ventures, which invests in technology a few member countries, for sale in all of them.
The chosen funds and start up companies.
Investments have been made in manufacturing conguration is generally determined by an haplotyping genomics technology, systems biology, radio optimised regional sourcing strategy which takes account of frequency identication, water purication and surface requirements for innovation, quality, service, cost and exibility.
Unilever Ventures, which is an early-stage business development Seasonality fund for businesses from both inside and outside Unilever.
Certain of our businesses, such as ice creams, are subject to Investments include Persil Services in the UK, Ponds Institute significant seasonal uctuations in sales.
However, Unilever Beauty Centre in Spain and the Biotechnology Application operates globally in many different markets and product Centre in the Netherlands.
No individual element of seasonality is likely to be Langholm Capital, which is an independent fund investing in material to the results of the Group as a whole.
private European companies with above-average longer-term growth prospects.
Investments include Physcience, a Related party transactions supplements business in France, Lumene, a natural personal Transactions with related parties are conducted in accordance care business in Finland, Dorset Cereals in the UK and Just with the transfer pricing policies described in note 1 on page 85 Retirement, a financial services business in the UK.
and consist primarily of sales to joint ventures and associates.
Other than those disclosed in this report, there were no related Competition party transactions that were material to the Group or to the We have a wide and diverse set of competitors in our consumer related parties concerned that are required to be reported in 2005 goods businesses.
Many of our competitors also operate on or the preceding year.
an international scale, but others have a narrower regional or local focus.
In approximately 40 countries, our associated company, JohnsonDiversey Inc. acts as Unilevers sole and exclusive sales Competition is a normal part of business.
We aim to compete agent for professional channels, in respect of cleaning products, and give value to our consumers, customers and shareholders in return for which it receives an agency fee.
In 2004 Patrick in three ways: Cescau, Group Chief Executive, purchased a house from a group by continually developing new and improved products: company ultimately owned by NV.
The full Boards, acting on the by sharing our innovations and concepts with our businesses recommendation of the Remuneration Committee and without all around the world: and participation of Mr Cescau, gave their prior approvals to the by striving to lower the cost of our sourcing, manufacturing purchase, which was made at full market value based on two and distribution processes while still maintaining, and independent valuations of the property.
improving, the quality of our products.
Further information is given in note 32 on page 142.
Intellectual property We have a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, and we conduct some of our operations under licences which are based on patents or trademarks owned or controlled by others.
We are not dependent on any one patent or group of patents.
We use our best efforts to protect our brands and technology.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 Report of the Directors
