Corporate governance continued We are committed to efforts to establish more effective ways of Shareholder proposed resolutions communication with our shareholders around the AGMs.
Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or Electronic communication is becoming an important medium for together hold 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of shares or shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together and reports, and for voting purposes.
hold shares or depositary receipts worth at least 50 million.
They must submit these requests at least 60 days before the date of NV was one of the founders of the Dutch Shareholders the General Meeting, and the request will be honoured unless, in Communication Channel.
NV shareholders participating in the the opinion of the Board, it is against a substantive interest of the Dutch Shareholders Communication Channel are able to appoint Company.
Shareholders who together represent at least 10% of electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf at the NV AGM and the issued capital of NV can also requisition Extraordinary General NV shareholders who wish to participate should contact their Meetings to deal with specic resolutions.
Shareholders of PLC in the United Kingdom can choose to receive electronic notication that the Annual Review, Shareholders who together hold shares representing at least 5% Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have been of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold published on our website, instead of receiving printed copies, and on average 100 each in nominal value of PLC capital, can can also electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at require PLC to propose a resolution at a General Meeting.
Registration for electronic communication by shareholders holding in aggregate one tenth of the issued shareholders of PLC can be made at ordinary shares of PLC are able to convene a general meeting www.
Voting rights Required majorities To be entitled to attend and vote at NV General Meetings Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder shareholders must hold their NV shares on the record date, which meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are is set by the Directors and is not more than seven days before the other requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs meeting.
Shareholders do not need to block their shares.
For example, there are special requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the Shareholders can vote in person or by proxy, and can cast one Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the vote for each 0.51 Fl.
1.12 nominal amount of NV ordinary alteration of the Equalisation Agreement see below.
shares, NV preference shares or NV New York shares.
Similar arrangements apply to holders of depositary receipts issued for Right to hold shares NV shares see pages 43 and 44.
There are no limitations on the right to hold NV and PLC shares.
PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each PLC ordinary 1.4p Equalisation Agreement share they hold.
Shareholders can vote in person at the meeting The Equalisation Agreement makes the position of the or by proxy.
Proxies should be submitted to the Registrars, shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose details can be found held shares in a single company.
The Agreement regulates the on page 190, at least 48 hours before the AGM.
mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the same More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found in financial periods and accounting policies.
Dividends are paid in NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the respective notices accordance with a formula relating to the nominal values of NVs of meetings.
and PLCs issued share capital.
Holders of NV New York shares or PLC American Depository The Equalisation Agreement sets out the rights and benets Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling them to accruing to each unit of ownership in NV in relation to each unit authorise and instruct ABN AMRO N. V. or Citibank N. A. of ownership in PLC.
Under the Equalisation Agreement we respectively to vote on their behalf at the shareholders meeting compare the ordinary share capital of the two companies in units: of NV or PLC.
a unit made up of 5.445 nominal of NVs ordinary capital carries the same weight as a unit made up of 1 nominal of PLCs N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited the holders of NVs special ordinary capital.
For every unit 5.445 you have of NV you have shares, other group companies of NV which hold ordinary or the same rights and benets as the owner of a unit 1 of PLC.
preference shares, and United Holdings Limited, which owns half NVs ordinary shares currently each have a nominal value of of PLCs deferred stock, are not permitted to vote at General 0.51, and PLCs share capital is divided into ordinary shares of Meetings.
This means that a 5.445 unit of NV is made up of approximately 10.7 NV ordinary shares of 0.51 each and a 1 The proxy vote is published at the meetings and the outcome of unit of PLC is made up of approximately 71.4 PLC ordinary shares the votes, including the proxy votes, is put on Unilevers website.
Consequently, one NV ordinary share equates to about 6.67 ordinary shares of PLC.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 41 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued When we pay ordinary dividends we use this formula.
On the If both companies were to go into liquidation, NV and PLC would same day, NV and PLC allocate funds for the dividend from their each use any funds available for shareholders to pay the prior parts of our current profits and free reserves.
We pay the same claims of their own preference shareholders.
Then they would use amount on each NV share as on 6.67 PLC shares calculated at the any surplus to pay each others preference shareholders, if relevant exchange rate.
For interim dividends this exchange rate is necessary.
After these claims had been met, they would pay out the average rate for the quarter before we declare the dividend.
any equalisation or dividend reserve to their own shareholders For final dividends it is the average rate for the year.
In arriving at before pooling the remaining surplus.
This would be distributed to the equalised amount we include any tax payable by the the ordinary shareholders of both companies, once again on the Company in respect of the dividend, but calculate it before any basis that the owner of 5.445 nominal NV ordinary share capital tax deductible by the Company from the dividend.
would get the same as the owner of 1 nominal PLC ordinary share capital.
If one company were to go into liquidation, we The Equalisation Agreement provides that if one company had would apply the same principles as if both had gone into losses, or was unable to pay its preference dividends, the loss or liquidation simultaneously.
shortfall would be made up out of: In principle, issues of bonus shares and rights offerings can only the current profits of the other company after it has paid its be made in ordinary shares.
Again we would ensure that own preference shareholders : shareholders of NV and PLC received shares in equal proportions, then its own free reserves: and using the ratio of 5.445 NV nominal share capital to 1 PLC then the free reserves of the other company.
The subscription price for one new NV share would have to be the same, at the prevailing exchange rate, If either company could not pay its ordinary dividends, we would as the price for 6.67 new PLC shares.
follow the same procedure, except that the current profits of the other company would only be used after it had paid its own Neither company can issue or reduce capital without the consent ordinary shareholders and if the Directors thought this more of the other.
appropriate than, for example, using its own free reserves.
The Articles of Association of NV establish that any payment So far, NV and PLC have always been able to pay their own under the Equalisation Agreement will be credited or debited to dividends, so we have never had to follow this procedure.
If we the income statement for the financial year in question.
did, the payment from one company to the other would be subject to any United Kingdom and Netherlands tax and Under Article 2 of the Articles of Association of NV and Clause 3 exchange control laws applicable at that time.
of the Memorandum of Association of PLC, each company is required to carry out the Equalisation Agreement with the other.
Under the Equalisation Agreement, the two companies are Both documents state that the Agreement cannot be changed or permitted to pay different dividends in the following exceptional terminated without the approval of shareholders.
For NV, the circumstances: General Meeting can decide to alter or terminate the Equalisation Agreement at the proposal of the Board.
The necessary approval If the average annual sterling euro exchange rate changed so of the General Meeting is then that at least one half of the total substantially from one year to the next that to pay equal issued ordinary capital must be represented at an ordinary dividends at the current exchange rates, either NV or PLC shareholders meeting, where the majority must vote in favour: would have to pay a dividend that was unreasonable ie.
and if they would be disadvantaged or the agreement is to be substantially larger or smaller in its own currency than the terminated, at least two-thirds of the total issued preference dividend it paid in the previous year : or share capital must be represented at a preference shareholders meeting, where at least three-quarters of them must vote in The governments of the Netherlands or the United Kingdom favour.
For PLC, the necessary approval must be given by the could in some circumstances place restrictions on the holders of a majority of all issued shares voting at a General proportion of a companys profits which can be paid out as Meeting and the holders of the ordinary shares, either by threedividends.
This could mean that in order to pay equal dividends quarters in writing, or by three-quarters voting at a General one company would have to pay out an amount which would Meeting where the majority of the ordinary shares in issue are breach the limitations in place at the time, or that the other represented.
company would have to pay a smaller dividend.
In addition, Article 3 of the PLC Articles of Association states that In either of these rare cases, NV and PLC could pay different PLCs Board must carry out the Equalisation Agreement and that amounts of dividend if the Boards thought it appropriate.
The the other provisions of the Articles of Association are subject to it.
company paying less than the equalised dividend would put the We are advised by counsel that these provisions oblige our Boards difference between the dividends into a reserve: an equalisation to carry out the Equalisation Agreement, unless it is amended or reserve in the case of exchange rate uctuations, or a dividend terminated with the approval of the shareholders of both reserve in the case of a government restriction.
If the Boards fail to enforce the Agreement, would be paid out to its shareholders when it became possible or shareholders can compel them to do so under Netherlands and reasonable to do so, which would ensure that the shareholders of United Kingdom law.
both companies would ultimately be treated the same.
42 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
