Financial review continued The gures quoted in the following discussion are in euros, at Return on invested capital ROIC for the year was 12.5%, up current rates of exchange, ie.
the average or year-end rates of from 10.7% in 2004.
This reects the lower restructuring costs each period, unless otherwise stated.
Information about exchange and higher profits on business disposals included in net profit.
rates between the euro, pound sterling and the US dollar is given ROIC retains all goodwill and intangibles in invested capital, on page 156. regardless of impairment.
Results for 2005 compared with 2004 Acquisitions and disposals The results reected in the consolidated income statement and There were no material acquisitions during 2004 or 2005. supporting notes arise from the continuing operations of the Group.
During July 2005, we completed the sale of Unilever In March 2005 Unilever completed the restructuring of its Cosmetics International UCI to Coty Inc. United States.
Before the restructuring Unilever results of UCI have been presented separately as discontinued Portugal held an interest in FIMA VG Distribuio fide Produtos operations for the 2004 year and, in 2005, for the period up to Alimentares, Lda.
FIMA foods business, a joint venture with the date of sale.
Jernimo Martins Group, in addition to its wholly owned Bestfoods business acquired in 2000.
As a result of the Reported turnover grew by 2.9% in the year to 39 672 million.
transaction the two foods businesses FIMA and Unilever This increase includes a favourable effect from movements of the Bestfoods Portugal were unied and the joint venture stakes average euro exchange rate against the basket of Unilever were re-balanced so that Unilever now holds 49% of the currencies, which amounted to 1.3% of turnover.
The net impact combined foods business and Jernimo Martins Group 51%.
of disposals less acquisitions was a decline in turnover of 1.5%.
This arose principally from the sale of European olive oil and other On 11 July 2005, we announced the completion of the sale of foods businesses.
Underlying sales growth in the year of 3.1% our Prestige fragrance business, UCI, to Coty Inc. of the United was the result of volume increases.
Unilever received US $800 million in cash, with the opportunity for further deferred payments contingent upon Operating profit increased by 25% in the year to 5 314 million future sales.
with operating margin increasing to 13.4% 2004: 11.0%.
Before the impact of net costs of restructuring, business disposals On 20 December 2005, Unilever announced its intention to sell its and impairments, the operating margin for 2005 would have Mora business to Ad van Geloven in the Netherlands, for an been 0.8 percentage points lower than the previous year.
The agreement is subject to approval by Advertising and promotions were 1.1 percentage points of sales competition authorities and advice from work councils.
The higher than last year.
Cost savings and an improved mix more proposed transaction relates to the Mora brand and to factories in than offset the effect of an increase of nearly 600 million in Maastricht and Mol Belgium.
Operating charges for restructuring, business disposals and impairments include the impairment of the Slim Fast Other business disposals in 2005 included Stanton Oil in the UK business in both 2005 and 2004 amounting to 363 million and and Ireland, Dextro in various countries in Europe, Opal in Peru, 791 million respectively.
An overview of performance by region is Karo and Knax in Mexico, spreads and cooking products in included in the operating reviews on pages 26 to 28.
Australia and New Zealand, Crispa, Mentadent, Marmite, Bovril and Maizena in South Africa, frozen pizza in Austria, Biopon in Net finance costs were 2% lower in the year at 618 million, Hungary and tea plantations in India.
The combined annual through lower levels of borrowings.
This also reects a reduction turnover of these businesses was approximately 200 million.
in the finance costs associated with pensions which were 55 million.
In 2004 we disposed of more than 20 businesses with total turnover in excess of 700 million.
significant disposals included A reduced contribution was generated from our shares in joint the sale of certain household care brands in North America, our ventures and associates, most signicantly from our associate edible oils business under the Capullo, Inca and Mazola brands in JohnsonDiversey.
profit from discontinued operations includes the Mexico, the Dalda brand in Pakistan and the sale of our European gain of 458 million arising from the sale of UCI.
frozen pizza and baguette business.
Our chemicals business in India Hindustan Lever Chemicals was merged with Tata The Groups effective tax rate of profit for the year was 26%, Chemicals.
compared with 22% in 2004, which reected resolution of a higher level of outstanding prior year tax issues.
Net profit and earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 21% and 22% respectively in the year.
Including the profits of the discontinued operations, total earnings per share increased by 37% in the year.
22 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
