About Unilever continued Description of our properties the preference shares.
This group lodged an appeal to the Dutch We have interests in properties in most of the countries where Supreme Court on 4 August 2005 against the decision given on there are Unilever operations.
However, none is material in the 4 May 2005.
The Dutch Supreme Court has not yet decided on context of the Group as a whole.
The properties are used this case.
On 10 May 2005, NVs Annual General Meeting decided predominantly to house production and distribution activities to cancel the preference shares.
Cancellation took effect as of and as ofces.
There is a mixture of leased and owned property midnight on 13 July 2005. throughout the Group.
There are no environmental issues affecting the properties which would have a material impact Both groups of former preference shareholders have requested upon the Group, and there are no material encumbrances on our the Rotterdam District Court to nullify the NV Boards decision to properties.
Any difference between the market value of properties convert the preference shares, claiming that this decision was held by the Group and the amount at which they are included in unreasonable.
the balance sheet is not significant.
Please refer to the schedule of principal group companies and non-current investments on page Unilever has businesses in many countries and from time to 167 and 168 and details of property, plant and equipment in time these are subject to investigation by competition and other note 11 on page 100. regulatory authorities.
One such matter concerns ice cream distribution in Europe, notably the issues of outlet and cabinet We currently have no plans to construct new facilities or expand exclusivity.
In October 2003, the Court of First Instance in or improve our current facilities in a manner that is material to Luxembourg ruled in favour of the European Commissions the Group.
decision banning Unilevers Irish ice cream business, HB Ice Cream, from seeking freezer cabinet exclusivity for their products in the Legal and arbitration proceedings and regulatory matters Irish market.
HB Ice Cream has submitted an appeal against the We are not involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings and decision of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg.
If do not have any obligations under environmental legislation unsuccessful, then freezer exclusivity in Ireland will be which might lead to material loss or expenditure in the context of unenforceable in outlets which only have HB freezers.
None of our Directors or Ofcers are involved consequences may apply in specic European markets with in any such material legal proceedings.
equivalent structures to those described in the decision.
0.10 cumulative During 2004 the Federal Supreme Court in Brazil local acronym preference shares, with a notional value of 6.58 Fl.
14.50, as an STF announced a review of certain cases that it had previously alternative to a cash dividend.
In March 2004, NV announced its decided in favour of taxpayers.
Because of this action we intention to convert part 6.53 equivalent to Fl.
14.40 of the established a provision in 2004 of 169 million for the potential notional value of the preference shares, in accordance with its repayment of sales tax credits in the event that the cases Articles of Association, into NV ordinary shares in the first quarter establishing precedents in our favour are reversed.
A number of holders of preference shares raised objections to the conversion, claiming that NV is obliged to buy Also during 2004 in Brazil, and in common with many other the preference shares back for an amount of 6.58, the amount businesses operating in that country, one of our Brazilian of the cash dividend in 1999.
A group of holders of preference subsidiaries received a notice of infringement from the Federal shares requested the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court Revenue Service.
The notice alleges that a 2001 reorganisation of Appeal to conduct an inquiry into the course of affairs of our local corporate structure was undertaken without valid surrounding the preference shares.
On 21 December 2004, the business purpose.
If upheld, the notice could result in a tax claim Enterprise Chamber decided to order an inquiry: an additional in respect of prior years.
The 2001 reorganisation was comparable request to forbid NV to convert the preference shares was with that used by many companies in Brazil and we believe that rejected.
NV lodged an appeal with the Dutch Supreme Court the likelihood of a successful challenge by the tax authorities is against the decision of the Enterprise Chamber, which was remote.
This view is supported by the opinion of outside counsel.
As at the date of this Report, the inquiry is ongoing.
Government regulation On 15 February 2005, after close of trading, NV converted part of Unilever businesses are governed, in particular, by laws and the notional value of the preference shares into NV ordinary regulations designed to ensure that their products may be safely shares.
The value, which the holders of the preference shares used for their intended purpose and that their labelling and received upon conversion, was 4.55 for each preference share.
advertising are truthful and not misleading.
Unilever businesses are further regulated by data protection and anti-trust legislation.
As a consequence of the conversion, the notional value of the Important regulatory bodies in respect of our businesses include preference shares was reduced to 0.05 Fl.
0.10 and pursuant to the European Commission and the US Food and Drug the Articles of Association of NV the preference shares could be Administration.
cancelled upon repayment of this remaining notional value.
On 4 May 2005, the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court We have processes in place to ensure that products, ingredients, of Appeal rejected another request of a group of holders of manufacturing processes, marketing materials and activities preference shares which was aimed to prohibit NV from cancelling comply with the above-mentioned laws and regulations.
14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
