About Unilever continued The RSPO, which includes palm oil growers and processors, list of ingredients.
Allergy sufferers can check the presence of consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, investors and a number ingredients to which they could be sensitive.
Further help is of social and environmental non-governmental organisations, now available through the brand carelines telephone numbers are has over 100 members.
As the largest consumer goods company listed on the website and there is additional information on on the RSPO Board, we have gained significant insights.
Key our website about the chemicals Unilever uses in its products.
developments during 2005 included the adoption of the principles and criteria for Sustainable Palm Oil Production elements of Millions of people suffer from heart disease every year.
The World sustainability ensuring that production is economically viable, Heart Federation WHF is committed to helping the prevention environmentally appropriate and socially beneficial.
and control of heart disease and stroke and is made up of over 150 medical societies and heart charities from 100 low and The widely discussed Dove Campaign for Real Beauty has played a middle-income countries.
We are a key sponsor of World Heart key role in highlighting the need for a broader, more inclusive Day each September and our Becel Flora brands partnership with denition of beauty, beyond the stereotypical super-model image.
the WHF means that we work together to increase public With our Dove Self-Esteem Fund, which is a cornerstone of the awareness of heart disease and its risk factors.
For example in brands long-term growth strategy, were going even further.
Greece our Becel pro activ brand teamed up with the Together with partners such as the Girl Scouts in the US and the Cardiologists Foundation to bring free cholesterol testing, heart UKs Eating Disorder Association, were funding educational Body checks and health advice direct to peoples homes and school Talk programmes in schools to help young people develop halls on the remote Greek islands of the eastern Mediterranean.
By 2008 our aim is to have In Sweden we ran a lecture tour on cholesterol, while in Finland reached 1 million children.
our Foodsolutions business worked with the Finnish Heart Foundation to support national Heart Week with healthy food In Brazil, a recycling project has created jobs and brought and recipes.
An exclusive recycling partnership with a major Brazilian retailer, Pao fide Acucar, has not only given Information technology Unilevers brands greater in-store prominence at no extra cost We are driving towards regional convergence of systems, but also provided employment to more than 300 local people.
processes and organisation to support the operation of the new Under the award-winning scheme, a co-operative of local people Unilever business model.
collects, recycles and sells used packaging deposited at recycling stations outside the retailers supermarkets.
In addition to having In Europe, we have continued to progress the project to Unilevers logo on the stations, our participating brands, implement the single European Enterprise system.
Successful 2005 Hellmanns, AdeS, Omo and Rexona, appear on point-of-sale implementations were performed in France, Germany, the information and educational materials, raising their prole.
We have also delivered a further nine countries onto the European customer relationship management By reducing waste, Unilever has also succeeded in reducing its system, covering primary sales force support and tele-business for costs.
Using the same methodology employed in our highly Foodsolutions.
An artwork management system commenced successful Medusa water conservation programme, we expect to deployment in HPC and Foodsolutions: this system is now used by reduce waste levels for disposal by 30% from our manufacturing 2 200 users across Europe.
With increasing dependence upon sites in the Asia Africa region between 2005 and 2006.
Under our regional applications, resilience and recovery become even more new Triple R Reduce, Re-use, Recycle programme, the sites are critical.
In mitigation we have constructed and commissioned an collaborating to share best practice and setting targets to reduce additional world class data centre to ensure full European backup waste levels and disposal costs.
In 2006 well launch a similar and recovery capability.
initiative, Electra, to reduce energy consumption in Latin America.
In Latin America, we have made significant progress towards the The health of our staff is a priority for Unilever worldwide.
In goal to operate as one business.
This will be fully complete in July some regions HIV AIDS poses a serious risk to our employees and 2006, delivering a single system, process and information system communities.
Using the experience gained from dealing with AIDS for all operating companies in Latin America.
In North America, in our own workplace over the last 25 years, we have worked in we reached a regional agreement with Dell Computer Corp. to partnership to share our learning with international bodies such provide and manage PC equipment and support, including a as the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS.
More locally, we technology update.
A new regional supply chain planning solution work with groups such as the South African Business Coalition on was developed and implemented in the HPC business: Foods will HIV AIDS, with whom we co-developed a well-respected toolkit to go live by the end of the first quarter of 2006. help businesses tackle the disease effectively.
In Kenya we have formed a partnership with the German aid agency GTZ to share In Asia Africa, the focus has been to deepen the penetration of good practice with the wider community, including schools and the regional standard application portfolio.
By the year end we smallholder tea growers.
had implemented the demand and supply network planning tool in thirteen countries and the Unilever standard data warehouse In 2005 we launched a searchable database where consumers can in fourteen countries, and twelve countries now use the regional nd out exactly what ingredients are used in our Home and eCommerce hub.
In India, a system to manage pricing Personal Care products in Europe.
Access to the database is promotions into our dealers, with a capability for e-Claims through Unilevers website at www.
settlement and self-service was successfully rolled out to 1 500 Visitors select their country and preferred language before stockists.
This is planned for completion at all 6 000 stockists by choosing a brand and product.
A single click then reveals the full 12 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
