Corporate governance continued Leon Brittan, Lynda Chalker, Bertrand Collomb, Wim Dik, Oscar Executive Directors Fanjul, Hilmar Kopper, David Simon and Jeroen van der Veer were All four Executive Directors are members of the UEx: the Group nominated for re-election as Non-Executive Directors of NV and Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer, the President Europe PLC at the 2005 AGMs.
Their biographies are set out on page and the President Home and personal care.
Details on their 49. responsibilities can be found in The Governance of Unilever at www.
In 2005, Bertrand Collomb, our Senior Independent Director, became Vice-Chairman of NV and PLC, Wim Dik joined the Audit The Executive Directors are full-time employees of Unilever.
Committee, and Antony Burgmans joined the External Affairs and Information about their remuneration can be found in the report Corporate Relations Committee.
of the Remuneration Committee and on our website at www.
At the 2005 AGMs, Clive Butler, Keki Dadiseth and Andr van Heemstra retired as Executive Directors and Claudio Gonzalez The current Executive Directors are long-serving Unilever retired as Non-Executive Director.
executives who can reasonably expect, subject to satisfactory performance, to be employed by Unilever until retirement.
The At the 2006 AGMs, all of the Executive Directors and the Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement of Non-Executive Directors, with the exception of Bertrand Collomb, the Executive Directors to the security of twelve months notice of Oscar Fanjul and Hilmar Kopper, will be nominated for re-election.
termination of employment is in line both with the practice of many comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior Bertrand Collomb, Oscar Fanjul and Hilmar Kopper will retire as executives within Unilever.
Non-Executive Directors at the 2006 AGMs and their colleagues wish to thank them for their advice during the period of their appointments.
The Remuneration Committees aim is always to deal fairly with cases of termination while taking a robust line in minimising any In addition at the 2006 AGMs, Charles Golden, Executive Vicecompensation.
President and CFO of Eli Lilly and Company, Byron Grote, CFO of BP p. l. c. Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Chairman CEO of Air France-KLM The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the S. A. and Kornelis Kees Storm, former Chairman of the Executive AGMs each year.
The Nomination Committee carefully considers Board of AEGON N. V. will be nominated as Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details for the new Non-Executive Directors are contained in the 2006 AGM Notices of Meeting, and on our The Directors stop holding executive ofce on ceasing to be website at www.
Those appointed prior to 2004 retire at the latest by the age of 62.
Appointees from 2004 onwards retire at an age Chairman and Group Chief Executive between 60 and 65, as decided by either them or Unilever.
Since the 2005 AGMs Unilever has had a separate Non-Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
There is a clear division of At the AGMs of 2001 our shareholders adopted the remuneration responsibilities between their roles.
The Chairman is primarily policy for Executive Directors.
Further changes were made at the responsible for leadership of the Boards, ensuring their AGMs in 2005.
We do not grant our Executive Directors any effectiveness and setting their agendas.
He is also responsible for personal loans and guarantees.
ensuring that the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear information.
There are no family relationships between any of our Executive Directors, other key management personnel or Non-Executive The Group Chief Executive has been entrusted, within the Directors.
None of our Executive Directors are elected or parameters set out in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC appointed under any arrangement or understanding.
and The Governance of Unilever, with all the Boards' powers, authorities and discretions in relation to the operational Executive Directors are to obtain approval from the Chairman for management of Unilever.
The Group Chief Executive has the all outside Board appointments.
Normally not more than one such authority to determine which duties regarding the operational appointment should be accepted.
For Executive Directors management of the companies and their business enterprises will biographies see page 49. be carried out under his responsibility by one or more Executive Directors or by one or more other persons.
This provides a basis to Non-Executive Directors the Unilever Executive team UEx that reports to the Group Chief The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution Executive.
For UEx members biographies see page 50.
For our of the Boards duties, taking into account their specic business structure, please refer to About Unilever on page 10. responsibilities, which are essentially supervisory.
In particular, they comprise the principal external presence in the governance of Unilever, and provide a strong independent element.
See page 49 for their biographies.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Role and Responsibility Independence The key elements of the role and responsibilities of our Taking into account the role of Non-Executive Directors, which is Non-Executive Directors are: essentially supervisory, and the fact that they make up the key committees of the Board, it is important that our Non-Executive supervision of and advice to the Group Chief Executive: Directors can be considered to be independent.
developing strategy with the Group Chief Executive: scrutiny of performance: Our denition of independence for Directors is set out in The controls: Governance of Unilever.
It is derived from the applicable reporting of performance: denitions in use in the Netherlands, UK and US.
Our current remuneration of and succession planning for Executive Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of Directors: and Unilever, with the exception of Antony Burgmans.
Our Boards governance and compliance.
reached this conclusion after conducting a thorough review of all relevant relationships of the Non-Executive Directors, and their Our Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their broad and related or connected persons.
relevant experience and international outlook, as well as their independence.
They form the Audit Committee, the Nomination A number of relationships, such as non-executive directorships, Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the External exist between several of our Non-Executive Directors and Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee.
The roles and companies that provide banking, insurance or financial advisory membership of these key Board committees are described on services to Unilever.
Our Boards considered in each case the page 39.
The prole set by the Boards for the Non-Executive number of other companies that also provide or could readily Directors and the chart used for orderly succession planning can provide such services to Unilever, the signicance to those be seen on our website at companies of the services they provide to Unilever, the roles of www.
the Non-Executive Directors within those companies and the signicance of that role to our Non-Executive Directors.
It Meetings concluded that none of these relationships threaten the The Non-Executive Directors meet regularly as a group, without independence of the Non-Executive Directors concerned.
the Executive Directors present, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director.
In 2005 they met three times as a For example, the Boards have satisfied themselves that Leon group.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors usually meet Brittans position at UBS Investment Bank does not involve him in before each Board meeting with the Chairman, the Group Chief any way in its broking relationship with Unilever.
They have noted Executive and the Joint Secretaries.
that Lynda Chalkers involvement in consultancy services for Unilever had been terminated before she was elected a NonSenior Independent Director Executive Director in May 2004.
The Boards have formed the view Our Non-Executive Directors have appointed Bertrand Collomb as that the fact that Antony Burgmans is a member of the Supervisory Senior Independent Director.
He acts as their spokesman.
The Board of ABN AMRO, and David Simon is Senior Advisor of Senior Independent Director is consulted by the Chairman on the Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, was not material.
The Board agenda and arrangements for Board Meetings.
He is also, in considers that the Chairmanship of Bertrand Collomb and the appropriate cases, a point of contact for shareholders and other Non-Executive Directorship of Oscar Fanjul, and Lynda Chalker's stakeholders.
In 2005 Bertrand Collomb was appointed Vicemembership of the International Advisory Board, of Lafarge, do Chairman of NV and PLC.
Mr Collomb will be retiring at the not affect their status as independent in relation to their NonAGMs in 2006.
Tenure Antony Burgmans, who before May 2005 was an Executive Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election Director, is not considered to be independent.
Their nomination for re-election is subject to continued Committee and the Boards nominated him for election as a Nongood performance which is evaluated by the Boards, based on Executive Director in 2005 because of his thorough knowledge of the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
The Unilever and its operations.
In addition to his role as Chairman, Nomination Committee carefully considers each nomination for the Boards considered his knowledge of the business to be reappointment.
The Non-Executive Directors normally serve for a essential to see through the changes resulting from the structure maximum of nine years.
We expect Antony Burgmans to be succeeded by an independent Chairman in 2007.
Remuneration The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders at the under any arrangement or understanding.
AGMs in 2004, and it is reported on page 68.
Details of the engagement of our Non-Executive Directors can be seen on the Unilever website at www.
38 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
