Corporate governance continued Developments in 2005 The text that follows describes the corporate governance In 2005 the Boards announced a series of further changes to arrangements since the 2005 AGMs.
More information on our streamline management and leadership.
These were approved by corporate governance arrangements is set out in The Governance our shareholders at the Annual General Meetings AGMs in of Unilever, the Boards statement of their internal arrangements, 2005.
A separate Non-Executive Chairman and Group Chief which can be found at Executive were appointed.
The Group Chief Executive established www.
the Unilever Executive UEx which comprises three Regional Presidents for Europe, The Americas, Asia Africa, two Category The Boards Presidents for Foods and Home and personal care the Chief The Boards of NV and PLC comprise the same Directors.
The Financial officer and the Chief HR officer.
The regions are Chairman and all of the Directors are Directors of both NV and responsible for performance, implementing proven brand mixes in PLC.
This ensures unity of governance and management.
In order their region and focusing on building capabilities with customers.
to operate as nearly as practicable as a single entity it is important The categories are responsible for the entire brand development for the Boards of NV and PLC to operate as far as possible as one process including innovation, brand positioning and Board.
This ensures that all matters are considered by the Boards communication and category strategies.
The interdependence as a single intellect, reaching the same conclusions on the same between the regions and categories allows us to exploit our set of facts.
global scale, while building on our deep roots in local markets.
Our HR and Finance functions concentrate on excellence in The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors human capabilities and cost-efficiencies across the Group.
and, in a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards have ultimate responsibility for the management, general affairs, In 2005, we also announced that we would undertake a direction and performance of the business as a whole.
The thorough review of our corporate structure to see if any change responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account should be made.
The review team was led by the Chairman, their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive Antony Burgmans, and included Non-Executive Directors David Directors.
The Executive Directors have additional responsibilities Simon and Jeroen van der Veer.
On 19 December 2005, the for the operation of our business as determined by the Group conclusions of the structure review were announced.
decided that Unilever would retain its current structure with some important changes see below.
Reference is made to the Our Directors have set out a number of areas of responsibility announcement text on our website at which are reserved to themselves and other areas for which www.
matters are delegated to the Group Chief Executive and committees whose actions are regularly reported to and Proposed Developments for 2006 monitored by the Boards.
These are described on pages 37 to 39.
The changes in our structure that the Boards wish to propose to our shareholders at the AGMs in 2006 are: Further details of how our Boards effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and delegate their authorities are set to adapt Unilevers constitutional arrangements to allow out in The Governance of Unilever, which can be found at greater exibility to allocate assets between both parent www.
companies: Appointment of Directors to simplify the relationship between our NV and PLC shares by In order to try to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors, establishing a one-to-one equivalence in their economic interest the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain provisions which in the Unilever Group: this will be achieved by a split of the NV ensure that both NV and PLC shareholders are presented with the shares and a consolidation of the PLC shares: and same candidates for election as Directors.
This is achieved through a nomination procedure operated by the Boards of NV and PLC to allow shareholders the right to nominate candidates to the through Unilevers Nomination Committee.
Boards, taking into account the need to ensure the unity of management.
As mentioned above, proposals will be made to the AGMs in 2006 to allow shareholders the right to nominate directors.
Below, The above proposals will require changes to the Articles of we describe our current system used in 2005.
Association of NV and PLC, to the Deed of Mutual Covenants, and to the Equalisation Agreement.
More information on these proposals can be found in the notices to these AGMs, which can be found at www.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Currently, in the case of NV, the Articles of Association grant to Board meetings are held either in London or Rotterdam and the holders of the special ordinary shares numbered 1-2 400 chaired by the Chairman.
The Chairman is assisted by the Joint inclusive the right to draw up a nomination list for shareholders to Secretaries, who ensure the Boards are supplied with all the vote upon at the General Meeting.
In the case of PLC, this right information necessary for their deliberations.
The Chairman and of nomination is given by the Articles of Association to the the Joint Secretaries involve the Senior Independent Director see holders of PLC's deferred stock.
The joint holders of both the NV page 38 in the arrangements for Board Meetings.
special ordinary shares and the PLC deferred stock are N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, which are joint subsidiaries of NV Board induction and training and PLC.
The boards of N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors comprise the members of the Nomination Committee.
Only Manual and are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities.
persons who have offered themselves for election to the Boards Updates on corporate governance developments and investor of both NV and PLC are eligible to be elected as Directors of NV relations matters are frequent items at Board meetings.
receive presentations, either as Directors of the Boards or as a member of a Board Committee, on relevant aspects of the The interests of our shareholders are protected because all the Unilever business.
In addition, during 2005 the Boards received Directors submit themselves for election every year and two separate teach-ins, one on the new market abuse regime in shareholders can remove any of them by a simple majority vote.
the Netherlands and the UK and the other on Directors Thus, as a practical matter, the Boards cannot perpetuate indemnification see page 40 and Directors and Ofcers themselves contrary to the will of the shareholders.
In addition, shareholders can overrule Director nominations.
In the Board evaluation case of NV, this can be done by a resolution adopted by at least a The terms of reference of each Board Committee provide that the two-thirds majority of the votes cast, which majority must Committees conduct an annual self-assessment of their represent more than one half of NVs issued share capital.
If this performance, which includes taking the views of the Boards on happens, a new meeting can be held and a new Director can be the performance of the Committee.
The Chairman of the appointed with an absolute majority of the votes cast.
In the case Committee reports to the Boards on the results of the process.
of PLC, shareholders can overrule nominations with resolutions passed at General Meetings to alter the nomination rights 2005 was the first year of our new Boards operation.
To ensure attached to the Deferred Shares and to alter the Articles of optimal functioning of the Board and the individual Directors and Association.
The former resolution would require a two-thirds compliance with the most recent developments in best practice, majority of those voting, so long as that majority comprises not the Nomination Committee commissioned Spencer Stuart to carry less than half of the issued PLC shares.
The latter resolution would out a full review of the functioning of the Boards and of its require a three-quarters majority of those voting.
This review concluded that our arrangements stood comparison with our peers.
A full report was Board meetings made to the Boards in February 2006 and a range of minor Our Boards meet at least seven times a year to consider important changes in terms of the day-to-day operations of the Boards will corporate events and actions, such as: be introduced during the balance of the year.
A Board evaluation and Chairman and individual director appraisal process is approval of corporate strategy: scheduled for the second quarter of 2006.
Thus, the changes approval of the corporate Annual Plan: following the said review can be taken into account in the review of risks and controls: evaluations.
authorisation of major transactions: review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees: Board support preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts: The Joint Secretaries are available to advise all Directors and declaration of dividends: ensure that Board procedures are complied with.
They are agreement of quarterly results announcements: appointed and can be removed by the Boards.
convening of shareholders meetings: nominations for Board appointments: and A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, to approval of Board remuneration policy.
seek independent professional advice at Unilevers expense.
In 2005 the Boards of NV and PLC met ten times.
All our Board changes The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on page Executive Directors attended all meetings.
All the Executive Directors held ofce throughout the year, Directors attended all meetings, except for Hilmar Kopper and with the exception of Ralph Kugler, who was elected as a Director David Simon who each missed one meeting and Jeroen van der at the 2005 AGMs.
Veer and Oscar Fanjul who each missed two meetings.
Antony Burgmans took up the role of Non-Executive Chairman of NV and PLC at the 2005 AGMs and Patrick Cescau became Group Chief Executive in April 2005.
36 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
