About Unilever Description of business Beverages includes sales of tea, where our brands include Lipton Unilever is one of the worlds leading suppliers of fast moving and Brooke Bond, weight management products, principally consumer goods across foods, home and personal product Slim Fast, and nutritionally enhanced staples sold in developing categories.
Unilevers portfolio includes some of the worlds best markets, including our Annapurna and AdeS ranges.
known and most loved brands.
Ice cream and frozen foods includes our sales of ice cream under Regions the international Heart brand, including Cornetto, Magnum, Three regional teams are responsible for managing Unilevers Carte dOr and Solero, and also Ben & Jerrys, Breyers, Klondike business in the regions, and for market operations.
Our frozen foods brands include Iglo, Birds Eye and primarily responsible for winning with customers and deploying Findus.
brand events and innovations effectively.
The regions are fully accountable for the profit performance of our business, as well as In addition to these groups, our Unilever Foodsolutions business is growth, cash ows and the in-year development of market a global food service business providing solutions for professional shares.
Its results are reported within those for the groups above.
The Europe region includes our operations in Western Europe and in Central and Eastern Europe, and in 2005 accounted for Our Home and Personal Care category manages brands in two approximately 41% of our business on a turnover basis.
main groups: The Americas region includes our operations in North America and Latin America and represented around 33% of our business.
In Personal Care, six global brands are the core of our business in Our Asia Africa region accounted for 26% of our business, and the deodorants, skin cleansing, daily hair care and mass-market includes our operations in the Middle East, Turkey, Africa, Asia skin care categories Axe, Dove, Lux, Ponds, Rexona and Sunsilk.
Other important brands include Suave, Clear, Lifebuoy and Vaseline, together with Signal and Close Up in oral care.
Categories Two category teams cover Foods and Home and Personal Care, Our Home Care ranges include a series of laundry products, and are responsible for each category and the brands therein.
including tablets as well as traditional powders and liquids for They are fully responsible for brand development and innovation, washing by hand or machine.
Tailored products including soap as well as brand and category management.
Categories also lead bars are available for lower-income consumers.
Our brands some elements of the supply chain and are accountable for longinclude Comfort, Omo, Radiant, Skip, Snuggle and Surf.
Our term value creation in the business, as measured by market share household care products are led by our Cif and Domestos brands.
development, category growth, innovation metrics and brand health.
People For more information about our two categories and their Number of employees Year end in thousands 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 innovation activities during 2005 please refer to pages 29 and 30.
Europe 49 52 55 60 71 Functions The Americas 47 47 50 53 60 Asia Africa 110 124 129 134 134 Our five support functions Finance, HR, IT, Communications and Legal provide value-adding business partnership, strategic support Total 206 223 234 247 265 and competitive services to the whole business especially the regional and category organisations.
They are organised around At Unilever our people are at the centre of everything we do.
We the model of business partners, shared services and expertise give priority to their professional fullment, their work-life balance teams.
and their ability to contribute equally as part of a diverse workforce.
Brands Our Foods category manages brands in four groups: Our peoples creativity, energy and passion drive our business.
One of our ongoing goals is to help our business leaders connect Savoury and dressings includes sales of soups, bouillons, sauces, to our people around the world and achieve a shared snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings and olive oil.
Among the understanding of our business objectives and future challenges.
leading brands are Knorr, Hellmanns, Calv, Wishbone, Amora In January 2006 at Unilevers leadership forum Group Chief and Bertolli.
Executive Patrick Cescau presented Unilevers change agenda, a set of common initiatives which will be adopted throughout Spreads and cooking products includes sales of margarines, Unilever.
spreads and cooking products such as liquid margarines.
Our most important brands in this group are our healthy heart Becel We want to attract innovative individuals who relish real-life and Flora ranges, together with our family brands including challenges.
Questions like Can you think of 101 new things to Rama, Blue Band and Country Crock.
do with egg yolks and oil?, which appeared in one of our recent recruitment ads, lie at the heart of a new and competitively different strategy to win the battle for the worlds top talent.
10 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
