Corporate governance continued Board committees responsibilities for succession planning and oversight of corporate The Boards have established the following committees, all governance matters.
It is supplied with information by the Joint formally set up by Board resolution with carefully dened remits.
They are comprised of Non-Executive Directors and report regularly to the Boards.
The remits can be found on our website See page 52 for the Report of the Nomination Committee to the at www.
shareholders Audit Committee Remuneration Committee The Audit Committee comprises a minimum of three independent Our Remuneration Committee comprises three independent NonNon-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Hilmar Kopper, and its Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Bertrand Collomb and its other other members are Oscar Fanjul and Wim Dik, who replaced members are David Simon and Jeroen van der Veer.
It met six Claudio Gonzalez at the AGMs in 2005.
The Committee met five times in 2005 and the members attended all meetings except times in 2005, and the members attended all meetings.
Hilmar that David Simon and Jeroen van der Veer were absent for Kopper and Oscar Fanjul will retire at the AGMs in 2006.
Boards have satisfied themselves that all the current and intended members of the Committee are competent in financial matters The Committee reviews Directors remuneration and is responsible and have recent and relevant experience and that, for the for the executive share-based incentive plans.
It determines, purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Hilmar Kopper is within the parameters set by our shareholders, specic the Audit Committees financial expert.
The Committees meetings remuneration arrangements for each of the Executive Directors, are attended, by invitation, by the Chief Financial officer, the the remuneration scales and arrangements for Non-Executive General Counsel, the Deputy Chief Financial officer, the Chief Directors and the remuneration of the tier of management Auditor and our external auditors.
The Committee is supplied with information by Jan van der Bijl, Joint Secretary of Unilever.
The Audit Committee assists the Boards in fullling their oversight responsibilities in respect of the integrity of Unilevers financial The detailed report to shareholders on Directors remuneration is statements: risk management and internal control arrangements: on pages 53 to 69. compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: the performance, qualications and independence of the external External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee auditors: and the performance of the internal audit function.
The The External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee currently Committee is directly responsible, subject to local laws regarding comprises four Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Lynda shareholder approval, for the nomination, compensation and Chalker and its other members are Leon Brittan, Wim Dik and oversight of the external auditors.
The Committee oversees our Code of Business Principles, which sets out the standards of behaviour we require The Audit Committee is fully compliant with the rules regarding from all of our employees.
It also advises on external matters of audit committees that are applicable in the Netherlands, UK and relevance to the business, including issues of corporate social US.
The Committees responsibilities and powers are fully aligned responsibility, and reviews our corporate relations strategy.
with all requirements in the UK, US and the Netherlands.
Routine business committees The Audit Committee is supplied with all information necessary Committees are also set up to conduct routine business as and for the performance of its duties by the Chief Auditor, Chief when they are necessary.
They comprise any two of the Directors Financial officer, and Deputy Chief Financial officer.
Both the and certain senior executives and ofcers.
They administer certain Chief Auditor and the external auditors have direct access to the matters previously agreed by our Boards or the UEx.
The Joint Audit Committee separately from management.
Secretaries are responsible for the operation of these committees.
See page 70 for the Report of the Audit Committee to the Disclosures Committee shareholders.
The Board has set up a Disclosures Committee which is responsible for helping the Boards ensure that financial and other Nomination Committee information that ought to be disclosed publicly is disclosed in a Our Nomination Committee comprises a minimum of three timely manner and that the information that is disclosed is independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Bertrand complete and accurate.
The Committee comprises the Deputy Collomb and its other members are David Simon, Jeroen van Chief Financial officer, the Joint Secretaries and the Group der Veer and Antony Burgmans.
It met six times in 2005 and Treasurer.
the members attended all meetings except that Jeroen van der Veer was absent for one meeting.
The Committee recommends to the Boards candidates for the positions of Director.
It also has Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39 Report of the Directors
