Corporate governance continued As mentioned on page 35, a proposal to amend the Equalisation As mentioned on page 35, proposals to simplify the relationship Agreement will be put to shareholders at the 2006 AGMs.
More between the NV and PLC shares by establishing a one-to-one information on this proposal can be found in the notices to these equivalence in their underlying economic value will be put to AGMs which can be found at shareholders at the 2006 AGMs.
More information on this www.
proposal can be found in the notices to these AGMs and these can be found at www.
Combined earnings per share Because of the Equalisation Agreement and the other Stichting Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V. Foundation arrangements between NV and PLC, we calculate earnings per NV Trust Ofce share on a combined basis.
The calculation is based on the N. V. Nederlandsch Administratieen Trustkantoor Nedamtrust, average amount of NVs and PLCs ordinary share capital in issue an independent trust company under the Netherlands law, had an during the year.
In the calculation, we apply the formula agreement with NV to issue depositary receipts against NV shares.
contained in the Equalisation Agreement to arrive at the As part of its corporate objects Nedamtrust was able to: appropriate total number of shares in issue for the combined business, expressed separately in terms of NV shares of 0.51 issue depositary receipts: shares and PLC shares of 1.4p.
The net profit attributable to carry out administration for the shares which underlie the ordinary shares is divided by each of these combined share depositary receipts it has issued: and numbers to arrive at an earnings per share gure expressed in exercise voting rights for these underlying shares.
terms of each of the two share types.
The depositary receipts issued by Nedamtrust against NV shares Further information about these calculations, and about the were known as Nedamtrust certicates.
They were traded and calculation of earnings per share on a diluted basis, can be found quoted on Euronext Amsterdam and other European stock in note 8 on page 97. exchanges.
Nedamtrust had issued certicates for NVs ordinary and NV 7% cumulative preference shares, and almost all the NV Despite the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC are separate shares traded and quoted in Europe were in the form of these companies, and are subject to different laws and regulations certicates.
The exception is that there are no certicates for NVs governing dividend payments in the Netherlands and the United 4% and 6% cumulative preference shares.
In our combined earnings per share calculation, we assume that both companies will be able to pay their dividends In October 2005, Nedamtrust held a meeting of the holders out of their part of our profits.
This has always been the case in of Nedamtrust certicates to approve the transfer of the the past, but if we did have to make a payment from one to the administration of the underlying shares to a new trust ofce, other it could result in additional taxes, and reduce our combined Stichting Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V. Foundation NV Trust earnings per share.
These proposals were made in order for the trust ofce to be fully compliant with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
Share capital The holders of the Nedamtrust certicates approved the transfer NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2005 was made up of: of the administration of the NV shares held by Nedamtrust to the new Foundation NV Trust Ofce with a majority of 99.6% of the 291 503 709 split into 571 575 900 ordinary shares of 0.51 votes cast: approximately 23% of all outstanding Nedamtrust each: certicates were represented.
The meeting furthermore expressed 1 089 072 split into 2 400 ordinary shares numbered 1 to its confidence in the board of the Foundation.
2 400, known as special shares: and 120 280 425 split into several classes of cumulative preference The Foundation NV Trust Ofce was incorporated on 31 October shares.
The transfer of the administration of the NV shares from Nedamtrust to the Foundation took place on 13 January 2006.
PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2005 was made up of: The Foundation NV Trust Ofce and its arrangements are fully compliant with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
40 760 420 split into 2 911 458 580 ordinary shares of 1.4p each: and The text that follows describes the arrangements of the new 100 000 of deferred stock.
Foundation NV Trust Ofce following acceptance by the certicate holders of the transfer of the administration of the underlying NV For NV share capital, the euro amounts quoted in this document shares.
are representations in euros on the basis of Article 67c of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, rounded to two decimal places, of underlying share capital in Dutch guilders, which have not been converted into euros in NVs Articles of Association or in the Equalisation Agreement.
Until conversion formally takes place by amendment of the Articles of Association, the entitlements to dividends and voting rights are based on the euro equivalent of the underlying Dutch guilder according to the ofcial euro exchange rate.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 43 Report of the Directors
