Corporate governance continued Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company Antony Burgmans, who before May 2005 was an Executive With reference to bpp IV.
3.9, NV has no anti-takeover Director, is not considered to be independent.
The Nomination constructions, in the sense of constructions that are intended Committee and the Boards nominated him for election as a solely, or primarily, to block future hostile public offers for its Non-Executive Director in 2005 because of his thorough shares.
Nor does it have any constructions whose specic purpose knowledge of Unilever and its operations.
In addition to his role is to prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from as Chairman, the Board considered his knowledge of the business appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently to be essential to see through the changes resulting from the altering the Articles of Association.
The acquisition through a structure review.
public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued right The Board considers that the Chairmanship of Bertrand Collomb of the board of the company to exercise its powers.
and the Non-Executive Directorship of Oscar Fanjul, and Lynda Chalkers membership of the International Advisory Board, of Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors Lafarge, do not affect their status as independent in relation to We have extensive procedures for handling relations with and their Non-Executive Directorships of Unilever.
communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts and the media see description on page 40.
Whilst the important Due to the requirement for Unilever to hold two AGMs for its presentations and meetings are conducted in accordance with respective companies on consecutive days, it may not always be bpp IV.
3.1, due to the large number of such presentations and possible for all Directors and possibly the Chairmen of the Audit, meetings and overlap in information, some of the less important Remuneration and Nomination Committees to be present at both ones are not announced in advance, made accessible to everyone meetings.
The Chairman therefore ensures that a majority of or put on our website.
Directors attend both meetings and that at least one member of each Committee attends each AGM.
Provision of information We consider it important to comply with all applicable statutory Requirements the United States regulations on the equal treatment of shareholders and provision Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and of information and communication with shareholders and other must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US parties P IV.
In the communications between us and legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations our shareholders and other parties, we comply with all applicable enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of The legislation and regulations.
New York Stock Exchange as are applicable to foreign private issuers.
In some cases the requirements are mandatory and in Requirements the United Kingdom other cases the obligation is to comply or explain.
PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how We have complied with the requirements concerning corporate it has applied the principles and how far it has complied with the governance that were in force during 2005.
Attention is drawn in provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in particular to the remit of the Audit Committee on page 39 and 1998, as revised in 2003 the Combined Code, appended to the the Report of the Audit Committee on page 70.
Actions already taken to ensure compliance that are not In the preceding pages we have complied with the requirement to specifically disclosed elsewhere or otherwise clear from reading report on how we apply the Principles and the provisions in the this document include: Combined Code.
the issuance of a Code of Ethics for senior financial ofcers: 2005 was the first year of our new Boards operation.
To ensure optimal functioning of the Board and the individual Directors and the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of compliance with the most recent developments in best practice, former employees of the audit rm: and the Nomination Committee commissioned Spencer Stuart to carry out a full review of the functioning of the Boards and of its the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements under governance arrangements.
This review concluded that our the SEC relating to the standards of professional conduct for US arrangements stood comparison with our peers.
made to the Boards in February 2006 and a range of minor changes in terms of the day-to-day operations of the Boards will In each of these cases, existing practices were revised and or be introduced during the balance of the year.
A Board evaluation documented in such a way as to conform to the new and Chairman and individual director appraisal process is requirements.
scheduled for the second quarter of 2006.
Thus, the changes following the said review can be taken into account in the evaluations.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 47 Report of the Directors
