Corporate governance continued Directors Various formal matters Shareholder matters The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not limited by the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC Directors have Relations with shareholders and other investors the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the We believe it is important both to explain our business adjusted capital and reserves of PLC, as dened in its Articles of developments and financial results to investors and to understand Association, without the approval of shareholders by ordinary their objectives.
The Chief Financial officer has lead responsibility for investor The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Directors relations, with the active involvement of the Group Chief of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC.
They are supported by our Investor Relations the remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive department which organises presentations for analysts and Directors require our Executive Directors to build and retain a investors.
Such presentations are generally made available on our personal shareholding in Unilever equal to at least 150% of their website.
Briengs on quarterly results are given via teleconference annual base pay.
and are accessible by telephone or via our website.
For further information visit our website at www.
Directors indemnification Directors indemnification, including the terms thereof, is provided The Boards are regularly briefed on reactions to the quarterly for in article 19 of NVs Articles of Association.
They, or the relevant Board Committee, are briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant The power to indemnify directors is provided for in PLCs Articles to their responsibilities.
Deeds of indemnity were issued to all PLC Directors during 2005.
Our shareholders can, and do, raise issues directly with the relevant Executive Director or the Chairman and, if appropriate, Appropriate Directors and Ofcers liability insurance is in place a relevant Non-Executive Director or the Senior Independent for all Unilever Directors.
Directors Conicts of interest Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders We attach special importance to avoiding conicts of interest through the AGMs as well as responding to their questions and between NV and PLC and their Directors.
In the case of a conict enquiries during the course of the year.
We take the views of our of interest between NV and PLC and any of our Directors, all shareholders into account and, in accordance with all applicable applicable laws, regulations and corporate governance codes are legislation and regulations, may consult them in an appropriate complied with.
Conicts of interest are not understood to include way before putting major new proposals at our AGMs.
transactions and other activities involving companies in the Unilever Group.
General Meetings of shareholders The business to be conducted at the AGMs of NV and PLC is set Directors are not permitted to take part in any discussion or out in the separate Notices of AGM for NV and PLC.
It includes decision-making that involves a subject or transaction in relation appointment of Directors, declaration approval of final dividend, to which they have a conict of interest with the company.
All appointment of external auditors, approval of changes to the transactions in which there are conicts of interest with Directors Articles of Association, and authorisation for the Boards to allot must be agreed on terms that are customary in the sector and repurchase shares, and to restrict pre-emptive rights of concerned.
As a formal matter, under Dutch law Directors are able to vote on General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held at transactions in which they are materially interested so long as times and places decided by our Boards.
NV meetings are held in they are acting in good faith.
In general, PLC Directors cannot Rotterdam and PLC meetings are held in London on consecutive vote in respect of contracts in which they know they are days.
The notices calling the meeting normally go out more than materially interested, unless, for example, their interest is shared thirty days prior to the meetings and include further information with other shareholders and employees.
In 2005 no conict of on how to gain access to the AGMs and how to vote by proxy.
interests transactions took place between the Directors and NV and PLC.
At the AGMs, a full account is given of the progress of the business over the last year and there is a review of current issues.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask questions, and the question-and-answer sessions form an important part of the meetings in both Rotterdam and London.
We welcome our external auditors to the AGMs and they are entitled to address the meetings.
40 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
