Financial review continued Financial instruments These assumptions are set by reference to market conditions at From 1 January 2005, we account for financial instruments in the valuation date.
Actual experience may differ from the accordance with IAS 32 and 39.
Financial instruments are assumptions made.
The effects of such differences are recognised classied according to the purpose for which the instruments through the statement of recognised income and expense.
This gives rise to the following categories: held-tomaturity investments, loans and receivables, available-for-sale Demographic assumptions, such as mortality rates, are set having financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or regard to the latest trends in life expectancy, plan experience and loss.
Please refer to note 1 on page 83 for a description of each other relevant data.
The assumptions are reviewed and updated of these categories.
as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the pension plans.
Mortality assumptions for the four largest plans are Based on IAS 32 and 39, we report derivative financial given in more detail in note 22 on page 116. instruments at fair value.
Changes in fair values are booked through profit or loss unless the derivatives are designated and Share-based compensation effective as hedge of future cash ows, in which case the changes In accordance with IFRS 2 we include a non-cash charge against are recognised directly in equity.
At the time the hedged cash operating profit to reect the fair value to the employee of share ow results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, the options and awards granted.
In determining the additional associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously charge, we apply a valuation based on modied Black-Scholes or been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement multinomial models spread over the vesting period.
The fair value of the asset or liability.
For hedged items that do not result in the so calculated depends on certain assumptions which are described recognition of an asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity are in note 31 on page 132.
The assumptions made in respect of recognised in the income statement in the same period in which share price volatility and expected dividend yields are particularly the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Unilever considers these and all other assumptions to be appropriate, but significant changes in assumptions could Changes in fair value of net investment hedges in relation to materially affect the charge recorded.
foreign subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity.
Provisions The most important change associated with the implementation Provision is made, among other reasons, for environmental and of IAS 32 relates to the treatment of our preference share capital.
legal matters and for employee termination costs where a legal Under the new accounting rules we treat the preference shares as or constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date and third-party borrowings and the dividends are reported as interest a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
costs through profit or loss.
Advertising and promotion costs Retirement benets Expenditure on items such as consumer promotions and trade We account for pensions and similar obligations in accordance advertising is charged against profit in the year in which it is with IAS 19 Employee Benets.
Under this standard, the assets incurred.
At each balance sheet date, we are required to estimate and liabilities of the plans are recognised at fair values in the the part of expenditure incurred but not yet invoiced based on balance sheet.
our knowledge of customer, consumer and promotional activity.
Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in Deferred tax order to value our obligations and to determine the charges to be Full provision is made for deferred taxation, as required under made to the income statement.
These gures are particularly IAS 12, at the rates of tax prevailing at the year end unless future sensitive to assumptions for discount rates, ination rates and rates have been enacted, as detailed in note 1 on page 84. expected long-term rates of return on assets.
The following table Deferred tax assets are regularly reviewed for recoverability, and a sets out these assumptions, as at 31 December 2005, in respect valuation allowance is established to the extent that recoverability of the four largest Unilever pension plans.
Further details of is not considered likely.
assumptions made are given in note 22 on pages 115 and 116.
Reporting currency and exchange rates %%%% Foreign currency amounts for results and cash ows are translated NetherUnited from underlying local currencies into euros using annual average UK lands States Germany exchange rates: balance sheet amounts are translated at year-end Discount rate 4.7 4.0 5.5 4.0 rates except for the ordinary capital of the two parent companies.
Ination 2.7 1.8 2.4 1.8 These are translated at the rate prescribed by the Equalisation Expected long-term rate of return: Agreement of 1 Fl.
12, and then to euros at the ofcial rate of Equities 7.6 7.0 8.0 7.0 1.00 Fl.
2.20371 see Corporate Governance on page 41.
Bonds 4.5 3.7 4.8 3.7 Property 6.1 5.5 6.5 5.5 Others 6.7 3.7 4.2 3.7 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 Report of the Directors
