Corporate governance continued Requirements and compliance general Board evaluation, and Chairman and individual Director Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the appraisals Netherlands, the UK and the US as a Foreign private issuer.
In the 2005 was the first year of our new Boards operation.
To ensure following section we set out areas of non-compliance with the optimal functioning of the Board and the individual Directors and corporate governance regulations and best practice codes compliance with the most recent developments in best practice, applicable in the Netherlands, the UK and we also describe the Nomination Committee commissioned Spencer Stuart to carry compliance with corporate governance regulations in the US.
out a full review of the functioning of the Boards and of its governance arrangements.
This review concluded that our The preceding description of our governance arrangements and arrangements stood comparison with our peers.
A full report was the text on compliance that follows reect Unilevers governance made to the Boards in February 2006 and a range of minor arrangements following the changes adopted at the Shareholder changes in terms of the day-to-day operations of the Boards will Meetings in May 2005.
They also reect our Boards intentions for be introduced during the balance of the year.
The Boards reserve the right, in cases where they and Chairman and individual director appraisal process is decide such to be conducive to the interests of the companies scheduled for the second quarter of 2006.
Thus, the changes and the enterprise connected therewith, to depart from that following the said review can be taken into account in the which is set out in the present and previous sections in relation to evaluations bpp III.
Further changes will be reported in future Annual Reports and Accounts and, when necessary, Role of the Chairman through changes to the relevant documents published on our The Dutch Code recommends that in a one-tier board the website.
As appropriate, proposals for change will be put to our chairman should neither be, nor have been, responsible for the shareholders for approval.
day-to-day conduct of the business bpp III.
Before his appointment as Chairman, Antony Burgmans was jointly Further information can be found in The Governance of Unilever, responsible for the daily operations of NV and PLC.
Thus he is not the Boards own constitutional document, on our website at independent from Unilever.
He was nominated as Non-Executive www.
This describes Chairman in 2005 because of his thorough knowledge of Unilever the terms of reference of our Board Committees, including their and its operations.
In addition to his role as Chairman, the Board full responsibilities.
It will be kept up to date with changes in our considered his knowledge of the business to be essential to see internal constitutional arrangements that our Boards may make through the changes resulting from the structure review.
Nomination Committee has commenced the search for a new independent Chairman to succeed Antony Burgmans who is due Requirements the Netherlands to retire in 2007.
A well-reputed search rm has been commissioned by the Nomination Committee to assist them in General this process.
In addition to the Chairman, the Boards of NV and NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether PLC have a Senior Independent Director who is appointed by the it complies or will comply with the Principles P and best Non-Executive Directors and acts as their spokesperson.
Our practice provisions bpp of the Dutch Corporate Governance Senior Independent Director was elected Vice-Chairman by the Code the Dutch Code and, if it does not comply, to explain the Boards in 2005. reasons for this.
As will be clear from the preceding description of our governance arrangements, NV complies with almost all of the Nomination of Directors principles and best practice provisions of the Dutch Code.
The The Dutch Code recommends that shareholders may resolve by text that follows sets out areas of non-compliance and certain an absolute majority of votes to cancel the binding nature of a statements that the Dutch Code invites us to give our nomination for the appointment of a director bpp IV.
In shareholders that are not included elsewhere in this Annual 2004, NVs shareholders approved an alteration of the Articles Report and Accounts.
of Association to align the arrangements for NV and PLC.
This makes it possible for the meeting of shareholders to cancel Board and Committee structures binding nominations by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast As already indicated, NV has a one-tier board, consisting of both representing more than one-half of the issued capital.
This Executive and, as a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
We achieve arrangement is in place in order for NV and PLC to have a unied compliance of our board arrangements with the Dutch Code, Board see page 35.
The interests of our shareholders are which is for the most part based on the customary two-tier protected because all the Directors submit themselves for election structure in the Netherlands, by, as far as is possible and every year and shareholders can remove any of them by a simple practicable, applying the provisions of the Dutch Code relating to majority vote.
Thus, as a practical matter, the Boards cannot members of a management board to our Executive Directors and perpetuate themselves contrary to the will of the shareholders.
the provisions relating to members of a supervisory board to our Non-Executive Directors.
Management tasks not capable of delegation are performed collectively by the Board.
Reference is made to Ps II and III and corresponding bpps.
Our compliance with the Dutch Code in these respects should be seen in the light of our one-tier board structure.
Reference is also made to the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which is fully tailored to the one-tier board model see page 35.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 45 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Following the review of our corporate structure in 2005, Share options proposals will be put to the NV and PLC AGMs in May 2006 to In line with bpp II.
2.2, the awards and grants of shares and substantially alter these arrangements and bring them fully in line options to our Directors are in the material cases subject to with the Dutch Code see page 35. performance criteria, as referred to on page 55 and 56 of the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
The exception is the Risk management and control options over 50 NV shares granted each year to our Executive Reference is made to page 74 where Unilevers control Directors under the all employee share option plan in the framework is described.
This incorporates risk management, Netherlands, as described on pages 132 and 133.
The Directors internal control procedures and disclosure controls and participation in this plan is seen as a stimulus for all employees to procedures.
Our procedures cover financial, operational, social, participate.
All other awards to our Directors under share based and environmental risks and regulatory matters.
They are in line incentive schemes are subject to performance criteria.
with the recommendations of Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published by the Internal Retention period of shares Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to executive in England and Wales in September 1999 The Turnbull directors without a financial consideration must be retained for a Guidance.
On pages 31 and 32 we have identied certain period of at least five years bpp II.
In 2001 we introduced a specic risks that are areas of focus in 2006.
Our internal risk new remuneration policy with shareholder approval which management and control systems cannot provide certainty as to requires our Executive Directors to build and retain a personal the realisation of all business objectives and they can not always shareholding in Unilever equal to at least 150% of their annual prevent misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, frauds and non base pay.
We believe that this is in line with the spirit of the compliances with rules and regulations.
The Board considers that the internal risk management and Severance pay control systems are appropriate for our business and in It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors compliance with bpp II.
1.3. to no more than one years salary, unless the Board, at the proposal of the Remuneration Committee, nds this manifestly In bpp II.
1.4 the Dutch Code invites our Board to make a unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated by statement on our internal risk management and control systems.
In its report, published on 20 December 2005, the Corporate Governance Code Monitoring Committee has made During 2005, Clive Butler, Keki Dadiseth and Andr van Heemstra recommendations concerning the application of this best practice ceased to be Directors.
For their severance arrangements see provision.
In accordance with its recommendation and in light of page 60. the above, the Board believes that, as regards financial reporting risks: Regulations for transactions in securities in other companies the risk management and control systems provide reasonable The Dutch Code recommends in bpp II.
7.3 that a assurance that this Annual Report does not contain any director shall give periodic notice, but in any event at least once a material inaccuracies: quarter, of any changes in his holding of securities in other Dutch listed companies to the compliance officer.
Our Share Dealing the risk management and control systems have worked Code provides that Directors are required, upon request, to properly in 2005: disclose to the compliance officer their holdings and transactions in securities in other listed companies.
We believe this there are no indications that the risk management and control requirement constitutes an appropriate arrangement.
systems will not work properly in 2006: Conicts of interest no material weaknesses in the risk management and control In the event of a potential conict of interest, the provisions of systems were discovered in the year under review or the current the Dutch Code P II.
Conicts of interest year until the signing of these accounts: are not understood to include transactions and other activities involving other companies in the Unilever Group.
and, as regards operational, strategic, legislative and regulatory risks: Financing preference shares NV issued 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares no important failings in the risk management and control between 1930 and 1970.
Their voting rights are based on their systems were discovered in the year under review.
nominal value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
The Dutch Code recommends that the voting rights on nancing preference shares This statement is not a statement in accordance with the should, in any event when they are newly issued, be based on requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes Oxley Act.
their economic value rather than on their nominal value bpp IV.
NV cannot reduce these voting rights unilaterally.
46 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
