Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Board of Directors and Senior Management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 6 Aman Mehta A R 1 Anil Agarwal, Executive Chairman N Aged 58.
Mr Mehta joined the Board in November Aged 52.
Mr Agarwal is also Chairman of Sterlite and 2004.
Throughout his career at HSBC, spanning more BALCO and is a director of HZL and VAL.
Sterlite was than 30 years, he held numerous positions, including formed by Mr Agarwal in 1976 and since then it has Chairman and Chief Executive officer of HSBC USA grown under his leadership.
Mr Agarwal has over Inc. the New York-based arm of HSBC Holdings plc, 30 years experience as an industrialist.
and Deputy Chairman of HSBC Bank Middle East, based in Dubai, with responsibility for the HSBC 2 Navin Agarwal, Deputy Executive Chairman Groups operations in the Middle East.
Mr Agarwal is also Executive Vice Chairman Mehta was appointed Chief Executive officer of the of Sterlite, Chairman of KCM and MALCO, and a Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, a director of BALCO, HZL and VAL.
He joined Sterlite at position he held until his retirement in December its inception and joined the Board in November 2003.
Mr Mehta is a non-executive director of several 2004.
Mr Agarwal has over 20 years experience in public companies and institutions in India, Hong Kong, general management and commercial matters.
Mr Mehta has an economics Agarwal has completed the Owner President degree from Delhi University.
Management Programme at Harvard University and has a Bachelor of Commerce from Sydenham 7 Shailendra Kumar Tamotia H N College, Mumbai.
Mr Agarwal is the brother of the Aged 65.
Dr Tamotia joined the Board in November Executive Chairman, Mr Anil Agarwal.
He started his career in 1962 at Bhilai Steel Plant in Chhattisgarh.
Dr Tamotia held numerous positions at 3 KK Kaura, Chief Executive H NALCO from 1984 until 1996, including Chairman and Aged 57.
Mr Kaura is also Managing Director of Managing Director in 1993.
He was also President and Sterlite, Deputy Chairman of KCM and a director of Chief Executive officer of Indian Aluminium Company VAL and HZL, the company he joined in 2002.
Dr Tamotia is an to joining the Group, Mr Kaura held various positions Executive Vice Chairman of VISA International Limited in operations and business management at ABB and a director of VISA Industries Limited.
He was a member of the board of directors of has a Bachelor of Engineering Honours in Civil ABB India from 1996 and was appointed Managing Engineering, a Masters in Engineering in Soil Director and Country Manager of ABB in 1998.
Mr Mechanics and Foundation Engineering, and a Kaura has a Bachelor of Engineering in Mechanical doctorate in mechanical engineering.
Engineering Honours from Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani.
8 Euan Macdonald A N R 4 Peter Sydney-Smith, Finance Director Aged 65.
Mr Macdonald joined the Board in March Aged 52.
Mr Sydney-Smith is also a director of KCM.
He has over 40 years experience in corporate Mr Sydney-Smith joined the Group in 2003.
Prior to finance, including ten years with Lazard Brothers in joining the Group, Mr Sydney-Smith was Finance London, and eight years establishing IFA in Kuwait Director at BPB plc, an international building and Ifabanque in Paris.
From 1982 to 1995 he was a materials group.
Mr Sydney-Smith joined BPB plc director and Vice Chairman of SG Warburg, London, from British Gypsum Ltd in 1992, where he had been becoming Chairman of SBC Warburg in India and the Finance Director.
Mr Sydney-Smith is a chartered subsequently Chairman of Warburg Dillon Read, accountant and a member of the Institute of India until 1998.
From 1999 to 2001, he was Chartered Accountants of England and Wales and Executive Vice Chairman of HSBC Securities and has an MA from the University of Cambridge.
Capital Markets, India and Head of the Corporate Finance Advisory Team of HSBC Republic in London NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS from 2001 to 2002.
Mr Macdonald has an MBA in 5 Naresh Chandra A N R Finance and International Business from the Aged 70.
Mr Chandra joined the Board in May 2004.
Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, Mr Chandra was Home Secretary in India in 1990, New York and a BA in Economics from the University Cabinet Secretary from 1990 to 1992, Senior Adviser of Cambridge.
to the Prime Minister of India from 1992 to 1995 and the Indian Ambassador to the USA from 1996 to 2001.
He was Chairman of the Indian Government A Member of the Audit Committee Committee on Corporate Governance from 2002 to H Member of the Health, Safety and 2003 and Chairman of the Committee on Civil Environment Committee Aviation Policy.
He is a non-executive director of Tata N Member of the Nominations Committee Consulting Services, Bajaj Auto Limited and several R Member of the Remuneration Committee other Indian industrial companies.
Mr Chandra has Committee Chairman an MSc in Mathematics from Allahabad University.
He is also the Chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industries CII.
46 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Board of Directors and Senior Management continued Tarun Jain Ramesh Venkat Aged 45.
Mr Venkat director of BALCO, MALCO, IFL and HZL.
Mr Jain is joined the Group in 2001 and is responsible for the responsible for all financial matters at Sterlite, as well corporate finance, treasury, accounting, reporting, as strategic planning and corporate communications.
taxation and related functions of the Group.
He is Mr Jain has been with Sterlite since 1984.
Mr Jain is a closely involved in all financial planning and member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of structuring initiatives of the Group.
Mr Venkat started India and the Institute of Company Secretaries of his career at Hindustan Lever Unilever, India and has India, and is also a graduate of the Institute of Cost over 15 years experience with multinational and Works Accountants of India.
companies and banks, in particular, in corporate finance, project finance, investment, treasury and TL Palani Kumar related areas.
Mr Venkat is a member of the Institute Aged 55.
Mr Palani of Chartered Accountants of India and the Institute of Kumar is also a director of VAL.
Mr Palani Kumar is Cost Accountants of India, and a graduate of the responsible for the Aluminium Business and joined Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
Prior to joining the Group, Mr Palani Kumar was the Managing Director and Chief Executive of New Holland Tractors India Private Limited which is part of the Fiat group.
Mr Palani Kumar has a chemical engineering degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras and an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
