Remuneration Committee Report Part 1 Unaudited Information This report was prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board of Directors.
At the beginning of 2005 the Committee comprised John Morgan Chairman, Laurence Kinch, David Morrison and Mark Nicholls.
Alan Jones joined the Committee following his Board appointment April 2005, Messrs. Kinch and Morrison left the Committee June 2005 and chairmanship was transferred to Mr Jones by the close of the year.
Thus at year end the Committee comprised the chairman Mr Jones, the independent director Mr Nicholls and the independent Company Chairman Mr Morgan.
It is intended that Mr Thomas Blades will join the Committee following the Annual General Meeting in 2006.
The Committee met twice during 2005.
Messrs Morgan and Nicholls attended both meetings and Messrs Kinch, Morrison and Jones one meeting.
These meetings were supplemented as necessary by minuted conference calls.
Terms of Reference The Terms of Reference of the Committee were reviewed in 2003 to ensure compliance with the Combined Code.
This review ensured that the Committees terms were focused on developing and managing a remuneration policy which would attract and retain high quality executive directors and motivate them through aligning their interests with those of the shareholders, by linking a significant proportion of their reward to individual and corporate performance objectives.
The Committee also reviews and determines the level and structure of remuneration provided to the senior management group as well as the overall remuneration policy for all employees.
These Terms of Reference were re-examined by the Committee in 2004 and again in 2005: no material changes were deemed necessary.
Advice to the Committee During 2005 the Committee has continued to receive information and advice from the consulting firm MM&K Limited MM&K.
In particular, advice has been received concerning the following: Remuneration for executive directors in broadly similar companies, In the design and implementation of an Employee Annual Bonus Plan, to supplement the Annual Deferred Share Bonus Plan adopted in 2005, In the design and implementation of a new Long Term Share Incentive Plan to further the same objectives that gave rise to the current LTIP, and On the preparation of this report.
MM&K is not retained to provide advice to any other part of the Company.
The Committee has also consulted the executive directors on matters related to the performance of other executives and senior managers within the Company.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, Management and General Staff The underlying remuneration policy applicable to all employees is to position base salaries at or around the median level for comparable positions within the industry.
This has been the case for a number of years and has again been endorsed by the Committee.
This base salary policy is supplemented by a number of additional non-pensionable schemes designed to reward executives, managers and employees alike for their performance against challenging individual and corporate targets supporting longer-term growth and focussing strongly on long-term value creation.
All employees are entitled to join a Share Incentive Plan SIP, which was introduced after approval at the AGM in 2003.
Additionally, executive directors and a small number of key senior managers had been invited to participate in the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, which was also approved by shareholders in 2003.
34 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The annual bonus arrangements for executive directors and senior managers were considered by the Committee in 2004 to ensure a more structured framework was established for determining bonuses which demonstrated linkages between performance and reward.
These considerations led to the introduction of the Annual Deferred Share Bonus Plan ADSBP for this key staff grouping, which was introduced following approval at the AGM in 2005.
The Committee has also considered broadening the principles of the ADSBP in appropriate form for the remainder of the organisation, who have to date only been offered the possibility of earning an annual cash bonus of 35% of base salary for on target performance.
The Committee considered that introducing a scheme similar to the ADSBP for the rest of the organisation would have substantial benefits.
These would include having a clearer framework to link performance and reward, having a clear balance between corporate and personal objectives and providing a stronger recruitment and retention mechanism in a very competitive market.
The promotion of equity-linked compensation throughout the organisation was considered by the Committee to be a further step in aligning employee interests with those of shareholders.
In the light of these considerations and with support from consultants MM&K an Employee Annual Bonus Plan EABP has been introduced for all staff not covered by the ADSBP.
We are confident that this scheme will raise the attractiveness of the Company in very difficult market conditions with a growing skills shortage, supporting both the retention of current staff and the growth necessary to meet the strategic plan.
The Committee has also given consideration to the issue of succession to the current LTIP, which matures at the end of 2006.
As noted earlier, the Committee considers that the current LTIP is a strong motivator for pursuing the very challenging longer term targets set in 2003.
The performance of the organisation over the period of the LTIP so far, when considered in conjunction with the business plan for 2006, suggests that a significant level of payout is likely early in 2007, reflecting the substantial growth over the period that has benefited shareholders.
However this success also requires the Committee to pay attention to the issue of staff retention in a very competitive market place.
In addition, and most importantly, the strategic review carried out in 2005 endorsed sustained medium term growth ambitions for the Company, based on the existing portfolio of assets.
The Board further believes that the current executive and senior management teams are in the best position to continue the delivery of exceptional performance to meet these growth ambitions.
The Remuneration Committee concluded on considering these issues that it was now essential to define and introduce a new LTIP with a focus on delivery of the challenging targets defined in the strategic review.
A new LTIP has been designed with the support of MM&K, for implementation again at the executive director and senior management level, which we believe will provide the right form of incentive to retain the senior team, ensure alignment behind the ambitions of the strategic plan and will, if targets are met, result in a significant enhancement of shareholder value.
For this phase of development the Committee considers that a conventional three year rolling scheme with deferred payment is appropriate to a Company on a longer term growth path.
Further the Committee believes that it is vital to create a bridge between the current and new plans, to provide a real sense of continuity between plans and to gain the benefits of alignment behind the new strategic ambition immediately.
Accordingly the Committee proposes that the initial period under the new scheme should be 2006-2008.
The new LTIP will be proposed to shareholders for approval at the 2006 AGM.
A full description of the proposed scheme will be sent out in a Circular to Shareholders.
Summaries of the key elements of the EABP and the new LTIP are set out below: Summary Structure of the Employee Annual Bonus Plan This scheme has the following objectives: To attract employees to the organisation To retain employees in a very tight market To share long-term value creation with all staff To promote equity-linked compensation throughout the organisation To align the interests of the employees with those of the shareholders To set a clear framework for the determination of bonus payments VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 35 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Bonus levels as a percentage of base salary will be set as follows: Participants Threshold Target Exceptional All staff excluded from participation in the ADSBP 20% 35% 50% The scheme will embrace the following principles: Targets will be set for both corporate and personal performance Employees will be able to take up to 35% of base salary as cash, subject to award level Any employee can choose to invest up to 100% of their bonus award in Venture equity, in the form of restricted shares which will be deferred for two years Any employee electing to receive their bonus, or a portion of it, in equity will have the value of that part of their bonus uplifted by 50% share price: average of year as for the ADSBP Shares awarded will be bought in the market as with the ADSBP and will be held similarly in a trust on behalf of participants for two years from the date of award, after which time they will be released to the participants in the scheme.
The principle, which entitles staff to take up to 35% of salary as cash, reflects the fact that for some staff the attractiveness of cash will outweigh the incentive of the equity consideration.
This limit has been set to match the 2005 target bonus level in a scheme restricted to cash only.
This means that if staff are cash constrained they would be no worse off under this new scheme for identical performance.
For those who pursue the attractive equity option total possible rewards represent a benefit over the current scheme that should support the schemes objectives.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the corporate objectives each year for both this scheme and the ADSBP.
Initially the elements and their weighting, for the case where there is an equal split between personal and corporate objectives, will be: Production 20% Operating cash flow 15% Specific operating objectives 15% For corporate objectives Threshold, Target and Exceptional levels will be set for each element.
The Remuneration Committee will determine at the start of each year the appropriate split between corporate and personal objectives for each level in the organisation.
The Remuneration Committee will justify awards above target level.
Summary Structure of Long Term Share Incentive Plan 2006 This scheme has the following objectives: To implement a follow-on long term scheme to ensure total compensation reflects general industry practice To define a scheme applicable over the longer term To incentivise the executive directors and senior staff to deliver the medium term growth ambitions determined in the strategic review To create a vehicle to support continuity in the current senior management team To continue to align the interests of the executives with those of the shareholders To support bridging between the current and new schemes Maximum share award levels as a percentage of base annual salary are: Chief Executive 300% Executive directors 250% Senior managers 200% 36 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The whole of an award is distributable only if maximum performance is achieved in respect of all performance measures.
The distribution and weightings applicable to each of the four performance target measures are as follows: Threshold Target Exceptional Production boepd 12.5% 18.75% 25.0% Reserves MMboe 12.5% 18.75% 25.0% Comparative TSR 7.5% 11.25% 15.0% Ventures Annualised TSR 17.5% 26.25% 35.0% Distribution of share award 50.0% 75.0% 100.0% The scheme embraces the following principles: The plan operates over three year rolling performance cycles, starting 1 January 2006 A new cycle starts each year Provisional share awards are made at the start of each cycle to selected senior staff Shares are granted after the end of the performance period and vest two years thereafter No release will be authorised unless minimum performance thresholds have been reached The performance targets selected for the first cycle are as follows: Threshold Target Exceptional Production boepd 55,000 65,000 70,000 Reserves MMboe 240 260 280 Comparative TSR 3rd 2nd 1st Ventures Annualised TSR 18% 20% 24% The base date for growth in shareholder TSR is 31st December 2005 Summary of Policy Issues Whilst there have been a number of changes to the implementation of the Companys remuneration policy as described above these have been targeted towards overall consistency and extending current schemes to support growth ambitions.
We remain committed to median level base salaries with very focused performance-related pay elements both for annual performance and for long-term value creation.
The Remuneration Committee continues to believe that the LTIP is an essential tool in long term value creation as the targets which underpin it are very challenging.
The Committee believes that the proposed new plan, which requires targets to be set year by year for three year periods, will provide the necessary level of incentivisation and cohesion to deliver for shareholders the ambition of sustained growth over the medium term.
The Committee also believes that the retained use of the Annual Deferred Share Bonus Plan for senior staff and the introduction of the analogous Employee Annual Bonus Plan for all other employees will continue the process of staff and shareholder alignment around short-term milestones leading to long term delivery of business objectives.
These plans in total provide the framework for delivery and retention in a very competitive environment.
Executive Director Pay in 2005 Reporting Principles We have decided that it is more appropriate to report on awards made that are referenced to the reporting year even though these will not be received until the following year or later.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 37 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Base Salary Messrs Wagstaff and Murphy elected to forego a base salary increase in 2005 and Ms Claytons salary was set on joining the Company in February 2005.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed a wide range of industry salary data with the support of MM&K and concluded that salaries should be revised to the following levels from 1st April 2006.
Mike Wagstaff Chief Executive 300,000 Jon Murphy Chief Operating Officer 225,000 Marie-Louise Clayton Finance Director 215,000 The Remuneration Committee is fully satisfied that these salaries are at or about median for the industry, properly reflecting breadth of role in a growing company Awards to be paid in 2006 or Later in Respect of 2005 Performance Annual Deferred Share Bonus Plan The Annual Deferred Share Bonus Plan was approved at the AGM in 2005 and applied for the full year.
The plan has the following objectives: To align the remuneration of executives and senior managers and the provision of clarity on annual performance objectives Provision of competitive bonus levels Provision of a clear retention incentive Alignment of interests with those of shareholders Bonus awards are made based on achievement of both corporate and personal objectives, using an equal weighting for each, with bonus potential a defined percentage of base salary.
The Remuneration Committee had determined the corporate objectives and their weightings for 2005, for each of the Threshold, Target and Exceptional performance levels, to be: Threshold Target Exceptional Weighting Production boepd 30,000 34,000 39,000 20% Cashflow $MM 176.9 197.8 226.8 15% Operational 1 item 2 items 4 items 15% Production targets represent the average daily levels of production of oil and gas equivalent that must be achieved on an annualised basis in 2005 Operating cashflow, which is defined as Earnings Before Interest, Tax and Depreciation Allowances, plus non-trading non-cash movements There were four Operational Targets set for the year: Delivery of first gas from Annabel in Q1 Delivery of first oil from Gadwall in Q2 Re-start Mallard following water injector completion in Q3 Complete tie-back and commence production from Annabel 2 in Q4 The Remuneration Committee conducted a detailed review of performance in 2005, a year that saw substantial delivery both operationally and financially, and one that overcame the early operational difficulties of the year when the Trees fields were shut in and project activity was impacting production.
Through the year production increased by 77% on an annual average basis, 208 million was successfully invested, year-end consolidated 2P reserves increased by 29% and the ambitious planned development programme continued.
The Remuneration Committee, in addition to examining performance against the corporate targets above, reviewed delivery against personal objectives: as noted, each constituted 50% of the total possible award granted under the scheme.
For the production targets the Remuneration Committee agreed that due cognisance should be given to the strategic decision to exit Trinidad, with the consequential hold on  short-term investment.
With this allowance it was agreed that the production achieved lay between the Threshold and Target levels, at 11.3%.
The cashflow target, adjusted for non-trading non-cash items, was met between Target and Exceptional levels, at 13.7%.
It was further agreed that Operational targets had been met at the Exceptional level 15%.
In practice the introduction of Mallard production, a 3Q target, was delayed into the fourth quarter to avoid backing out Gadwall production, which was exceeding expectations.
38 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Remuneration Committee considered that the intent of this target had however been met as the decision to delay was in the business interest.
Aggregating the above results in a total award against corporate goals of 40.0%.
Awards made to the executive directors under this plan were as follows: Bonus as % of Cash available for No of deferred base salary share purchase shares awarded Mike Wagstaff 90 337,500 90,483 Jon Murphy 80 240,000 64,343 Marie-Louise Clayton 85 216,750 58,110 Note: The plan allows for the cash bonus award to be taken as deferred shares with a 50% uplift.
The share price for the equity calculation is the mid-point of the middle market quotations as shown in the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the months of January and December 2005, which was 3.73.
Shares awarded under this plan will be released in 2008.
None of the Executive Directors elected to take any element of their bonus award in cash.
SIP and Performance Related Option Vesting The Remuneration Committee is required to establish a factor representing achievement against corporate performance targets in relation to the award of Free Shares under the SIP, up to a maximum value of 3,000 for each participating employee.
The Committee is also required to establish the percentage of previously awarded share options now due to vest subject to performance conditions being met.
In making this assessment, the Committees view was that the corporate performance targets set were met in full.
The corporate performance factor was therefore set at 100%.
Long Term Incentive Plan The scheme was designed as a discretionary plan to provide an incentive to the executive directors and a small number of senior managers to deliver the challenging corporate objectives that have been agreed for the period 1st January 2003 up to and including 31st December 2006 the performance period.
The LTIP has not been designed as a rolling plan and will terminate on 31st December 2006.
Each of the participants could receive a substantial award of shares if the demanding growth targets are met and the value of the Company is increased for all stakeholders over the performance period.
The key growth indicators are production, independently appraised proven and probable reserves and growth in earnings per share.
The LTIP sets Threshold, Target and Maximum levels for each key performance measure.
No share distribution will be made for below threshold performance.
Also a pre-condition to any award being made under the LTIP is that over the performance period, the total return to shareholders, as reflected by the market price of an ordinary share and the amount of any dividends paid to ordinary shareholders over that period must be at least 15% per annum compound.
If the pre-condition is met, each key performance measure carries an equal weighting and one third of the number of shares provisionally awarded to each participant is attributed to each.
There is a Threshold, Target and Maximum level of performance for each key growth indicator as follows: Threshold Target Maximum Production boepd 45,000 65,000 75,000 Reserves MMboe 150 180 220 EPS Growth pa compound 24% 35% 40% Production targets represent the average daily levels of production of oil and gas equivalent that must be achieved in the final quarter of the financial year ending 31st December 2006.
Reserves targets represent the independently appraised proven and probable reserves of oil and gas for the financial year ending 31st December 2006.
EPS growth targets represent the annual compound rate of growth for the period starting on 1st January 2003 and ending on 31st December 2006, taking EPS for the year ended 31st December 2002 as the base.
If the average annual oil price realised exceeds $25 per barrel or falls below $18 per barrel this measure will be normalised to the top or bottom of the range respectively.
If the average annual price is in the range between $18 and $25 per barrel no price adjustment will be made.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 39 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Ordinarily shares become distributable after the end of the performance period as follows: Performance Threshold Target Maximum % of attributable shares distributable 50% 100% 150% For performance at levels between Threshold and Target and Target and Maximum, the number of shares distributable is determined on a straight line sliding scale.
If performance in respect of any of the measures falls below the Threshold level none of the shares attributed to that measure would become distributable.
Provisional awards totalling 4,325,000 have been notified to current and past executive directors and senior managers.
Awards are provisional because distributions are dependent on the performance targets being met and also on continued employment.
On the assumption that the Total Shareholder Return growth condition is met and based on achieving the business plan objectives for 2006 the award level achieved at the end of the plan would be approximately 92%.
The Venture Production Company Limited Unapproved Share Option Plan At the date of listing, 8,270,500 options were either granted or promised to be granted under the Plan.
As at 31st December 2005 2,987,200 have been granted or promised to be granted and remain unexercised.
It was the Companys policy to promise to grant share options to new employees on joining the Company and at subsequent specified dates.
The nature of the promises varied depending upon whether the date of joining was before or after 1st April 2001.
If the date of joining was before 1st April 2001, the promise was either a Tranche 1 promise conditional upon remaining in employment at the proposed date of grant or a Tranche 2 promise conditional upon both remaining in employment and on the attainment of corporate performance targets at the proposed date of grant.
Employees receiving a Tranche 1 promise were granted options on the date on which they joined the Company and then subsequently on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the joining date.
Employees receiving a Tranche 2 promise are due to receive options subject to the attainment of corporate performance targets for the financial years ending 2001, 2002 and 2003.
Grants are then made on 1st April following the end of the financial year and on the relevant anniversaries of that date, subject to the employee continuing in employment.
Employees joining the Company on or after 1st April 2001 were promised a grant of options conditional upon the attainment of corporate performance targets as set by the Remuneration Committee.
In each case, the employee was granted options on his her date of joining with a promise of further awards on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the joining date subject to remaining in employment.
Options remain exercisable for 10 years from the date of grant, not the date of promise.
Consequently, as the last Tranche 2 Promises will not be granted until 2006, they will remain exercisable until 2016.
No options were awarded to the executive directors under this plan in 2005.
The Venture Production plc 2002 Employee Share Option Scheme The scheme has both HMRC approved and unapproved sections A & B respectively.
Awards of options under Section A of the scheme are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and at market value.
The awards are conditional upon corporate performance targets being met.
These are established by the Remuneration Committee and the subsequent level of awards is decided and approved by the Committee following a review of performance.
Options cannot be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant.
Grants will be limited to 30,000 worth of ordinary shares per employee calculated by reference to the market value of the Companys ordinary shares at the time that options are granted.
Awards of options under Section B are subject to rules which are broadly similar to those in Section A.
However, limits are set such that no individual shall be awarded options if the aggregate value of all options or participation in any other employees share scheme operated by the Company in the twelve month period preceding the proposed date of grant exceeds 200% of his or her annual remuneration at the time of the proposed grant.
As at 31st December 2005 a total of 486,191 options have been granted under this scheme and remain unexercised.
No options were awarded to the executive directors under this scheme in 2005.
40 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Remuneration for the services of non-executive directors is set by reference to that paid by comparable companies.
Fees payable to individual directors reflect the time commitment each director is expected to make to the Company, bearing in mind any representation on or chairmanship of Board committees.
Service Contracts and Letters of Appointment The executive directors have entered into service contracts with the Company and the non-executive directors have letters of appointment as follows: Date of latest Notice period Notice period Contractual contract letter to be given by to be given by provision for of appointment Unexpired term the company the director compensation Executive Directors M J Wagstaff 09.09.04 Continues until terminated 6 months 6 months See below J D Murphy 11.03.02 Continues until terminated 6 months 6 months See below M-L Clayton 14.02.05 Continues until terminated 6 months 6 months See below Non-Executive Directors J C Morgan 01.07.05 Expires 7th June 2006 None stated None stated See below L W Kinch 01.07.05 Expires 7th June 2006 None stated None stated See below D J Morrison 01.07.05 Expires 7th June 2006 None stated None stated See below M P Nicholls 01.07.05 Expires 7th June 2006 None stated None stated See below A M Jones 01.07.05 Expires 7th June 2006 None stated None stated See below T Ehret 20.02.06 Expires 7th June 2006 None stated None stated See below T Blades 20.02.06 Expires 7th June 2006 None stated None stated See below In the event that an executive directors employment is terminated as a result of a change of control of the Group or if he or she is required to take an alternative non-equivalent position within six months of a change of control then this will be deemed to be constructive dismissal and the notice period referred to in the table above will be treated as having been increased to twelve months immediately prior to such deemed dismissal.
In the event that a non-executive directors employment is terminated or he or she resigns voluntarily, there may be an entitlement to a severance payment of either 10,000 or the amount that would have been payable for the unexpired term under the letter of appointment.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 41 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Statement of Directors Interests The directors who held office during the year and their beneficial interests in the shares of the company at the end of the year were as follows: Ordinary shares of 0.4p each 2005 2004 Shares Shares Shares under Shares under under executive Shares Shares under executive Shares Shares Ordinary option pay under under Ordinary option pay under under shares plans scheme ADSBP SIP shares plans scheme ADSBP SIP Executive directors M J Wagstaff 1,113,575 1,122,600 64,909 90,483 5,347 935,825 1,112,050 64,909 2,985 J D Murphy 252,750 1,122,600 51,927 64,343 5,347 253,000 1,112,050 51,927 2,985 M-L Clayton 2,081 58,110 231 Non-executive directors L W Kinch 11,021,572 11,230,572 J C Morgan 300,000 300,000 D J Morrison M P Nicholls A M Jones Performance Graph Total return indices Venture Production, FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers & FTSE 250 400 300 200 100 0 31 12 2001 31 12 2002 31 12 2003 31 12 2004 31 12 2005 Venture Production FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers FTSE 250 The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR for Venture Production plc against the TSR for the Financial Times Stock Exchange FTSE 250 index and the TSR for the FTSE Oil and Gas Producers.
In previous years the FTSE Small Cap TSR has been shown but this is no longer deemed an appropriate comparison given the growth in the Company and the clear out-performance of the Company TSR for the whole year.
42 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
