Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal activity, review of the business and future developments The principal activity of the Group is oil and gas production.
Its specific focus is on the exploitation of discovered but undeveloped fields, known as stranded reserves, through the application of modern technology and oilfield operating practices.
The Chairmans and Chief Executives Review, Review of Operations and Financial Review describe the developments in the business during 2005 and the Groups future prospects.
Results and dividends The Groups profit for the financial year amounted to 31,098,000 2004: loss 6,894,000, which will be transferred to reserves.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend given the Companys growth strategy and development opportunities.
Dividend Policy As an oil and gas production company, Venture is required to maintain high and sustained levels of capital reinvestment into its business.
Up to and including 2005, Venture has invested far greater levels of capital than it has generated in operating cashflow.
This shortfall has been funded by a combination of debt and equity financing.
During 2006, dependent on production levels and market prices for oil and natural gas, it is anticipated that in the absence of any acquisitions, Venture will generate operating cashflow in excess of its budgeted capital expenditures.
Historically, acquisitions have represented an important but unpredictable part of Ventures growth.
In utilising any free cashflow generated, the Board has determined the following priorities: first, acquisitions or other internally generated business development opportunities meeting Ventures strict investment criteria: second, the repayment of part of the Companys outstanding debt to sustainable long term levels and third, the return of capital to shareholders through dividends or other mechanisms.
Donations During the year the Group made charitable donations amounting to 2,231 2004: 1,500.
It is the Companys policy to support charitable organisations in the communities where its businesses are located or with which employees are directly involved.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At 31 December 2005, the group had an average of 32 days 2004: 37 days purchases outstanding.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 7th June 2006.
Notice of the meeting accompanies this report.
32 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT Substantial shareholders The following table details those registered shareholders who hold an interest of more than 3% of the ordinary share capital of the company: 24 April 2006 Ordinary shares of 0.4p each % LW Kinch 11,021,572 8.86 Chase Nominees Barclays Aquila Life 6,974,687 5.60 State Street Nominees various clients 4,733,377 3.80 State Street Nominees Scottish Widows 4,517,017 3.63 Pershing Keen Nominees incl RIT Capital Partners 3,500,000 4,236,351 3.40 BNY OCS Nominees various fund managers 4,074,521 3.27 Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss for that year.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors The Directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Group to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which the accounts are laid before the Company.
By order of the Board Brian Hobden Company Secretary 24 April, 2006 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 33
