Directors Profiles Mike Wagstaff, Jonathan Murphy, Marie-Louise Clayton John Morgan, Laurence Kinch, Mark Nicholls Alan Jones, Thomas Ehret, Thomas Blades Michael Wagstaff, Chief Executive, aged 44 Executive Directors Mr Wagstaff took over as Chief Executive in September 2004 having joined Venture as Finance Director in June 1999.
He began his career with Shell as a petroleum engineer based in various locations in Western Europe.
From 1988 to 1999, he was employed by Schroders in its Corporate Finance department, based in London and New York, where he provided corporate finance advice to a wide range of energy companies including Venture.
Member of the Nominations Committee Jonathan Murphy, Chief Operating Officer, aged 50 Mr Murphy joined Venture in March 1999 and was appointed a Director in August 1999.
He is a geologist by profession and prior to joining Venture he spent over 10 years with LASMO.
His positions within LASMO included Chief Geologist in Indonesia and New Business Manager in Pakistan.
Prior to joining LASMO he served in several senior technical positions for Conoco, Texas Eastern and Thomson North Sea.
Mr Murphy is a director of UKOOA and he represents the Company on the board of Ten Degrees North Energy Limited.
Marie-Louise Clayton, Finance Director, aged 45 Ms Clayton was appointed to the Board in February last year as Finance Director, succeeding Mr Wagstaff.
She is a Certified Accountant with a degree in Law from Exeter University.
Over her 20 year career she has worked internationally at a senior business and financial level in a number of major industrial companies including Exxon, Alcatel, GEC Alstom and, most recently, as Group Finance Director and Chief Information Officer of the Primary Food Division of Associated British Foods plc.
30 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 DIRECTORS PROFILES Non-Executive Directors John Morgan, Chairman, aged 61 Mr Morgan was appointed a Director of Venture in President of BP in Scotland.
His experience of the North September 1998.
Mr Morgan worked for BP for over Sea industry and regulatory framework includes having 30 years and held senior positions in that company been a member of the government task force including Head of South East Asia Exploration Office, examining the future of the UK oil and gas industry and North Sea Commercial Manager, General Manager North he recently led the UKOOA team that restructured the Sea Operations and President BP Exploration Alaska.
He is also a Director of John Wood Group PLC.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: member of the Nominations Committee and member of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Nominations Committee: member of the Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee Thomas Ehret, aged 54 Laurence Kinch, aged 52 Mr Ehret was appointed a Director of Venture in March Mr Kinch is a founder and was appointed a Director of 2006.
He trained as a mechanical engineer and in his Venture in November 1996.
He is a petroleum engineer 30-year career he has held a variety of both technical by profession and his previous experience was with and commercial positions in several leading offshore Schlumberger, Shell and BP as an engineer.
In 1985, engineering and construction companies.
During this Mr Kinch co-founded Petroleum Engineering Services, period he has been instrumental in several industry an Aberdeen based oilfield equipment and services shaping moves, including the turnaround of the loss company, which was acquired by Halliburton Company in making Stena Offshore, its acquisition of Sante Fes February 2000.
Recently he established a new company, pipelay business and the merger between Stena Offshore Energy Development Partners, of which he is Chairman.
and Coflexip, the leading company at that time in the subsea sector.
Following his success as Chief Executive Officer of Stena Offshore, subsequently Coflexip-Stena Mark Nicholls, Deputy Chairman and Senior Offshore CSO, Mr Ehret became Group Vice-Chairman Independent Director, aged 56 and President of the offshore branch of Technip Mr Nicholls was appointed a Director of Venture in following its acquisition of CSO.
Having qualified as a solicitor, he spent Executive Officer of Acergy SA, a leading offshore most of his career with SG Warburg becoming head of contractor to the oil and gas industry.
corporate finance and a main board director of the SG Warburg Group.
More recently his broad knowledge of the financial market place was applied at the Royal Bank Thomas Blades, aged 49 of Scotland Group where he was managing director of Mr Blades was appointed a Director of Venture in March the private equity group.
A qualified chartered electrical engineer, he spent Chairman of EcoSecurities Group plc.
His other nonmost of his formative years with Schlumberger, the executive directorships include Alexander Forbes Limited, majority of which in managerial positions worldwide.
Bovis Homes Group plc, where he chairs the Audit Since then he has led Numar Corporation through its Committee, Portman Building Society and the City of rapid post IPO growth and, following its acquisition, London Investment Trust plc.
In 2003 he was appointed briefly became Executive Vice President of Halliburton.
as Protector of the National Lottery Fair Share Fund.
As President and Chief Executive Officer of Spectro, a specialised manufacturer in the global analytical Chairman of the Audit Committee: member of the Nominations instruments industry, he restructured the company and Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee implemented a programme of fundamental change.
For the past two years Mr Blades has been Chief Executive Alan Jones, aged 61 Officer of Choren Industries, a German technology Mr Jones was appointed a Director of Venture in April company, which he has developed to become the current 2005.
An engineer by profession, he graduated from world leader in the conversion of biomass to synthetic University College London with a first class honours liquid fuels.
He is also a director of Twister BV.
In his 30-year career with BP he gained extensive technical and management experience, both internationally and in the North Sea.
He was responsible for managing the successful $6 billion development of BPs Cuisiana and Cupiagua fields in Colombia.
Mr Jones retired from BP in 2000 after three years as Regional VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 31
