Communication with Shareholders During 2005, Venture entered the FTSE 250 index of mid-capitalisation companies as a result of the increase in the Companys market value.
This growth has resulted in greater investor interest in Venture and with it, increased demands on the Companys investor relations resources.
The Board recognises that effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders remains a high priority.
Venture maintains a regular dialogue with all stakeholders through the formal channel of results presentations, stock market announcements, Annual Reports and Accounts, Interim Accounts and at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company also issues operational and trading updates prior to entering into closed periods and seeks to provide update to market guidance on production levels, operations and trading on an ongoing basis throughout the year.
Following its preliminary full year and interim results, the Company conducts investor presentations during which senior management meet face-to-face with institutional shareholders In addition, the Company maintains a less formal dialogue with interested shareholders through regular two-way communication with equity research analysts, fund managers and stockbrokers.
Private investors continue to be encouraged to communicate directly with the Company and the Investor Relations section on the Companys website www.
co. uk has proved very successful in providing access to all interested investors of market forecasts.
In January 2006, the Company hosted its first extensive analysts presentation involving detailed presentations on every aspect of the Companys business and operations by all members of the senior management team.
This presentation was also made available simultaneously on the Companys website.
The Companys ongoing communication programme with private client stockbrokers, regional pension funds and smaller financial institutions initiated in 2004 has proved successful and will be maintained.
Venture has also seen increased international interest, particularly from North America and Europe.
During 2005, management made two trips to the United States to meet investors and as a result of the success of this initiative, the Company intends to continue this programme.
Investors are encouraged to attend and participate in the AGM at which, in addition to the formal business of the meeting, the Chief Executive provides a review of the most recent results and commentary on current business development and activity.
The chairmen of the Board committees are available at the AGM to answer any shareholders question.
The Senior Independent Director is also specifically available to meet with shareholders to discuss any concerns either at the AGM or through other channels and at other times if more appropriate.
54 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
