Directors Report The Directors submit their annual report together with the audited Corporate Governance accounts of the Group and of the Company, Cookson Group plc, for Details are set out in the narrative below of the Companys the year ended 31 December 2005. corporate governance procedures and application of the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Principal Activities Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
The Cookson Group plc is a leading materials science company which Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout provides materials, processes and services to customers the year ended 31 December 2005. worldwide.
The Groups operations are formed into three divisions Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals.
Known in its markets The Board as Vesuvius, the Ceramics division is the world leader in the supply Ultimate responsibility for the management of Cookson rests with of advanced flow control refractory products and systems to the the Board of Directors.
The Board focuses primarily upon strategic global steel industry and a leading supplier of specialist ceramic and policy issues.
It approves the Groups strategy and oversees products to the glass and foundry industries.
It is also a regional the allocation of resources and monitors the performance of the leader in the US, UK and Australia in the supply and installation of Group in pursuit of this.
The Electronics division is a leading The Board currently has seven Directors, comprising the nonsupplier of advanced surface treatment and plating chemicals and executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance assembly materials to the automotive, construction and electronics Director and four non-executive Directors.
The Precious Metals division is a leading supplier of each of the non-executive Directors, namely Messrs J L Hewitt, fabricated precious metals primarily gold, silver and platinum to J P Oosterveld, B W Perry and J G Sussens, to be independent of the jewellery industry in the US, UK, France and Spain.
Products management and free from any business or other relationship include alloy materials, semi-finished jewellery components and which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Company has reviewed the availability of the non-executive finished jewellery.
Directors and considers that each of them is able to and in practice does devote the necessary amount of time to the Companys Review of 2005 A review of Cooksons results, the major developments occurring business.
The Board nominates one of the non-executive Directors to act as Senior Independent Director and provide an alternative during 2005 within each of its three divisions and of the Groups financial position at the end of 2005 is given on pages 8 to 25. contact at Board level, other than the Chairman, to whom shareholder matters can be addressed.
Mr M K Atkinson held this Events affecting the Group since the end of the year and likely future developments are also referred to on those pages.
position until he announced that he was stepping down from the Board, at which time Mr J G Sussens took over the role.
The Group headline profit before tax for 2005 was 101.9 million 2004: 85.0 million.
The retained loss for the year was 7.6 biographical details of individual Directors are set out on pages 28 and 29. million 2004: 17.0 million.
During 2005, Cookson paid 10.6 million in respect of The Articles of Association of the Company require that Directors should submit themselves for re-election at least every acquisitions of subsidiaries and joint ventures and disposed of interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures for a net consideration three years.
Mr R G Beeston will therefore be retiring and offering himself for re-election at this years AGM as set out in the Notice received of 30.4 million.
Further details of the interests sold during the year are given in note 15 on page 66.
Capital of AGM and on page 35.
Messrs M G Butterworth and J L Hewitt were appointed as Directors after the last AGM and will therefore expenditure by Group companies in 2005 amounted to 42.5 million 2004: 42.3 million.
Further details of the Groups be standing for election at the 2006 meeting.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and tangible fixed assets are given in note 21 on page 69.
Donations in the UK for charitable purposes totalled 0.1m delegates certain matters to committees as outlined below.
The Board met as a full Board on ten scheduled occasions during 2005.
2004: 0.1m : and such donations throughout the Group totalled 0.1m 2004: 0.2m.
In accordance with Company policy, no Two of these meetings were held at Cookson facilities when the Board visited Group operations in the UK and Germany.
A Board political donations were made in either 2005 or 2004.
The financial statements of the Company and the Group, Strategic Review Meeting was combined with one of these visits.
In addition, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors meet respectively, have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate routinely on their own without the executive Directors present and at least once each year the non-executive Directors meet without resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
the Chairman present to discuss matters such as the Chairmans performance.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2005 of Specific matters reserved for the Board include: reviewing Group and divisional performance: approving significant 5p per ordinary share which, if approved, will be paid on 12 June 2006 to shareholders on the register at 26 May 2006.
No transactions including acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: setting and approving the Groups strategy and dividends were paid in 2005 or 2004. annual budget: approving the Groups financing and treasury policies: succession planning and approving Board appointments and the remuneration of the non-executive Directors.
In addition the Board considers health, safety and environmental matters and reviews the Groups risk management processes.
Cookson Group plc { 30 } Annual Report 2005 The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the The Chairmen of each of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and is set out in Committees reviewed the results of the evaluation of each writing.
The Chairman leads the Board and meets routinely with committee at meetings of their respective committees.
Areas for the Chief Executive and Group Secretary to discuss matters improvement have been identified with follow-up actions being relating to its efficient functioning.
From the results of the 2005 review the Board considered The Chairman continues to serve as a non-executive director that overall it was operating effectively and that all Directors and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of D S Smith plc.
continue to contribute and are committed to their roles at Cookson.
He has not acquired any further significant commitments during Areas for attention included the identification of additional the year.
measures to be used to assess the Boards own performance.
The attendance of Directors at Board and principal Committee meetings during the year, together with the maximum number of Induction and Training meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member The Group Secretary ensures that a comprehensive induction as shown in brackets, was as follows: programme is provided to all new Directors, including visits to manufacturing facilities, meetings with key Group executives and Audit Remuneration Nominations introductions to the Companys principal external advisers, as Board Committee Committee Committee appropriate.
New Directors are also advised of their legal and other Chairman duties and obligations as Directors of a listed company.
This is R G Beeston 10 10 n a n a 2 2 supplemented by reference materials, which are regularly updated, Executive Directors including information about the Board, the committees, Directors M G Butterworth duties, procedures for dealing in the Companys shares and other from 15 06 05 6 7 n a n a n a regulatory and governance matters.
Directors are provided with N R Salmon 10 10 n a n a 2 2 details of seminars and training courses relevant to their role.
They are encouraged to attend these as they consider appropriate and are Non-executive Directors supported by the Company in so doing.
Where a general training need J L Hewitt is identified, in-house training would be provided to the entire Board.
from 01 06 05 6 7 2 2 3 3 1 1 During the year Directors attended external seminars and other J P Oosterveld 7 10 4 4 5 5 2 2 functions relevant to specific areas of their responsibility.
B W Perry 9 10 4 4 5 5 2 2 J G Sussens 9 10 4 4 5 5 2 2 Relations with Shareholders Directors retiring in 2005 The Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice a M K Atkinson year, with the publication of its Annual and Interim Reports.
In to 15 04 05 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 0 conjunction with these announcements presentations are made to G C Cozzani institutional investors and analysts, copies of which are posted on to 06 10 05 6 7 n a n a n a the Companys website: www.
In addition, for D H Millard 2005 the Company published trading statements after the first to 31 07 05 4 6 n a n a n a and third quarters giving salient unaudited financial figures.
The Company maintains a regular dialogue with major institutional Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of the relevant investors and regular updates on shareholder issues and Board or committee meeting to enable them to make further discussions are provided to the Board.
In order to gain a better enquiries about any matters prior to the meeting should they so understanding of perceptions of Cooksons leading shareholders, wish.
The Group Secretary oversees the distribution of these papers the Company commissioned an Investor Audit during the course of and ensures that there is an appropriate level of communication 2005: its findings were discussed by the Board.
Board members between the Board and its committees and between senior also receive copies of significant analysts notes issued on the management and non-executive Directors.
He also keeps the Board Company.
All Directors normally attend the Companys AGM, apprised of relevant developments in corporate governance.
providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them about issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting or Performance Evaluation informally afterwards.
The Board evaluates its own performance and effectiveness and assesses the performance of its committees and individual members Board Committees on an annual basis.
In 2005 this process focused on evaluating the The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration contribution of individual Directors to the functioning of the Board and Nominations Committees.
Each committee has written terms of and its Committees.
The review again involved the use of a reference agreed by the Board.
These are available to view on the questionnaire, designed with the assistance of an independent Companys website.
external adviser, being completed by each Director and the Group Secretary.
A series of one-to-one meetings between the Chairman Audit Committee and each Director and the Group Secretary was held.
The The Audit Committee members are the non-executive Directors, performance of the Chairman was in turn reviewed by the Senior namely Mr J L Hewitt, Mr J P Oosterveld, Mr B W Perry and Independent Director following consultation with other members of Mr J G Sussens.
During the year the Committee was chaired by the Board.
The results of the evaluations were collated by the Mr Atkinson and, following his departure from the Company, by independent adviser and then presented to the Board for review.
The Board believes both Messrs Atkinson and Hewitt, Chairman was judged to have performed satisfactorily against all the for their respective periods of appointment, possessed the measured criteria.
relevant financial experience, as described by the Code.
Cookson Group plc { 31 } Annual Report 2005 Directors Report continued The Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Internal Audit and in March and July, the Committee considered the Companys the Companys Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, are normally invited to preparations to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanesattend meetings and other executives are invited to attend as and Oxley Act and, following the decision to seek to fide-register when appropriate.
The Committee meets regularly with the from the SEC, the Committee monitored progress on this: Companys Auditor without any executives being present.
from time to time, executives were required to make presentations to the Committee or to the full Board on the Audit Committee Report subject of risk, its identification, management and control: and The principal roles of the Audit Committee are: as a matter of routine, the Committee was presented with assisting the Board in the discharge of its responsibilities in information on any significant litigation involving the Group.
respect of statutory and other financial reporting and in respect of its review of the effectiveness of the Groups As noted above, one of the duties of the Committee is to make internal controls and risk management systems: recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys the Auditor.
A number of factors concerning the Auditor are taken internal audit function: into account by the Committee in assessing whether to making recommendations to the Board on the appointment recommend the Auditor for re-appointment, including: and dismissal of the Auditor: the quality both of reports provided to the Committee and the approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Board and of advice given: Auditor: the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups monitoring and reviewing the Auditors independence, businesses: and objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional the objectivity of the Auditors views on the controls around and regulatory requirements: and the Group and its ability to coordinate a global audit, working helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor to tight deadlines.
by providing a direct channel of communication between it and the non-executive Directors.
The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the independence of the external audit is not compromised.
Such The Committee has established procedures for the receipt, safeguards include: retention and treatment of complaints received by the Company seeking confirmation that the Auditor is independent of the including accounting, internal controls, auditing matters and Company in its own professional judgement: and confidential communications from employees.
considering all the relationships between the Auditor and the The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Group, including those relating to the provision of non-audit Committee Chairman and the Committee reviews and approves the services and whether this impairs, or appears to impair, the internal audit work programme for each year.
During the year under Auditors judgement or independence.
review, the Committee met four times and reviewed, amongst other matters, the Companys published financial results: the Groups The Company has a policy governing the Group-wide conduct conversion to International Financial Reporting Standards: internal of non-audit work by the Auditor.
Under that policy the Auditor is audit reports and management control issues: the scope of the prohibited from performing services where it: external audit and its cost effectiveness: and the extent to which may be required to audit its own work: the Auditors remuneration for non-audit services might affect their would participate in activities that would normally be independence and objectivity in carrying out the audit.
undertaken by management: More specifically, the responsibilities of the Committee were is remunerated through a success fee structure: or discharged as follows: acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
at its meetings in July 2005 and March 2006, the Committee reviewed the Companys Interim Report and preliminary Other than the above, the Company does not impose an announcement Annual Report and Accounts, respectively.
On automatic prohibition on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work.
both occasions, the Committee received reports from the The Auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services that are not, Auditor identifying any accounting or judgemental issues or are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence, thereon requiring its attention: providing it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the at its meeting in May 2005, the Committee reviewed the work in the best interests of the Group.
Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F, which has been filed Details of the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for each year since 1993 with the US Securities and Exchange audit and other services are set out in note 8 on page 63.
Commission SEC, together with a report from the Auditor The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome identifying any accounting or judgemental issues thereon of the Audit Committee meetings to the Board and the Board requiring its attention: receives the agenda, papers and minutes of Audit Committee a quarterly report from the Group Head of Internal Audit was meetings.
presented at each of the four meetings.
In addition, at the December 2005 meeting, the Group Head of Internal Audit Remuneration Committee submitted the functions internal audit plan for 2006: The Remuneration Committee members are the non-executive the Auditor presented its audit plan at the December 2005 Directors, namely Mr J L Hewitt, Mr J P Oosterveld, Mr B W Perry meeting: and Mr J G Sussens who chairs the Committee.
The Committees reports were presented to the March and July meetings principal roles are to recommend and monitor the level and pertaining to the Groups conversion to International Financial structure of remuneration for senior management and to set the Reporting Standards: appropriate remuneration for the Group Chairman, executive Cookson Group plc { 32 } Annual Report 2005 Directors and Group Secretary.
Further details of the activities of Accountability and Audit the Remuneration Committee are provided in the Directors A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 44.
Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on pages The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reports the 46 and 45, respectively.
There is no relevant information that has outcome of the Remuneration Committee meetings to the Board.
not been disclosed to the Auditor throughout the year.
The Directors fulfil the responsibilities set out in their statement within Nominations Committee the context of an overall control environment of central strategic The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments to direction and decentralised operating autonomy.
and retirements and resignations from the Board.
The members of the Committee are the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive and Auditor any three non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets as and Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor when required and is chaired by the Group Chairman or a nonof the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine its executive Director.
The Group Chairman would not act as Chairman remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
of the Committee where it was dealing with the appointment of his successor.
Formal meetings are held to consider standing items of Internal Control business: there is also a significant level of ad hoc discussion The Directors are responsible for the establishment and between members of the Committee, particularly when a maintenance of the Groups system of internal control.
recruitment exercise is taking place.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code on During the year under review a new Group Finance Director and internal control which require that the Directors review the a new non-executive Director were appointed to the Board.
When effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including considering the appointment of new Directors, the Committee draws financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk up specifications, taking into consideration the existing balance of management systems.
Whilst no system of internal control can skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the ongoing provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, requirements of the Group.
It utilises the services of an external the Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with recruitment consultancy to identify appropriate candidates, reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a timely interviews those short-listed and then makes recommendations for basis and are dealt with appropriately.
Since the date of the review, each appointment to the full Board.
Care is taken to ensure that all there have been no significant changes in internal controls or proposed appointees have sufficient time available to devote to the other matters which could significantly affect them.
role and do not have any conflicts of interest.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and The Nominations Committee reviews the Companys succession managing the significant risks faced by Cookson.
The Board as a whole also considers this subject.
management operates a risk management process designed to The Chairman of the Nominations Committee reports on the identify the key risks facing each business and reports to the Audit outcome of the Nominations Committee meetings to the Board.
Committee on how those risks are being managed.
As a basis for this report, each of the Groups major business units produces a Finance and Share Schemes Committees risk map which identifies their key risks and assesses the The Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to likelihood of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the Finance and Share Schemes Committees.
the actions being taken to manage those risks to a desired level.
The Finance Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, its The internal control system is monitored and supported by the other members being the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director Groups Internal Audit function, which operates on a global basis.
The Committee meets as and when required This function assists management and the Board in the effective to consider approval for treasury-related matters.
discharge of their responsibility for internal control by conducting The Share Schemes Committees membership consists of any reviews of Cookson businesses and reporting objectively both on two Directors.
It meets as and when required to undertake the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control in administrative matters in relation to the Companys share schemes.
place and as to whether those businesses are in compliance with applicable Group policies and procedures.
The Group Head of Executive Committee and Central Executive Internal Audit is responsible for developing the function, within the In addition to the Committees of the Board described above, the framework of common Group policies and standards, and for Group has an Executive Committee which supports the Chief carrying out assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan Executive in addressing Group-wide issues and initiatives.
This approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee receives Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on a regular basis Group Finance Director, the Group Secretary and the Chief and reports to the Board on the results of its review.
Executives of each of the Groups three divisions.
As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness of Formal authority has been delegated to the Central Executive the system of internal control, it delegates the following matters to comprising the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee to be carried out during the year: Group Secretary.
The Central Executive is responsible for review of external and internal audit work plans: reviewing and approving capital expenditure, acquisitions and consideration of reports from management and internal audit disposals at certain levels as determined by the Board.
on the system of internal control and any material control Responsibility for day-to-day operational management rests with weaknesses: and the divisional Chief Executives.
discussions with management on the actions taken on problem areas identified by Board members, in internal audit reports or in external audit management letters.
Cookson Group plc { 33 } Annual Report 2005 Directors Report continued In addition to the above, the Board considers significant financing Currency Translation Exposure and investment decisions concerning the Group, including the The results of the Groups foreign subsidiaries are normally giving of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
The Board also period concerned.
The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in translated into sterling at the closing exchange rates.
Any gains managing risks across the Group, receives regular reports on any and losses resulting from translation are recorded in reserves major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual where they are matched with the gains and losses on borrowings, assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps taken out in the review.
same currencies to hedge the net assets of those foreign At the year end, the Board reviews, through the Audit subsidiaries.
The Group aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of Committee, the results of the risk management exercise conducted its non-sterling assets in this way.
by senior management, including a self-certification exercise by The Group does not currently hedge translation exposures which they certify the effectiveness of the system of internal arising on unremitted non-UK earnings.
controls within the businesses for which they are responsible, together with their compliance throughout the year with the Currency Transaction Exposure Groups policies and procedures.
This arises where actual sales and purchases are made by a business unit in a currency other than its own functional currency.
Remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive Directors It is Cookson policy that material foreign currency transaction The Board considers the remuneration policy for the nonexposures are hedged using appropriate instruments such as executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors fees have not been forward foreign exchange contracts.
increased during the year and remain at 30,000 per annum.
A supplementary fee is payable to the Chairman of the Audit Interest Rate Risk Committee, which remains at 15,000 per annum.
The Chairman of Cooksons policy is to borrow a mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
the Remuneration Committee receives a supplementary fee of Where appropriate, the Group will manage its interest rate 10,000 per annum.
A supplementary fee of 5,000 per annum is exposures using interest rate swap agreements or other payable to the Senior Independent Director.
Significant interest rate and currency hedging The Group Chairmans remuneration, which is subject to programmes require the approval of the Finance Committee of the periodic review, is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
His remuneration has not been increased during the year.
Neither the Group Chairman, who is not an executive Director, nor the Credit Risk other non-executive Directors are members of the Groups pension Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk, plans, nor do they participate in the Groups incentive schemes.
represented by the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
The counterparties to the Groups Legal Matters financial instruments are reputable financial institutions and the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a regular basis Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place for Directors, in accordance with Board-approved guidelines.
in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal advice Further information relating to the Groups financial risk if necessary, at the Companys expense.
management can be found in note 4 on pages 58 and 59 and in note 35 on pages 77 to 79.
Remuneration Matters The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 37 to 44.
Creditor Payment Policy Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing Corporate Responsibility the terms and conditions under which business transactions with A statement on corporate responsibility is shown on page 26, their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that payments to which includes details of Cooksons Code of Conduct.
suppliers are made in accordance with these terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and Health, Safety and Environmental Matters conditions.
In the accounts of the Company at 31 December A report on Cooksons policy and management of health, safety 2005, the number of days purchases outstanding was 19 2004: and environmental matters is shown on page 27.
Treasury Management Treasury Policy Employment Policies Cooksons treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial A fundamental concept embodied in the Companys Code of resources are available for the development of the Groups Conduct is that Cooksons goals can only be met through the businesses whilst managing its currency, interest rate and efforts of its employees.
Cookson recognises that job satisfaction counterparty risks.
Cooksons policy in respect of the major areas requires working environments that motivate employees to be of treasury activity is set out below.
productive and innovative and provide opportunities for employee training and development to maximise personal potential and develop careers within the Group.
Cookson Group plc { 34 } Annual Report 2005 Cookson is managed on a decentralised basis and within each All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the exclusive division it is the responsibility of the relevant divisional Chief benefit of plan participants and their beneficiaries.
An Executive to adopt employment policies and practices that best suit independent financial institution acts as the trustee.
The the size, style and geographical location of their operations.
This trust assets are protected by law and by Federal Government allows the Groups operations to respond competitively to changes Regulation and are subject to annual audit by an independent in the marketplace and to develop and retain a strong sense of accountant, the Internal Revenue Service and the Department identity whilst benefiting from being a part of a major international of Labor.
Cookson values the involvement of its employees and keeps Further details of pension arrangements are given in note 36 them informed on matters affecting them as employees and factors on pages 80 to 83. relevant to the performance of the Group.
It is established policy throughout Cookson that decisions on Directors recruitment, career development, training, promotion and other Biographical information for the current Directors of the Company employment related issues are made solely on grounds of is given on pages 28 and 29. individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
These Mr M K Atkinson, formerly Senior Independent Director, principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis.
Cookson stepped down from the Board on 15 April 2005.
Mr D H Millard, gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment formerly Group Finance Director, stepped down from the Board on from disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled 31 July 2005 and Mr G C Cozzani, formerly executive Director and during their employment with Cookson, every effort is made to Chief Executive of the Ceramics division, retired from the Board on enable them to continue their service with the Group.
Mr R G Beeston will retire at the Annual General Meeting on 25 Pensions May 2006 and will offer himself for re-election.
Mr M G In each country in which the Group operates, the pension Butterworth and Mr J L Hewitt will also retire at the AGM, being arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with good the first such meeting since their appointment, and will offer employment practice in that particular area.
Independent advisers themselves for election.
Further information on the service are used to ensure that defined benefit plan assets are invested in agreements of the executive Directors, including Mr Butterworths, the best interests of the plan members.
Group policy prohibits is given on page 39.
Details of the Chairmans fixed-term investment of pension fund assets in its own businesses.
Outside agreement can be found on page 40.
The non-executive Directors, the UK and the US, the majority of pension plans in the Group are including Mr Hewitt who is standing for election, do not have of a defined contribution nature.
In 2004 the Group closed its UK defined benefit plan to new The interests of Directors and their related parties in the entrants and, with effect from 1 January 2006, the Groups main ordinary shares of the Company, all of which are beneficial, as US defined benefit plan was closed to new entrants.
These pension disclosed in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, are as set plans remain open for current and past employees in the UK and out on page 41 and details of the Directors long-term incentive US.
Defined contribution plans exist for new employees in the UK awards, together with share options and mid-term incentive and the US.
awards held by Messrs Cozzani and Millard, who stepped down For the UK plans a Trustee board is appointed by the Company.
from the Board during the year, are set out on pages 42 to 44.
This comprises employees, former employees and an independent trustee.
This structure has been accepted by the members of each Directors Indemnities plan under the regulations concerning Member Nominated The Companys Directors are indemnified under the Companys Trustees.
The administration of each plan is outsourced.
The Company is mindful of its obligations under the Pension Act 2004 and of the need to comply with the guidance issued by The Share Capital Pensions Regulator.
Regular dialogue is maintained between the Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital during Company and the Trustee board of the UK plans to ensure that both the year are given in note 58 on pages 103 and 104.
Company and Trustee are apprised of the same financial and other In 2002 Cooksons shares were subdivided and converted from information about the Group and the plans which is pertinent to one existing ordinary share of 50p into one ordinary share of each being able to contribute to the effective functioning of the 1p and one deferred share of 49p.
The Company currently has in place a schedule of consolidation was carried out.
Each of the 1,897 million existing contributions, agreed with the Trustee board, which aims to reduce ordinary shares of 1p in issue were consolidated into new ordinary to zero the deficit existing on the UK defined benefit plan as at 31 shares on the basis of ten 1p ordinary shares for 1 new ordinary December 2005 within five years from that date.
The adequacy of share, to create 190 million new ordinary shares of 10p each.
this schedule of contributions will be monitored over time, so as to assess the need for it to be modified should the deficit position change compared to current expectations.
Cookson Group plc { 35 } Annual Report 2005 Directors Report continued As at 31 December 2005, the Companys issued equity share capital Authority for Purchase of Own Shares amounted to 375.5 million and comprised 190.4 million ordinary At the 2005 AGM, shareholders gave the Company renewed shares of 10p with an aggregate nominal value of 19.0 million and authority to make market purchases of up to a maximum of 10% 727.6 million deferred shares of 49p with an aggregate nominal at that time of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
at the date of this report, the Company has made no such Each ordinary share of 10p has the same rights including purchases under this authority.
The Directors believe it advisable voting and dividend rights and rights on a return of capital as each to seek renewal of this authority at each AGM.
ordinary share of 1p had prior to the share consolidation.
As the deferred shares carried no rights to dividends or voting and were Substantial Interests not listed, they were rendered effectively worthless.
As at the date of this report, the Company has been notified in On 12 January 2006, the Company held an Extraordinary accordance with sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985 of General Meeting to seek shareholders approval to amend the the following interests of 3% or more in its issued ordinary shares.
Companys Articles of Association to facilitate termination of its registration with the SEC and to effect a reduction of its share % capital.
Standard Life Investments 12.95 The Company duly gained approval to cancel and extinguish its Aviva plc 4.71 727.6 million deferred shares of 49p each and to cancel its share HBOS plc 4.09 premium account.
In addition, shareholders approved the Barclays Global Investors 3.08 cancellation of six ordinary shares of 1p each, which had been Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.01 retained in the Companys authorised but unissued share capital, following the share consolidation in May 2005.
By Order of the Board Following the approval of these resolutions, the Company applied to the High Court to effect the cancellation of the Companys capital.
On 15 February 2006, the High Court of Justice confirmed the reduction of capital of the Company.
The Order of the Court was registered on 15 February 2006 and the reduction of capital was therefore effective on that date.
Richard M H Malthouse, Group Secretary Since the year end, 635,369 ordinary shares have been issued 14 March 2006 as a result of exercises of options granted under the Companys share option schemes.
Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to allot further shares and make allotments of shares to persons other than existing shareholders in certain circumstances will again be proposed at the AGM.
SEC fide-registration Following approval of amendments to the Companys articles to facilitate termination of its registration with the SEC, the Company was able to take the necessary steps to comply with the fideregistration requirements.
As a result, on 21 February 2006, Cookson filed a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate the SEC registration of its ordinary shares.
As part of the process of terminating SEC registration, Cookson had previously caused the American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for its shares to terminate on 19 October 2005.
The ADRs ceased being quoted on the US Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board around the same time as a result.
SEC fide-registration will take effect 90 days after the filing of Form 15 or such shorter period as the SEC may determine.
Cookson is now exempt from SEC reporting requirements and will no longer file an annual report on Form 20-F or periodic reports on Form 6-K with the SEC.
In addition, Cookson will no longer publish a reconciliation to US generally accepted accounting principles of its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards starting with the financial year commencing 1 January 2005.
From now on, US resident shareholders will only be able to access reports Cookson prepares and publicly discloses under English law, such as this annual report, in order to obtain information on Cookson.
Further information about the potential impact of SEC fide-registration on US resident shareholders, optionholders and holders of share awards, can be found on Cooksons website at www.
co. uk Cookson Group plc { 36 } Annual Report 2005
