Board of Directors 1 Robert Beeston 64 c, d Chairman 3 Barry W Perry 59 a, b Non-executive Director Joined the Cookson Board in April 2003 and was Appointed to the Cookson Board in January 2002. appointed Chairman at the Companys Annual Barry is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of General Meeting later that month.
He previously held senior Bob was CEO of FKI plc from 1992 to 2002 and prior executive positions with Rhone-Poulenc and with to that was Managing Director of BTR Valve Group.
General Electric Co in the US.
Barry is also a nonHe is the Senior Independent director and Chairman executive director of Arrow Electronics, Inc. of the Remuneration Committee of D S Smith plc.
4 Mike Butterworth 44 d, f Group Finance Director 2 Nick Salmon 53 c, d, f Chief Executive Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2005 and Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004. assumed the role of Group Finance Director in August 2005.
Prior to joining Cookson, Nick was Executive Vice President at Alstom SA.
Previously he was CEO at Prior to joining Cookson, Mike was Group Finance Babcock International plc and before that he held Director of Incepta Group plc, from 2001 until May positions with GEC and China Light and Power.
He previously spent five years as Group is a non-executive director of United Utilities plc.
Financial Controller at BBA Group plc.
5 Jeff Hewitt 58 a, b Non-executive Director Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2005 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jeff was previously Deputy Chairman and Group Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc.
He is Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Dialight plc.
He is the Senior Independent director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of TDG plc, and he is also a nonexecutive member of the Audit Committee of the John Lewis Partnership.
Cookson Group plc { 28 } Annual Report 2005 WE HAVE A BOARD AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM WITH THE EXPERIENCE, SKILLS AND STRENGTH OF PURPOSE TO DRIVE OUR COMPANY FORWARD.
a Member of the Audit Committee b Member of the Remuneration Committee c Member of the Nominations Committee: the membership also includes any three non-executive Directors d Member of the Finance Committee e Senior Independent Director f Member of the Executive Committee g Not a member of the Board Ages are as at 14 March 2006.
6 John Sussens 60 a, b, e Non-executive Director Appointed to the Cookson Board in May 2004, is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director.
John was previously Managing Director of Misys plc.
He is the Senior non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Admiral Group plc and a non-executive director of Anglo & Overseas plc and Phoenix IT Group plc.
7 Richard Malthouse 54 f, g Group Secretary Appointed Group Secretary in 1993.
Richard was previously the Group Secretary of Del Monte Foods International.
He has held the equivalent or senior company secretarial positions in pharmaceutical, engineering and automobile manufacturing companies.
8 Jan Oosterveld 62 a, b Non-executive Director Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2004.
Jan spent the majority of his career at Royal Philips Electronics, latterly serving as a member of the Group Management Committee.
He is a non-executive director of Continental AG, Crucell N. V. Barco N. V. and Atos Origin S. A. and Professor at IESE Business School in Barcelona.
Cookson Group plc { 29 } Annual Report 2005
