STRATEGIC FOCUS THERE ARE FOUR MAIN COMPONENTS TO OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS IS BEING MADE IN ALL OF THEM Cooksons strategic plan, announced in January 2005, is focused including the Group and Electronics division headquarters.
More on improving the operational and financial performance of our recently a simplified organisation has been implemented in Ceramics.
continuing businesses and disposing of some non-core operations We have recently completed the steps necessary to fide-register and assets.
This is targeted to reduce debt, achieve a sound from the US Securities and Exchange Commission which will avoid gearing level and resume a sustainable dividend payment over 1 million of annual compliance costs.
programme, funded from free cash flow.
Strategic Plan Progress Strategic Plan Main Objectives 2004 2005 Profitability improvement by 2007: Margins % % Ceramics: RoS 10.5% Ceramics RoS 8.0 9.9 Electronics: RoS 10.5% Electronics RoS 9.9 10.5 Precious Metals: RoNSV 15% Precious Metals RoNSV 9.3 7.4 Progressive debt reduction Group RoS 7.2 8.3 Disposal proceeds 100m by end-2006 Continuing operations Return to sustained dividend programme Debt reduction Return on sales trading profit to revenue, restated from 10.0% for IFRS Net debt 31 December 2004 322m Return on net sales value excludes value of precious metals 31 December 2005 292m Proceeds Disposals m Date Signed Strategic Plan Main Components Fraternity Rings 3 December 2004 Focus on higher technology products and exit commodity Technical Ceramics 5 June 2005 activities Laminates 51 December 2005 Invest in production capacity in emerging markets and Specialty Coating Systems 32 December 2005 restructure in maturing markets Ceramic Fibres 13 February 2006 Cost and overhead reduction Land and Property 10 Disposal of non-core activities and assets Total 114 Products and Markets Dividends All our main businesses hold strong market share positions.
Final dividend of 5p proposed for 2005.
We continue to increase our focus on higher margin products with high technology content, such as copper damascene, solar crucibles The table above highlights some of the progress achieved so far and lead-free solder.
We are maintaining our investment in R&D and against our strategic plan objectives.
The margin improvements in exiting commodity activities such as laminates and certain types of our two largest divisions, Ceramics and Electronics, are very ceramic bricks.
We also differentiate ourselves from our competitors encouraging.
It is clear that we have much further to go in our by offering customers superior technical support services.
Precious Metals business, although the return on net sales value decline for the division as a whole in difficult market conditions masks Investment and Restructuring a considerably stronger performance in the US than in Europe.
In almost all our activities we are a just in time supplier and need to be local to our customers.
We will therefore continue to match Over the past two years we have delivered sustained free cash flow production capacity to customer markets on a regional basis.
This and strongly improved profitability.
As a result of this and our requires continuing investment in new facilities in emerging improved confidence in the prospects for the Group, we are economies while restructuring as necessary in mature markets.
recommending a final dividend for 2005 of 5 pence, the first time a dividend will have been paid since October 2001.
In 2005, 25% of the revenues from our continuing operations came from emerging markets, most notably in Asia-Pacific and The disposal of the Groups Laminates business, together with the these revenues contributed 48% of the Groups trading profit.
2003 sale of Speedline, our electronic equipment business, substantially reduces our exposure to cyclical end-markets.
Now only In 2005, we invested 42 million in capital expenditure including about 20% of the revenue from our continuing businesses result the development of additional facilities in China, Poland, Brazil and from sales into electronics end-markets.
In fact the Electronics Mexico.
We also spent 17 million on restructuring, mainly in Europe division now has only 60% of its sales in electronics markets with and the US, to reduce costs and improve our competitiveness and 40% being in other industrial and automotive markets.
In 2006 we aim to turn around the performance of the Precious Cost and Overhead Reduction Metals division and to achieve further margin improvements in the By simplifying our structure and processes we can eliminate two largest divisions, Ceramics and Electronics.
In addition, we substantial overhead costs.
Progress has been made in many areas, plan to complete some smaller business and property disposals.
Cookson Group plc { 6 } Annual Report 2005 1 These fused silica rollers, branded as Zyarock, are used in the glass tempering process.
1 2 2 ENTEK PLUS HT is Enthones organic solderability preservative that enables lead-free assembly of printed circuit boards.
The highly solderable process withstands exposure to multiple, high temperature lead-free heat cycles.
3 4 3 Argentium Sterling Silver is a revolutionary alloy which is highly tarnish-resistant.
EU legislation prohibits the use of lead in electronic products from July 2006.
Cooksons lead-free solder sales have increased to represent 30% of its total solder sales from only 4% a year ago.
Cookson Group plc { 7 } Annual Report 2005
