Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors of Viridian Group PLC present their report and the Directors Group accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005.
The present directors, who held office throughout the period, are: Dipesh Shah non-executive Chairman Results and Dividends Patrick Haren Group Chief Executive The results for the year ended 31 March 2005 show a profit after Patrick Bourke Group Finance Director taxation of 68.1m.
An interim dividend of 9.84p per share was Harry McCracken Group Managing Director, VP&E paid on 31 March 2005.
The directors recommend payment of a Duncan Lewis Senior Independent Director final dividend of 25.34p per share resulting in total dividends for the Mike Toms year of 35.18p at a total cost of 47.0m.
Desmond Smyth and Philip Rogerson were directors until their retirement on 28 February 2005 and 30 April 2005 respectively.
Principal Activities and Review of Business Developments Duncan Lewis will seek re-appointment at this years AGM.
The Groups regulated energy activities of power procurement, The directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company transmission and distribution, transmission system operation and which include those of their families, together with details in supply of electricity are carried out through its subsidiaries, NIE and respect of share awards under the PSP, shares held by the trustees SONI.
The Groups unregulated energy activities are carried out of the SIP on their behalf and options to acquire ordinary shares through its subsidiary VP&E which comprises Energia - competitive under the all employee Sharesave Scheme, are shown in the market supply, and Huntstown - power generation.
The Group also Directors Remuneration report on pages 32 to 34. provides other business services through unregulated subsidiaries, notably Sx3 - software and IT services and Powerteam - specialist Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 6. power utility contractor.
On 5 May 2004 the Company redeemed its special rights Research and Development non-voting redeemable preference share of 1 Special Share at par, following notification from DETI that it required the Special The Group is committed to a programme of research and Share to be redeemed.
development activities appropriate to its businesses.
In particular, NIE in conjunction with local universities and other partners is Reviews of the Group's activities and potential future developments committed to research and development in the areas of embedded are provided in the Chairman's Statement, the Group Chief generation systems, particularly renewable generation, performance Executive's Review, and the Operating and Financial Review.
enhancement of interconnection and windpower.
Sx3 carries out research and development into internet-based Post Balance Sheet Event software for use in local authority systems.
On 25 April 2005 the Group completed the disposal of Sx3 to Northgate for 155m.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 11 May 2005 the Group had been notified of the following Share Capital substantial shareholding: Details of the authorised and issued share capital are given in note No.
of shares % 23 to the accounts.
Legal & General Group Plc 4,444,192 3.32 Directors Report 35 Equal Opportunities Payment of Suppliers The Group has been pro-active in compliance with fair employment, The Groups procurement policy is to source equipment, goods and sex discrimination, equal pay, disability discrimination and race services from a wide range of suppliers throughout the European discrimination legislation in Northern Ireland.
It regularly monitors Union and beyond in accordance with commercial practices based its actions to promote compliance and to ensure that it provides on fairness and transparency.
equality of opportunity in all its employment practices.
The Group recognises the important role that suppliers play in its business, and works to ensure that payments are made to them in Disability accordance with agreed contract terms.
The Group has taken active steps to implement the Disability Discrimination Act.
It is Group policy to provide people with Going Concern disabilities equal opportunities for employment, training and career development, having regard to aptitude and ability.
Any member of Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the staff who becomes disabled during employment is given assistance directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has and re-training where possible.
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Employee Participation The Group recognises the value of effective communication with employees.
There are well-established arrangements for By order of the Board consultation and the promotion of employee relations through a framework of company councils.
A number of Group-wide consultative committees are also in place dealing with areas such as health and safety and current ideas.
Ian Thom NIE, Powerteam and Sx3 have all achieved IIP accreditation.
Company Secretary Registered Office 120 Malone Road Health and Safety at Work of Employees Belfast BT9 5HT The Group strives for continual improvement in safety performance Registered Number: NI33250 through review of safe working practices and increased safety awareness of all employees.
17 May 2005 Charitable and Political Donations The Groups wide-ranging sponsorship activities are described in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 27.
Apart from sponsorship, donations to charities in the year were 11,000 2004 - 13,000.
There were no contributions for political purposes.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as external auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting Full details of the AGM to be held on 8 July 2005 and explanations of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting appear in the Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed separately with this report.
