BOARD OF DIRECTORS Patrick Haren aged 54, Duncan Lewis aged 54, Dipesh Shah aged 52, Group Chief Executive E, N A, N, R Chairman non-executive N Appointed Group Chief Executive in Appointed as a non-executive director in Appointed non-executive Chairman in February 1998.
Joined NIE as Chief February 2002.
He chairs the May 2005 following Philip Rogersons Executive in 1992.
He is a nonRemuneration Committee and, following retirement.
Appointed as a executive director of Invest Northern Desmond Smyths retirement, was non-executive director in November Ireland, the economic development appointed by the Board as Senior 2003.
Chief Executive of the United agency.
Previously Director of New Independent Director in March 2005.
Business Investment with ESB in the Senior Advisor, Telecommunications, Non-executive director of Babcock RoI and Chairman of ESB International.
Media and Technology at the Carlyle International Group PLC and Group and non-executive Chairman of non-executive Chairman of IT Power MessageLabs Group Limited.
Until late 2002 held a number executive director of the British Library.
of senior positions within BP plc, latterly Non-executive director and Chairman of as Vice President and General Manager, the audit committee of CompleTel nv.
Acquisitions and Divestments and Formerly President and Chief Operating formerly as chief executive of several Officer of GTS Inc, Managing Director of businesses within BP plc.
Equant nv, Chief Executive of Granada Media Group and held a number of managing director and chief executive positions at Cable and Wireless.
Patrick Bourke aged 48, Group Finance Director E Joined as Group Finance Director in September 2000.
Previously Head of Mergers and Acquisitions and then Group Treasurer at Powergen plc.
He was formerly a director of Barclays fide Harry McCracken aged 55, Zoete Wedd and qualified as a Group Managing Director, chartered accountant with Peat Viridian Power & Energy E Marwick now KPMG.
Mike Toms aged 51, Appointed Group Managing Director, VP&E in February 2003.
Previously A, N, R Managing Director, NIE with Appointed as a non-executive director in responsibility for the Groups regulated November 2003.
He has chaired the electricity businesses.
Joined NIE in Audit Committee since March 2005.
1970 as an engineer and progressed to Group Director, Planning and Regulatory Corporate Planning Manager prior to Affairs at BAA plc since 2001 and a appointment to the Board of NIE as member of its executive treasury Operations Director in 1992. committee.
Formerly held the positions of Chief Economist and Director of Corporate Strategy at BAA plc and was a non-executive director and member of - independent non-executive director the audit committee of Australia Pacific A - member of Audit Committee Airports Corporation.
He is a member E - member of Executive Committee of the Governing Board of the Airports Council International and a director of N - member of Nomination Committee the Airport Property Partnership.
R - member of Remuneration Committee 6 Board of Directors
