793529 1120 3 6 05 10:40 Page 55 Board of Directors and Group Management Board of Arcor AG & Co. KG, a member of the Supervisory Board of Vodafone D2 GmbH Directors and Senior Management and a member of the Management Boards of Vodafone Holding GmbH and Vodafone The business of the Company is managed by its Board of directors.
He is also a member of the Supervisory Board of Singulus details of the directors and senior management are as follows: Technologies AG.
Directors Ken Hydon, Financial Director, aged 60, has been a member of the Board since 1985.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, the Association Chairman of Chartered Certied Accountants and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL, aged 68, joined the Board in January 1997 and director of several subsidiaries of the Company and is a member of the Board of was made Chairman in July 1998.
He is Chairman of the Nominations and Representatives of the Verizon Wireless partnership in the United States.
Ken Hydon is Governance Committee.
Lord MacLaurin was Chairman of Tesco PLC from 1985 to also a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser plc and Tesco PLC.
He will retire 1997 and has been a director of Enterprise Oil Plc, Guinness Plc, National Westminster from the Board on conclusion of the AGM on 26 July 2005.
Bank Plc and Whitbread PLC.
He is also a non-executive director of the investment bank, The Evolution Group Plc.
Non-executive directors Deputy Chairman Sir John Bond, aged 63, was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2005 and became a member of the Remuneration Committee from 1 April 2005.
He is the Group Paul Hazen, aged 63, has been a member of the Board of directors since June 1999 Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc and a non-executive director of Ford Motor Company and became Deputy Chairman and the Boards nominated senior independent director and The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the 1961.
Sir Johns previous roles include Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and the Institute Nominations and Governance Committee.
In 2001, he retired as Chairman and Chief of International Finance Washington and he has been a non-executive director of the Executive officer of Wells Fargo & Company and its principal subsidiary, Wells Fargo London Stock Exchange, Orange plc, British Steel plc and the Court of the Bank of Bank, NA.
Paul Hazen is Chairman of Accel-KKR and KKR Financial Corp. and is also a England.
director of Safeway, Inc. Willis Group Holdings Limited and Xstrata AG.
Dr. Michael Boskin, aged 59, became a member of the Board of directors in June Executive directors 1999 on completion of the merger with AirTouch Communications Inc. and he is a Arun Sarin, Chief Executive, aged 50, became a member of the Board in June 1999. member of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
He has been a He was appointed Chief Executive in July 2003 and he is a member of the Nominations Professor of Economics at Stanford University since 1971 and was Chairman of the and Governance Committee.
Arun Sarin joined Pacic Telesis Group in San Francisco Presidents Council of Economic Advisers from February 1989 until January 1993. in 1984 and has served in many executive positions in his 20 year career in Dr Boskin is President and CEO of Boskin & Co. an economic consulting company, telecommunications.
He was a director of AirTouch from July 1995 and was President and is also a director of Exxon Mobil Corporation, Shinsei Bank Limited and Oracle and Chief Operating officer from February 1997 to June 1999.
Executive officer for the Vodafone United States and Asia Pacic region until 15 April 2000, when he became a non-executive director.
He has served as a director of The Lord Broers, aged 66, joined the Board in January 1998 and is a member of the Audit Gap, Inc.
The Charles Schwab Corporation and Cisco Systems, Inc. and has recently Committee and the Nominations and Governance Committee.
He is President of the been appointed as a non-executive director of the Court of the Bank of England.
Royal Academy of Engineering and a former Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge University.
He spent many years with IBM, in senior roles within the research and development Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Deputy Chief Executive, aged 56, has been a member of the function, and is a Fellow of the Royal Society, the Institute of Electrical Engineers and Board of directors since June 1996.
Previously the Group Chief Operating officer, he the Institute of Physics.
Lord Broers is also a Foreign Associate of the US National was appointed Deputy Chief Executive on 1 January 2005.
He is responsible for Academy of Engineering, a trustee of the British Museum and Chairman of the House Business Development, which includes delivering Vodafones product and services of Lords Science and Technology Select Committee.
He chairs the Vodafone Group portfolio to Vodafones afliates and Partner Networks and expanding and consolidating Foundation and the Companys UK pension trustee company.
He is a director of China Mobile Hong Kong Limited and several of the Groups overseas operating companies, including Chairman of the Supervisory John Buchanan, aged 61, has been a member of the Board of directors since April Boards of Vodafone Deutschland GmbH and Vodafone D2 GmbH.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and, solely for the purposes of relevant non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Group plc and Smiths Group plc.
legislation, is the Boards appointed financial expert on that Committee.
He retired from the Board of BP p. l. c. in 2002 after six years as Group Chief Financial officer and Peter Bamford, Chief Marketing officer, aged 51, joined the Board in April 1998 and executive director following a wide-ranging career with the company.
He was a was appointed to his present position in 2003.
He is responsible for the full range of member of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards Board from 1997 to 2001.
He marketing and commercial activities including brand, global product development and is the Deputy Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc and a non-executive director of content management, accountability for serving Vodafones global corporate customers AstraZeneca PLC and BHP Billiton.
and management and procurement of the global handset portfolio.
Previously, he was Chief Executive, Northern Europe, Middle East & Africa Region and Managing Director Penny Hughes, aged 45, has been a member of the Board since September 1998 of Vodafone UK.
Before joining Vodafone in 1997, Peter Bamford held senior positions and is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
She has particular expertise in with Kingsher plc and Tesco PLC and was a director of WH Smith PLC.
marketing and has developed experience in many human resource areas, including leadership development, motivation and retention.
She is President of the Advertising Thomas Geitner, Chief Technology officer, aged 50, was appointed to the Board in Association, a member of the advisory committee of Bridgepoint Capital Limited and a May 2000 and is responsible for Group Technology.
Prior to joining the Group, he was non-executive director of Reuters Group PLC, Scandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB and a member of the Management Board of RWE AG.
Thomas Geitner is a director of several of the Groups overseas subsidiaries including Chairman of the Supervisory Governance | 55 793529 1120 3 6 05 10:40 Page 56 Board of Directors and Group Management continued The Gap, Inc. Penny Hughes was President, Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland, and Alan Harper, Group Strategy and Business Integration Director, aged 48, joined has been a non-executive director of Next Plc, Trinity Mirror Plc and The Body Shop Plc.
Vodafone in 1995 as Group Commercial Director and he subsequently became Managing Director of Vodafone UK.
He was appointed to his current position in July Sir David Scholey CBE, aged 69, was appointed to the Board in March 1998.
Prior to joining the Group he held the post of Business Strategy Director with member of the Nominations and Governance Committee and the Audit Committee.
He Mercury One2One and senior roles with Unitel and STC Telecoms.
He is also a is Chairman of Close Brothers Group plc and the Chubb Corporation, USA and is an member of the Vodafone D2 GmbH Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Vodafone adviser to UBS AG, Mitsubishi Corporation and IBCA-Fitch and Chairman of the Trustees UK Foundation.
of the National Portrait Gallery.
Sir David was formerly a non-executive director of the Court of the Bank of England and a Governor of the British Broadcasting Corporation.
Simon Lewis, Group Corporate Affairs Director, aged 46, joined Vodafone in November He will retire from the Board after the AGM on 26 July 2005.
He was previously Group Director of Communications and Public Policy for Centrica Plc, Director of Corporate Affairs at NatWest Group and the Head of Public Professor Jrgen Schrempp, aged 60, has been a member of the Board of directors Relations at SG Warburg plc.
He was President of the Institute of Public Relations in since May 2000 and is a member of the Nominations and Governance Committee and 1997 and is a Visiting Professor at the Cardiff School of Journalism.
In 1998, he was Remuneration Committee.
He has been Chairman of the Board of Management of seconded to Buckingham Palace for two years as the first Communications Secretary DaimlerChrysler AG since 1998.
From 1995 until 1998 he was Chairman of the Board to The Queen.
He is also a trustee of the Vodafone Group Foundation.
of Management of Daimler-Benz AG.
He was one of the principal architects of the successful merger of Daimler-Benz with the Chrysler Corporation a move that Tim Miles, Chief Executive UK, aged 47, was appointed to this position in April 2005. created DaimlerChrysler.
He was a member of the Supervisory Board of Mannesmann He joined Vodafone in August 2001 as Director of Business Markets for Vodafone New AG until May 2000.
Professor Schrempp is a member of the Board of directors of Zealand and became Managing Director of Vodafone New Zealand in January 2002.
Compagnie Financire Richemont SA and Sasol Limited.
Additional engagements He has over twenty years experience in the IT and Telecommunications industry.
Prior include the Advisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG, the European Advisory Board of to joining Vodafone, he was Vice President for Global Industries, Unisys Corporation, Harvard Business School and the German Council of INSEAD.
USA and before that, held executive positions with Data General and IBM.
Luc Vandevelde, aged 54, joined the Board in September 2003 and is a member of Bill Morrow, President Vodafone K. K. Japan, aged 45, was appointed to this position the Remuneration Committee.
He became Chairman of the Supervisory Board of in April 2005 after ten years with the Vodafone Group in various positions, including Carrefour SA in February 2005.
He is the Founder and Managing Director of Change Chief Executive of Vodafone UK.
He has twenty-five years of experience in the Capital Partners LLP, a private equity fund.
Luc Vandevelde was formerly Chairman of telecommunications industry, holding senior leadership roles in the USA, Asia and Marks & Spencer Group Plc and Chief Executive officer of Promodes, and he has held Europe, including management positions at Pacic Bell, director of AirTouch and Chief senior European and international roles with Kraft General Foods.
Technical officer and then Executive Vice President and Chief Operating officer at Proximus Belgium.
Senior Management Stephen Scott, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, aged 51, was Members of the Executive Committee who are not also executive directors are appointed to this position in the Group in 1991, prior to which he was employed in the regarded as senior managers of the Company.
Chaired by Arun Sarin, this committee Racal Group legal department, having moved into industry in 1980 from private law focuses on the Groups strategy, financial structure and planning, succession planning, practice in London.
He is a director of the Companys UK pension trustee company organisational development and Group-wide policies.
The Executive Committee and is a director and trustee of the Solicitors Pro Bono Group.
comprises the executive directors, details of whom are shown above, and the senior managers listed below: Shiro Tsuda, Executive Chairman and Chairman of the board of Vodafone K. K. Japan, aged 59, was appointed to this position in April 2005, having joined Vodafone in 2004.
Brian Clark, Group Human Resources Director, aged 56, was appointed to this position He joined Nippon Telephone and Telegraph Public Corporation now NTT in 1970, in 2005.
He joined Vodafone in 1997 and, before his current position, was Chief helping to establish the mobile phone project that later became NTT DoCoMo.
In Executive, Asia Pacic Region.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Managing Director 1996, he became a board member of NTT DoCoMo.
and Chief Executive officer of Telkom SA Limited, South Africa.
Jrgen von Kuczkowski, Chief Executive of Vodafone D2 GmbH Germany, aged 64, Paul Donovan, Chief Executive, Other Vodafone Subsidiaries, aged 46, was appointed was appointed to this position in June 1994.
He joined Mannesmann Mobilfunk GmbH to this position in January 2005.
He joined Vodafone in 1999 as Managing Director now Vodafone D2 GmbH in October 1990, initially as Director of Sales and Commercial, and was appointed Chief Executive of Vodafone Ireland in 2001.
He was previously the Chief Executive, Central Europe Region and Chief over fifteen years experience in the telecommunications and IT industries and has held Executive, Northern Europe Region.
senior roles at BT, One2One and Optus Communications and, prior to that, marketing roles at the Mars Group, Coca Cola and Schweppes Beverages.
Phil Williams, aged 54, is a director of several Group companies and is the senior Vodafone nominated director on the Board of Vodacom Group Pty Limited, the Groups Pietro Guindani, Chief Executive Italy, aged 47, was appointed to this position in July South African associated company.
He was Group Human Resources Director from 2004.
He has been a member of Vodafone Italys board of directors since 2002 and 1989 to 2005, having previously been Personnel Director of Costain plc.
He is a held the post of Chief Financial officer for the Vodafone Groups Southern Europe and trustee of the Vodafone Group Foundation and a director of the UK pension trustee Middle East Region from 2001.
He previously held a number of senior financial companies.
He will retire in July 2005. appointments, including Chief Financial officer of Omnitel now Vodafone Italy since its start-up in 1995, International Finance Director with the Olivetti Group and Relationship Banker with Citibank N. A.
56 | Governance 793529 1120 3 6 05 10:40 Page 57 Financial Director Designate Andy Halford, Financial Director Designate, aged 46, will become the Financial Director of the Company on conclusion of the AGM on 26 July 2005.
He joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director for Vodafone Limited, the UK operating company, and in 2001, he became Financial Director for Vodafones Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa Region.
In 2002, he was appointed Chief Financial officer of Verizon Wireless in the US.
Prior to joining Vodafone he was Group Finance Director at East Midlands Electricity Plc.
Integration and Operations Committee On 1 January 2005, a new Integration and Operations Committee came into effect.
Chaired by Arun Sarin, the Committee is responsible for setting operational plans, budgets and forecasts, product and service development, customer segmentation, managing delivery of multi-market propositions and managing shared resources.
The Committee comprises the members of the Executive Committee plus: Fritz Joussen, Chief Operating officer Germany, aged 42, was appointed to this position in November 2003.
He started his career at Tektronix in the US and went on to join Mannesmann in 1988 and Mannesmann Mobilfunk GmbH now Vodafone D2 GmbH in 1990.
In 1997, he was appointed Vice President of Marketing and Product Management as a Management Board member of Mannesmann Mobilfunk GmbH.
From December 2000 until November 2003, he was Vodafones Director of Global Product Management.
He is a member of the Management Board of Vodafone D2 GmbH.
