Paul Hazen Sir John Bond Dr Michael Boskin Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 63, appointed to the Non-Executive Director, 59, Board director Director, 63, Board director since 1999 since 1999.
He has been a Professor of Board in January 2005.
He is the Group He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Economics at Stanford University since Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc, having of Wells Fargo & Company and its principal 1971 and was Chairman of the Presidents joined HSBC in 1961, and a non-executive subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, NA until he Council of Economic Advisers from 1989 to director of Ford Motor Company.
He is Chairman of Accel-KKR 1993.
He is also a director of Exxon Mobil roles include Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and KKR Financial Corp and is also a director Corporation, Shinsei Bank Limited and and the Institute of International Finance of Safeway, Inc. and Xstrata AG.
Washington, non-executive director of the Lord BroersLondon Stock Exchange, Orange plc, British Penny Hughes Non-Executive Director, 66, joined the Board Steel plc and the Bank of England.
He is President of the Royal director in 1998.
She is President of the John Buchanan Academy of Engineering, a Fellow of the Advertising Association, a member of the Non-Executive Director, 61, Board director Royal Society, the Institute of Electrical advisory committee of Bridgepoint Capital since 2003.
He was Group Chief Financial Engineers and the Institute of Physics, Limited and a non-executive director of Officer and executive director of BP p. l. c. until Chairman of the House of Lords Science Reuters Group PLC, Scandinaviska Enskilda and Technology Select Committee and a his retirement in 2002 and was a member of Banken AB and The Gap, Inc. She was former Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge the United Kingdom Accounting Standards President, Coca-Cola Great Britain and University.
He spent 19 years in senior roles Board from 1997 to 2001.
He is the Deputy Ireland until 1995, and subsequently was a within IBMs R&D function.
Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc and a non-executive director of Next Plc, Trinity Sir David Scholey CBE non-executive director of AstraZeneca PLC Mirror Plc and the Body Shop Plc.
Non-Executive Director, 69, Board director and BHP Billiton.
He is Chairman of Close Professor Jrgen Schrempp Non-Executive Director, 54, Board director Brothers Group plc and the Chubb Non-Executive Director, 60, joined the Board since 2003.
He is Chairman of the Corporation and is an adviser to UBS AG, in 2000.
He is Chairman of the Board of Supervisory Board of Carrefour SA and Mitsubishi Corporation and IBCA-Fitch.
Management of DaimlerChrysler AG and a Founder and Managing Director of Change He was formerly a non-executive director of director of Compagnie Financire Richemont Capital Partners LLP.
He was formerly the Bank of England and a Governor of the SA and Sasol Limited.
He was a member of Chairman of Marks & Spencer Group Plc British Broadcasting Corporation.
He will the Supervisory Board of Mannesmann AG and CEO of Promodes and he held senior retire from the Board after the AGM on 26 July 2005. until 2000. international roles with Kraft General Foods.
Corporate Governance 23 | Summary Directors Report The Summary Directors Report, the Summary of the US listing requirements Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors The Companys American Depositary Shares ADSs are Remuneration on pages 26 to 29, and the Summary listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Company is Financial Statement on pages 30 and 34, are a summary therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as US of the information contained in the Vodafone Group Plc securities laws and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Pursuant to NYSE corporate governance rules, This is intended to simplify annual communication with Vodafone, as a foreign private issuer, is required to shareholders.
This Annual Review & Summary Financial summarise significant differences between the corporate Statement does not contain sufficient information to governance provisions of the NYSE applicable to US allow a full understanding of the results of the Vodafone companies and the corporate governance principles Group and the state of affairs of Vodafone Group Plc applicable to it and followed by it in the UK.
A summary is the Company and the Vodafone Group.
contained within the Companys full Annual Report.
For more detailed information, the Directors Report, the The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 US applies to the Company.
full accounts and the Auditors Report on those accounts, The Company has a Disclosure Committee with responsibility which was unqualified, contained in the Vodafone Group for reviewing and approving controls and procedures over the public disclosure of financial and related information, and Plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2005, should be consulted.
It is available to view on the other procedures necessary to enable the Chief Executive and Financial Director to provide their Certifications of the Annual Companys website at www.
com Report on Form 20-F that is filed with the SEC.
The Company Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual Report as well also has a corporate code of ethics for senior financial as the Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement in officers, separate from and additional to our Business future years should write to the Registrars at the address Principles described below.
A copy of the code of ethics is on page 37.
ADS holders should write to The Bank of also available on our website.
The Company is making good New York at the address on page 37. progress on the work required to ensure compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is required in its financial year ending 31 March 2007.
Statement of corporate governance policy Business Principles The directors of the Company are committed to high standards of corporate governance, which they consider are In addition to the formal requirements of the Listing critical to business integrity and to maintaining investors Authorities and Stock Exchanges described above, the Group trust in the Company.
We expect all our directors and has developed and implemented its own Business Principles employees to act with honesty, integrity and fairness.
which define our relationships with all our stakeholders We will strive to act in accordance with the laws and and govern how we conduct our day-to-day business.
customs of the countries in which we operate: adopt proper You can find the Business Principles on our website at standards of business practice and procedure: operate with www.
com integrity: and observe and respect the culture of every Our Business Principles apply to all Vodafone operating country in which we do business.
We also promote the Principles to our associate companies where Vodafone holds The Combined Code a minority stake and business partners.
Chief Executives are responsible for ensuring application of the Principles within The Companys ordinary shares are listed in the United their business.
Kingdom on the London Stock Exchange.
As such, the Every employee is expected to act in accordance with the Company is required to make a disclosure statement Business Principles.
In 2003 04 we established a confidential concerning its application of the Principles of and compliance email facility for employees to report any concerns.
We track with the provisions of the Combined Code on corporate implementation of our Business Principles through our governance.
For the financial year ended 31 March 2005, the internal audits.
directors confirm that, with one exception referred to below, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of Directors the Combined Code.
The Combined Code states that a Companys Remuneration Details of the current members of the Board of directors are Committee should be composed entirely of independent shown on pages 22 and 23.
Vittorio Colao resigned as a non-executive directors.
Lord MacLaurin is not treated as director on 11 July 2004.
Sir John Bond joined the Board on being independent for the purposes of the Combined Code 1 January 2005.
Ken Hydon and Sir David Scholey will retire and although he was a member of the Remuneration as directors following the Annual General Meeting on 26 July Committee during the financial year he stepped down 2005 and Andy Halford will then join the Board, subject to in March 2005. shareholder approval at the AGM.
