793529 1050 3 6 05 10:38 Page 5 We have announced that Andy Halford, who, until the end of December, was Chief Responsible behaviour Financial officer at our US afliate, Verizon Wireless, will succeed Ken Hydon.
Andy Mobile telecommunications brings many positive social, environmental and economic Halford joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director, Vodafone UK.
In 2001 he was benets, although for some it also brings concerns about possible health effects.
Our given regional responsibility as Financial Director for the UK, Northern Europe, Middle approach is to continue to support research aligned with the World Health East and Africa before moving to his position with Verizon Wireless in 2002.
Organisations priorities and to provide customers and local communities everywhere On 1 January, I was delighted to welcome Sir John Bond to the Board as a nonwe operate with up to date, reliable information in plain language.
We are committed executive director.
Sir John, who is Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc, one of the to communicating clearly to ensure people have the information they want to make worlds largest banks, brings with him many years experience and a track record of decisions on mobile telecommunications.
success in international markets, particularly in Asia and the Americas.
His skills will be For Vodafone, corporate responsibility is about understanding the expectations of our of great benefit to the Board.
stakeholders and taking appropriate action to meet those expectations.
We are, For the first time, all the directors are retiring and seeking re-election this year.
This is therefore, integrating corporate responsibility into the business and this is reected in a responsible step forward as we seek to maintain the highest standards of corporate our strategic goals, our values and our Business Principles.
During the year, Vodafone and its operating companies made charitable contributions of It is only with the support and commitment of all employees, at all levels, that we are 33 million to The Vodafone Group Foundation, local Vodafone Foundations and social able to continue the growth of Vodafone.
In thanking them all, I look forward to their projects.
To support the humanitarian rescue operation following the Asia Tsunami ongoing contribution to achieving further progress in the current year.
disaster, Vodafone, its employees and Foundations committed total funds of 2.5 million, including the provision of free calls to and from the affected region as well as employee matched donations in a number of countries.
A summary of our corporate responsibility activity in the year is set out later in this report, with full details available in our Corporate Responsibility report, which I believe you will be pleased to read.
Delivering value to shareholders Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL Your Board believes that with the continuing financial strength of your Company it is Chairman possible to increase returns to shareholders through enhanced dividend payments and share purchases.
In November, the interim dividend was increased by 100% and the directors are now recommending that the final dividend is also increased by 100%.
We have also continued with our share purchase programme and in the year to 31 March 2005 purchased approximately 3 billion shares at a cost of 4 billion.
We shall be seeking shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM for the purchase of up to a further 4.5 billion of shares during the current financial year and I look forward to your support.
Effective leadership As part of a new organisational structure designed to assist in the delivery of the Groups strategic goals, Sir Julian Horn-Smith was appointed Deputy Chief Executive on 1 January this year.
In this role, Sir Julian leads a new function, Global Business Development, which is responsible for delivering Vodafones products and services portfolio into the Groups afliates and Partner Networks.
The Global Business Development team has also assumed responsibility for expanding and consolidating our footprint through our Partner Network programme and any acquisition activities.
It was a great pleasure for us all that the Queen awarded Julian a Knighthood in her last birthday honours list.
The honour was very much deserved and is appropriate recognition of the outstanding contribution he has made to the success of your Company.
At the conclusion of the AGM to be held in July, our Financial Director, Ken Hydon, will retire.
Ken was one of the first directors of your Company and he has done a superb job in helping to guide the Company from its origins to the world leader it is today.
His financial discipline and acumen has enabled Vodafone to invest signicantly in customers, infrastructure and acquisitions whilst maintaining financial strength and exibility at all times.
He will be missed by his colleagues and we wish him a very happy and well deserved retirement.
Also retiring at the AGM will be Sir David Scholey, a non-executive director since 1998.
Davids wise counsel will also be missed and we thank him for his service and contribution to the Board over many years.
Strategy | 5 793529 1060 3 6 05 10:39 Page 6 Chief Executives Review Delivering operating performance Delighting our customers Implementing One Vodafone Increasing shareholder returns Executing our strategy Arun Sarin Chief Executive This has been another successful year for Vodafone.
We closed the year with nearly 155 million proportionate customers, having generated 7.8 billion of free cash ow from 12.7 billion of operating cash ow.
Cash shareholder returns increased to 6 billion as we doubled the dividend and purchased 4 billion of our shares.
We also launched 3G for consumers and rmly established our One Vodafone plan key drivers for our future growth.
Japan remains a strategically important mobile market for us and is a significant profit Delivering operational performance generator for the Group, contributing 0.8 billion of operating profit before goodwill Our results are built on the base of a strong overall Group operational performance that amortisation in the last year.
However, the pace of change and advanced state of 3G has delivered on all our key targets.
there requires additional focus to improve our competitive position.
Together with our Organic growth of 12% in proportionate customers was driven by particularly strong three main objectives, we have strengthened the management team and remain performances in the year in Germany, Spain and the US.
Customer growth has again focused on a successful execution of our recovery plan.
been the driver for the increase in revenue but, as average customer spend has As we look forward, we see both greater opportunities and greater challenges.
The reduced, this led to growth in Group mobile revenue of 4%, or 5% on an organic basis.
potential for growth in voice and data is significant.
However, penetration levels in many Group revenue increased by 2% to 34.1 billion.
Removing the effect of acquisitions of our markets are now reaching saturation and competition is intensifying through and disposals and adverse foreign exchange movements, organic revenue growth existing network operators and the introduction of many more low cost operators and was 6%.
Greater choice in the market place is leading to rising customer demands.
We are also seeing continued regulatory led termination rate reductions.
Cash ow generation continues to be robust, reecting the underlying strength of our operations and financial structure.
Operating cash ow increased by 0.4 billion to In this environment, we see winners and losers.
We believe Vodafone is uniquely 12.7 billion, driven by higher revenue.
Free cash ow for the year was 7.8 billion, positioned to succeed through our scale and scope and the customer focus of all our compared to 8.5 billion last year that included one-off items amounting to 0.8 billion.
To achieve this success, we are focused on the execution of the six This strong cash ow supports our significant increases in shareholder returns this year.
strategic goals that we outlined last year: delighting our customers, leveraging our scale and scope, expanding market boundaries, building the best global team, being a This past financial year we added a further 5.1 billion of xed assets, primarily in responsible business and providing superior shareholder returns.
respect of our mobile network infrastructure.
This amount is only slightly higher than the prior year, even though we continue to invest signicantly in our 3G networks.
Delighting our customers Our operating performance in Europe remains robust.
In the US, Verizon Wireless has Focus on customer needs performed exceptionally well, delivering impressive financial performance across all A core strategic goal is delighting our customers.
Vodafone has nearly 155 million metrics.
We have a productive working relationship with our partner, Verizon proportionate customers around the world, all with the common need to communicate Communications, and believe that we will continue to benefit from our investment in with friends, family and colleagues wherever they are.
Within this common need, our Verizon Wireless as we go forward.
customers have different communication requirements.
Some may need constant and We face challenges in Japan, where we are half way through a two year plan to real time access to their email.
Others may want to download music and games.
This plan has three main objectives: to improve the Others just want to talk.
However, all of our customers desire simplicity and attractiveness of 3G handsets and content in that market, to increase the effectiveness transparency.
Vodafone aims to deliver increasing value to its customers by creating of our distribution channels and to improve the coverage of our 3G network.
innovative services that meet these different needs, supported by world class customer service.
6 | Strategy 793529 1060 3 6 05 10:39 Page 7 Proportionate customers Turnover Cash ow Total Total Total millions bn bn 154.8 34.1 March 2005 110.1 34.1 12.7 12.7 March 2005 March 2005 33.2 7.8 7.8 33.2 32.7 33.6 12.1 12.3 March 2004 97.0 March 2004 133.4 March 2004 31.9 31.9 7.7 8.5 28.6 30.4 10.5 11.1 March 2003 March 2003 27.8 87.7 27.8 5.0 5.2 March 2003 119.7 Subsidiaries Others Total Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total Net cash flow from operating activities Free cash flow Mobile turnover Discontinued operations and, in the year ended 31 March 2004, free cash flow from the closure of certain financial instruments One of the key elements in delighting our customers was the launch in November Offering innovative pricing 2004 of our 3G consumer service, Vodafone live!
This service fundamentally Whilst we can now offer a much richer customer experience, the key to generating changes mobile telecommunications for our customers and gives Vodafone a platform additional revenue is to encourage customers to use more services and increase their to deliver a market leading, differentiated proposition.
Most importantly, it represents a mobile spending, in an environment where people want simplicity and more value at significant ongoing growth opportunity for the Group through new and enhanced lower cost.
services, additional network capacity and innovative pricing.
To deliver on this basic customer need, we plan progressively to introduce price plans Creating new and enhanced services that bundle voice and data services together within an attractive value proposition for Customers have been enjoying Vodafone live!
services on 2.5G since its launch in our customers, whilst at the same time encouraging higher usage.
The more cost efficient nature of the new technology also enables us to provide these additional October 2002.
With the introduction of 3G, these services are enhanced through greater services and revenue without incurring a substantial change in underlying costs, data speed and capacity, providing a better customer experience.
Faster network speed, more network capacity and increasingly sophisticated devices also means many new thereby creating value for shareholders.
services can be delivered to the mobile.
The result is clearer pictures, more exciting Customer management games and better music and sound quality.
We now offer 3D games, full track music downloads with CD-like quality in addition to real music and polyphonic ringtones and a With rising customer expectations and increasing choice, effective customer management is increasingly important.
We seek regular feedback on customer satisfaction and brand wider range of video based services, including video calling and higher quality lm, music preference and closely monitor network performance.
We also offer a wide range of and entertainment clips.
We have also signicantly increased the range and depth of content as mobile has become a more attractive channel to content providers.
attractive loyalty schemes so as to maximise customer retention.
In highly penetrated markets, customer retention is a critical driver of market and financial success.
But 3G is not all about consumer services, as it provides a significant enhancement to business offerings as well.
This has been most evident with the Vodafone Mobile Driving revenue growth Connect data card, which enables business customers to connect to their ofce We aim to delight our customers through tailoring services to what they really want.
systems whilst on the move.
Greater speed and capacity means much easier access We believe the combination of new and enhanced services, greater value offerings and and use of email and other ofce applications our customers can now use their effective customer management will drive revenue growth.
laptops as if they were in the ofce.
We have expanded our push email offerings Vodafone live!
with 3G delivers an end-to-end customer service through the combined recently and are also working closely with a number of leading IT industry players to bring historically xed line internet services to the mobile world.
effect of being first to market with the widest and best range of handsets and the most exciting services: providing content from leading providers: offering innovative and Capturing more minutes value driving pricing: and all of this in a common way across our high quality networks.
3G provides signicantly more capacity in our networks.
This gives us the ability to But we are doing more than just focusing on 3G: we are expanding our business drive voice minutes that are currently carried on xed lines onto mobile networks, so services, offering an uncomplicated mobile experience through Vodafone Simply and called xed to mobile substitution, and therefore generate additional revenue.
To put have simplied and increased the value to customers of our roaming tariffs.
Our focus this opportunity into perspective, approximately two thirds of all voice trafc in Europe on customer needs provides the basis for the future.
today is carried on xed line networks, offering significant market expansion potential for Vodafone in voice minutes.
Strategy | 7 Chief Executives Review continued The consumer launch of 3G saw us begin to offer converged, global handsets as we Implementing One Vodafone introduced ten common handsets across our markets and we will develop this portfolio Leverage scale and scope going forward whilst still catering for specic local market needs.
Another key goal is to deliver fully the benets of our scale and scope.
As the Group IT delivery is one of the most complex areas as we aim to consolidate our businesshas expanded over the past few years, we have been able to achieve some significant critical billing and customer support systems and will take place over a longer time scale benets.
For example, as the volumes of network equipment and handsets we frame than the other initiatives.
This will simplify our systems and lead to a lower cost have purchased from the same suppliers have increased, we have secured better structure in the future.
We have also harmonised the brand in many of our markets and started For the year ahead, our focus will be on implementing our plans and beginning to deliver offering common products and services.
The One Vodafone programme builds on this improvements.
The net benefit to us in the short term will be limited as we will incur costs to further integrate our businesses and create sustainable competitive advantage.
The first substantial benets are expected in the year to The programme is focused on six major areas of our business, dened as networks, March 2007, with the programme fully up and running in the year to March 2008. service platforms, IT delivery, terminals, customer management and roaming.
We aim Financial targets to leverage scale and scope through a combination of standardising designs and processes, reducing duplication, centralising certain functions and sharing best The One Vodafone programme is targeted to deliver 2.5 billion of incremental pre-tax practice.
The effect will be to improve our time to market with new offerings, create a operating free cash ow improvements in the year ending March 2008.
This is an consistent customer experience across our networks and enable us to achieve a annual benefit and is made up of cost savings of 1.4 billion and revenue strategic, lowest cost position.
We expect that, in the year to March 2008, combined mobile operating and capital During the year to March 2005, we have established objectives, plans and the expenditures will be broadly similar, in absolute terms, to the year to March 2004, even supporting organisation to deliver on our programme.
Whilst we are in the early after four years of projected revenue growth and assuming no significant changes in stages, some initiatives are more advanced than others.
foreign exchange rates and after adjusting for acquisitions and disposals.
We are establishing an integrated network planning process to harmonise network Our revenue targets are equivalent to at least 1% additional revenue market share in specications across our operations and we have signicantly reduced the duplication the year to March 2008 compared to the year to March 2005.
We will measure this in of research projects across the Group.
We have also created operational hosting our five major controlled markets compared to our principal established competitors.
centres in Germany and Italy for the delivery of common services and our European operations will be migrating to these centres over the next 18 months.
Build the best global Vodafone team In May 2005, we announced our new roaming proposition that will be available across With effect from the beginning of 2005, we restructured the business to create a atter 14 markets, leveraging our unrivalled footprint.
This is a significant step in reducing organisational structure that is better positioned to respond to the rising expectations of roaming complexity for our customers.
It offers simple pricing that is transparent to our customers and to deliver on 3G and One Vodafone.
customers so that they will know exactly what their charges will be when abroad.
The The previous regional structure has been simplied so that major countries and basic principle is that, where available, a customers home tariff will apply abroad, with business areas report directly to me.
This new structure focuses more attention on the same call set-up fee being charged for each call made.
customers in Vodafones local markets, enhances our ability to deliver seamless services and speeds up execution.
Develop an integrated network plan Drive greater volumes of global handsets Standardise network design and purchasing Focus on customisation and exclusivity Reduce network maintenance costs from Balance local needs against global scale standardised networks Deliver simplied roaming offerings Consolidate European service platforms Optimise value from roaming through benefit Establish regional hosting centres in Service Roaming from scale and scope Germany and Italy Platforms Develop co-ordinated and centralised support Migrate operating companies to hosting activities for roaming centres over next 18 months Implement consistent, segment and value based customer management Create a roadmap to consolidate billing Customer IT Delivery and CRM systems Management Drive improvements in customer retention and satisfaction 8 | Strategy Networks Terminals 793529 1060 3 6 05 10:39 Page 9 Increasing shareholder returns Executing our strategy Overall, the business is performing well.
We are generating strong cash ows and, We have made excellent progress in executing against our strategic goals in the year through our focus on customers and leveraging our scale and scope, we continue to but there is still much to do.
We have restructured the business to more closely align see strong growth prospects for the business.
ourselves to these goals and have outstanding and passionate leaders and people in the organisation to deliver them.
Our commitment to deliver on our goals is underlined These factors have enabled us to deliver a substantial increase in shareholder returns by our values, which state that everything we do is driven by our passion for in the year.
At our interim results we doubled the dividend and indicated we would do customers, our people, results and the world around us.
the same for the final dividend, which we have now proposed for approval at the AGM.
In addition to increasing the dividend, we re-purchased 4 billion of our shares in the Outlook year to March 2005.
The result was an increase in cash returns to shareholders For the year ahead, we see continued good growth in mobile revenue.
We expect to compared to the previous year from 2.3 billion to 6 billion.
add approximately a further 5 billion of xed assets as we continue to expand our 3G Through our shareholder returns policy, we wish to continue to provide shareholders networks.
Free cash ow is anticipated to be in the 6.5 billion to 7 billion range, with a mix of dividends and share purchases, whilst retaining exibility within our debt with a lower level of dividends expected from Verizon Wireless combined with higher capacity to pursue selective acquisition opportunities should they arise.
Given our cash expenditure on taxation and xed assets offsetting growth in operating cash ow.
strong financial position, we see no need for the business to reduce absolute levels of This year Vodafone has taken important steps to deliver ongoing growth and increased debt in the future.
The future for mobile telecommunications is both challenging and Having increased the dividend by 100% in the year, we currently expect future exciting.
We face increasing competition and differing regulatory environments but the increases in dividends to be in line with underlying growth in earnings.
We also intend opportunities for us remain significant.
We are in a unique position and, through our to continue to purchase shares on an ongoing basis, although this is subject to gaining launch of 3G and the establishment of One Vodafone, we are creating platforms to shareholder approval each year.
For the year to March 2006, we are targeting another deliver differentiated services to the benefit of both our customers and shareholders.
Given our expectations for cash generation in the year ahead, we would expect shareholder returns to represent a pay out ratio of approximately 100%.
Expanding market boundaries The proposed acquisition of TIWs mobile interests in Romania and the Czech Republic Arun Sarin is very much in line with our acquisition strategy, focusing on selected opportunities, Chief Executive primarily in Central and Eastern Europe.
These businesses are fast growing and we believe they will benefit fully from the global services and scale benets that our Group can deliver.
Retaining financial exibility to pursue these incremental opportunities enables us to act quickly and decisively when the ability to enhance shareholder value arises.
Cash returns to shareholders Executing our strategic goals Consumer launch of 3G: launch of Total Delight our Vodafone Simply: expanding business March 2005 6bn 2bn 4bn Customers services: simplifying tariffs Implementing One Vodafone: launch of Leverage Scale new roaming proposition Total and Scope March 2004 1.3bn 1.0bn 2.3bn Acquiring control in Romania and Czech Expand Market Republic: extending Partner Networks Boundaries Total Simplifying management structure to Build the Best focus on customers and deliver on March 2003 1.1bn nil 1.1bn Global Vodafone Team strategic goals Integrating Corporate Responsibility Be a Responsible into the business Cash Dividends Cash Share Purchases Business Doubled the dividend and increased Provide Superior share purchases to 4bn in the year Shareholder Returns Strategy | 9 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 10 Business Overview programme is designed to leverage this scale by enabling solutions to be designed Contents once and deployed multiple times.
Vodafones marketing proposition roadmap delivers Page an increasingly seamless and unique range of services to targeted customer segments Overview 10 on a multi-market basis, combining the benets of global scale and scope with the Mobile Telecommunications 10 advantages of local market understanding and responsiveness.
Business strategy 10 Underpinning all aspects of Vodafones strategy is a focus on the unique power of Local operations 10 mobility.
With nearly 155 million proportionate mobile customers at the end of the Competition 10 financial year, and using the benets of early experience in commercialising the next Summary of Group mobile telecommunications businesses 11 generation of wireless access technologies, Vodafone is well positioned to continue to Licences and network infrastructure 12 lead in mobile service provision in developed and emerging markets.
Global services 13 One Vodafone 13 Local operations Products and services 13 The Company has equity interests in 26 countries, through its subsidiary undertakings, Marketing and brand 15 associated undertakings and investments.
Partner Network arrangements extend to a Distribution 16 further 14 countries.
Multinational corporates 16 Research and development 16 At 31 March 2005, based on the registered customers of mobile telecommunications Regulation 17 ventures in which it had ownership interests at that date, the Group had approximately Non-mobile Telecommunications 20 154.8 million customers, calculated on a proportionate basis in accordance with the History and Development of the Company 20 Groups percentage interest in these ventures, and 431.8 million registered venture customers.
The table on the next page sets out a summary of the Companys worldwide mobile operations at 31 March 2005 and venture customer growth in the Overview year then ended the 2005 financial year.
Vodafone Group Plc is the worlds leading mobile telecommunications company, with a significant presence in Europe, the United States and the Asia Pacic region through Competition the Companys subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings and investments.
The The Group faces a high degree of competition in each of its geographic markets.
It is Group also has arrangements to market certain of its services in additional territories, subject to indirect competition from providers of other telecommunications services in through Partner Networks, without the need for equity investment.
The Group the domestic markets in which it operates in addition to direct competition from provides a wide range of mobile telecommunications services, including voice and data existing network operators of mobile telecommunications services and mobile virtual telecommunications.
The Group also has a controlling interest in a non-mobile network operators MVNOs who do not operate a mobile telecommunications telecommunications business in Germany.
Competitive pressures have led to reductions in tariffs and continued focus on customer acquisition and retention initiatives, both of which have assisted the The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the management of the level of customer churn.
Companys ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The Company had a total market capitalisation of approximately 94 billion at 23 May 2005, making The Group expects that competition will continue from existing operators as well as it the third largest company in the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 index, or FTSE from a number of new market entrants, including those arising following the award of 100, and the eleventh largest company in the world based on market capitalisation at new 3G licences and MVNOs.
The scope of this increased competition, and the impact that date.
on the results of operations, is discussed further in Risk Factors and Legal Proceedings.
Mobile Telecommunications A summary of the Groups network operator competitors in its markets at 31 March Business strategy 2005 is also provided in the following table.
Vodafone is at the centre of three enormously valuable markets telecommunications, infotainment and IT productivity.
The Vodafone strategy is to mobilise these markets and, through this process, grow voice and data service revenue.
In doing this, Vodafone is particularly seeking to leverage third generation 3G mobile technology to develop new, enhanced service offerings for consumers and business customers.
The Groups strategic roadmap identies six key goals: delight our customers: build the best global Vodafone team: leverage our global scale and scope: expand our market boundaries: be a responsible business: and, provide superior returns to shareholders.
Vodafone has built a global footprint of mobile operations and is leveraging this global presence to provide cost and time to market advantages.
Networks in which the Company does not have a controlling interest operate under the following brands: Belgium Proximus: France SFR: Poland Plus GSM: Switzerland Swisscom Mobile: Romania Connex: United States Verizon Wireless: Fiji Vodafone: China China Mobile: South Africa Vodacom: Kenya Safaricom.
2 All ownership percentages are stated as at 31 March 2005 and exclude options, warrants or other rights or obligations of the Group to increase or decrease ownership in any venture as detailed in Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Liquidity and Capital Resources Option agreements and also exclude the conditional agreements to acquire controlling stakes in MobiFon and Oskar as detailed in Business Overview History and Development of the Company.
Ownership interests have been rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent.
3 See page 28 for a denition of a customer.
4 Venture customer growth is for the twelve month period to 31 March 2005.
5 Prepaid customer percentages are calculated on a venture basis.
6 Table excludes MVNOs and other competitors who do not operate a mobile telecommunications network.
7 At 31 March 2005, the Groups associate in France had subsidiaries in La Runion and La Mayotte.
Customers in these subsidiaries have been included in the Groups customer gures since September 2004.
Hence, customer growth in the financial year includes 515,000 venture customers which had previously been excluded from the Groups customer base.
At 31 March 2005, the Groups proportionate customers included 226,000 customers in respect of these subsidiaries.
8 At 31 March 2005, the Groups associate in South Africa had subsidiaries in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lesotho, Mozambique and Tanzania.
Hence, customer growth in the financial year includes 2,645,000 venture customers which had previously been excluded from the Groups customer base.
At 31 March 2005, the Groups proportionate customers included 594,000 customers in respect of these subsidiaries.
9 The Groups ownership interest in Verizon Wireless is 45.0%.
However, the Groups proportionate customer base has been adjusted for Verizon Wirelesss proportionate ownership of its customer base across all its network interests of approximately 98.6% at 31 March 2005.
In the absence of acquired interests, this proportionate ownership will vary slightly from period to period depending on the underlying mix of net additions across each of these networks.
10 This is not a full list of US network operators.
In the United States, in addition to the national operators shown, there are several regional and numerous local operators.
11 On 15 December 2004, Sprint PCS and Nextel announced their intention to merge.
This merger is subject to US regulatory approval.
12 The Kenyan Government has awarded a third licence but the operator had not commenced service at 24 May 2005.
13 Customer growth in the financial year in China includes 26,831,000 venture customers from the acquisition of Chinese provincial network operators in the year.
Business | 11 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 12 Business Overview continued Mobile network infrastructure Licences and network infrastructure Licences Network infrastructure is fundamental to the Group being able to provide mobile services.
The mobile network enables the Groups customers to place and receive The Group is dependent on the licences it holds to operate mobile telecommunications voice calls and allows the Group to provide other services, such as text messaging.
Further detail on the issue and regulation of licences can be found in Regulation.
The table below summarises the significant licences held by the Groups When a voice call or data transmission is made on a mobile device, voice or data is subsidiary companies and details of their related network infrastructure: sent from the device and transmitted by low powered radio signals to the nearest base station, which in turn is connected to the Groups network.
Each base station provides Date of coverage over a given geographic area, often referred to as a cell.
Cells can be as Country by Licence commencement small as an individual building or as large as 20 miles across.
Each cell is equipped region type Licence expiry date Network type of commercial service with its own radio transmitter and receiver antenna.
This network of cells provides, within certain limitations, coverage over the service area.
When a customer using a Germany 2G December 2009 GSM GPRS June 1992 mobile device approaches the boundary of one cell, the mobile network senses that the 3G December 2020 W-CDMA February 2004 signal is becoming weak and automatically hands over the call to the transmission unit Italy 2G January 2015 GSM GPRS December 1995 in the next cell into which the device is moving.
3G December 2021 W-CDMA February 2004 If the voice call or data transmission is intended for delivery to another device which is 1 not on the Vodafone network, the information is delivered through a public or private UK 2G See note GSM GPRS December 1991 xed line telephone network or the Internet.
3G December 2021 W-CDMA February 2004 In a 2G network, each cell contains a base station using a number of radio frequencies Other EMEA or channels.
A group of base stations is connected to a base station controller, which 2 Spain 2G July 2023 GSM GPRS October 1995 in turn is connected to a mobile switching centre and then via a gateway support node 3G April 2020 W-CDMA February 2004 for access to a xed line network or the Internet.
Albania 2G June 2016 GSM August 2001 In a 3G network, voice or data trafc is passed through a Node B, being similar to a Egypt 2G May 2013 GSM GPRS November 1998 base station in a 2G network, to a radio network controller which is then connected to Greece 2G September 2012 GSM GPRS July 1993 a mobile switching centre, similar to a 2G network.
3G August 2021 W-CDMA July 2004 3 Base stations and Node Bs form a core element of a mobile network and an insufficient Hungary 2G July 2014 GSM GPRS November 1999 number of base stations can result in loss of service for customers.
In addition, the 3G December 2019 W-CDMA correct deployment of the right base stations is instrumental in achieving the network Ireland 2G December 2014 GSM GPRS March 1993 quality and coverage that are crucial to customer satisfaction.
3G October 2022 W-CDMA May 2003 4 Malta 2G September 2010 GSM GPRS July 1997 2G 2 Netherlands 2G February 2013 GSM GPRS September 1995 Vodafone operates 2G networks in all its mobile operating subsidiaries, principally 3G December 2016 W-CDMA February 2004 through Global System for Mobile Communications GSM networks, offering Portugal 2G October 2006 GSM GPRS October 1992 customers services such as voice, text messaging SMS and basic data services.
In 3G January 2016 W-CDMA February 2004 addition, the majority of the Groups controlled networks operate General Packet Radio 2 Sweden 2G December 2010 GSM GPRS September 1995 Service GPRS, often referred to as 2.5G.
GPRS allows mobile devices to be used 3G March 2015 W-CDMA February 2004 for sending and receiving data over an Internet Protocol based network, enabling wireless access to data networks like the Internet.
The 2G PDC network in Japan, Asia Pacic although based on a different standard, provides similar features to the Groups GPRS 5 Japan 2G See note PDC April 1994 networks.
5 3G See note W-CDMA December 2002 The GPRS data service offering includes Internet and e-mail access allowing the 6 Australia 2G June 2017 GSM GPRS September 1993 customer to be always connected at download speeds slightly below a dial-up modem.
3G October 2017 W-CDMA Vodafone also offers a great variety of services on its Vodafone live!
portal, such as New Zealand 2G March 2021 GSM GPRS October 2001 picture and video messaging, download of ringtones, news and many other services.
3G March 2021 W-CDMA 3G Notes: Vodafones 3G networks, operating the wideband code division multiple access 1 indefinite licence with a one-year notice of revocation.
W-CDMA standard, provide customers with mobile broadband data access, allowing 2 Date relates to 1800MHz spectrum licence.
Vodafone Netherlands, Vodafone Spain and Vodafone Sweden also have separate data download speeds of up to 384 kilobits per second, which is up to seven times 900MHz spectrum licences which expire in March 2010, March 2010 and December 2010, respectively.
3 There is an option to extend this licence for seven years.
Vodafone has expanded its service offering on 3G 4 Also refers to 3G services.
networks with high speed Internet and e-mail access, video telephony, full track music 5 Licences are issued for a five year term with a presumption of renewal where there is a continuing commercial need for downloads, mobile TV and other data services in addition to existing voice and data spectrum.
6 Date refers to 900MHz spectrum licence.
Various licences are held for 1800MHz licences, which are issued by specic services.
The earliest expires in June 2013 and the latest in March 2015.
The Group has secured 3G licences in all jurisdictions in which it operates through its subsidiary undertakings and in which such licences have been awarded to date.
Vodafone expects to participate in additional 3G licence allocation procedures in other 12 | Business 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 13 jurisdictions in which it operates.
No assurances can be given that the Group will be across operating companies has already led to cost savings from the replacement of successful in obtaining any 3G licences for which it intends to apply or bid.
leased lines with owned xed optical bre capacity and microwave links.
Rollout of the 3G network infrastructure has continued throughout the 2005 financial The service delivery platform initiative is aimed at consolidating European year, with total tangible capital expenditure amounting to approximately 5.1 billion development and operations.
Hosting centres in Germany and Italy are already during the financial year, including approximately 1.6 billion incremental expenditure operational and the Groups European mobile operating subsidiaries are expected to on 3G network infrastructure.
The 3G network rollout is focused to deliver high quality begin migrating their service delivery platforms over the next 18 months.
indoor coverage to enable the delivery of the new 3G services.
Development activities are to be consolidated into Germany, Italy, the UK and the US.
Wireless local area networks W-LAN The Group has focused its plans for information technology delivery on the The Groups subsidiary companies in Greece, Hungary, Malta, the Netherlands and the development of a roadmap towards the consolidation of billing and customer UK introduced public access W-LAN services during 2004, bringing the total to nine relationship management systems.
This is expected to be a longer term project and subsidiaries in addition to several afliates and Partner Networks which provide this is expected to deliver benets over a number of years.
A key theme is the offering.
The Group is integrating public access W-LAN services into its Vodafone identication of best practice and implementing this across existing systems.
Mobile Connect family of data devices, software and services in a comprehensive mobile data offering.
Roaming services are being introduced among several of the The development of an end-to-end terminals delivery process from initial design to Group companies giving customers access to thousands of W-LAN hotspots at home delivery to customer, incorporating benets from greater volumes of customised and abroad.
handsets, is intended to reduce time to market, through consolidation of platforms and streamlined testing programmes and to generate cost savings.
These savings Other initiatives are expected to arise primarily from standardised handsets and accessories, On 14 February 2005, Vodafone commenced eld tests of the High Speed Downlink through better management of volumes across Europe and efficiencies in logistics.
Packet Access HSDPA technology in Japan.
HSDPA enables data transmission The availability of a common portfolio of 3G handsets following the launch of speeds of up to two megabits Mbps per second, although 14.4 Mbps can Vodafone live!
with 3G in November 2004 is an early example of success.
theoretically be achieved, which will provide customers with faster access speeds than experienced on existing 3G networks.
The customer management initiative aims to implement consistent segment and value based customer management across the Group to improve customer retention Global Services and satisfaction and, therefore, reduce churn.
One Vodafone Finally, providing Vodafones customers with better value when they travel aboard, The One Vodafone initiatives are targeted at achieving 2.5 billion of annual pre-tax as well as generating the best value inter-operator tariffs for the Group, are the key operating free cash ow improvements in the Groups controlled mobile businesses by goals of the roaming initiative.
The Group also expects to centralise certain support the year ending 31 March 2008.
The Group also expects mobile capital expenditure in activities for roaming.
The announcement of the launch of the Vodafone Travel the 2008 financial year to be 10% of mobile revenue as a result of the initiaitives.
Promise, outlined in Global Services Products and services Roaming Services, These targets, and the analysis below, have been prepared on the basis of UK GAAP.
in May 2005 is a key step in delivering better value for our customers when travelling abroad.
Cost initiatives are anticipated to generate improvements of 1.4 billion, with a further 1.1 billion from revenue initiatives.
Of the 1.4 billion of cost savings, 1.1 billion The objective for the 2006 financial year is to begin implementation of these plans and relates to savings in operating expenses, being payroll and other operating expenses, deliver benets in each area, although some initiatives will be more advanced than and tangible xed asset additions.
The remaining cost saving, of 0.3 billion, relates to others.
significant benets are expected in the 2007 financial year, with the full targets handset procurement activities.
The Group expects that, in the 2008 financial year, the expected to be met in the 2008 financial year.
combined mobile operating expenses and tangible xed asset additions will be broadly Products and Services similar to those for the year ended 31 March 2004, assuming no significant changes in exchange rates and after adjusting for acquisitions and disposals.
Voice Services Revenue from voice services makes up the largest portion of the Groups turnover and the Revenue enhancement initiatives are expected to deliver benets equivalent to at least Group is undertaking a wide range of activities to encourage growth in the usage of these 1% additional revenue market share for the Groups controlled mobile businesses in services.
In increasingly competitive local markets where value for money is an important the 2008 financial year compared to the 2005 financial year.
The Group will measure consideration, improving use of existing products and developing a range of new offerings the revenue benets in its five principal controlled markets compared to its established for customers has helped the Group to continue to grow its total voice revenue.
Incremental pre-tax operating free cash ow of 1.1 billion per annum is anticipated from these benets, with the majority expected to be derived from Pricing is an important factor for customers choosing a mobile phone network and is enhanced handset offerings in addition to improved customer management and also important in encouraging usage of services whilst maximising revenue and roaming.
Two main pricing models exist in the mobile market contract and prepaid.
Contract customers are usually governed by a written contract and credit facilities are The objective for the 2005 financial year has been to establish the internal structure, granted to them to enable access to mobile network services.
In most cases contracts organisation and detailed plans for each area to deliver the One Vodafone targets.
In have a term of 12 to 24 months with monthly payments for services and, in many of doing this, the programme focused on the following six key initiatives: the Groups mobile operating subsidiaries, the option of purchasing a subsidised The Groups aim for the network and supply chain management initiative is to handset.
A prepaid customer pays in advance in order to gain access to voice and exploit the benets of the Groups scale beyond the current centralised supply other services.
The take-up of these models in the markets in which the Group chain.
Harmonisation of network design and planning along with standardisation of operates varies signicantly, from Japan and the US, where the vast majority of network equipment specications across suppliers is expected to reduce customers are on contract plans, to Italy, where the market is predominantly prepaid.
maintenance costs and increase purchasing options.
Sharing of best practice Business | 13 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 14 Business Overview continued The Group has simplied tariff structures in a number of the Groups mobile operating new handsets added have offered improved imaging capability across the range, better subsidiaries.
In some cases, these new price structures include large minute bundles connectivity, with a significant proportion of devices now offering Bluetooth a wireless that allow customers to talk more freely.
link function, and increased memory card storage to enable customers to save content on their devices.
During the year, the Group has continued to build its business voice offerings: for example, the Vodafone Wireless Ofce proposition a solution reducing the need for Throughout the 2005 financial year, Vodafone has continued to develop standards in xed line phones has been enhanced with an increased handset range, superior call the areas of terminals, platforms, games, digital rights management and MMS.
These management software and availability across a broader geography.
initiatives are expected to lead to increased speed to market and better services for customers.
The Group continues to invest in providing enhanced network coverage for services in response to Group-wide customer feedback.
In parallel, the Group is improving Vodafone live!
with 3G network service quality to ensure that customers can use their mobile phone whenever In November 2004, the Group launched Vodafone live!
with 3G across 13 markets with and wherever they want.
an initial portfolio of 10 devices.
By 31 March 2005, there were 2.1 million devices on controlled networks capable of accessing the Vodafone live!
In May 2005, the Group announced the launch of Vodafone Simply, a new service designed to provide an easy to use mobile solution for customers who want to use basic 3G has enhanced the mobile experience with up to a ten-fold increase in portal and voice and text services with minimum complexity to keep in touch with family and friends.
content download speeds over GPRS, giving Vodafone live!
customers access to a unique range of high quality content and communication services.
with Social Products 3G customers can now experience news broadcasts, sports highlights, music videos, Work continued this year on making mobile services more accessible to people with movie trailers and a host of other video content at a quality approaching that of digital special communication needs.
This includes a product that converts text to speech, television.
With the signing of an exclusive deal with Twentieth Century Fox, Vodafone known in English speaking markets as Vodafone Speaking Phone, which is now customers were also the first to experience a new generation of made-for-mobile TV available in six markets.
This gives users who are blind or visually impaired access to and lm content, so called mobisodes.
Several markets have already launched TV all handset features, including text messaging.
broadcast services and these will be developed further in the coming year.
The wide Non-voice Services bandwidth of 3G supports access to sophisticated 3D games and Vodafone has introduced a range of branded titles.
Messaging Services All of the Groups mobile operating subsidiaries offer a short message service, which The 3G service also supports full track music downloads which allow customers to use allows customers to send and receive text messages using mobile handsets and their phone to listen to music, choosing from a range that currently includes over various other devices.
The multimedia messaging services MMS, which offer 500,000 music tracks.
Vodafone has secured music from some of the worlds greatest customers the ability to send and receive multiple media, such as pictures, music, artists through agreements with Sony BMG Music Entertainment and for music from sound, video and text, to other compatible phones, are also available in all Group the catalogues of EMI and Warner Music.
Using the 3G service, customers can also mobile operating subsidiaries, with the exception of Albania.
download live performance videos and stream clips direct to their mobiles through Vodafones agreement with MTV.
Clear and simple pricing, including free at rate browsing, service bundles and trial Vodafone live!, the Groups integrated communications and multimedia proposition, promotions have also been introduced in the majority of markets offering Vodafone live!
initially launched in October 2002, has continued to grow strongly.
In addition, significant focus has been given to customer service with targeted primarily at the young adult young active fun segment, has been launched in dedicated 3G experts available in retail stores and call centres.
This year has also seen six new markets since 31 March 2004, bringing the total number of countries now the launch in several markets of video call centres where customers can learn how to offering Vodafone live!
New markets added in the 2005 financial year include use the new video telephony service.
Malta, Austria, Belgium, Croatia and Slovenia.
There were 30.9 million Vodafone live!
active devices, including 12.8 million in Japan, on controlled networks at 31 March 2005, Content Standards with an additional 3.2 million devices connected in the Groups associated companies.
Vodafone has recognised the need to provide leadership in content standards Vodafone has continued to develop its Vodafone live!
proposition by offering a new development to protect customers from inappropriate content, contact and range of services, content, handsets and tariffs.
The design of the Vodafone live!
Specic emphasis is placed on protecting younger mobile phone portal, through which customers can access a range of online services games, users.
Vodafone is also proactive on a number of content standards issues, including ringtones, news, sports and information has been enhanced and an improved search video and audio adult content, and continues to encourage pan-industry collaboration function has made it easier for customers to nd and purchase content.
and self regulation for mobile operators.
The important ringtones market has continued to develop with mass market adoption In July 2004, Vodafone launched the worlds first mobile age-based content control and of real-tones where customers are able to purchase samples of real music recordings Internet ltering solution.
This is now established in the UK and will be rolled out to all as ringtones from artists signed to labels including EMI, Sony BMG Music other mobile operating subsidiaries.
Entertainment, Universal Mobile and Warner Music.
Vodafone Mobile Connect data cards Tariff structures have been updated, with a range of messaging and content based The Vodafone Mobile Connect data card provides working mobility to customers bundles now available to customers.
These have delivered improved customer value, accessing email and company applications with access speeds up to 384 kilobits per particularly when offered in conjunction with a handset purchase.
In addition, browsing second when connected to a 3G network.
The Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS charges for accessing the mobile Internet have been simplied, making it more data card has now been rolled out across 17 markets, including the Groups associated attractive for customers to browse the web using their mobile phones.
undertakings in France, Belgium and South Africa and the Groups Partner Network operators in Austria, Bahrain and Finland.
The product portfolio was enhanced in the Over 23 new 2.5G phones have been added to the Vodafone live!
portfolio in the 2005 financial year with the launch of a quad-band data card allowing customers to connect financial year, with an increased emphasis on exclusive and customised devices.
The 14 | Business 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 15 whilst travelling in the US and a data card supporting both GPRS and EDGE technology Summary of Group Products and Services which provides high speed connectivity in a number of the Groups Partner Networks.
The following table summarises the availability of the Groups most significant products Vodafone Mobile Connect data cards are available in an increasing number of and services: distribution channels and with a growing range of service and price bundles.
At 31 March 2005, there were 0.5 million registered Vodafone Mobile Connect data cards on the Groups controlled networks, including 0.3 million 3G GPRS data cards.
Other Business Services Country Beyond the wireless enablement of laptop computers, there is an increasing demand for Subsidiaries handheld solutions that allow real time access to email, calendar and other applications.
Germany During 2004, Vodafone launched its BlackBerry from Vodafone proposition.
Italy UK On 21 April 2005, the Group announced the roll out of Vodafone push email, a service Spain providing real-time, secure and remote access to email, contacts and calendar direct to Egypt a range of business-focused mobile devices.
New email, calendar appointment and Greece contact details are automatically pushed to the customers selected device and Hungary updates made on the device are automatically reected on the customers PC.
During Ireland the launch phase the service will be supported by four devices, with additional devices Malta Netherlands introduced in the coming months.
Portugal Roaming services Sweden Accompanying the multi-market launch of 3G services in 2004, the Group delivered Japan Australia extensive 3G roaming services, demonstrating Vodafones ability to build seamless New Zealand services rapidly across its international footprint.
3G roaming for the Vodafone Mobile Connect data card was rolled out during the spring and, in May 2004, roaming was Associates launched for Vodafone live!
with 3G, including the first international video telephony France roaming services.
Belgium Switzerland By November, roaming for Vodafone live!
with 3G and the Vodafone Mobile Connect South Africa 3G GPRS data card was available across 14 of the Groups mobile operating subsidiaries, associated undertakings and Partner Networks in Europe and Japan, with Partner Networks Austria 12 of these offering video telephony roaming services.
Vodafones leading 3G roaming Bahrain footprint is expected to continue to expand over the coming year.
Croatia In summer 2004, the Group launched a pan-European roaming promotion aimed at Denmark increasing the uptake and use of voice roaming services by consumer segment Estonia Finland customers.
Ten markets ran the promotion between July and September, supported by Hong Kong a common communications campaign.
Many new roamers were attracted by the offer, Singapore which also increased usage and selection of Vodafone networks.
Slovenia In May 2005, the Group announced the launch of the Vodafone Travel Promise, new Total markets 22 14 21 17 19 14 roaming campaign, the first element of which is the Vodafone Passport voice roaming price plan.
The Vodafone Passport price plan has been created following extensive Key: customer research to offer greater price transparency and certainty to customers when Available throughout the 2005 financial year using roaming services abroad.
Launched in the 2005 financial year In May 2004, Verizon Wireless and Vodafone jointly developed and launched the Global Launched since 31 March 2005 Phone roaming service to address the needs of US based frequent world travellers across their combined global footprint.
The Global Phone service offers a choice of two Marketing and brand integrated GSM CDMA handsets that work both in the USA on Verizons CDMA network Brand and on Vodafones and its roaming partners GSM networks in 120 countries Brand marketing focuses on consistency, differentiation and preference for the worldwide.
The service offers seamless features like one number, one voicemail box, Vodafone brand.
A programme has been undertaken to simplify and align the various international SMS and a single bill.
The service, initially offered to large corporate elements of the brand in order to deliver a more consistent brand experience.
customers, was extended to the broader mass business market in September 2004.
Customer Communications Other initiatives Communication to drive brand preference and service usage is facilitated through In March 2005, Vodafone Germany launched Vodafone At Home, an alternative to a various integrated advertising media including radio, television, print and outdoor sites.
xed line network allowing private householders and home ofce users to replace their This is supported by strong sponsorship relationships, such as those with Ferrari and existing xed line connection.
The Group also demonstrated new mobile TV technology Manchester United, which have global exposure and allow for benets to be realised at and a number of new handsets, including two Ferrari branded handsets, jointly the local level.
Media activity is based on customer insight, and is designed to ensure developed with Sharp.
a consistent and effective brand experience across Vodafones footprint.
with 3G Vodafone Mobile Connect data card Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS data card BlackBerry from Vodafone Vodafone Wireless Office 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 16 Business Overview continued Governance is provided by the Group R&D Board which is chaired by the Group R&D Customer Strategy and Management Director and consists of the chief technology ofcers from four of the mobile operating During the year, Vodafone implemented a system for measuring customer delight subsidiaries, together with the heads of Future Products, Business Strategy and across all the Groups customers at a local and global level.
This will assist in the Technology Development.
development of differentiated marketing propositions and programmes that drive revenue growth.
Group R&D focuses on applied research that is positioned between the basic research undertaken by universities and commercial product development.
Since the Group is Vodafone has developed strategies to ensure that the outcome of customer primarily a user of technology, the emphasis of the Group R&D work programme is on interactions, whether via call centres or retail outlets, results in a level of sustainable providing technology analysis and vision that can contribute directly to business differentiation delivering ongoing value and customer loyalty to Vodafone.
decisions, enabling new applications of mobile telecommunications, using new Distribution technology for new services, and research for improving operational efficiency and The Group distributes its products and services through a wide variety of direct and quality of the Groups networks.
The work of the function is organised into three indirect channels, with different approaches used in the consumer and business clusters: future vision and opportunity, technology research and application research.
The first cluster is concerned with expanding business boundaries through advances in technology, science and business practice, providing input to the Groups strategy.
The Products and services are available directly to both consumer and business customers second cluster is concerned with core radio, network and service enabling in the majority of markets.
Nearly 1,000 stores are directly owned and managed by technologies.
It includes business modelling techniques, application of social science Vodafone, with an additional 4,600 Vodafone branded stores making Vodafone one of and analysis of disruptive technologies.
The third cluster is concerned with developing the largest global retailers.
In addition, local websites offer products and services new business applications of radio based technologies for commercial launch.
online and local sales forces are in place to discuss terms with business customers.
The work of Group R&D is delivered through a series of programmes with a substantial The extent of indirect distribution varies between markets, but may include using thirdportion of trials and demonstrations.
All work is set in a business and social context.
party service providers, independent dealers, agencies and mass marketing.
Marketing Group R&D provides leadership for funding research into health and safety aspects of to third-party service providers includes maintaining a competitive tariff structure, mobile telecommunications, technical leadership for the Groups spectrum strategy and providing technical and other training to their staff and providing financial incentives for technical leadership for the protection of intellectual property, including the Vodafone service providers, their dealers and sales people.
It also entails providing assistance on patent portfolio.
advertising campaigns and supporting the development of both specialist retail outlets The main themes currently being researched are technologies that will follow the and programmes with multiple retailers.
The basis of the Groups 3G radio technology is W-CDMA and this is During the year, Vodafone set up a global IT distribution channel by entering into a expected to evolve to a higher speed version, usually referred to as HSDPA or HSUPA.
partnership with two leading global IT distributors.
This will be an effective channel for New underlying radio technologies, beyond the current generations, are also being Vodafone to access a wider number of business customers and sell mobile data evaluated.
Evolutions to the core network based on ubiquitous use of Internet protocols products and services.
and web services complement this, and are likely to lead to a convergence of Internet The last few years have seen the growth of MVNOs who buy access to existing and mobile technologies.
significant R&D is also being undertaken on mobile TV, networks and re-sell services to customers under a different brand name and including schemes for managing content rights.
Where such a relationship generates profitable use of network capacity telecommunications to health and well being are being researched in collaboration with and does not impact the Vodafone brand, a mobile operating subsidiary may consider a chair at the University of Madrid funded through the local Vodafone foundation and entering into a partnership with an MVNO.
for more information on Vodafones work in health and well being, see the 2005 report from the Vodafone Group Foundation titled The Foundations, Investing in communities Multinational corporates and the environment.
Applications to transport management are also being Vodafone currently provides products and services to over 200 of the worlds largest researched.
Key to much of the research is the need to ensure that when there is a companies on a global basis.
The first global Customer Advisory Board, which allows customer proposition that demands new technology, then this can be introduced with global customers to participate actively in driving Vodafones strategy for business, took the minimum of cost, for example by using existing investment in sites and spectrum.
place in February 2004, with the second meeting in September 2004.
Much of the work of Group R&D is done in collaboration with others, both within the A new Multinational Corporates business unit was established on 1 April 2005 to Group and externally.
Joint R&D facilities have been set up with three major focus on providing end-to-end differentiated propositions and consistent, world-class infrastructure suppliers.
Infrastructure and handset suppliers work with Group R&D on service to Vodafones Multinational Corporate customers.
The new business unit will many of its projects, from providing equipment for trials, through co-authoring research aim to ensure consistent delivery across Vodafones markets for product offerings, reports, to being a partner in some of the R&D programmes.
At the more academic customer service and pricing, underpinned by first-rate account management.
end of the spectrum of applied research, Group R&D has developed relationships with a number of universities.
These relationships include sponsoring research students, Research and development collaboration in European research activities, funding specialised research activities and The Group Research and Development R&D function comprises an international and working with academic chairs and readerships funded through the Vodafone Group multicultural team for applied research in mobile telecommunications and its Foundation.
The majority of the Groups R&D function is undertaken through the Groups centres of excellence, located in Newbury, Maastricht, Munich, California, Milan, The R&D programme provides the Group with long-term technical policy, strategy and Tokyo and Madrid.
In the 2005 financial year, the R&D function in the Groups leadership, as well as providing technical underpinning for the Groups public policies associated undertaking in France, SFR, started working with Group R&D as an associate.
and government relations, and is shared with all subsidiaries of the Company and Group functions.
They are able to influence the programme through working Group R&D provides technical leadership, and a programme of research support, into relationships that are designed to allow delivery of the results of the programme technology that will typically start to be used in the business in three years and beyond.
directly into the business units where they are needed.
16 | Business 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 17 The Group spent 219 million in the 2005 financial year on R&D, compared with International Roaming 171 million in the 2004 financial year and 164 million in 2003.
Besides the core In January 2000, the Competition Directorate of the Commission commenced an R&D outlined above, this expenditure was incurred principally on developing new investigation into the market for international roaming services pursuant to the products and services, billing systems and network development.
competition law of the EU.
The Commission published its preliminary findings in December 2000.
The Commission stated that excessive pricing and price collusion Regulation were likely concerning both the level of wholesale rates and the mark-ups applied in The Groups operating companies are generally subject to regulation governing the retail markets for international roaming services.
To date, the Commission has not operation of their business activities.
Such regulation typically takes the form of published the results of this review.
industry-specic law and regulation covering telecommunications services and general Ofcials of the Commission conducted unannounced inspections of the ofces of competition anti-trust law applicable to all activities.
Some regulation implements mobile network operators in the UK and Germany, including Group subsidiaries, in July commitments made by Governments under the Basic Telecommunications Accord of 2001.
The Commission said it was seeking evidence of collusion and or excessive the World Trade Organisation to facilitate market entry and establish regulatory prices, in relation to both retail and wholesale roaming charges, and the Commission frameworks.
The following section describes the regulatory framework and the key has subsequently sought, or been provided with, additional information about roaming regulatory developments in the European Union EU and selected countries in which charges.
the Group has significant interests.
Many of the regulatory developments reported in the following section involve on-going proceedings or consideration of potential In July 2004, the Commission issued a statement of objections, a document detailing proceedings that have not reached a conclusion.
Accordingly, the Group is unable to its proposed findings, following its investigation into the UK market for wholesale attach a specic level of financial risk to the Groups performance from such matters.
A written response was made by Vodafone in December 2004 and an oral hearing will be held in June 2005.
In January 2005, the Commission European Union issued a statement of objections following its investigation of the German market and a The Member States of the EU Member States were expected to implement the new written response is required by the end of May 2005.
In both cases, the statement of EU Regulatory Framework for the communications sector the new EU Framework, objections was addressed to both the national mobile operating subsidiaries and to the which was adopted in 2002, into national law by 24 July 2003 or prior to accession on Company.
1 May 2004 for the ten countries that joined the EU on that date.
Belgium, Greece, Luxembourg and the Czech Republic have yet to implement the new EU Framework The Commissions proposed findings are that Vodafone has monopoly power over its and there are ongoing infringement proceedings against a number of Member States wholesale customers in both the UK and Germany.
Vodafone UK and Vodafone Germany for late or inadequate implementation.
are alleged to have engaged in excessive or unfair pricing on the grounds that their wholesale roaming prices were perceived to be high, resulted in high profit margins in The new EU Framework consists of four principal Directives outlining matters such as comparison with other services and were signicantly higher than the tariffs applied to the objectives to be pursued by national regulatory authorities NRAs, the way in domestic wholesale access services.
The Commission alleges that the abuse occurred which telecommunications operators are to be licensed, measures to be taken to from 1997 to at least September 2003 in the UK and from 2000 to December 2003 in protect consumers and ensure universal provision of certain telecommunications Germany.
If the Commission decides that there had been a breach of competition law, services and the terms and basis upon which operators interconnect and provide it would be able to impose a ne on any addressee who had committed the breach.
Separately, under the new EU Framework, which requires a forward looking analysis, The new EU Framework introduces a number of important changes to the previous the wholesale national market for international roaming is one of the Relevant Markets framework.
It is intended to align the techniques for dening where sector specic but no NRA has yet proposed any regulation in this market.
In December 2004, the regulation may be applied and the threshold for when such regulation can be applied European Regulators Group, a body established under the new EU Framework and with those already employed in EU competition law.
It is also intended to ensure comprising all EU NRAs, announced that it had commenced a co-ordinated data greater consistency of approach amongst NRAs within the Member States.
All NRAs collection exercise with a view to analysing this market.
The Groups mobile operating are required to take utmost account of the list of markets which are specified by the subsidiaries in the EU have since received questionnaires to which they have European Commission the Commission in a Recommendation when deciding which responded.
The first such Recommendation was published by the Commission in February 2003 and includes markets at a wholesale level, for voice call Germany termination on individual mobile networks the Call Termination Market, the Germany enacted a law implementing the new EU Framework in June 2004.
Vodafone wholesale national market for international roaming and the market for access and Germany agreed to reduce its mobile call termination rate with Deutsche Telekom for call origination on public mobile networks together the Relevant Markets.
NRAs incoming calls from Deutsche Telekoms network from 14.3 eurocents per minute to may, with the Commissions consent, also propose markets not included in the 13.2 eurocents in December 2004 and to 11.0 eurocents in December 2005.
The Commission will periodically review the Recommendation.
NRA is consulting on proposals to nd all mobile network operators to have SMP in the Call Termination Market.
Regulation, under the new EU Framework, can only be applied to undertakings with significant market power SMP either individually or collectively in the relevant In February 2004, the NRA decided to award licences for 450MHz spectrum for the markets so identied, subject to the Commissions consent.
SMP under the new EU provision of public access mobile radio services.
Vodafone Germany is appealing this Framework accords with the concept of dominance under existing EU competition decision and unsuccessfully sought an injunction against the NRAs decision.
This generally implies a market share of at least 40%, although other factors may judgment in the main case is still pending.
In December 2004, the NRA awarded two also be taken into consideration.
The SMP threshold under the previous framework 450MHz licences.
required only a 25% share of the relevant market.
The Commission published SMP Italy Guidelines in July 2002 which set out principles for use by NRAs in the analysis of markets and effective competition to determine if undertakings have SMP under the Italy enacted national law implementing the new EU Framework in September 2003.
January 2005, the NRA published its proposals following a review of the Call Business | 17 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 18 Business Overview continued Termination Market.
The NRA has concluded that all mobile network operators have universal service provision.
During 2004, Vodafone Egypt nalised an agreement with SMP and proposes to impose obligations on Vodafone Italy of cost-orientation, nonthe NRA that covered most of these new obligations while obtaining additional discrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
The NRA has indicated that it spectrum in the 1800MHz range to facilitate business expansion.
The nature and expects termination charges of about 8.7 eurocents per minute to apply by 2007.
In extent of the universal service obligations are still pending negotiation with the NRA.
March 2005, the Italian National Competition Authority NCA conducted Greece unannounced inspections of the ofces of mobile network operators in Italy including Greece is expected to enact national law implementing the new EU Framework during Vodafone Italy seeking evidence of collusion following complaints by resellers and 2005.
Nevertheless, the Greek NRA has conducted a preliminary review of the Call potential MVNOs about alleged anti-competitive conduct in the Italian mobile market.
If Termination Market, has proposed that all mobile network operators have SMP, and the NCA decides that there had been a breach of competition law, it would be able to proposed the imposition of obligations of cost-orientation, non-discrimination, impose a ne on any operator who had committed the breach.
Vodafone Greece agreed to reduce its mobile United Kingdom termination rate from approximately 17 eurocents to 14.5 eurocents per minute on The new Communications Act, implementing the new EU Framework and creating a 1 October 2004.
The NRA is developing a Long Run Incremental Cost model LRIC new NRA for communications, was enacted in July 2003.
In December 2003, the Model to determine cost oriented mobile call termination rates.
Ofce of Communications replaced the Ofce of Telecommunications as the NRA.
In April 2005, the Council of State issued a judgment that base stations erected by The NRA conducted and concluded its review of the wholesale mobile access and call mobile operators prior to August 2002 did not meet legal requirements.
This judgment origination market and found that no operator had SMP.
As a result, the existing SMP may result in a requirement for some masts to be removed.
obligations on Vodafone UK including the requirement to offer indirect access were Hungary removed.
On 1 June 2004, the NRA found that all mobile network operators have SMP Hungary implemented the new EU Framework in January 2004 as part of its in the Call Termination Market and required Vodafone UK to reduce its termination preparations for joining the EU on 1 May 2004.
In its review of the Call Termination charge, with effect from September 2004, from approximately 8 pence per minute to a Market, the NRA has proposed that all mobile network operators have SMP and has target average charge of 5.6 pence per minute, representing a 30% reduction.
imposed obligations of cost-orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and The NRA has proposed that certain mobile frequencies are to be tradable from 2007. transparency.
Vodafone Hungary has appealed this nding.
The NRA is developing a Other non-mobile frequencies become tradable from 2005.
This would allow operators LRIC Model to determine cost oriented mobile call termination rates.
In its review of to transfer rights of use on commercial terms and to change the use to which the market for wholesale mobile access and call origination, the NRA found that no frequencies are put, subject to oversight by the NRA.
When spectrum becomes mobile network operator had SMP.
tradable the NRA expects to licence frequencies on broadly equivalent terms, including The NRA has concluded a tender process for the award of 3G licences.
Licences were a move to a standard 5 year notice of revocation.
awarded to each of the existing 2G operators, including Vodafone Hungary.
The NRA is considering whether holders of spectrum including 2G mobile operators Ireland will be able to use their existing spectrum to provide 3G services.
The NRA is also Regulations implementing the new EU Framework were adopted in June 2003.
In planning a programme of spectrum release over the next 3 years.
February 2005, the NRA found that Vodafone and O have joint SMP in the wholesale 2 The NRA investigated Vodafones pricing of certain xed-to-mobile calls to business access and call origination market.
The NRA has imposed an obligation on both customers and concluded that Vodafone had not infringed competition law.
Vodafone and O to negotiate wholesale access agreements on reasonable terms, with 2 Other EMEA powers for the NRA to intervene if necessary.
Vodafone and O are appealing the 2 NRAs findings.
Spain Legislation implementing the new EU Framework was enacted in November 2003.
In In its review of the Call Termination Market, the NRA has found that all mobile network October 2004, the Spanish NRA announced a 10.5% reduction in mobile termination operators have SMP.
The NRA proposes the imposition of obligations of costrates, which was implemented by Vodafone Spain in November 2004. orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
The NRA is also considering the use of price controls.
In the interim, the NRA expected Vodafone In April 2004, the NCA requested Spanish mobile operators to provide data on SMS Ireland and O to full undertakings made to reduce average mobile termination rates 2 pricing and in September 2004 decided to open a procedure against Vodafone Spain, by 5% and 8% below ination respectively, calculated by reference to the Irish Telefnica Mviles and Amena for collusion regarding retail prices applied in providing consumer prices index.
Vodafone Ireland complied with the rate reductions.
Further SMS and MMS services.
This procedure was subsequently closed without action.
price controls will be considered by the NRA in 2005.
Vodafone Spain successfully defended a claim before the NCA of alleged price Malta squeezing in relation to its pricing of certain xed-to-mobile calls to business Legislation implementing the new EU Framework in Malta was enacted during 2004. customers.
In the Call Termination Market, the NRA proposes to nd all mobile network operators Albania as having SMP and is expected to impose obligations on Vodafone Malta of cost In May 2004, the NRA designated Vodafone Albania as having SMP in the mobile orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
market which may lead to increased regulation.
Vodafone Albania has appealed this The NRA has announced a process to offer three 3G licences in the Maltese market decision.
In addition, the NRA has commenced regulation of mobile termination rates during 2005. by approving recommended rates for 2004.
The Netherlands Egypt The Netherlands implemented the new EU Framework during 2004.
In December Egypt enacted a new telecommunications law in 2003 which gave new powers to the 2003, mobile network operators reached agreement with the NRA and the NCA to NRA and imposed new obligations on licensees, including obligations in relation to reduce mobile call termination rates between 1 January 2004 and 1 December 2005.
18 | Business 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 19 Vodafone Netherlands reduced its rates from 20.6 to 15.5 eurocents per minute on The decision was notied to the Commission in April and they are expected to 1 January 2004 and to 13 eurocents on 1 December 2004 and will reduce to 11.0 comment on the NRA findings in May 2005. eurocents per minute on 1 December 2005.
In addition, the NRA has commenced its SFR appealed a decision by the NCA that it had abused a dominant position by price review of the Call Termination Market and proposes to nd all operators as having SMP, squeezing in relation to its pricing of certain xed-to-mobile calls to business with remedies of cost orientation, non-discrimination and transparency.
The NCA proposed a ne of 2 million.
The appeal court overturned the Portugal NCAs decision and the proposed ne, but the appeal court decision is subject to further appeal.
Portugal enacted national law implementing the new EU Framework in February 2004.
The Portuguese NRA has commenced its market reviews.
Following its review of the In November 2004, SFR and the other mobile operators received a statement of Call Termination Market, it found all three mobile network operators as having SMP and objections from the NCA relating to allegations that they engaged in practices which it has imposed obligations on Vodafone Portugal of cost orientation, non-discrimination, restricted competition on the retail market between 2000 and 2002.
SFR has accounting separation and transparency.
In February 2005, the NRA decided that responded to the statement of objections and a hearing is expected in 2005.
If the Vodafone Portugal should reduce its rates from 18.5 eurocents and 18.7 eurocents for NCA decides that there had been a breach of competition law, it would be able to xed to mobile and mobile to mobile calls respectively, to 11.0 eurocents for both by impose a ne on any operator who had committed the breach.
October 2006 while a cost orientation methodology is implemented.
The French Government has agreed to extend SFRs 2G licence until March 2021.
Vodafone Portugal has requested the renewal of its 2G licence, which is due to expire SFR will be required to pay an annual fee of 25 million plus 1% of 2G turnover per in October 2006. annum from March 2006.
Sweden Poland Sweden implemented the new EU Framework in July 2003.
In its review of the Call Legislation implementing the new EU Framework in Poland, which joined the EU on Termination Market, the NRA concluded that all mobile network operators have SMP 1 May 2004, was enacted during 2004 and the Polish NRA has commenced its market and imposed obligations of cost-orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation reviews.
The NRA developed a LRIC Model to determine cost oriented mobile The NRA has commenced a process to issue a new 2G licence and a new 3G licence.
call termination rates and proposed from July 2004, a reduction from the current rate This process is expected to be concluded in 2005. of SEK 1.35 to SEK 0.8 and reducing to SEK 0.54 by July 2007.
Vodafone Sweden has appealed various aspects of the decision, including the nding of SMP and the South Africa proposed rates and has obtained an injunction suspending the proposals.
In September 2004, the Minister of Communications announced a number of decisions In March 2005, the NRA awarded a licence of 450 MHz spectrum for the provision of which aim to further liberalise the telecommunications sector with effect from February mobile services.
Vodafone Sweden challenged the proposed terms of this award.
These decisions include liberalising aspects of leased lines, public pay phones and value added and resale services.
The NRA is also reviewing the 3G coverage required to be achieved by the four 3G A new Convergence Bill was issued for public comment in March 2005.
The Bill licensees by 31 December 2003 such obligations were subsequently extended to makes significant changes to the licensing and regulatory framework for the 31 December 2004.
Discussions between the Government, the NRA and the telecommunications sector.
The Bill has been approved by the Government and a licensees are being held on these matters.
The NRA has powers to ne operators for consultation process is being conducted by a parliamentary committee.
expected to be nalised before the end of 2005.
Belgium An Information Communication Technologies Black Economic Empowerment Charter Belgium is expected to enact national law implementing the new EU Framework during the Charter is being developed by an industry and Government joint working group 2005.
The NRA has commenced its market reviews and has commenced a process to and is expected to be nalised in the second half of 2005.
The Charter, in compliance develop a LRIC model to assess the cost of voice call termination.
with the Broad-Based Black Empowerment Act 2003, will set targets to evaluate a France companys contribution to Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment.
Targets will be France implemented the new EU Framework during 2004.
In its review of the Call set in terms of equity ownership, management and control, employment, skills Termination Market, the NRA concluded that all mobile network operators have SMP development, procurement, enterprise development, and corporate social investment.
and imposed obligations of cost-orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation Romania and transparency.
It has set a price cap for SFRs termination rate of 12.5 eurocents In March 2003, the NRA determined MobiFon as having SMP in the national per minute from 1 January 2005 and 9.5 eurocents from 1 January 2006.
The NRA interconnection market under national law.
From 31 December 2003 until the will also commence work in 2005 to consider new price controls for the subsequent development of a LRIC model, MobiFons mobile termination rates were reduced from period.
In March 2005, the NRA granted a 3G licence to In December 2003, a French consumers association lodged a complaint with the NCA MobiFon.
alleging collusion amongst the three French mobile operators on SMS retail pricing.
Switzerland The NRA has announced that it intends to review the market for SMS termination and In April 2005, the Swiss NCA issued proposals to nd that Swisscom Mobile has may notify this to the Commission as being a further relevant market susceptible to exabused a dominant position in the mobile call termination market and thereby ante regulation.
enhanced its position vis a vis its competitors.
The NCA may seek to ne Swisscom Following the NRAs review of the market for wholesale access and call origination on Mobile.
A written response from Swisscom Mobile is required by June 2005. mobile networks, the NRA has found that all three mobile network operators, including SFR, have joint SMP in the market and it proposes access obligations as a remedy.
Business | 19 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 20 Business Overview continued Americas History and Development of the Company The Federal Communications Commission FCC, the United States NRA, has The Company was incorporated under English law on 17 July 1984 as Racal Strategic commenced a Notice of Inquiry into the level of termination rates charged by foreign Radio Limited registered number 1833679, as a subsidiary of Racal Electronics Plc mobile network operators to US international operators.
The FCC has sought inputs on and changed its name to Racal Telecommunications Group Limited in September the status of foreign mobile termination rates, including actions taken to date by foreign 1985.
In September 1988, it became Racal Telecom Limited then re-registered as regulators to address the issue.
Racal Telecom Plc, a public limited company.
In October 1988, approximately 20% of the Companys capital was offered to the public.
The Company was fully demerged Asia Pacic from Racal Electronics Plc and became an independent company in September 1991, Japan at which time it changed its name to Vodafone Group Plc.
The Japanese NRA has concluded the market denition stage of its effective Between 1991 and 1999, the Group consolidated its position in the United Kingdom competition review of the Japanese mobile industry, where it decided not to define a and enhanced its international interests through a series of transactions.
At 31 March separate market for termination on individual mobile networks.
It has entered the 1999, the Group had subsidiary mobile network operating companies mobile market assessment stage of the review which is expected to be concluded in 2005. operating subsidiaries in six countries the UK, the Netherlands, Greece, Malta, The NRA has also commenced a review of the existing universal service obligation in Australia and New Zealand, as well as equity interests in a further seven countries, and Japan, with a view to reporting by December 2005. a proportionate mobile customer base of 10.4 million.
The NRA is expected to award spectrum in the 1.7GHz band in 2006 under an The Group completed a number of significant business transactions between 1999 and allocation process to be determined by December 2005.
31 March 2002, which transformed the Company into the worlds leading international Australia mobile telecommunications company, namely: The NRA released its final decision on the regulation of mobile termination in June The merger with AirTouch Communications, Inc. AirTouch, which completed on 2004.
In its review, it proposed that all mobile network operators have market power 30 June 1999.
The Company changed its name to Vodafone AirTouch Plc in June with respect to mobile termination and proposed a pricing principle that requires mobile 1999.
The combined Group had mobile operating subsidiaries in 10 countries, call termination rates to fall from 21 Australian cents per minute to a price that is at the adding Sweden, Portugal, Egypt and the US and equity interests in an additional 12 upper end of the range of reasonable estimates of the cost of providing the service by countries.
It has proposed that price to be 12 Australian cents per minute.
The acquisition of Mannesmann AG Mannesmann, which completed on 12 April Vodafone Australia is appealing the NRAs decision to the Federal Court of Australia and 2000.
Through this transaction the Group acquired subsidiaries in two of Europes it is expected that the hearing will be in the second quarter of 2005.
Vodafone most important markets, Germany and Italy, and increased the Groups indirect Australia has lodged an access undertaking proposing alternative rates on which the holding in SFR, a French mobile telecommunications operator.
Subsequent to the NRA is consulting.
acquisition, the Group sold a number of non-core businesses acquired as part of the New Zealand Mannesmann transaction.
Following approval by its shareholders at the AGM, the The NRA has released a draft report proposing regulation of mobile termination rates Company reverted to its former name, Vodafone Group Plc, on 28 July 2000. and held hearings in February 2005.
A final report will be prepared by the NRA and is The combination of the Groups US mobile operations with those of Bell Atlantic expected in 2005.
Corporation and GTE Corporation to form the Cellco Partnership, which operates under the name Verizon Wireless, on 10 July 2000.
The Group owns 45% of Non-mobile Telecommunications Verizon Wireless and accounts for it as an associated undertaking.
The Groups non-mobile telecommunications businesses mainly comprise interests in Arcor and Cegetel.
The acquisition of Airtel Mvil S. A. a mobile network operator in Spain, which became a subsidiary of the Group in December 2000.
Arcor is the second largest xed line telecommunications provider in Germany.
With its own Germany-wide voice and data network covering more than 40,000 km, Arcor The acquisition of Eircell Limited, a mobile network operator in Ireland, following a utilises its network to offer its customers a range of services for voice and data public offer for shares which closed in May 2001. transfer, including complete ISDN DSL connection services.
The acquisition of the Groups operations in Japan.
The Groups initial investment in Cegetel is Frances second largest xed line telephony operator and offers a wide Japan resulted from the AirTouch merger and between the date of the merger and range of xed line telephone services to residential and business customers as well as October 2001, the Group increased its shareholding through a number of special corporate services ranging from network and customer relations management transactions.
After an agreed tender offer for shares in Japan Telecom that to Internet-intranet hosting services.
Cegetel also owns the most extensive private completed in October 2001, the Group held, through its wholly owned subsidiary telecommunications network in France, with 21,000 km of bre optic cable.
On undertakings, a 39.67% stake in the Japanese mobile telecommunications 11 May 2005, it was announced that an agreement had been reached to merge company J-Phone Co. Ltd and a 66.7% stake in the xed line operator Japan Cegetel with neuf telecom, subject to competition and regulatory authority and Telecom Co. Ltd.
In addition, Japan Telecom Co. Ltd held 45.08% of the issued employee council approvals.
share capital in J-Phone Co. Ltd, making the Groups effective interest in J-Phone Co. Ltd 69.7%.
By 31 March 2002, the Group controlled mobile operations in 16 countries and held equity investments in mobile operations in a further 12 countries.
The proportionate mobile customer base was 101.1 million at that date.
20 | Business 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 21 On 27 January 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of the remaining 6.2% Transactions since 31 March 2002 interest in its Spanish mobile operating subsidiary for approximately 2.0 billion 1.4 Acquisitions billion following the exercise of a put option held by Acciona, S. A. and Tibest Cuatro, MobiFon and Oskar S. A. under the terms of an agreement originally made in January 2000.
On 15 March 2005, the Company announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Greece Vodafone International Holdings B. V. had entered into agreements with Telesystem On 3 December 2002, the Group completed the acquisition of a 10.85% interest in its International Wireless Inc. TIW of Canada to acquire approximately: then listed Greek operating subsidiary, Vodafone-Panafon Hellenic Telecommunications 79% of the share capital of MobiFon S. A. MobiFon in Romania, increasing the Company S. A. Vodafone Greece, from France Telecom S. A. for 216 million in Groups ownership in MobiFon to approximately 99%: and, cash.
The transaction increased the Groups effective holding in this company from 51.88% to 62.73%.
During the 2003 financial year, the Group made market 100% of the share capital of Oskar Mobil a. s. Oskar in the Czech Republic purchases of shares which increased the Groups effective interest to 64.0% at 31 for cash consideration of approximately $3.5 billion 1.9 billion to be satisfied from March 2003. the Groups cash resources the Transaction.
In addition, the Group would assume On 1 December 2003, following the purchase of a 9.433% stake in Vodafone Greece approximately $0.9 billion of net debt.
from Intracom S. A. the Group announced a public offer for all remaining shares not The Transaction is conditional on TIW shareholder approval, the receipt of all necessary held by the Group.
As a result of the offer and subsequent market purchases, the unconditional regulatory and Canadian Court approvals and certain customary Group increased its effective interest in Vodafone Greece to 99.4% at 31 March 2004. conditions.
The Board of TIW has recommended that its shareholders vote in favour of The total aggregate cash consideration paid in the 2004 financial year was the Transaction.
Certain shareholders of TIW namely certain afliates of J. P. Morgan 815 million.
Partners LLC, Caisse fide dpt et placement du Qubec, and AIG Emerging Europe Vodafone Greeces shares were delisted from the Athens and London Stock Exchanges Infrastructure Fund L. P., who collectively own 33.6% of TIWs outstanding share on 15 July 2004 and 20 August 2004 respectively.
capital, have entered into agreements to vote in favour of the Transaction and not to solicit any competing transaction.
The Transaction is expected to complete by the end Between 24 January 2005 and 31 March 2005, the Group acquired a further 0.4% of June 2005.
A termination fee of $110 million will be payable to Vodafone by TIW if interest in Vodafone Greece through private transactions at a price equal to the price the TIW Board withdraws or adversely modies its recommendation of the Transaction paid in the public offer.
and in certain other customary circumstances.
The Netherlands Subsidiary undertakings On 27 November 2002, the Group purchased for cash an additional 7.6% interest in The Groups strategy is to increase its shareholding in existing operations where it Vodafone Netherlands, increasing the Groups interest from 70% to 77.6%.
believes opportunities arise to enhance value for the Companys shareholders.
During As a result of a cash offer for the remaining shares of Vodafone Netherlands not held the past three financial years, the Group purchased minority stakes in certain of the by the Group and market purchases, the Company increased its overall effective Groups subsidiary undertakings in order to be able to align more closely the respective interest in Vodafone Netherlands to 97.2% at 31 March 2003.
The total aggregate businesses to the Groups business.
cash consideration paid in the 2003 financial year was 486 million, with a further Japan 110 million paid in April 2003.
As a result of private transactions, the Group On 1 August 2002, Japan Telecom Co. Ltd was renamed Japan Telecom Holdings Co. increased its effective interest in Vodafone Netherlands to 99.9% at 31 March 2004.
Ltd, and its xed line business was transferred to a newly established wholly owned The Group has exercised its rights under Dutch law and initiated compulsory subsidiary, Japan Telecom Co. Ltd Japan Telecom.
This created a acquisition procedures in order to acquire the remaining shares.
Following these telecommunications service group comprising two core businesses of mobile and xed procedures, Vodafone Netherlands will become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
line telecommunications, namely J-Phone Co. Ltd and Japan Telecom.
Vodafone Netherlands shares have been fide-listed from the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
During the 2004 financial year, the Group sold its interest in Japan Telecom, as described under Disposals.
In addition, J-Phone Co. Ltd was renamed Vodafone K. K. Sweden on 1 October 2003 and Japan Telecom Holdings Co. Ltd. was renamed Vodafone During September 2002, the Group increased its effective interest in its then listed Holdings K. K. on 10 December 2003. subsidiary, Vodafone Sweden, by 3.6% to 74.7% through a series of market purchases.
On 25 May 2004, the Groups wholly owned subsidiary, Vodafone International Holdings B. V. announced offers for the shares not held by the Group in Vodafone Holdings K. K. A recommended cash offer for all remaining shares in Vodafone Sweden not held by and Vodafone K. K. As a result of these offers, the Group increased its effective the Group was announced on 5 February 2003.
As a result of shares bought in the shareholding in Vodafone K. K. to 98.2% and its stake in Vodafone Holdings K. K. to offer and in the market, the Company increased its effective shareholding in Vodafone 96.1% for a total consideration of 2.4 billion.
On 1 October 2004, the merger of Sweden to approximately 99.1% at 25 March 2003.
The total aggregate cash Vodafone K. K. and Vodafone Holdings K. K. was completed.
At 31 March 2005, the consideration paid was 391 million.
Group held a 97.7% stake in the merged company, Vodafone K. K. Under compulsory acquisition procedures, on 15 March 2004 Vodafone Holdings The Group has applied for Vodafone K. K. s shares to be delisted from the Tokyo Stock Sweden AB obtained advanced access to an aggregate of 2,377,774 shares in Exchange, which is expected to occur in the 2006 financial year.
Vodafone Sweden, giving the Group ownership of and title to these shares.
An arbitral tribunal in Sweden is currently determining the purchase price for the shares.
Spain On 2 April 2002, the Company acquired a further 2.2% interest in its Spanish mobile On 31 March 2004, the Group increased its effective interest in Vodafone Sweden to operating subsidiary for 0.4 billion, following the exercise of a put option held by 100% by the purchase of 1,320,000 shares which were held in treasury by Vodafone Torreal, S. A. Sweden for a total consideration of SEK62 million 4 million.
Business | 21 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 22 Business Overview continued Portugal UK During September 2002, the Group increased its effective interest in its then listed On 22 September 2003, the Group acquired 100% of Singlepoint 4U Limited subsidiary Vodafone Portugal to 61.4% through market purchases.
Singlepoint for a consideration of 417 million.
In addition, as a result of a recommended cash offer announced on 5 August 2003, the Group acquired 98.92% On 28 February 2003, the Company announced a tender offer to acquire, for cash, all of Project Telecom plc, after the offer was declared unconditional on 19 September remaining shares not held by the Group.
The Companys effective interest in Vodafone 2003, and subsequently acquired the remaining 1.08% in November 2003, for a total Portugal increased to approximately 94.4% as a result of shares purchased in the offer consideration of 164 million.
These businesses have been integrated into the Groups and in the market.
The total aggregate cash consideration paid in the 2003 financial UK operations.
year was 184 million, with a further 336 million paid in April 2003.
Having achieved an effective interest of greater than 90%, the Company implemented compulsory Vizzavi acquisition procedures to acquire the remaining shares, which became effective on On 29 August 2002, the Group acquired Vivendis 50% stake in the Vizzavi joint 21 May 2003, for a further consideration of 74 million.
As a result, Vodafone Portugal venture, which operated a mobile content business, for a cash consideration of 143 became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
As a result of this transaction, the Group owns 100% of Vizzavi, with the exception of Vizzavi France, which is now wholly owned by Vivendi.
Vizzavi Australia services are now provided under the Vodafone brand.
On 3 May 2002, the Group completed the purchase of the 4.5% minority interest in Vodafone Australia Limited Vodafone Australia, formerly Vodafone Pacic Limited, for Associates a cash consideration of 43 million, as a result of which Vodafone Australia became a SFR and Cegetel wholly owned subsidiary.
At 1 April 2002, the Group had a 20% direct interest in the French mobile operator Hungary SFR and an approximate 15% interest in Cegetel Groupe S. A. Cegetel Group, the French telecommunications group and the remaining 80% shareholder in SFR, making On 23 January 2003, the Group increased its stake in V. R. A. M. Telecommunications the Groups effective interest in SFR approximately 31.9%.
Limited, now called Vodafone Hungary Mobile Telecommunications Limited Vodafone Hungary, to 83.8% by purchasing RWE Com GmbH & Co OHGs 15.565% interest in On 16 October 2002, the Group announced that it had agreed to acquire BTs 26% Vodafone Hungary for an undisclosed cash consideration.
Options were granted to interest in Cegetel Group and SBC Communications, Inc. s SBCs 15% interest in Antenna Hungaria RT Antenna on 23 January 2003 over certain of the shares Cegetel Group for 4.0 billion cash and $2.27 billion cash, respectively.
Vivendi acquired from RWE on this date, representing a maximum interest of 3.89%.
All of Universal S. A. Vivendi had pre-emption rights in connection with the Cegetel Group these options expired on 9 October 2003, unexercised.
At the same time, the Group announced that it had made a non-binding cash offer of 6.8 billion to Vivendi for its 44% interest in Cegetel On 10 June 2003, the Group increased its stake in Vodafone Hungary to 87.9% by Group.
On 29 October 2002, the Board of Vivendi announced it had decided not to subscribing for Antennas share of an issue of C shares.
Antennas call options over accept the Groups offer to purchase its 44% interest in Cegetel Group and, 5,659,500, 5,072,700 and 7,845,855 Vodafone Hungary C shares, relating to equity accordingly, the offer lapsed.
On 3 December 2002, Vivendi also announced its injections in October 2001, April 2002 and June 2003 respectively, expired on intention to exercise its pre-emption rights to acquire BTs 26% interest in Cegetel 9 October 2003 unexercised.
On 21 January 2003, the Company announced that its subsidiary, Vodafone In the first half of the 2005 financial year, the Group subscribed for HUF 89,301 million Holding GmbH, had completed the acquisition of SBCs 15% interest in Cegetel Group 248 million shares in Vodafone Hungary, increasing the Groups stake to 92.8%.
On for a cash consideration of $2.27 billion 1.4 billion, increasing the Groups effective 24 September 2004, the Group entered into a sale and purchase agreement to acquire interest in SFR to approximately 43.9%.
the remaining 7.2% shareholding in Vodafone Hungary from Antenna.
This transaction In December 2003, in order to optimise cash ows between Cegetel Group and its completed on 12 January 2005 with the effect that Vodafone Hungary became a shareholders, SFR was merged into Cegetel Group and this company was renamed wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
The xed line businesses, Cegetel S. A. and Tlcom Dveloppement, previously Egypt controlled by SNCF, were merged to form Cegetel S. A. S. Cegetel, a company in On 16 May 2003, the Group increased its shareholding in Vodafone Egypt from 60.0% which SFR had a 65% stake, giving the Group an effective interest of 28.5% at that to 67.0%.
Subsequently, the Group has reduced its effective interest in Vodafone Egypt date.
The Groups interest in SFR remained at approximately 43.9% as a result of this to 50.1%.
Malta On 11 May 2005, SFR announced an agreement to merge its xed line business, Cegetel, with neuf telecom, subject to competition and regulatory authority and On 1 August 2003, the Group announced that it had increased its shareholding in employee council approvals.
Under the agreement, SFR will purchase SNCFs 35% Vodafone Malta Limited Vodafone Malta from 80% to 100% by purchasing minority interest in Cegetel, according to a pre-existing contract, and then contribute Maltacom Plcs 20% interest in Vodafone Malta for cash consideration of 30 million.
100% of the capital of Cegetel to neuf telecom.
In return, SFR will receive a 28% interest in the combined entity, neuf Cegetel, together with a 380 million bond to be issued by neuf Cegetel.
Vodacom During December 2002, the Group completed the purchase of an additional 3.5% indirect equity stake in its South African associated undertaking, Vodacom Group Pty Limited Vodacom, for the sterling equivalent of 78 million.
The transaction increased the Groups effective interest in Vodacom to 35%.
22 | Business 793529 1070 3 6 05 10:39 Page 23 Safaricom On 10 January 2003, under an agreement with Mobitelea Ventures Limited, the Group completed the purchase of a 5% indirect equity stake in the Groups Kenyan associated undertaking, Safaricom Limited Safaricom, for approximately $10 million 6 million, increasing the Groups effective interest in Safaricom to 35%.
Investments China Mobile The Company has a strategic alliance with China Mobile Hong Kong Limited China Mobile which sets out the principal terms for co-operation between the two parties in mobile services, technology, operations and management.
On 18 June 2002, the Group invested $750 million in China Mobile and obtained the right to appoint a non-executive director to the China Mobile board.
The Groups stake in China Mobile increased from approximately 2.18% to approximately 3.27% as a result of this transaction.
Disposals During the three year period ended on 31 March 2005, the Group has disposed of a number of interests in companies that were outside the Companys core business and were originally acquired as a consequence of certain acquisitions.
The Group has used the proceeds from these disposals to reduce its indebtedness.
Mannesmann businesses Arcor rail business On 25 January 2002, the Group announced that Arcor, the Groups German xed line business, had agreed terms for the sale of its railway-specic business, Arcor DB Telematik GmbH Telematik, to the German rail operator Deutsche Bahn, for 1.15 billion 709 million, 1 billion of which was received on 26 March 2002.
The sale completed in April 2002 following receipt of all necessary approvals and registration in the German commercial register.
On completion, Arcor sold 49.9% of Telematiks equity to Deutsche Bahn and entered into a put call arrangement governing the remaining 50.1% equity interest, exercisable from 1 July 2002.
Deutsche Bahn exercised its option to purchase the remaining 50.1% equity interest for 0.15 billion on 1 July 2002.
Holding in Ruhrgas AG On 30 October 2001, the Group announced that it had reached agreement with E. ON AG for the sale of the Groups 23.6% stake in Bergemann GmbH, through which it held an 8.2% stake in Ruhrgas AG.
The transaction completed on 8 July 2002, realising cash proceeds of 0.9 billion.
Japan Telecom On 14 November 2003, Vodafone Holdings K. K. completed the disposal of its 100% interest in Japan Telecom.
The Group ceased consolidating the results of Japan Telecom from 1 October 2003.
Receipts resulting from this transaction were 257.9 billion 1.4 billion, comprising 178.9 billion 1.0 billion of cash, 32.5 billion 0.2 billion of transferable redeemable preferred equity and 46.5 billion 0.2 billion recoverable withholding tax, which was received during the 2005 financial year.
In October 2004, the preferred equity was sold to the original purchaser for 33.9 billion 0.2 billion.
Other disposals During the 2004 financial year, the Group disposed of its interests in its associated undertakings in Mexico, Grupo Iusacell, and India, RPG Cellular.
On 26 January 2005 the Group completed the disposal of a 16.9% stake in Vodafone Egypt to Telecom Egypt, reducing the Groups effective interest to 50.1%.
