The Board of Directors The business of the Company is managed by its Board of Directors.
Biographical details of the directors are as follows: Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL Arun Sarin Sir Julian Horn-Smith Chief Executive, 50, Board director since Deputy Chief Executive, 56, Board director Chairman, 68, Board director since 1997. since 1996.
He was appointed Chief Executive in Lord MacLaurin was made Chairman in Operating Officer, he was appointed Deputy July 2003.
He joined Pacific Telesis Group in 1998.
He was Chairman of Tesco PLC from Chief Executive on 1 January 2005.
He is San Francisco in 1984 and has served in 1985 to 1997 and has been a director of responsible for Business Development, many executive positions in his 20 year career Enterprise Oil Plc, Guinness Plc, National which includes delivering Vodafones in telecommunications.
He was a director of Westminster Bank Plc and Whitbread PLC.
product and services portfolio to Vodafones AirTouch from 1995 and was President and He is also a non-executive director of The affiliates and Partner Networks and Chief Operating Officer from 1997 to 1999.
expanding and consolidating Vodafones He was Chief Executive Officer for the United Peter Bamford footprint.
He is a director of China Mobile States and Asia Pacific region until 15 April Chief Marketing Officer, 51, appointed to the Hong Kong Limited and several of the 2000, when he became a non-executive Board in 1998.
He is responsible for the full Groups overseas operating companies, director.
He has served as a director of The range of marketing and commercial activities, including Chairman of the Supervisory Gap, Inc.
The Charles Schwab Corporation including brand, global product development Boards of Vodafone Deutschland GmbH and Cisco Systems, Inc. and has recently been and content management, accountability and Vodafone D2 GmbH.
He is also a nonappointed as a non-executive director of the for serving Vodafones global corporate executive director of Lloyds TSB Group plc Bank of England.
customers and management and and Smiths Group plc.
procurement of the global handset portfolio.
Thomas Geitner Ken Hydon Previously, he was Chief Executive, Northern Chief Technology Officer, 50, joined the Financial Director, 60, Board director since Europe, Middle East & Africa Region and Board in 2000.
He is responsible for Group 1985.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Managing Director of Vodafone UK.
Prior to joining the Group, he was Institute of Management Accountants, joining Vodafone in 1997, he held senior a member of the Management Board of RWE the Association of Chartered Certified positions with Kingfisher plc and Tesco PLC AG.
He is a director of several of the Groups Accountants and the Association of and was a director of WH Smith PLC.
overseas subsidiaries including Chairman of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a director of the Supervisory Board of Arcor AG & Co. KG, several subsidiaries of the Company and is Audit Committee Chairman a member of the Supervisory Board of a member of the Board of Representatives Audit Committee member Vodafone D2 GmbH and a member of the of the Verizon Wireless partnership in theNominations and Governance Committee Chairman Nominations and Governance Committee member Management Boards of Vodafone Holding United States.
He is also a non-executive Remuneration Committee Chairman GmbH and Vodafone Deutschland GmbH.
director of Reckitt Benckiser plc and Tesco Remuneration Committee member He is also a member of the Supervisory Board PLC.
He will retire from the Board on Boards appointed financial expert for the purposes of relevant legislation of Singulus Technologies AG.
conclusion of the AGM on 26 July 2005.
