793529 1130 3 6 05 10:40 Page 58 Directors Report Review of the Groups Business Charitable contributions The Group is involved principally in the provision of mobile telecommunications During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Company made cash charitable donations services.
A review of the development of the business of the Company and its of 26 million to the Vodafone Group Foundation 2004: 14 million, which included subsidiaries and associated undertakings is contained elsewhere in this Annual Report.
a 1 million donation to support the humanitarian rescue operation following the Asian Details of the Companys principal subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings Tsunami disaster.
In addition, Group subsidiaries donated a further 4 million 2004: and investments can be found in note 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
7 million to local Vodafone Foundations and a further 3 million 2004: 2 million directly to a variety of causes, including a 1 million donation to the National Autistic Future developments Society by Vodafone UK.
These donations total 33 million 2004: 23 million and include donations of 2 million 2004: 3 million made as required by the terms of The Group is currently involved in the expansion and development of its mobile certain network operating licences.
More details regarding the activities of the telecommunications and related businesses as described elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Vodafone Group Foundation and local Vodafone Foundations can be found in the Companys separate Corporate Responsibility CR report and in the Vodafone Corporate governance Foundation Yearbook which are available on the Companys website, The directors are committed to business integrity and professionalism.
part of this commitment, the Board of directors supports high standards of corporate governance and its statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 60 to 63 of Political donations this Annual Report.
The Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration At the AGM on 27 July 2004, the Board of directors sought and obtained shareholders on pages 65 to 74 of this Annual Report will be proposed for approval at the approval to enable the Group to make donations to EU Political Organisations or incur Companys AGM to be held on 26 July 2005.
EU Political Expenditure, under the relevant provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the Act.
The approval given restricted such expenditure Share capital to an aggregate limit of 100,000 in the period of 12 months following the date of the A statement of changes in the share capital of the Company is set out in note 22 to the AGM.
Although the Group had, and has, no intention of changing its current policy and Consolidated Financial Statements.
practice of not making political donations and will not do so without the specic endorsement of shareholders, the Board of directors sought the approval on a Purchase by the Company of its own shares precautionary basis, to avoid any possibility of unintentionally breaching the Act.
At the AGM of the Company held on 27 July 2004, shareholders gave the Company The Group has made no political donations during the year.
permission, until the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 26 July 2005, to purchase up to 6,600,000,000 ordinary shares of the Company.
A resolution for permission for The directors propose, again on a precautionary basis, to seek a renewal of the Company to renew its authority to purchase its own shares will be proposed at the shareholders approval at the AGM to be held on 26 July 2005.
The amount of the AGM of the Company to be held on 26 July 2005. approval will again be restricted to an aggregate amount of 100,000 50,000 in respect of donations to EU Political Organisations and 50,000 in respect of EU During the period from 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005, the Company purchased Political Expenditure for a period of twelve months following the AGM.
2,985 million ordinary shares at a weighted average price, excluding transaction costs, of 133.30 pence.
Creditor payment terms The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the It is the Groups policy to agree terms of transactions, including payment terms, with Regulations allow companies to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase in suppliers and, provided suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, it is the treasury, rather than having to cancel them.
The directors may use the authority to Groups normal practice that payment is made accordingly.
The number of days purchase shares and hold them in treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out outstanding between receipt of invoices and date of payment, calculated by reference of treasury as permitted in accordance with the Regulations rather than cancel them, to the amount owed to trade creditors at the year end as a proportion of the amounts subject to institutional guidelines applicable at the time.
The shares purchased by the invoiced by suppliers during the year, was 22 days 2004: 29 days in aggregate for Company prior to 31 March 2005 are being held in treasury.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at 31 March 2005.
No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
Research and development The Group continues to pursue an active research and development programme for the Results and dividends enhancement of mobile telecommunications.
Full details as to the Groups research The consolidated profit and loss account is set out on page 78 of this Annual Report.
and development programme and activities can be found under Business Overview Research and Development.
The directors have proposed a final dividend for the year of 2.16 pence per ordinary share, payable on 5 August 2005 to shareholders on the register of members at close of Directors interests in the shares of the Company business on 3 June 2005.
An interim dividend of 1.91 pence per ordinary share was The Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration details the directors paid during the year, producing a total for the year of 4.07 pence per ordinary share, a interests in the shares of the Company.
The Company operates a dividend reinvestment plan, further details of which can be found on page 141 in this Annual Report.
Directors interests in contracts Subsequent events None of the current directors had a material interest in any contract of signicance to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party during the Details of material subsequent events are included in note 33 to the Consolidated financial year.
Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.
58 | Governance 793529 1130 3 6 05 10:40 Page 59 Directors Indemnities Major shareholders In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors are granted an The Bank of New York, as custodian of the Companys American Depositary Receipt indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities ADR programme, held approximately 12.5% of the Companys ordinary shares of incurred as a result of their ofce.
The Companies Audit Investigations and $0.10 each at 23 May 2005 as nominee.
The total number of ADRs outstanding at Community Enterprise Act 2004 came into force on 6 April 2005, and, amongst other 23 May 2005 was 804,689,870.
At this date, 1,104 holders of record of ordinary things, changed the provisions of Section 310 of the Companies Act 1985 to give shares had registered addresses in the United States and in total held approximately companies the power to extend indemnities to directors against liability to third parties 0.006% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
As at 23 May 2005, the following excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay directors legal costs as percentage interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under incurred provided that they are reimbursed to the Company if the individual is convicted Part VI of the Companies Act 1985, have been notied to the directors: or, in an action brought by the Company, judgment is given against the director.
The Shareholder Shareholding Company will seek shareholder approval at the AGM this year to amend its The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 7.92% Memorandum and Articles of Association to give it authority to provide funding for Fidelity Management & Research Company 3.52% directors defence costs.
If shareholder approval is obtained, the Company will Legal & General Investment Management 3.69% indemnify directors to the extent permitted by the new legislation.
Barclays PLC 3.65% Employees The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by these shareholders Please refer to Employees on page 75. are identical in all respects to the rights attaching to all the ordinary shares of the Company.
The directors are not aware, as at 23 May 2005, of any other interest of 3% Corporate responsibility or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any foreign government or any other legal entity.
A summary of the Companys approach is contained on page 76 of this Annual Report.
There are no arrangements known to the Company that could result in a change of Further details are contained in the Companys CR report which is available to view on control of the Company.
or download from the Companys website, www.
Going concern Auditors After reviewing the Groups and Companys budget for the next financial year, and other Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee and, in accordance with section longer term plans, the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the financial 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the AGM.
In their assessment of the independence of the auditors and in accordance with the US Independence Standards Board Standard No.
1, Independence Discussions with Audit Statement of Directors Responsibilities Committees, the Audit Committee receives in writing details of relationships between United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for Deloitte & Touche LLP and the Group that may have a bearing on their independence each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and receives conrmation that they are independent of the Company within the and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group meaning of the securities laws administered by the SEC.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: In addition, the Audit Committee pre-approves the audit fee after a review of both the select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: level of the audit fee against other comparable companies, including those in the telecommunications industry, and the level and nature of non-audit fees, as part of its make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: and In a further measure to ensure auditor independence is not compromised, policies have prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate been adopted to provide for the pre-approval by the Audit Committee of all permitted to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
non-audit services by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Should there be an immediate requirement for permitted non-audit services to be provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose which have not been pre-approved by the Audit Committee, the policies provide that with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the the Group Audit Director will consult with the Chairman of the Audit Committee for Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the pre-approval.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, hence, for taking In addition to their statutory duties, Deloitte & Touche LLP are also employed where, as reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
a result of their position as auditors, they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as shareholder By Order of the Board circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory lings and business acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is awarded on the basis of competitive tender.
During the year Deloitte & Touche LLP charged 5 million 2004: 4 million for audit services and a further 4 million 2004: 8 million for non-audit assignments.
An analysis of these fees can be found in note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Stephen Scott Secretary 24 May 2005 Governance | 59
