Human resources Jo Robbins Human Resource Director Dame Tanni Grey Thompson We believe that the quality of our people directly contributes to business success and we must demonstrate our commitment to them.
This year has seen the introduction of the Management Development delivering We have introduced a UK wide flexible groups vision and values.
These were skills, capability and knowledge training benefits scheme this year, and whilst still in its launched at the Management Conference in against individual learning plans early stages, we are pleased that a substantial March, and over the next year volunteer value number of employees are participating in the Talent and Succession Planning Management government-sponsored scheme to buy a champions from across all business units will identifying new potential both internally and run workshops to embed the vision and home computer via payroll deduction, externally, putting in place clear succession enabling the purchase of a PC at a lower values throughout the organisation.
Employees planning processes to ensure high calibre will have the opportunity to debate and cost than would normally be available.
employees can fulfil their potential.
Employees may also trade holidays and take personalise the values.
They will also define The development of individuals is one of the advantage of group negotiated discounts in the key behaviours that are required to key requirements.
The group held its annual insurance and childcare.
training awards ceremony in the spring, We have formalised our group-wide graduate The HR Function is the business guardian of recognising the efforts VT employees from recruitment and training programme and this our value passionate about people and we across all business units worldwide have will be expanded in the coming year.
We look strongly believe that by focusing on people, made in furthering their skills and knowledge.
forward to welcoming our new graduates in we will enable the group to meet and exceed Employees and their families were present to September.
see the awards presented and to enjoy a gala dinner arranged to recognise and thank all The groups HR strategy will seek to foster a individuals for the support they give the coaching culture where leaders focus on business.
In particular the function will focus on four key HR requirements: Skills training is essential for our competitiveness.
The Shipbuilding Learning Organisational Competence ensuring that Centre continues to be a central part of our the business has the right people in the right training facility and we are encouraging more place to meet tomorrows needs employees and their managers to benefit from Total Reward designing our reward and it.
Our apprenticeship schemes continue to be recognition systems to support our drive for in high demand and the group is committed to performance excellence continuing these programmes into the future.
16 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
