Shipbuilding 2005 2004 m m Turnover 152.5 156.5 Operating Profit 10.3 7.4 Order Book 285 351 before goodwill and exceptional items Peter McIntosh Managing Director, Shipbuilding We are exceeding our planned efficiency gains in our new facility and shipbuilding has substantial growth opportunities both in the domestic and international markets.
In Shipbuilding operating profits before goodwill Progress on the Type 45 Class destroyers has technically demanding, the work was amortisation were 10.3m 2004: 7.4m on been significant in the year with the major completed successfully.
blocks of the first of class, HMS Daring, being Work on the Super Vita Fast Attack Craft for delivered in June.
Ship 2 is over 50% complete Our new facility at Portsmouth is operating the Hellenic Navy has progressed slowly and Ship 3 is well advanced in production with extremely well and we have now completed towards acceptance phase for the first three Ship 4 due to start towards the end of this year.
the reorganising and restructuring process vessels with the first and second vessels We welcome the Governments commitment that began some eighteen months ago.
given last year to additional Type 45s for the undertaking weapons trials and final defect This has involved the introduction of a senior Royal Navy, bringing the total to eight ships, clearance.
The third vessel is anticipated to management development programme, better and we expect to have a substantial role in their complete before the end of the year.
Work on targeting of our sales activity and improving construction.
ships 4 and 5 is well underway with delivery efficiencies within the production process.
We remain optimistic about Our Portsmouth facility will also benefit from Overall, our objective is to match our world the requirement for extra vessels of this class the construction of a new 80m Offshore Patrol class facilities with the required improvement Vessel Helicopter OPV H that will replace the by the Hellenic Navy.
in our business culture and, having been Royal Navys two existing Castle Class OPVs through a challenging transitional phase, Progress on the Aircraft Carrier project and will carry out the role of Falkland Islands we believe we are starting to see CVF has been well publicised.
This provides the opportunity to improvements, both in terms of our committed to playing a major role and build a first complete ship in our new facility and management and employee performance.
continue to discuss significant workshare with enables us to retain whole ship skills.
The new Efficiency gains have been achieved through our industrial partners.
The improved capacity OPV H will be built to a similar design as the the investment made in the new facility and we three River Class, which were built in our at Portsmouth means we are in a good have successfully concluded revised working Woolston facility, but in a shorter timescale and position to play a major production role in this practices enabling 7 day, 24 hour working at a lower cost to the customer.
The CVF project is almost certainly when required.
This will enable us to going to shape the industry moving forward accommodate bigger programmes using Despite the challenges of delivery on Mirabella V, and therefore has received and will continue to the additional capacity we now have, an we were pleased to offer our assistance when receive significant senior management time encouraging trend when looking forward to she received extensive damage to her keel in our strong prospects for both UK and export.
Although the repairs were and attention.
12 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 VT secures contract Latest Type 45 start VT barge returns for new Offshore underlines VT capability shipbuilding to Patrol Vessel Portsmouth Naval Base In February 2005 we were awarded a Production officially commenced on HMS In the summer of 2004 we launched the first contract by the Ministry of Defence for Diamond, the third of the Royal Navys new vessel to be built in Portsmouth Naval Base the construction of a new 80m OPV H that Type 45 destroyers, at VT Shipbuildings for 37 years.
The 90m barge was the first will replace the Royal Navys two existing facilities in February.
We have made vessel to be built at our new facility in Castle Class OPVs and will carry out the impressive progress on this project, to build Portsmouth and will be used to transport role of Falkland Islands Patrol Vessel.
the bow section, funnels and masts for each sections of the Type 45 destroyer, which are The programme is expected to be worth an of the six Type 45 ships so far ordered.
being constructed at VT, for assembly in initial total of around 30m.
This progress reflects the advantages of our Scotland.
VT V Gr T Gr oup plc oup plcAnnual Report & Accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2005 2005 13 13 Shipbuilding VT won the contract to refit boats for the RNLI There has been a marked increase in the Marine Products has been restructured this we expect this gradually to increase further.
enquiries we are receiving from overseas year to combine the four main brands of Two important ride control orders at VT MDI customers for UK builds.
This is in contrast to VT Halmatic, Composite Technology this year for the Lockheed Martin Littoral the increase we had previously experienced in Combat Ship and a new multi-hull vessel Centre CTC, VT Naiad Marine VT Naiad and the requirement for indigenous construction under build in the Far East carry good work VT Maritime Dynamics Inc. VT MDI together using technology transfer.
with the numerous sub brands.
Marketing is now focused on the four main brands.
The demand for coastal protection and Search The Marine Products businesses are oriented and Rescue capability, in the wake of the Gulf to a high volume of mostly individual and small Projects this year included delivery by VT War, Caribbean hurricanes and Tsunami orders and the personnel and structures are Halmatic of a new ferry for the route linking disaster, have all led to this trend.
We intend to continue to Portsmouth and Gosport, composite covers regions are now looking for a low cost solution develop the people who will provide technical for British Nuclear Fuels and their German and and VT has invested in product development excellence, initiative, service and value for Canadian counterparts and numerous projects to suit this demand.
Prospects remain positive money which are key to maximising the for the UK MoD and Royal National Lifeboat in the Middle East and Caribbean.
In particular, potential of the division.
Important progress has also been OPVs based on the River Class have received achieved on partnering agreements with Following consolidation of its business, a tremendous amount of export interest.
companies in both the Middle East and the VT TSS achieved growth in turnover through Our largest export prospect remains the UK US which will enable us to further capitalise on its re-focused approach to the navigation build of three OPVs for the Royal Navy of business already undertaken in these areas.
During the year, the number of were undertaken to maintain growth in the VT MDIs stabilisation systems for Norwegian competitors has been reduced and we future and the current activity in the oil and air cushion supported patrol boats and fast anticipate the competition to conclude at the gas industry is helping to support this Rigid Inflatable Boats in the US are both end of this year.
VT Naiads newly unified We continue to enhance our reputation for stabiliser range is selling in the traditional US consistent reliable project management and and European markets as well as New are committed to delivering programmes to Zealand, Australia, Taiwan, China and Russia.
Customer and supplier The markets for both commercial and leisure relationships are very much the focus within the management development initiative and it equipment have been quiet.
However, we have continued to win a large market share remains our priority to work together to provide the best solutions and results.
and with product and market development 14 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Sea Cadets receive VT Halmatic to Motion control new training boats manufacture the Royal specialists step Navys next generation into the future of seaboat VT Halmatic has recently delivered an initial In December 2004, VT Halmatic secured a Specialist marine motion stabilisation experts order for seven new training boats to the UKs contract to manufacture the Royal Navys VT Maritime Dynamics MDI are to provide Sea Cadet organisation.
Run by volunteers, next generation of naval seaboats.
The new systems for a cutting edge ship project.
the Sea Cadets is a nationwide youth Pacific 24 is based on a highly proven hull MDI, working in conjunction with Italian organisation, concentrating on waterborne form that offers exceptional seakeeping and partners Fincantieri, has been selected to activities, which is open to young people load carrying ability.
The boats have come a provide the Ride Control Systems for the new aged 10 to 18 years of age.
The new vessels long way from the Pacific 22 MkI which first Littoral Combat Ship which could be the are extremely manoeuvrable and provide the entered service in 1982. forerunner of a fleet of such ships for the stability needed for Naval training.
MDI is part of the Lockheed Martin team building the initial 115m ship at the Marinette Marine shipyard in Wisconsin.
MDI will provide the transom-mounted interceptors and the overall control system.
VT V Gr T Gr oup plc oup plcAnnual Report & Accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2005 2005 15 15
