Support Services 2005 2004 m m Turnover 591.2 514.1 Operating Profit 46.0 41.8 Order Book 2,410 2,063 before goodwill and exceptional items Simon Tarrant Managing Director, Support Services We continue to achieve high quality and stable growth within our Support Services business and this year has seen the successful completion of a number of significant contract wins and acquisitions.
remains our largest market, accounting for capability for the Royal Air Force.
VT, a 10% Support Services 38% of sales during the year.
shareholder in the consortium, is also In Support Services operating profits before responsible for the provision of a range of VT Naval Support is now providing a full goodwill amortisation and exceptional items supporting services which are expected to integrated logistic support service to the RN were 46.0m 2004: 41.8m on turnover of be worth approximately 150 million in the for all three River Class OPVs, the fishery 591.2m 2004: 514.1m.
early years of the programme.
This includes protection vessels built by VT Shipbuilding.
The contract wins achieved and acquisitions the construction of the main operating hangars The contracts are performing well with completed in the year underpin our strategy of at RAF Brize Norton where the aircraft will be availability of service in excess of 97% for all growing our Education and Skills and US based.
It is anticipated that financial close on vessels.
This exceeds the contracted days Defense businesses and build on the solid the project will be achieved within the next specified by the customer.
A similar service will base of our defence activity both in the UK 18 months.
commence in 2006 for the OPV H, following and overseas.
the award of the contract in early 2005 to VT for VT Defence is currently bidding for the UK During the year we have also undertaken both the construction and support.
This ship will Military Flying Training System UKMFTS in a restructuring exercises within a number of be owned by VT and provided for the RN with Joint Venture with Lockheed Martin, known as our Support Services businesses to ensure VT remunerated on the basis of its availability.
The MoD is seeking proposals for a that operational structures reflect the activities Training System Partner to be responsible for During the year, VT successfully extended its of our businesses and the evolving needs of the design, implementation, integration and aircraft support contract with the Royal Air Force our customers.
ongoing development of a replacement flying of Oman.
The extension, for a further 5 years, training system.
The contract award is expected VT Defence means VT will have successfully supported the to be made in January 2007 with the 25-year Royal Air Force of Oman for over 45 years.
VT provides technical services, logistics and programme commencing in April 2007.
The AirTanker consortium comprising VT, training for all three Armed Services in the UK and around the world.
Activities include EADS, Thales, Rolls Royce, and Cobham was facilities management, operation and appointed preferred bidder on the FSTA project maintenance of assets, provision of in March 2005.
This project is valued at 13 billion over 27 years.
It will provide a specialist manpower and supply chain management.
Defence support services comprehensive in-flight refuelling and transport 06 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 AirTanker consortium VT expands its fire VT wins contract to run named preferred bidder fighting training activities Royal New Zealand on the Future Strategic with a contract in Navys main dockyard Tanker Aircraft South Wales programme This PFI programme, valued by the MoD at The 70m contract, signed in August 2004, In July 2004 we signed a contract to manage 13bn will modernise air refuelling and air to build, operate and maintain a new fire New Zealands naval dockyard in Devonport, transport services for the RAF.
Having training centre in South Wales strengthens near Auckland.
We are now carrying out the become a full shareholding member of the our position as a leading UK provider of role through our joint venture VT Fitzroy AirTanker consortium in July 2004, we will be fire fighting training services.
As with our Limited, undertaking the maintenance and the support services provider and will deliver similar contract with the Somerset, Avon and repair of the Navys ships and commercial the operating facility at RAF Brize Norton, Gloucestershire brigade, the contract is for a vessels.
The initial contract is worth over facilities management, technical services and 25-year period.
Building has commenced and 100m for a period of ten years, with an general back office support.
construction is on programme for completion option of a further five.
VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 07 Support Services FSL repaired HMS Nottingham following an incident off the coast of Australia The Defence Training Rationalisation DTR and funding the Training Centre and will deliver deliver training courses for the crews of the new project gained new momentum with the issue around 11,500 student days of training per Astute Class submarines and a 40m contract of an Invitation to Negotiate ITN in November annum in partnership with the South Wales to extend the scope of services provided for 2004.
The 3 billion project seeks a long-term Fire & Rescue Service.
In addition the joint venture partner to assist the MoD in the modernisation won a contract to train 1,000 Network Rail Fleet Support Limited FSL, our 50% joint of specialist training across the three Services.
Engineering Modern Apprentices over the venture, has built on its ship repair and VT is one of three equal shareholders in MC3, a next 5 years.
maintenance foundations and now delivers a consortium of VT, BAE Systems and Carillion.
wider range of services, including integrated With Flagship bidding for further opportunities This project is of major significance to VT due ship support, facilities management, with the Royal Navy and on a tri-service basis to our presence, both as VT Group and engineering services and logistics support.
through the DTR project, sustained further through our joint venture Flagship Training growth is anticipated.
Limited Flagship, at a number of MoD training A number of high profile major projects were establishments and our involvement in training completed during the year.
HMS Nottingham, VT Education and Skills support and delivery.
An ITN response to the the Type 42 Destroyer damaged on rocks off customer is currently scheduled for Our Education and Skills business provides a Australia in 2002, was returned to the fleet in September 2005. wide range of supporting services to schools, July 2004 and Regele Ferdinand, the first of LEAs and Central Government.
VT is the largest the two Type 22 Frigates for Romania was VT commenced operation of the Severn Park provider of careers guidance and related delivered in December 2004.
FSLs ship Fire and Rescue Training Centre in April 2003 services to young people and adults and the engineering programme for 2005 6 will be under a 25 year PFI Partnering Agreement second largest private sector provider of dominated by the HMS Richmond refit, with Somerset, Avon and Gloucestershire Fire vocational work based training in the UK.
a contract won in January 2005, Type 42 Authorities.
The centre provides some of the destroyer decommissioning and the completion most modern fire training facilities in the country On 1 April 2004 we launched VT Four S, of the final Romanian Type 22 Frigate.
The long and has successfully completed its second a unique partnership with Surrey County term contract to operate the Portsmouth Naval year of operation, which saw in excess of Council to deliver school and Local Education Base performed well in 2004 5.
Authority support services in Surrey and across the UK.
The business has grown in its first year, It has been another strong year for Flagship, Following contract award in August 2004 we winning new work including an important are currently building a Fire Training Centre in the Royal Navys training partner and our other strategic consultancy for the Isle of Wight and Cardiff under a 25 year PFI contract with South principal 50% joint venture.
A number of key contracts were secured including a 20m a contract to deliver training to Higher Level Wales Fire Authority.
VT is responsible for designing, building, maintaining, operating extension to an existing contract to design and Teaching Assistants in the South East.
08 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Acquisition expands VT Plus Training VT Communications VTs guidance services helps new group of deliver critical news to the North of England catering hopefuls programming into Afghanistan for Internews In October 2004 we strengthened our position VT Plus Training, one of the UKs leading VT Communications has provided a vital link as one of the UKs leading providers of companies in providing vocational training, enabling communities across Afghanistan to guidance services for young people and is currently managing the development of a receive radio programming produced live adults with the acquisition of Guidance new group of hopefuls taking part in The from Kabul.
As part of USAIDs rebuilding Enterprises Group through a 50 50 joint Hoxton Apprenticeship Scheme in London.
efforts in the country, Internews is charged venture with Enterprise plc.
As an established The scheme, a unique restaurant venture, with developing indigenous radio in player in the provision of careers advisory and provides job opportunities for unemployed Afghanistan.
VT Communications devised an youth support services, this acquisition will people in the local community by training innovative distribution solution providing further grow our business in supplying them as chefs and front of house staff.
radio programming to 35 FM MW networked guidance for young people and provide a stations in addition to a countrywide presence in the North of England.
VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 09 Support Services Launch of VT Four S, a unique partnership with Surrey County Council Within our careers guidance business, we VT Communications are pleased to report that several contracts VT Communications is a leading provider have been secured, most recently against of critical communications services to competitive tender in Milton Keynes, customers in the broadcast, defence, Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire.
space, emergency services and security However, the year began with the loss of sectors worldwide.
two Connexions contracts as these were taken in-house by the customer.
Our international broadcast business is benefiting from the technological challenges In October 2004 we acquired Guidance affecting broadcasters with the advent of Enterprises Group, for a consideration of digitalisation.
New broadcast work has been 2.5m, with a turnover of 15 million and a won with NHK Radio Japan, Radio China strong position in Yorkshire and in London.
and the US government, operating in the We were also successful during the year in Middle East.
winning a set of adult guidance contracts worth 5 million from the Learning and Skills Council, Our communications contract with the Defence more than any other contractor.
Procurement Agency, the 200m Defence High Frequency Communications Service contract, VT Plus Training continues to perform strongly is progressing well against the capability in the fast growing vocational training field.
enhancement programme and we are Revenue has grown in the year by 15% and exceeding the service levels set down in has included some ground-breaking training of the original contract.
support staff for the NHS and a new contract for 500 learners in Wales.
Additional contracts have been won with the Swedish navy as we take our Very Low During the year we launched Learning21 Frequency VLF and Low Frequency LF Learning for the 21st century, our consortium expertise to new customers outside of the UK.
with Costain plc to address the significant We also won a 12m contract to operate and Building Schools for the Future programme maintain the power generation facilities for on which the Government intends to spend over 15 billion during the next 15 years.
the military garrison in the Falklands Islands.
This programme is designed to refurbish or This takes our total personnel in the Falklands rebuild every secondary school in England.
to over 60 servicing four different contracts.
10 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Submarine departs VT wins logistics Washington-based Kings Bay Georgia contract with the US acquisition strengthens Army at Fort Huachuca, VTs US Defense business Arizona The performance of our overall contract portfolio In March of this year, we strengthened our US Defense capability in the US with the acquisition of has again been boosted by the additional level VT Griffin provides a complete range of base The Cube Corporation.
Their principal business of work needed to support the US military operations and facilities management activities is facilities management for various government overseas, particularly in Iraq.
We were also primarily for the US Department of Defense.
agencies such as the US Department of pleased to win an important logistics contract Operating across the US, VT Griffin is contracted Defense and other Federal Government with the US Army at Fort Huachuca, Arizona, to the US Airforce, US Navy and US Army.
customers including NASA, the Department towards the end of the year as well as the The highlights of the year have been the of Labor and the Department of Agriculture.
Base Augmentation and Support Services acquisition of The Cube Corporation: the full This is an important step in growing our US BASS contract at Fort McCoy, Wisconsin, consolidation of the JA Jones contracts into business and adds an additional 1,000 a strategically important win which positions the VT portfolio: the continued generation of employees to our workforce.
us well for further support work in the Armys additional work as a result of the support power projection platform network of bases needed for US military activities in South used for overseas deployment.
West Asia: and the further refinement of our overall strategy for the growth of the US The outlook for the base operations support Defense business.
market continues to be strong.
Moreover there will be further expansion of this market from The performance of the contracts acquired from outsourcing driven by the Federal Governments JA Jones has been above our expectations.
need to find more efficient means of supporting The most significant contract acquired was the military mission.
2005 will also see the the base operations support services contract announcement of the next round of Base for the US Navy at Kings Bay, Georgia.
This contract includes award fee provisions.
The actual awards made by the Navy have We believe that these programmes will offer been exceptionally high with the Navy noting more opportunities for the commercial sector explicitly their satisfaction at the seamless to provide services to the Federal Government.
transition following the takeover by VT. Our business development team is now well positioned to take advantage of the highly attractive opportunities in the base operations market place.
VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11
