Group business development Simon Withey Group Business Development Director We have made substantial progress in all areas of our strategy in 2004 5 and the development of the group will continue in line with this strategy and our vision.
The central group business development team As the group has grown and diversified, so we have put greater efforts into communicating provides support to the operating units on a to our employees and encouraging them to range of key business development activities communicate with each other across the including strategy development, acquisitions, business.
Regular meetings involving senior major bids, marketing and communications.
management take place throughout the Our strategic planning process is driven by an year where the groups performance, internal focus group of senior management, targets, strategy and vision are presented each bringing their aspirations, objectives and and discussed.
knowledge of their sectors to the discussions.
Externally, we continue to ensure that the This group generates the vision, agrees the corporate identity is being strengthened priorities and pulls together the various strands through a consistent and recognisable brand.
Our website was re-launched last year to reflect better our business, capabilities and structure.
Major bid PPP PFI support includes financial, The vision and values will help to underpin our commercial and bid management expertise brand by helping to identify what VT stands for deployed to work with bid teams across the and our aspirations.
In terms of governance, a rigorous major bid process, including reviews, risk management Our customers are key to the future success of our business and, as such, we are keen to and strategic development is managed centrally.
co-ordinate and manage our relationships with Our acquisition activity is focused on the them.
Customer surveys and feedback are vital areas for growth identified within our strategy.
to this process and we are undertaking an Our team works closely with the operating units extensive exercise in this area.
on identifying targets, assessing their strategic relevance, due diligence and post completion integration.
This is an area in which VT has been particularly active in recent years and we expect that trend to continue.
VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 17
