The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Board of Directors: Our responsibility to our shareholders is taken very seriously.
The Board plays a critical role in the candid and focused review of major business issues.
Mark Selway Chris Rickard Alan Mitchelson Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Aged 46, was appointed chief executive in June Aged 49, was appointed a director in January Aged 56, is a solicitor and joined the Group in 2001.
Before his appointment, he was a director 2004 and took over as group finance director in March 2000 as group company secretary.
He of Britax International plc and managing director September 2004.
He was formerly group finance was appointed a director in December 2001. of its automotive components division.
Following director of Meggitt plc, director of corporate Before joining the company, he was legal the purchase of that division by Schefenacker finance for Elementis plc and director of group director and company secretary of Highland International in AG in 2000, he became a director financial planning for The Morgan Crucible Distillers plc, following a number of years as a of that company and executive director of Co plc.
legal advisor with Trafalgar House plc.
Audit Committee Stephen King Chairman Christopher Clarke Michael Dearden Remuneration Committee Michael Dearden Chairman Christopher Clarke Professor Ian Percy Nomination Committee Sir Robert Smith Chairman Michael Dearden Professor Ian Percy Lord Robertson Mark Selway 20 Board of Directors Chris Rickard Phil Clifton Steve Simone Operations Executive Finance Director Valves & Controls and Defence Services Divisional MD Committee & Nuclear Divisional MD Mark Selway Scot Smith From left to right Chief Executive Minerals Divisional MD Alan Mitchelson Stephen Bird Director and Secretary Clear Liquid Divisional MD Michael Dearden Sir Robert Smith Christopher Clarke Non-Executive Director Chairman Non-Executive Director Aged 61, was appointed chairman in July 2002.
Aged 63, was appointed a non-executive Aged 60, was appointed a non-executive director in February 2003.
A graduate of Oxford He is chairman of Scottish and Southern Energy director in 1999.
A graduate of Cambridge plc and a non-executive director of 3i Group plc, University, he was formerly with Burmah Castrol University and of the London Business School, plc, where he was CEO of Castrol International.
Standard Bank Group Limited and Aegon UK plc.
he was formerly a director of Samuel Montagu He was formerly chief executive of Morgan He is a non-executive director of Johnson & Co. Limited and HSBC Investment Banking.
Matthey plc, Travis Perkins plc and chairman Grenfell Asset Management, a member of the He is a Deputy Chairman of the Competition Financial Services Authority and of the Financial of Minova International Ltd. Commission and a non-executive director of Reporting Council and chairman of Stakis plc.
Stephen King Lord Robertson of Port Ellen George Professor Ian Percy CBE KT, GCMG, FRSE, PC, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman & Senior NonExecutive Director Aged 59, was appointed a non-executive director Aged 45, was appointed a non-executive in February 2004.
He was Secretary General of director in February 2005.
He has been group Aged 64, was appointed a non-executive NATO 1999 2003 and before that Secretary finance director of fide La Rue plc, the security director in 1996.
He was formally senior partner of State for Defence 1997 99.
Lord Robertson printing and papermaking group, since January of accountants Grant Thornton, president of the is deputy chairman of Cable and Wireless plc.
He was formerly group finance director of Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland He is a strategic advisor to the Royal Bank of Midlands Electricity plc and held senior financial and chairman of The Accounts Commission for Canada, Europe, on the Advisory Board of roles with Seeboard plc and Lucas Industries plc.
He served as a member of the Treasury Englefield Capital, senior counsellor with He is also a director of Camelot Group plc in and DTI Co-ordinating Committee on Audit the Cohen Group USA and President of which fide La Rue has a 20% shareholding.
He is chairman of Chatham House.
Companies House and senior non-executive director of Cala Group Limited and Ricardo plc.
