Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members We read other information contained in the annual report and of The Weir Group PLC consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial We have audited the Group financial statements of The Weir statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005 which Highlights 2005, 2005 Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated the Chief Executives Review, the Operational Review, the Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Financial Review, the Board of Directors, the Directors Report, Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense the Corporate Governance Statement, the Audit Committee and the related notes 1 to 32.
These Group financial statements Report, the Nomination Committee Report, the unaudited part have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
of the Remuneration Committee Report and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
We consider the implications for our report We have reported separately on the Company financial if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our December 2005 and on the information in the Remuneration responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Committee Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Basis of audit opinion 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We conducted our audit in accordance with International state to the Company's members those matters we are required Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the and the Company's members as a body for our audit work, significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
preparation of the Group financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report information and explanations which we considered necessary in and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting assurance that the Group financial statements are free from Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as set material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other out in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Group financial statements.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group In our opinion the Group financial statements: financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have at 30 December 2005 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then not received all the information and explanations we require for ended: and our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Ernst & Young LLP of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
Registered Auditor We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements Glasgow on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion 21 March 2006 on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 41
