REMUNERATION REPORT Pensions Executive directors in the employment of the company are eligible to join a defined benefits pension scheme, under which contributions are payable by the Company.
Members currently pay contributions at the rate of 7% of pensionable earnings.
For executive directors, the scheme provides a pension upon retirement at the normal pension age of 60 equal to one thirtieth of final pensionable earnings for each year of service subject to 2 3rds of final pensionable earnings and Inland Revenue limits.
A spouses pension equal to one half of the members pension is payable on the members death: childrens pensions may also be payable.
A lump sum of four times the members salary is also payable in the event of death in service.
Once in payment, pensions are guaranteed to increase at a rate of 3% per annum for benefits accrued before 5 April 1997 and in line with price inflation up to a maximum of 5% per annum for pensions accrued after that date.
For J H Bennett and N T Fee, the remuneration on which these benefits are based is subject to the Earnings Cap.
In the case of J H Bennett, the pension benefits which the Company has committed to provide which will be subject to the Earnings Cap will be calculated without regard to retained benefits under a personal pension arrangement.
The effect of this commitment has been included in the figures below.
M C Donohue and C J Cole are not subject to the Earnings Cap.
M C Donohue and C J Cole have potential maximum pensions of two-thirds of final pensionable salary.
The table below sets out the disclosures for the executive directors who are members of the scheme under the Stock Exchange Listing Rules columns 2-4 and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 columns 5-8 : 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Increase in Transfer value of accrued pension Accumulated total the increase in Increase in over the year to accrued pension accrued pension accrued pension Transfer value of Transfer value of Increase in 28 February 2005 at the end over the year over the year to accrued pension at accrued pension at transfer value net of inflation of the year net of inflation 28 February 2005 29 February 2004 28 February 2005 over the year M C Donohue 20,235 215,648 338,234 26,111 3,226,284 3,927,200 675,322 J H Bennett 3,374 41,650 45,145 4,525 549,541 659,631 102,968 N T Fee 3,372 45,333 35,804 4,633 496,965 592,515 88,428 C J Cole 8,427 137,222 61,359 12,300 1,039,460 1,221,149 167,379 Notes 1.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the actuarial professions Guidance Note GN11.
The transfer values in columns 4 and 8 are shown net of the directors contributions paid over the year.
It has been assumed that C J Coles accrued pension is not restricted by Inland Revenue limits.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 39 REMUNERATION REPORT Directors interests in shares The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are shown below.
28 February 2005 29 February 2004 Ordinary Long term Ordinary Long term Directors shares Options incentive plan shares Options incentive plan G K Maddrell 23,245 23,245 M C Donohue 468,694 61,104 208,931 427,822 61,104 301,738 J H Bennett 63,087 40,736 261,931 52,053 40,736 210,263 C J Cole 48,732 214,415 23,608 61,875 166,663 N T Fee 75,135 153,916 245,809 67,873 153,916 196,306 D R Wilson 6,000 6,000 I Durant 1,000 J Ferrie The number of shares referred to in these columns represents the number which would be available if performance targets are satisfied to the maximum extent.
No notification has been received of any change in the above interests during the period from 28 February 2005 to the date of this report.
During the year the highest market price was 520 pence per share and the lowest market price was 362 pence per share.
The exercise of these options was subject to satisfaction of a performance condition that earnings per share growth must exceed RPI by 2% per annum over a three year period prior to the date of exercise.
In addition to the performance condition indicated in Note 1 above, the exercise of these options was subject to satisfaction of a performance condition based on the Homes business performance in the period 2000 to 2003.
The performance criteria for the Homes business for the three years ended 28 February 2003 were met to such a level that for 75% of the shares vested in the individuals concerned, the balance lapsed.
The market price at the date of exercise of these options was 466 pence per share.
All numbers of shares stated relate to the 5-year amount, on the assumption that each director will delay exercise by two years from the date of vesting, which is generally the experience to date.
The shares vesting during the year relate to those issued in May 2001.
The shares subject to EPS growth measure vested in full whereas the shares subject to TSR measure had 9% vesting.
The market price when awards were made on 17 May 2004 was 406.75 pence per share.
In relation to awards granted on 12 June 2001 which vested on 12 June 2004, the market price on these two dates was 256.00 pence per share and 427.00 pence per share respectively.
The performance criteria for awards of options and 2004Awards for Excellenceare disclosed on page 36 of the Remuneration Report the performance criteria for the 2003 awards are disclosed on page 32 of the Remuneration Report in the 2004 Annual Report.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Introduction The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate behaviour and is fully committed to conducting the Groups operations in accordance with the best principles of corporate governance.
This Report together with the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41 describe how the principles of good governance as set out in section 1 of the Combined Code as published in July 2003, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, are applied by the Company.
The Board considers that during the year ended 28 February 2005, the Group complied with the requirements of the Combined Code except that the board considered it appropriate for: The Chairman of the Company to be Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for the majority of the year.
He has now been replaced in that role although he remains a member of that committee, as the Company believes that because of the breadth of his experience, it is appropriate for the Chairman of the Group to be a member of this committee.
The Board to comprise the Chairman, four executive directors and three independent non-executive directors as the number of executive directors will reduce to three from November 2005 following the retirement of the current Chief Executive.
The Board to adopt notice periods of two years for the two executive directors who are relatively close to their normal retirement date as noted in the Remuneration Report on page 37.
Board of Directors The business and management of the Company is the collective responsibility of the whole Board.
During the year ended 28 February 2005, the Board met formally as a whole ten times.
The Board reviews the trading performance of the business and annually in September undertakes a strategic review.
There is a schedule of matters reserved for consideration and approval by the Board which includes the annual budget, annual business plan, major land purchases, investment proposals, the approval of annual and interim results and a review of the overall system of internal control.
The Company Secretary is responsible for preparing the agenda for each Board Meeting and for ensuring that appropriate information is provided to the directors ahead of each meeting.
In addition, all of the directors have full and timely access to detailed information on the Groups operations, including management accounts and reports from the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Managing Director of the Homes business.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure for the directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
All new directors are provided with appropriate training, on appointment and subsequently, to undertake their duties as a director.
The Board currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, four executive and three independent non-executive directors.
Their biographies appear on pages 30 and 31 and demonstrate the wide range of high level business experience which is necessary to manage and direct the Group.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with a clear division of responsibilities, ensuring a balance of responsibility and authority at the head of the Company.
The senior independent non-executive director is D R Wilson.
During the year, there were no absences from any Board Meetings or its Committees by any directors with the exception that J Ferrie was unable to attend one Board meeting and that I C Durant was unable to attend one Board meeting and one Audit Committee meeting.
Each of the non-executive directors has at all times acted independently of management and has no relationship which would materially impact on the exercise of his independent judgement and decision making.
The Company considers all of its non-executive directors to be independent as defined in the Combined Code.
One third of the directors offer themselves for re-election each year at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association.
In addition each director seeks re-election every three years in accordance with the Combined Code.
New directors appointed during the year offer themselves for re-appointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
Details of directors submitting themselves for re-election in 2005 are shown on page 32 in the Report of the Directors.
Each year the Board formally assesses its performance and those of individual directors, led by the Chairman of the Board.
The Chairman also meets formally with the non-executive directors during the year as part of this process.
The Company believes that all directors, including those seeking re-election, continue to be effective and committed to their role.
The Company encourages its executive directors to take up non-executive positions with other public listed companies.
The Board has properly constituted Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, which are annually assessed by the Board.
The terms of reference for the Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
42 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the four independent non-executive directors, D R Wilson Chairman, I C Durant, G K Maddrell and JFerrie.
The Audit Committee acts in an advisory capacity to the Board and met three times during the year.
The Board believes that Derek Wilson, Committee Chairman, has recent and relevant financial experience as a Chartered Accountant and previously as Chief Executive of Slough Estates plc.
The Committee has formal terms of reference which require it to take an independent view of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting controls, policies and procedures.
The Committee also reviews and approves the reports, the re-appointment at the AGM and fees of the external auditors.
The Committee also has a process for reviewing the effectiveness of the audit and for reviewing annually auditor independence including the non-audit services provided by the auditors to the Group.
The auditors attended all meetings of the Committee.
The Finance Director and Company Secretary attended each meeting and reported as appropriate.
The Committee met the auditors without management present on two occasions during the year.
In addition to reviewing the self audit process and reports and the Groups financial statements, the Committee considered the impact of International Accounting Standards on the Group and the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee has formal terms of reference and comprises the four independent non-executive directors, G K Maddrell, D R Wilson, J Ferrie and I C Durant.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and last year met on six occasions.
It is responsible for the determination and application of the Groups policy relating to the remuneration and benefits of executive directors.
The Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41 contains details of directors remuneration and the Groups policies in relation to directors remuneration.
The Chairman of the Committee was G K Maddrell until 21 February 2005 when J Ferrie was appointed as Chairman.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee has formal terms of reference and comprises the non-executive directors, G K Maddrell Chairman, D R Wilson, I C Durant and J Ferrie, with effect from 17 June 2004, as well as the Chief Executive, M C Donohue.
The Committee met five times during the year to plan succession in general, notably that of the Chief Executive and for the appointment of an additional non-executive director, J Ferrie.
In the case of the Chief Executives succession, the Committee, supported by an external consultant, evaluated the strategy and leadership requirements of the business looking well into the future and assessed a number of candidates against an agreed template.
As a result, N T Fee was unanimously proposed by the Committee to the Board: N T Fee will initially be serving as Deputy Chief Executive prior to taking over from M C Donohue on 1 November 2005.
The appointment of J Ferrie as a new non-executive director was planned on the basis of clear specifications, taking into account the future requirements of the Company and the balance of the Board.
An executive search company was involved in the search and a similar process is being followed for identifying a non-executive director to replace D R Wilson who retires in the course of 2005.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains a dialogue with its shareholders, with regular meetings between executive directors and principal institutional investors.
Both institutional investors and individual shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting where they have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Company will count proxy votes and will announce the number of votes cast after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The Chairman and the senior non-executive directors are pleased to meet Shareholders when required.
Accountability and audit Going concern A statement by the directors concerning the application of the going concern principle in the preparation of the financial statements is included in the Financial Review on page 26.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
This process was in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and auditors in accordance with the guidance in the Combined Code.
In assessing internal control, the Board review self audit reports, compiled by the Company Secretary from regional reports and is provided with a comprehensive report on the risks facing the Group at operational and corporate level by the Executive twice each year.
These reports include the monitoring process and action taken to mitigate the impact of that risk occurring.
In addition the Board receives detailed reports from the executives at each Board Meeting on all significant elements of the business including any internal control or structure change.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT However, it must be recognised that any such system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper books and records and the reliability of financial information.
The key features of the Groups control system are as follows: Control environment The Group has a clearly defined management structure which ensures a proper division of responsibility and authority.
The Group has established a Code of Ethics including whistleblowing arrangements, together with company rules and policy manuals, and a strong culture of good control and accurate reporting is supported by an effective self audit function.
Key business risks The Board has identified the key business risks relevant to the Groups operations.
These risks are reviewed on a six-monthly basis to ensure that they remain relevant to the business and appropriate to the current trading environment and that no further risks require consideration.
Control procedures Comprehensive control procedures are used to address the key business risks.
These include segregation of duties and authorisation procedures and cover land management, cash control and bank facilities, trading performance, expansion of the business and information technology.
The Board considers the adequacy of the control procedures at the same time as it reviews the key business risks.
The approval of acquisitions and land purchases is reserved for the Board, with specific delegated authority to the executive directors depending upon the amount being committed.
Monitoring control The Group has a culture which recognises the importance of control and accurate reporting and has established information systems covering the key elements of the business to ensure that the Board, the executive directors and senior managers receive accurate and timely information on which to base decisions.
Budgets are set annually for each region and for the Group and actual performance is reviewed monthly.
The Board has also established key performance indicators which are monitored by the executive directors on a weekly, monthly or quarterly basis, as appropriate.
Self audit Operation of the Groups internal control system is reviewed and tested by an internal audit process known as self audit.
This process involves all of the senior managers in the regions and Head Office.
As well as being a very important element of internal control, the self audit process has facilitated the dissemination of best practice across the Group, and helps maintain a strong control culture in the Group.
The Audit Committee, and the Board, have reviewed and changed the self audit process during the year to ensure that it remains appropriate for the Group.
In addition a Risk Management Director has been appointed to control the self audit process, to address key risk areas and to ensure that best practice is spread throughout the Group.
The Risk Management Director has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
