REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction In preparing this Remuneration Report to shareholders, the Board has followed the requirements of Section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
In accordance with the Regulations this report will be placed before shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 July 2005.
The vote will be advisory in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not, therefore, be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for advising and making recommendations to the Board on all aspects of each executive directors remuneration within agreed terms of reference.
Throughout the year and to date, the Committee comprises G K Maddrell, D R Wilson, I C Durant and J Ferrie from his date of appointment, each of whom the Board considers to be independent.
The Chairman of the Committee was G K Maddrell until 21 February 2005 at which date J Ferrie was appointed Chairman.
The Chief Executive attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee but is absent when his own remuneration is under consideration.
In determining levels of remuneration the Committee were informed by the Boardex research facility and also consulted the Chief Executive and the Groups Personnel Director, Mrs C P Hipkiss.
Policy The Committees policy, which is subject to annual review, is to provide a remuneration package which will attract and retain directors with the ability and experience required to manage the Company and to provide superior long term performance.
It is the aim of the Committee to reward directors competitively and on the broad principle that their remuneration should be in line with the remuneration paid to senior management of comparable public companies whilst recognising the particular features of the housebuilding industry.
For guidance, the Committee uses specific job-matched surveys of similar companies and from time to time commissions specific surveys.
This report sets out the Companys policy on executive directors remuneration for 2005 06 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
The report also sets out the remuneration policy which has applied in 2004 05.
There are five main elements of the remuneration package for executive directors.
Basic salary Annual cash bonus Long Term Incentive Plan Benefits Pension It is the policy of the Committee to ensure that a significant proportion of the total remuneration package is delivered through variable pay with payment dependent upon achieving stretching performance targets.
Total remuneration is aligned with Group performance against a range of short and medium term strategic, financial and operational goals.
The remuneration package for all employees comprises basic salary, annual cash bonus, long term share based incentive, benefits and pension and the remuneration package for senior managers Divisional Chairmen, Regional Managing Directors and Head Office Directors is similar in structure to those of the executive directors.
Basic salary Salaries are reviewed annually on 1 March and are based on market competitive salaries for quoted UK housebuilders.
Salary levels reflect the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the executive and are generally set at around the median level for each job function.
Annual bonus The annual bonus is payable in cash following the completion of the financial year concerned.
These bonuses are performance related and are not pensionable.
The performance conditions are based on targets related to Group earnings per share and Homes business profit adjusted for other business targets shown below.
There is a cap applied to bonus as a percentage of basic salary.
The performance targets for each executive director for 2004 05 were as follows: Name Performance criteria Bonus limit as % of basic salary Martin Donohue EPS Profit of Homes business 100 John Bennett EPS Profit of Homes business 100 Colin Cole EPS Profit of Homes business 100 Nigel Fee EPS Profit of Homes business 100 adjusted for Space4 performance against volume and profit targets.
adjusted for operating margin, ROACE, customer satisfaction and level of land bank targets in the Homes business.
the limit is 50% for EPS element and 50% for profit of Homes business element.
For 2004 05 and 2005 06 the maximum bonus limit as a percentage of salary will be 100% for all executive directors.
The performance criteria for 2005 06 will be EPS capped at 50% of salary and profit of Homes business capped at 50% of salary adjusted for performance against key business targets operating margin, ROACE, customer satisfaction and level of land bank.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 35 REMUNERATION REPORT Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Committee believe that the LTIP closely aligns the interest of shareholders and the executive directors as it motivates those directors to achieve demanding performance targets which are in the best interests of shareholders.
During the financial year ended 28 February 2005, all the executive directors, with the exception of M C Donohue, who was within two years of retirement in accordance with his contract of employment, received awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan approved by shareholders at the 1997 Annual General Meeting.
Under the rules of the scheme, a participant may receive in respect of any year a maximum award of options over shares with a market value when the award was made equivalent to 50% of basic salary.
Each award is made subject to the achievement of certain performance criteria and the options may only be exercised at the end of three years.
There is no cost to the participants in the scheme of exercising the options.
If delivery of the shares is deferred for a further two years then the number available will be increased by one quarter.
The extent to which the awards may be exercised will be determined by two measures of performance: Total Shareholder Return TSR and Earnings Per Share EPS growth, each measured over a three-year performance period.
For awards granted for 1997 to 2000, each of the performance measures related to half of the shares awarded.
For the awards granted in 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004, 70% of the shares were subject to the earnings per share measure and 30% to the TSR measure.
Under the TSR measure the performance is judged against the following companies: Barratt Developments, Bellway, Berkeley, Bovis, Persimmon, Redrow, Taylor Woodrow, Wilson Bowden and Wimpey.
There will be no vesting of shares under the TSR measure for below median performance, with 10% vesting at median performance and full vesting at upper quartile performance.
The vesting under the EPS measure is determined by the excess of the annual rate of growth of earnings per share above the annual rate of increase in the Retail Prices Index.
If the growth rate excess is less than 2% per annum then no shares vest.
If the growth rate excess is at 2% per annum then 10% of the shares vest and if at 8% or above then 100% of the shares vest.
For both measures vesting on a pro rata basis applies between the lower and upper limits.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting on 16 June 2000 the Long Term Incentive Plan was amended to allow more than 50% of salary to be awarded to directors.
Any award made in this manner would be termed Achievement of Excellence awards and the performance measures applying to any such awards would be more than usually stretching.
Awards of Excellence were made in 2003 04 the details of which were provided in 2004 Annual Report.
During the financial year ended 28 February 2005 all executive directors, with the exception of M C Donohue who was within two years of retirement in accordance with his contract of employment, received Awards of Excellence covering 50% of salary.
If delivery is deferred for a further two years then the number available will be increased by one quarter.
The performance targets for the Awards of Excellence are as follows: Earnings per share excluding exceptional item for the three financial years ended 28 February 2007 to exceed, compound annual growth of RPI plus 12% when compared to earnings per share excluding exceptional item for the year ended 29 February 2004.
Operating margin for the Group to be a minimum of 17.5% for financial year 2006 07.
Return on Average Capital Employed for the Group to exceed 24% for financial year 2006 07.
In order for the awards to vest, the performance criteria must, as a minimum, equal the median for the performance of the industry comparator group.
For median performance 50% of the award will vest and for upper quartile 100% of the award will vest with a sliding scale applying between median and upper quartile.
The Committee believe that the use of these measures closely align the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
For the financial year ending 28 February 2006 the Committee will issue awards under the LTIP including Awards of Excellence at similar levels and with similar performance targets to those described above.
Employee Share Schemes The Group operates an all-employee Share Incentive Plan and allocations are made to eligible employees in May each year.
Executive directors are eligible to participate on the same terms as other employees.
The Company operates an Executive Share Option Scheme approved by shareholders in 1995.
This Scheme expires on its tenth anniversary in 2005.
Under the rules of the Scheme, options cannot be exercised under three years from the date of grant.
The total value of all shares which a participant is permitted to acquire is limited to no more than one and one-half times remuneration each year.
A director will not normally be granted options in the same year in which the director is granted options under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
This has only occurred on one occasion during the year ending 28 February 2001.
No options were granted to executive directors under the Scheme in 2004 05 but options were granted to Regional Directors and Senior Head Office Managers who did not participate in the Long Term Incentive Plan awards, a similar policy will be adopted for 2005 06.
36 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 REMUNERATION REPORT Service contracts It is the Companys policy that executive directors who are appointed after 1 March 1994 should have service contracts terminable on one years notice from the Company.
In accordance with this policy, N T Fee and C J Cole have service contracts 9 July 1996 and 1 March 2001 respectively which are terminable on one years notice.
The service contracts of M C Donohue and J H Bennett dated 22 March 1986 and 2 November 1992 respectively are terminable by the Company on two years notice.
These contracts pre-date the adoption of the policy referred to above and, when entered into, were considered necessary to secure the requisite calibre of executive within the housebuilding industry.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that, at the current time, it is in the Companys interest to seek to alter the terms of these existing contracts, as the executives concerned are relatively close to their normal retirement dates at which point the contracts will terminate.
M C Donohue retires on 1 November 2005 and J H Bennett in November 2007.
The directors service contracts do not make specific provision for compensation payments in the event of early termination.
The Remuneration Committee will consider individual cases when necessary, with the objective of minimising termination payments in the event of poor performance, whilst dealing fairly with individuals and complying with any legal obligations.
Benefits The executive directors remuneration package includes a fully expensed company car or cash allowance, private medical insurance and long term illness insurance.
These benefits are not pensionable.
Non-executive directors Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, serve the Company under letters of appointment and do not have service contracts.
They are paid a fee which is non-pensionable.
The Board as a whole determines the fees of the non-executive directors including the Chairman.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the employee share schemes.
Performance graph The Company share price performance against the FTSE All Share Index is shown below.
The Board believe this is an appropriate index as it represents a very broad range of quoted UK companies, and the Company is a constituent of that index.
