Report of the Directors The Directors present their Report together with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2005.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 6, together with the Operating and Financial Reviews on pages 14 to 25, review the results for the year, provide details of recent and future developments and should be regarded as forming part of this Report.
Activities of the Group The principal activities of the Group are housebuilding and property development.
All Group companies operate exclusively within the United Kingdom.
Results and dividends The Groups profit for the year of 150.1m 2004: 175.5m has been transferred to retained earnings.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 31.5p per ordinary 10p share payable on 30th May 2006 to shareholders registered as members of the Company at the close of business on 5th May 2006, subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
When taken with the interim dividend of 15.0p paid on 11th November 2005, this makes a total dividend of 46.5p 2004: 38.0p per ordinary 10p share for the year ended 31st December 2005.
Annual General Meeting The twentieth Annual General Meeting of Wilson Bowden plc will be held on 26th April 2006 and the Notice of Meeting has been mailed to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Executive and employee share schemes Details of ordinary shares held under option under the Wilson Bowden plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme and the Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme, together with options granted, exercised or lapsing during the year, are shown in note 19 to the Group financial statements on pages 63 to 65.
Details of the Wilson Bowden plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme, the Wilson Bowden plc Performance Share Plan and the Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 43.
Details of the Companys ordinary shares held by the Trustee of the Wilson Bowden Employee Trust the Trust in respect of contingent future obligations under share incentive arrangements are set out in note C11 to the Company financial statements on page 77.
Fixed assets The Directors are of the opinion that the value of land and buildings included within the Groups fixed assets is in excess of book value but that the difference is not material in relation to the affairs of the Group.
Directors The names and biographical details of the Directors of the Company as at 1st March 2006 are shown on pages 26 and 27.
All the Directors served throughout the year, with the exception of Mr M J Stansfield who resigned from the Board on 14th January 2005.
The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
Accordingly, the Directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are Mr D E Brill, Mr G M Brown and Mr D W Wilson all of whom, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr G M Brown has a service contract with the Company terminable upon either the Company giving twelve months notice or Mr Brown giving six months notice.
Mr D W Wilson has a service contract with the Company terminable upon either the Company or Mr Wilson giving twelve months notice.
Mr Brill does not have a service contract with the Company.
Directors indemnities In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association each of the Companys Directors has the benefit of an indemnity under the terms of a deed with the Company.
Under the terms of the indemnity the Company has agreed to indemnify each Director to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company and any of its subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are kept at the Companys registered office and are available for inspection by any member of the Company.
The Company has also arranged an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors and Officers.
Directors and other substantial share interests The interests, as defined in the Companies Act 1985, of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out in the table opposite.
The total number of ordinary shares in which the Directors taken together were beneficially interested as at 31st December 2005 was 30,711,221 ordinary shares, excluding non-beneficial interests in respect of 1,216,937 ordinary shares held by Mr D W Wilson, or members of his family.
28 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005 Directors share interests 1st January 2005 31st December 2005 Ordinary shares of 10p each Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial D W Wilson 30,598,766 1,216,937 30,598,766 1,216,937 I Robertson 24,450 30,663 M J Stansfield resigned 14th January 2005 36,635 N H Richardson 2,611 4,753 N J Townsend 28,560 45,398 G M Brown 21,054 29,641 A D Portno 2,000 2,000 Details of options over the ordinary share capital of the Company held by the Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 43.
The Directors have no other notifiable interests in the shares of the Company or its subsidiaries.
There have been no changes in the share interests of those Directors in office at the date of this report between 31st December 2005 and 1st March 2006.
In addition to their interests in ordinary shares disclosed above, the Executive Directors are, for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985, regarded as being interested in all the 13,147 ordinary shares in the Company held by the Trustee of the Trust as at 31st December 2005.
It is not expected, however, that any Executive Director will be entitled to receive from the Trust a number of ordinary shares greater than those to which he is conditionally entitled under the Companys share incentive schemes.
In addition to the Directors interests disclosed above, the Company has been notified of the substantial interests shown below, held by Trustees of Wilson Family Trusts.
Substantial share interests % of issued Ordinary shares of 10p each Number of shares share capital Mr A J Gillions 6,689,078 7.08 Mr C V McLeod 6,625,178 7.02 Mr H A Sinclair 6,625,178 7.02 Grant Thornton Stonehage Limited 5,099,166 5.40 Mr A J Gillions, Mr C V McLeod and Mr H A Sinclair are trustees of various Wilson Family Trusts.
These Trusts have, in aggregate, an interest in 6,689,078 ordinary shares.
The individual interests of each trustee in such ordinary shares held by the various Wilson Family Trusts are set out in the table above, alongside the name of each trustee.
These interests, together with the shares held by Grant Thornton Stonehage Limited are included within the shareholding shown above for Mr D W Wilson.
On 28th February 2006 notifications had been received, in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
% of issued Name of holder Number of shares share capital FMR Corp. and Fidelity Investments Limited 3,685,839 3.90% Mirabaud Investment Management Limited 2,867,305 3.04% The Company had not been notified of any other material interests in its share capital.
No Director had, at any time during the period under review, a material interest in any contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Share capital Note 17 on page 62 of the Annual Report sets out details of the Companys share capital, including the number of shares issued during the period under review.
Since 31st December 2005 the Company has issued 1,250 ordinary shares pursuant to the exercise of options under the Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
During the year under review options over 792,915 shares 2004: 415,392 were granted to the Groups Directors and employees under the Companys share option schemes.
Financial Instruments An explanation of the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, together with details of the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk appears in the Principal Accounting Policies for the Group on pages 50 and 51.
Supplier payment policy The Groups policy with regard to the payment of suppliers is to advise suppliers, when placing orders, of the Groups payment terms or, alternatively, to agree payment terms prior to order.
It is policy to pay in accordance with the agreed arrangements within the industry, which include the evaluation by surveyors of the value of work completed and retentions for remedial works.
The Company has no trade creditors and accordingly no disclosures are required with respect to trade creditors under the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 Directors Report Statement of Payment Practice Regulations 1997.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005 29 Report of the Directors continued Employment, training and development It is the Groups policy that employment opportunities, training, career development and promotion should be available to all, irrespective of age, gender, ethnic origin, religion or disability.
Due consideration is always given to applications for employment, having regard to the particular aptitudes and abilities of the applicants.
Any employee who develops a disability during employment is given the opportunity to retrain for alternative employment where practicable, given the nature of the Groups activities.
The Groups human resources policies are available to all employees and include guidance on all employment matters, ethics, equal opportunities, stress management, staff benefits and training and development.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and there are specific arrangements to keep all employees informed on matters of concern to them and to encourage their involvement in the Groups performance.
The Board is committed to ensuring that all employees are skilled, motivated and performing to the best of their ability.
All full-time staff, subject to certain criteria, have the opportunity to participate directly in the Groups success through the Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The Group continues to deliver high levels of performance by investing in its employees, developing their skills, measuring and improving achievements through regular reviews and focusing on improving team effectiveness.
The development of technical, personal and managerial skills is key to the Groups success.
Combined expenditure on the Construction Industry Training Board levy and the Groups direct training budget continues to exceed 1 million per year.
In-house training consultants provide technical support and guidance, with assistance from external trainers on specialist subjects as and when required.
Health and safety The Groups Health and Safety department provides guidance and solutions to the operating businesses on all aspects of health and safety and serves to strengthen further the health and safety culture within the Group.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the Groups activities are carried out in accordance with relevant statutory provisions and all reasonable and appropriate measures are taken to avoid risk to employees or others who may be affected.
Whilst management is committed to providing a safe working environment with the appropriate working practices and training, this can only be achieved if employees equally give their commitment to a rigorous health and safety culture.
A significant improvement in the Groups health and safety performance was achieved during the year, with a 26.3% reduction in reportable accidents and a 48.7% reduction in the notification of reportable dangerous occurrences to the Health and Safety Executive.
There are no prosecutions pending against the Group and there were no fatalities during the year.
Corporate and social responsibility The Board acknowledges the Groups corporate and social responsibilities and its approach to these matters is demonstrated in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report which the Group publishes annually to coincide with the announcement of the Interim Results.
Corporate governance The Boards Corporate Governance Statement is set out on pages 31 to 36.
Going concern The Group continues to place considerable emphasis on its budgeting and forecasting procedures and each month produces a forecast of trading and cash flow covering at least the forthcoming fifteen months.
Accordingly, the Group continues to have in place all the procedures and information appropriate to the going concern assessment required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Having reviewed the Groups resources and a range of likely trading out-turns, the Directors believe that they have reasonable grounds for stating that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Donations Donations during the year for educational purposes, to charity and to local causes, amounted to 26,400 2004: 72,700.
There were no political donations during the year.
Auditors The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution for their re-appointment and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board R G Douglas BSc Econ FCA Company Secretary 1st March 2006 30 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005
