Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Directors report 52 weeks ended 30 January 2005 The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the groups audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 30 January 2005.
Principal activity The principal activity of the group is the retail distribution of goods, through the medium of supermarkets.
Review of the period On 8 March 2004 the company completed the acquisition of Safeway Ltd formerly Safeway plc.
This increased the number of stores operated by the group by 479 although at least 52 of these were required to be divested due to conditions imposed by the Ofce of Fair Trading.
The acquisition was satisfied by the issue of approximately 1,077m new ordinary shares each valued at 249p plus 665m cash including fees giving total consideration of 3,346m.
See note 48 on page 52 and 53 for details of the acquisition.
Further details of the development of the group are contained in the chairmans statement on page 6 and financial review on page 55.
Result and dividend The profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders, after taxation of 914m amounted to 2057m.
The directors recommend that a final equity dividend of 3075p per share be paid.
An interim dividend of 0625p per share was paid on 6 December 2004.
The total dividend of 370p per ordinary share represents an increase of 138% over the 325p per ordinary share paid last year and the total net equity distribution amounts to 981m, leaving profit retained of 1076m.
The record date for the final dividend is 29 April 2005 and dividend warrants will be posted on 31 May 2005. Dividend policy The directors believe that results achieved from investment in new stores and the refurbishment of older premises continue to outweigh perceived benets from excessive increases in dividend.
Reasonable annual increases in dividend per share have been and will be made when considered prudent.
Employment policies The groups comprehensive employment policies cover recruitment, selection, retention, pay and benets, learning and development and equality.
Employee involvement It is the groups policy that employees should be kept as fully informed as possible about the activities of the group.
This is achieved through internal communications such as our staff publication Team News at M, notice boards, briengs and local, regional and national consultative committees.
The group recognises a number of trade unions and has a partnership agreement with the majority trade union.
We maintain positive working relationships with the unions at local and national levels.
The group encourages employee involvement in the financial performance of the business through its profit related pay scheme and savings related share option schemes.
Equal opportunities It is the groups policy to offer equal opportunities to all, regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age.
All applicants and employees are treated equally in respect of recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies and practices.
All decisions are based on merit.
Reasonable adjustments will be made to accommodate those with special needs.
Under no circumstances will discrimination against any individual or group be tolerated.
All employees have access to condential counselling provided by trained counsellors as part of our special complaints procedure.
Full details on all such facilities are contained in the staff handbook.
The group is conscious of its responsibility to society and to the local community in particular.
Management is required to apply all of the groups policies fully and diligently to ensure that our high standards are maintained in respect of our operations.
Disability The group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by people with disabilities.
Where an employee becomes disabled whilst in employment, every effort will be made to look at appropriate and reasonable adjustments and to offer suitable employment together with assistance in retraining.
Auditors In accordance with Sections 385 and 390A of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the directors to x their remuneration is to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Borrowing powers The articles of association of the company restrict the borrowings of the company and its subsidiary undertakings to a maximum amount equal to twice the share capital and consolidated reserves.
10 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Directors report continued Annual general meeting Eight ordinary and two special resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Details of these resolutions are set out in the notice of meeting on pages 4 and 5 of this report.
The directors believe each of these resolutions is in the best interests of the company and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of all of them as they intend to do in respect of their personal beneficial holdings of 111,277,791 ordinary shares of the company.
Share capital The following resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting: 1 Resolution 8 a special resolution to renew until the close of the next annual general meeting the authority given at the annual general meeting held on 20 May 2004 for the company to buy its ordinary and convertible preference shares on the London Stock Exchange up to a maximum of 151,900,000 ordinary shares of 10p 1 each ordinary shares and 50,379 5 4% cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares of 1 each convertible preference shares representing approximately 57% and 10% respectively of the issued share capital in each class of shares.
2 Resolutions 9 an ordinary resolution and 10 a special resolution to enable directors to continue to exercise existing powers to allot unissued shares and to allot shares for cash otherwise than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
These resolutions replace the resolutions passed at the annual general meeting of the company held on 20 May 2004 and will run until the close of the next annual general meeting.
The intention is to renew and roll them forward by one year at each future annual general meeting.
Under resolution 9 the directors will be authorised to allot the unissued ordinary share capital of the company representing approximately 301% of the issued ordinary share capital.
Resolution 10 authorises the directors to allot equity shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to ordinary shareholders.
They may do so only in respect of shares representing up to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital, in connection with the conversion of the convertible preference shares or to facilitate rights issues of ordinary shares.
Save for the issues of shares under the share option schemes or on conversion of the convertible preference shares, there is no present intention to make use of either authority and the resolutions are being proposed only to ensure that the directors are able to act in the best interests of the company should a requirement arise.
Any shares purchased pursuant to the authority contained in resolution 8 will be cancelled or held in treasury.
Regulations introduced in 2003 enable listed companies to hold their own shares, once purchased, in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them.
Shares held in treasury may be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under employee share schemes.
The company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings in respect of the shares and no dividend or other distribution may be made in respect of the shares.
It may be appropriate for the company to hold its own ordinary shares in treasury, rather than cancelling them if the directors exercise the authority conferred by resolution 8.
Your board will have regard to any guidelines which may be published by investor groups in considering any purchase, holding or resale of treasury shares.
The approval of the holders of the convertible preference shares to the purchases of shares pursuant to the authority contained in resolution 8, and any renewal of further grant of that authority on like terms, was given at a separate meeting held on 13 May 1999.
Under the provisions of the companys articles of association, the holders of convertible preference shares in the company have the right to convert such shares during June in each year up to 2006 into ordinary shares.
The convertible preference shareholders will shortly receive a letter regarding their rights of conversion in 2005.
During the period, a total of 940,979 convertible preference shares were converted into 3,161,689 ordinary shares on the basis of 336 ordinary shares for every 100 nominal amount of convertible preference shares in accordance with the terms of issue of the convertible preference shares.
In addition, 2,441,810 ordinary shares were issued to employees exercising share options.
In the period 31 January 2005 to 23 March 2005 options in respect of 154,425 ordinary shares were exercised.
On 8 March 2004 approximately 1,077m ordinary shares were issued on the acquisition of Safeway plc becoming effective.
At the annual general meeting of the company held in 2004, a special resolution was passed to authorise the purchase by the company of up to 151,900,000 ordinary shares and 470,236 convertible preference shares representing approximately 57% and 10% of the issued share capital of each class of shares respectively at that time.
This authority remained valid on 30 January 2005.
The company has not purchased any of its own shares pursuant to that authority which will expire at the close of the 2005 annual general meeting.
At 23 March 2005 options to subscribe for shares in respect of 39,996,977 ordinary shares of 10p each in the company were outstanding, representing 1.5% of the issued ordinary share capital at that date and 1.6% of the issued ordinary share capital assuming exercise in full by the company of its authority both current and that being sought at the annual general meeting to purchase its own shares and cancellation of such shares on purchase.
11 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings As at 23 March 2005 the company was aware that the following shareholders excluding directors had interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the company: Ordinary shares Mr & Mrs N G Pritchard 79,717,453 30%, The Bank of New York Nominees Limited 102,645,622 39%, Chase Nominees Limited 96,376,111 36%, Littledown Nominees Limited 84,317,022 32%, Nortrust Nominees Limited 106,548,706 40% and State Street Nominees Limited 91,385,287 34%.
In addition, Mr A R Wilson has an interest in 235,310,022 ordinary shares 89% of which he has a beneficial interest in 25,839 ordinary shares.
His interest in the remaining 235,284,183 ordinary shares is purely as a trustee and includes 11,992,302 ordinary shares shown under the beneficial holding of K D Morrison and 37,773,306 ordinary shares shown under the beneficial holding of Mr & Mrs N G Pritchard.
K D Morrison is interested as a trustee in 159,109,829 of the ordinary shares held by Mr A R Wilson as a trustee.
Directors and their interests The executive and non-executive directors of the company during the period were: Sir Kenneth Duncan Morrison CBE b 20.10.1931 Executive chairman Has been with the company, which bears the name of his father, since nishing national service in 1952 and was chairman and managing director from 1956 to 1997 at which time he relinquished the managing directors role.
During his period in charge the company has grown from a small market trader to one of the leading superstore operators in the country.
Sir Kenneth was awarded the CBE in 1990 and knighted in the 2000 new years honours list for services to the food retailing industry.
1943 Chief executive Originally joined the company in 1973 after 10 years with Pedigree Petfoods.
He was appointed to the main board in 1977 and became deputy managing director in 1983.
In 1987 he left to become managing director at Geest Wholesale Services and later Geest UK Banana Division before returning to the company in 1996.
He was re-appointed to the main board in 1997 as buying director, became joint managing director in March 2002 and chief executive in March 2005.
1958 Executive managing director, trading and marketing Joined the company in 1975 and became produce director when appointed to the board of management in 1987.
Marie was closely involved with the setting up of the central grocery facility at Wakeeld becoming trading director in 1988 and was appointed to the main board in 1993 being responsible for buying and marketing.
She was appointed deputy managing director in 1997, became joint managing director in March 2002 and sole managing director in March 2005 continuing with her responsibility for trading and marketing.
1951 Finance director Joined the company in 1974 and became a member of the board of management in 1983.
Two years later he became company secretary, a position he relinquished in 2001, and in 1987 was appointed to the main board.
He is responsible for the financial sections of the business along with investor relations.
1958 Stores operations director Mark joined the company in 1986 after gaining wide experience in UK food retailing, including working for Iceland, Fine Fare, Tesco and Argyll Foods.
He moved into superstore management at Asda, before joining Morrisons as a store general manager and progressing to district manager.
In 1993 he was appointed regional director and subsequently stores director in 1999.
Mark was appointed to the main board of the company in 2000 as store operations director with additional responsibility for retail operations, retail projects and company wide security.
David Robert Hutchinson b 24.12.1948 Production director Joined the company in 1986 and spent 7 years helping to build up the produce business at Cutler Heights.
In 1993 he was appointed to the board of management in charge of all manufacturing and pack house activities.
He was appointed to the main board of the company in 2002 adding warehouse and distribution functions to his responsibilities.
Roger Anthony Owen FRICS, MCI.
Arb b 21.10.1948 Property director Has been with the company since 1975 and was appointed to the board of management in 1979 as building and services director.
Joined the main board in 1987 as property director and has full responsibility for site acquisition, construction and estate management.
1943 Non-executive deputy chairman Joined the group as a non-executive director on 21 May 2004 and was appointed non-executive deputy chairman in March 2005.
He was appointed chief executive of Next Plc in 1988, becoming deputy chairman in 2001 and chairman in 2002.
His previous experience includes 20 years with Great Universal Stores and 5 years as chief executive of Grattan Plc.
He was a non-executive director of Aggregate Industries Plc until 21 March 2005 and remains a non executive director of Leicester Football Club plc.
He is also President of Yorkshire County Cricket Club.
1941 Non-executive director Joined the group as a non-executive director on 21 May 2004.
He founded Persimmon Plc in 1972 leading its development from a small local housebuilder to a large and successful group.
He was chief executive and chairman from 1972 and 1993 respectively and continues in his role as chairman.
He has over 40 years of experience in the building industry.
He resigned from his position on 23 March 2005.
12 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Directors report continued D R Hutchinson age 56 and K D Morrison age 73 retire by rotation and D Jones age 62 retires at the first annual general meeting following his appointment.
Each of them, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the annual general meeting.
M Ackroyd age 53 retires by rotation and is not seeking re-election at the annual general meeting.
Political and charitable donations During the period the group made charitable donations amounting to 153,000.
In addition the group sponsored various charities and in the year over 41m was raised by customers and staff.
No political donations were made.
Future developments The group continues to expand into new areas of merchandise where considered appropriate and plans to continue physical expansion of retail stores as and when opportunities arise.
Further details of current and future developments are set out in the chairmans statement on page 6.
Accounting practices Following the acquisition of Safeway the group has harmonised its accounting practices.
The accounting policies of the two companies were broadly the same such that the policies of Morrisons remain unchanged.
The way those policies were applied however, differed.
As detailed on pages 26 and 27, the accounting estimation technique for supplier income has been rened resulting in a net benefit to the profit and loss account in the period of 47m.
Further revisions to previous accounting practices have been made in order to establish the most appropriate practices for the new enlarged group.
As a consequence of these revisions, profits for the period have benefited by 42m.
Depreciation rates have also been harmonised as discussed in the accounting policies.
Had the previous rates been applied, the depreciation charge for the current period would have been 35m higher.
As announced on 17 March 2005 a specic provision of 40m has been made within these accounts due to the uncertainty over the recoverability of certain debit balances within the Safeway purchase ledger.
Going concern After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable belief that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Payment to creditors Supplier credit is an important factor in the success of the business.
Following the acquisition of Safeway Limited the company will, as previously acknowledged, work within the spirit and letter of the supermarkets code of practice.
The company will continue with its policy to ensure all payments are made within mutually agreed credit terms.
Where disputes arise the company attempts to sort these out promptly and amicably to ensure delays in payment are kept to a minimum.
Creditor days outstanding for the company at 30 January 2005 were 39 2004 38.
13 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Directors report continued Health and Safety Policy It is the groups intention as far as is reasonably practical to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all its employees, customers and visitors to its premises.
In order to achieve this, the group has drawn up a comprehensive health and safety manual that contains policies and procedures detailing safe working systems and practices for all work-based activities.
The groups health and safety policy is fully mandated by the main board of directors.
As an integral part of our commitment to achieving the highest standards of health and safety across all areas of our business we have adopted the national targets set by the Health and Safety Commission for the reduction of workplace accidents and work-related ill health.
Health and safety performance is monitored to ensure continuous improvement in all areas.
The following work has been achieved to target within the last 12 months: the amalgamation of divisional health and safety teams to form a group health and safety team to ensure consistency of approach and exibility of resource: health and safety arrangements are in place for all divisions: risk assessments and health and safety procedures are fully in place within the stores operation, manufacturing and distribution sites: health and safety training is provided to all managers and supervisors within each division: the group remains on course to meet or exceed the national reduction targets set by the Health and Safety Commission for workplace accidents and work-related ill health.
International Financial Reporting Standards The group will be adopting International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for its financial statements for the period ending 29 January 2006 and for its interim report to 24 July 2005 in line with the timetable set out in European Legislation.
The trading results of the group as reported are not expected to be materially different under IFRS from UK GAAP.
The main change in accounting treatment will be in respect of the acquisition of Safeway Limited formerly Safeway plc.
IFRS requires identication of more intangible assets and requires negative goodwill to be credited to the profit and loss account immediately on recognition.
Post balance sheet event Subsequent to the year end the group has continued its divestment strategy with further disposals of stores owned by Safeway Limited formerly Safeway plc and its subsidiary companies.
The group has received approximately 80m in consideration for these divestments.
Corporate governance Statement of policy The directors statement on how the principles established in the revised combined code on corporate governance are applied appears below.
In previous years, the board have always considered their approach to corporate governance to be appropriate to the companys circumstances.
The group has a relatively at hierarchical structure led by a long serving board that has extensive knowledge of the business as a whole.
Individual directors have particular depth of knowledge in their own areas.
The board meets regularly and considers detailed operational matters.
In addition, the group had grown organically over a long period of time, providing a steady state in which the detailed system of controls could operate effectively without the risks associated with change.
This approach, together with inherent and embedded prudence, gave the directors confidence over the control environment.
Following the acquisition of Safeway, progress has been made in developing a more formal approach to corporate governance matters, including the appointment of non-executive directors and the establishment of an audit committee.
These changes are considered in more detail below.
The board Details of the executive and non-executive directors of the group are set out on page 12.
The directors represent shareholders interests in maintaining and growing a successful business including optimising long-term returns.
The directors are accountable for determining that the company, its subsidiaries and its interests in joint ventures are managed in such a way as to achieve this objective.
The board, in addition to meeting its obligations to improve shareholder value, has responsibility to the companys customers, employees and suppliers, and to the communities where it develops and invests.
14 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Directors report continued The board sets the overall strategy of the group and delegates day to day operations to the board of management and other senior members of the management team.
Matters regularly covered at main board meetings include reports from each of the main departments of the business Store Operations, Trading, Estates & Property, Personnel, Information Technology, Finance and Legal as well as other business as it arose.
The main board and the operations meetings referred to above involve all the main departments of the business being covered.
Subsidiary company board meetings are held frequently and attended by at least one member of the group main board.
Detailed operational meetings are held by each member of the board with the relevant managers.
Board balance and independence On 21 May 2004, David Jones and Duncan Davidson were appointed as non-executive directors.
The board considers that they are independent in accordance with the principles of the combined code.
Duncan Davidson stood down from the board on 23 March 2005 due to the increasing time requirements of the role.
David Jones has been appointed as senior independent non-executive director.
He is available to discuss corporate matters with shareholders.
Board meetings The directors attended the following number of the main board meetings during the period: Number of board meetings attended Note 1,2, 3 Sir Kenneth Duncan Morrison 16 1,2, 3 David Jones 7 1,2, 3 Robert Winston Stott 16 1,3 Marie Margaret Melnyk 16 Martin Ackroyd 16 Mark Gunter 15 David Robert Hutchinson 16 Roger Antony Owen 17 Duncan Davidson 6 Note 1 Member of nomination committee 2 Member of audit committee 3 Member of the remuneration committee This is the number of board meetings attended since their appointment on 21 May 2004.
On 23 March 2005 Robert Stott was appointed chief executive of the company.
Sir Kenneth Morrison remains executive chairman.
David Jones, the senior non-executive director, was appointed as non-executive deputy chairman on 23 March 2005 and will chair the recently established remuneration and audit committees, as well as the nomination committee.
He will take primary responsibility for ensuring that good corporate governance is practised within the company.
He will also work with the chairman and chief executive to ensure that succession plans are in place for all board positions and that additional non-executive directors are appointed.
An audit committee was formed during the period whose members are Sir Kenneth Morrison, David Jones chairman of the committee and Robert Stott.
The committee does not yet have a formal constitution, nor does it comply with the combined code in that it does not include at least three non-executive directors.
The company has arranged insurance with Chubb Insurance Company of Europe SA in respect of any legal action against the directors.
The board monitors the non-audit services being provided by the external auditors to ensure that they do not impair their independence or objectivity.
Appointments to the board The companys nomination committee is responsible for the appointment of executive and non-executive directors to the board.
There are no formal terms of reference for the committee but appointments are made on the basis of selecting individuals of sufficient calibre, knowledge, and experience to full the duties of a director.
The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection.
The non-executive directors committed to set aside sufficient time to meet the requirements of their role.
15 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Directors report continued The appointment of the non-executive directors was not conducted by an external agency or through open advertising.
The process involved selecting suitably qualied individuals with relevant experience that could perform the role.
Information and professional development Following appointment in 2004, the non-executive directors were provided with a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction.
This included the provision of an information pack.
They also attended meetings with members of senior and middle management and the groups auditors.
All directors receive appropriate information on a regular basis to assist them in fullling their duties and responsibilities.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that applicable rules and regulations are applied.
They may also take independent advice, if required in the furtherance of their duties, at the companys expense.
Performance evaluation The performance of individual directors and the whole board is evaluated by the chairman on a continual, but informal, basis.
The chairman has undertaken an informal performance evaluation of David Jones, in terms of his effectiveness and commitment to the role, and believes that he should be re-elected to the board.
Re-election The board makes the initial appointment of directors who are then subject to re-election by the shareholders at the first annual general meeting following appointment and thereafter at three yearly intervals.
David Jones has been appointed for a three year period from 21 May 2004, unless otherwise terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon one months written notice.
Remuneration policy The companys remuneration committee is chaired by David Jones and is responsible for setting the remuneration of the chairman and executive directors.
The directors remuneration report is set out on pages 18 to 22, and this includes details concerning the directors contracts and their compensation elements.
The board agreed the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Financial reporting The statement of the directors responsibilities in preparing the financial statements and the auditors reporting responsibilities are set out on page 25.
Internal control The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to reduce so far as possible the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and of material misstatement or loss.
The combined code has a requirement that the directors review the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls.
This includes internal financial controls and controls over operational, compliance, and risk management.
The board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, and is regularly reviewed by the board and accords with the guidance.
The process is not formalised but is embedded within the operation of the board as a whole.
The directors were satisfied that these procedures are adequate to minimise potential risks facing the business.
The considerable increase in the size of the group following the acquisition of Safeway, the added complexities associated with the acquisition, the need to standardise procedures, and the problems with the inherited Safeway accounting system, have together put significant strain on the existing financial resource and the control environment.
This has had some impact during the period on the ability of the board to reliably forecast likely trends in profitability and to obtain a full understanding of some of the underlying trading balances.
These problems are being addressed through the establishment of a more formal approach to corporate governance matters as discussed within this report.
In addition, a clear programme exists for completing the conversion of the Safeway legacy systems.
16 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Directors report continued The company does not have an independent internal audit department capable of performing a full and regular monitoring role of the companys procedures.
Notwithstanding the problems referred to above it is felt that the financial record keeping is robust and capable of highlighting significant departures in procedures.
Other areas of risk review which may normally be carried out by an internal audit department are in the main covered by the board either as a whole or within the various operations and subsidiary meetings highlighted above.
Relations with shareholders The company maintains regular contact with institutional shareholders throughout the year.
In addition the annual general meeting provides a forum for communicating with private investors.
The non-executive directors have developed an understanding of the views of the major shareholders from briengs provided by the chairman and executive directors at the board meetings.
Compliance statement The company is required to report on compliance with the detailed requirements of the combined code throughout the 52 weeks ended 30 January 2005.
In relation to all provisions of the combined code other than those mentioned below, the company complied throughout the period under review.
References are to the paragraphs of the combined code.
The board is free to make the selection of chairman and chief executive in the best interests of the company at the relevant time but in the past has been of the opinion that it was beneficial to the group to combine the roles.
The roles of the chairman and the chief executive were not separate for the period under review A.
2.1, but have been subsequently separated.
The board appointed two non-executive directors on 21 May 2004.
Following these appointments the board comprised nine directors of whom two were independent non-executive directors.
At least half the board are not independent non-executive directors, and there were no non-executive directors on the board before 21 May 2004.
There was not a senior independent director for the full period A.
At this stage, the nomination committee does not contain a majority of independent non-executive directors A.
Terms of reference for the committee are currently being established.
A formal and rigorous annual review of the performance of the board, its committees and all directors does not take place A.
The board does however conduct rigorous assessments of the performance of individual directors on an informal and continuous basis.
Due to the substantial challenges faced by the board in the light of the Safeway acquisition, it was not considered appropriate to undertake a formal appraisal of board or committee performance during the period.
A full and rigorous evaluation of the performance of the board, committees and individual directors will be carried out in the forthcoming period.
The remuneration package of the executive directors does not comprise a significant proportion of performance related elements B.
In previous years this has been considered appropriate due to the consistent strong performance of the group.
This will remain under constant review.
At this stage, the remuneration committee is not wholly comprised of independent non-executive directors.
At this stage, the audit committee is not wholly comprised of independent non-executive directors.
The board as a whole regularly monitors internal controls and also ensures that an objective and professional relationship is maintained with the auditors C. 3.1, C. 3.2, C. 3.3, C. 3.4, C. 3.5.
The non-executive directors, including the senior non-executive director, are kept informed of the views of major shareholders at board meetings D. 1.1.
By order of the board JONATHAN BURKE 23 March 2005 Secretary 17
