Directors Report for the financial year ended 29 January 2005 The Directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 29 January 2005.
Principal Activities The Group trades principally as a UK-based General Merchandise retailer and Entertainment wholesaler and publisher.
Review of Activities A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Operating Review on pages 4 to 8.
Results and Dividends The profit on ordinary activities of the Group before taxation amounted to 9.3 million 2004: 66.7 million and the profit on ordinary activities after taxation amounted to 2.2 million 2004: 46.1 million.
The interim dividend of 0.39 pence per ordinary share was paid on 8 December 2004, making a total for the year of 0.39 pence per ordinary share.
The total dividend payable to shareholders charged to the profit and loss account is 5.4 million.
The Directors propose to transfer the loss of 3.4 million to reserves.
The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary shares in the market at competitive dealing rates.
Full details can be obtained from the Registrar.
If you have previously completed a mandate form to join the Plan, you need take no further action.
Directors The Directors of the Company are shown on page 14.
The following have been Directors of the Company during the financial year ended 29 January 2005: Andrew Beeson, Trevor Bish-Jones, Gerald Corbett, Roger Jones, Prue Leith OBE and Christopher Rogers.
Directors Interests The Directors interests in shares of the Company are shown within the Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 25.
No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
No Director was or is materially interested in any contract other than his her service contract, subsisting during or existing at the end of the financial year which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
Re-election of Directors The Articles of Association require one-third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation to retire and submit themselves for re-election each year.
The Articles of Association also require any Directors appointed by the Board to retire at the next Annual General Meeting.
Any such Director may, if willing to act, be re-elected.
In accordance with Article 88 of the Articles of Association, Andrew Beeson, Roger Jones and Prue Leith OBE hold ofce until the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Trevor Bish-Jones will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with Article 82 of the Articles of Association and being eligible offers himself for re-election.
Details of Directors submitting themselves for re-election are shown on page 14.
Directors Remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run the Group successfully.
The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on pages 20 to 25.
Annual General Meeting Details of the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in a separate circular that has been sent to all shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts.
Employee Involvement The Board seeks to instill high standards of customer care and service in each subsidiary company and the commitment of every employee to this business requirement is considered to be critical.
Accordingly, the Corporate Centre has established a communication framework for employees concerning Groupwide business performance, community involvement, company benets, people and innovation.
Each subsidiary company has, in addition, its own communication strategies concerning their brands, company performance and people issues.
Training and links with the educational sector reinforce the Groups commitment to employee involvement and development.
The Woolworths Group Leadership Programme WGLP is the development framework for managers at all levels of seniority who have the potential to be our future leaders.
A brochure describing the programme and a micro site specifically for graduates have been produced.
Employees are represented on the Trustee Board of the Groups pension schemes.
In December 2004, more than 3,000 colleagues in the Group saw their first Woolworths Group ShareSave option mature.
This enabled participants to buy shares in the Company at a price of 30.5 pence.
More than 700 employees chose to exercise options and keep their shares.
15 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Directors Report continued for the financial year ended 29 January 2005 Equal Opportunities The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, HIV status, disability, sexuality, or unrelated criminal convictions and without arbitrary restrictions in respect of age, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justied.
The Group applies employment policies which are fair and equitable and which ensure entry into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability and competency.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to the possibility of employing disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities exist.
Supplier Payment Policy The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to negotiate its terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transactions, to ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not follow any universal code or standard on payment practice but subsidiary companies are expected to establish payment terms consistent with local procedures, custom and practice.
Woolworths Group plc, the parent Company, has no trade creditors.
It is therefore not appropriate to provide creditor day statistics for the Company.
However the number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Group at the year-end was 41 2004: 39.
Political Contributions During the year the Company made no political contributions 2004: nil.
Charitable Donations During the year the Group has contributed 156,000 2004: 204,000 to communities in the UK.
Major Shareholders As at 22 March 2005, the Company had been notied of the following interests in three per cent or more of the Companys shares.
Number of ordinary shares Per cent Deutsche Bank AG 160,179,466 11.14 Fidelity International Ltd 80,454,577 5.59 Barclays PLC 55,181,094 3.84 HBOS plc 54,778,202 3.81 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 51,534,518 3.58 Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 27 May 2004, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 17,660,862.42 nominal value of its ordinary shares in the market.
This authority, which has not been used, expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2005 and a resolution will be put to that Meeting to provide a similar authority for a further year.
Auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to accept reappointment as auditors of the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment is contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Bloom Company Secretary 22 March 2005 16 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
