How were doing Media investment management Our primary purpose is to maximize the performance of WPPs media agencies, operating not only as their parent company, but as collaborator on GroupM  activities such as trading, finance, tool development and other business-critical capabilities.
It is these areas where we can leverage the combination of our scale and talent resources.
The intelligent management of scale also allows us unparalleled market knowledge and insights as well as relationships with the media community with which we trade.
2005 was another very significant and successful year with each of our agencies delivering outstanding individual performances.
The individual entries by each agency tell their own story a continuing and outstanding record of new business successes, in conjunction with existing client retention and development.
Our clients include the worlds most sophisticated marketers, and their confidence in our capabilities is a reection of the performance that we have delivered.
Our companies and people can be proud of the great thinking and unceasing commitment to deliver exceptional value to clients in support of business growth.
This was a year during which we transitioned MediaCom into GroupM, thus enriching our talent and capabilities even further.
We took the time during the year to carefully identify the opportunities for our larger organization now with three global agency networks and to further develop and evolve the GroupM strategy and structure that we implemented only three years ago.
Our performance continues to be a strong validation of that strategy.
Several of our competitors have acknowledged our success by gradually attempting to replicate our model.
GroupM remains ahead, and Irwin Gotlieb Chief executive officer we are confident that well stay ahead because we are GroupM uniquely positioned.
Were making use not only of the enormous resources within our agencies but also those roupM is WPPs consolidated media investment within the wider WPP Group.
We are working with our management operation, serving as the parent colleagues at Kantar, for instance, in the development of company to agencies including MediaCom, ground-breaking communications planning capabilities.
As such, No one else is better placed to focus such an we are the worlds leading media array of talent, ingenuity, and raw ambition to succeed.
practice with capabilities in business science, And, no one else is creating such a varied and open set consumer insight, communications and media planning, of environments where talented people can shine implementation, interactions, content development, individually and collectively and where ideas can be and sports and entertainment marketing.
generated, nurtured, and turned into powerful, businessRECMA, the independent organization that driving forces.
measures scale, capabilities and client alignment in the There is significant speculation and confusion in media sector has put us in the No.
1 position by a the marketplace around the shifting media landscape comfortable margin in both scale and vitality, a measure the impact of fragmentation, proliferation, technology of growth and momentum.
and changing consumer media consumption behaviour.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 45
