How were rewarded Performance The Compensation committee believes that Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a group of key comparators continues to be the most appropriate measure for All remuneration packages for senior executives, including determining long-term performance-based rewards for executive directors, have a significant element which is variable and dependent on performance as can be seen from Group executive directors, as it most closely aligns reward the chart below.
with the delivery of share owner value.
For this reason TSR is the sole measure of performance used for Renewed LEAP.
Sir Martin Sorrell WPP has encouraged share ownership for its most senior executives, including executive directors, for many Paul Richardson years.
For executive directors this is achieved through Howard Paster participation in Renewed LEAP.
Other WPP Leaders approximately 200 people are expected to own at least Mark Read 40,000 WPP ordinary shares.
Fixed Variable 0 20 40 60 80 100% Clearly there is also a need to ensure that share i Fixed compensation comprises salary, pension contributions and other benets as disclosed in the owner value is not diminished through the issue of new table on page 125. shares to satisfy incentive awards.
The dilution, as at ii Variable compensation comprises short-term incentive plans and the value of Executive Share Awards are also disclosed in the table on page 125 along with the expected value of the Renewed 4 May 2006, was well below the 10% level recommended LEAP award granted in 2005 referred to in the table on page 129. by the ABI.
It is intended that Renewed LEAP awards, the The performance targets set in respect of variable Performance Share Awards, the Executive Share Awards compensation are both specic and challenging as is and Restricted Stock Plan awards will all be satisfied with apparent in the fact that little or no short-term bonus purchased shares held in the employee share ownership was paid in 2001 and 2002 and both the 2002-2004 and plans ESOPs.
the 2003-2005 Performance Share Plan awards failed to pay out.
WPP Share Incentive Scheme dilution for 2001 to 2005 Alignment to share owner interests Dilution levels % 14 12 WPP is committed to aligning executive performance and 10 8 reward with share owner interests.
This is achieved by 6 providing significant opportunities for executives to acquire 4 WPP stock, by using performance measures that are linked 2 WPP 0 to the creation of share owner value and by operating share ABI Limit 01 02 03 04 05 ownership goals for the most senior executives.
Many of our incentive plans pay out wholly or partially in WPP stock.
As can be seen below, approximately Review of compensation half of the compensation package of the executive directors was delivered in shares last year.
During 2005, the committee undertook a thorough review of the Groups current compensation and incentive strategy.
Sir Martin Sorrell The review included extensive internal consultation, an examination of our competitors current practices and Paul Richardson consideration of financial, tax, accounting and legal issues Howard Paster and current best practice guidelines.
From this review it was apparent that: Mark Read The ongoing use of stock options had become a major Cash Shares 0 20 40 60 80 100% source of executive dissatisfaction, was not cost-effective i Cash compensation comprises salary, pension contributions, short-term incentive plans and other i. e. the cost to WPP of providing options far outweighed benets as disclosed in the table on page 125. the perceived value delivered to the participant and ii Share-based compensation comprises the value of Executive Share Awards are also disclosed in the table on page 125 along with the expected value of the Renewed LEAP award granted in 2005 furthermore the use of options was becoming less common referred to in the table on page 129. in the industry.
Annual Report 2005 How were rewarded 119
