How were doing Branding & identity Addison Corporate Marketing, Lambie-Nairn, The Partners and Walker Group.
The mission of the B to D Group is to maximize and B to D Group leverage the strengths of each individual company in order to offer clients and prospects the most complete and compelling branding and design solutions.
As part of the group, the companies have access to new clients and untapped markets, as well as resources such as advanced knowledge sharing systems and financial tools.
Employee exchange further enables the companies to share top-level strategic thinking, creativity and cultural knowledge.
Year one of B to D Group operations was primarily spent building and rening the individual companies.
Bringing energy and fresh perspectives, new company leadership was established at Landor, Enterprise IG and Addison with the promotion of Charlie Wrench to president, Simon Bolton to Worldwide CEO, and Tom Robinson to CEO, respectively.
New financial management was also put in place at Enterprise IG.
Landor and VBAT were top performers in the group, both contributing record revenues in 2005.
Landor produced record profits as well.
Addison delivered a notable improvement over last years performance and Lambie-Nairn presented solid numbers, surpassing 2005 expectations.
Enterprise IG had a productive year overall, with the business responding to the leadership and streamlining actions taken.
The Partners nished on a high note, despite a slow start to the year and Walker Group advances into 2006 optimistic about refocusing the company on its more traditional retail roots.
In the coming year, we plan to expand the B to D Groups reach both in terms of geography and capabilities to increasingly meet our clients growing demand for global knowledge and innovative solutions, and continue to position WPPs branding and design practice as the major force in the market.
Craig Branigan Craig Branigan Chairman and chief executive officer B to D Group Overview determination to dominate the global branding and design market changed the shape of WPPs brand consulting and design practice in 2005 with the formation of a new branding and design entity, the B to D Group.
Led by CFO Robert Horjus and myself, the group consists of Landor Associates, Enterprise IG, VBAT, Annual Report 2005 60 How were doing
