How were doing Light review against Fallon and other first-rate creative competition.
The Voluntarily United Group In the fall, Red Cell Network split in two parts, with of Creative Agencies nine of the former Red Cell ofces forming the Voluntarily United Group of Creative Agencies.
The group now includes Senora Rushmore United, Madrid: Berlin Cameron United, New York: Cole & Weber United, Seattle: WM United, Buenos Aires: United London: 1861 United, Milan: LDV United, Antwerp: BTS United, Oslo: and Les Ouvriers du Paradis United, Paris.
Late in the year, the United Group was hired internationally in a test program by Procter & Gambles Geneva-based Fragrances Division.
The group was also assigned a series of designer brands from Escada and Mont Blanc.
Seora Rushmore United was distinguished as Spains Agency of the Year for 2005 by Anuncios, the Spanish advertising journal.
WM United, although in its first start-up year, was a nalist for similar Agency of the Year distinction in Buenos Aires.
Important wins for 2005 include Heineken Premium Light, The Wall Street Journal, Nestl-Purina Busybone, Hearsts Marie Claire New York, Sprite, Aquarius, Nestea-Portugal, ING Direct and Mahou beer Madrid, Sony Antwerp and Milan, Microsoft Seattle, Infonxx Milan, Credit du Nord Paris, Argentinian Wine Producers, Coca-Cola Juices and a project on Coca-Cola for mothers Buenos Aires, Brussels Airport Antwerp, Hero London, Fokus Bank Oslo, and Dell Seattle.
2005 was a year of reorganisation for the Batey Red Cell Group in Asia.
Early in the year a decision was made to focus on the Batey Red Cell agencies in the key markets of Singapore and Taiwan.
At the same time, other network agencies were restructured and many of them achieved critical mass by being merged with other WPP companies in the region.
During the year, Batey Red Cell strengthened its global relationship with Singapore Airlines and produced award-winning work for DaimlerChrysler Mercedes-Benz.
The appointment of executive creative director Pablo Andy Berlin Chairman and chief executive officer Monzon further underlined the agencys commitment to The Voluntarily United Group of Creative Agencies producing creative solutions from Asia for the world.
005 was a year of massive changes for WPPs Andy Berlin Red Cell Network.
After enjoying sudden fame with the win of Coca-Cola USA, Berlin Cameron Red Cell experienced losses of Coke USA and, subsequently, the international creative advertising assignment it shared with sister agency JWT for Samsung.
The agency undertook deep cuts, restructured management, stabilized core businesses, remained profitable and by years end won a hotly-contested Heineken Premium Annual Report 2005 How were doing 43
