How were doing Mediaedge:cia n 2004, we described our performance as sheer momentum.
2005 saw us build successfully on that momentum and Mediaedge:cia MEC grew again both in absolute size as well as in the breadth and depth of capabilities.
MEC is now four years old and weve clearly hit our stride with great confidence running throughout the agency.
This confidence stems from our ability to define the changes taking place in our market, to adapt our business accordingly and so stay one step ahead of the competition.
We believe that marketing is entering a major new stage.
We call it Active Engagement.
The empowered consumer continues to re-define the media, entertainment and content marketplace and the consumers ability and appetite to control this space continues to challenge.
Interrupting and grabbing the attention of consumers is increasingly difficult and clients now need to nd ways to participate in media.
MECs role is to get consumers actively engaged with our clients brands.
That is the future of how we have to deliver and thats why the investment in the diversication of our business continues and is increasingly where our growth is coming from.
Charles Courtier Executive chairman Mediaedge:cia In addition to our media planning and implementation capability, weve established and are growing our operations in interaction digital, direct & search, entertainment marketing, sports, sponsorship and event marketing, cause-related marketing, content development, ROI and consumer insights, and we are now developing a retail marketing practice.
Well continue to diversify and integrate this expertise and apply it to our clients business: engaging consumers across an ever-increasing number of communication channels.
With these new capabilities has come new talent and skills into the agency, and talent management including training and development remains a key priority.
The range of our business is now so wide that opportunities for people with ideas and creativity are endless.
Annual Report 2005 48 How were doing
