How were doing list consistent each year.
New to the H&K family of clients include the Royal Canadian Mint, the government of Pakistan, the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, TomTom, Hill & Knowlton HSBC, Hershey, VeriSign, Deloitte, Exelon and CRVD.
Companies turned to H&K for financial communications and M&A support in 2005.
Canada led in transactions including CNPC Internationals acquisition of PetroKazakhstan: TUI AGs acquisition of CP Ships: and Arcelor Steel in its acquisition of Dofasco.
H&Ks Hong Kong and New York teams assisted baidu.
com, the Google of China, to become the biggest first-day gainer on the NASDAQ since 2000.
Hong Kong also managed the communications on the listing of China Construction Bank, the largest IPO in the world in 2005.
Hiring senior trusted advisors remained a top priority as Hill & Knowlton continued to deepen its talent.
In healthcare, Paul Oestreicher joined as US director, Dr Martin Godfrey returned to London and Don Sancton came aboard as Canadas national practice leader.
Judi Mackey was named US head of corporate communications, Mike Breslin signed on as Houstons GM, and Michelle Hutton was named head of Australia.
In London, Richard Millar was promoted to head of consumer and marketing, and technology marketing specialist Paul Kok joined in Amsterdam.
Julie Atherton came aboard as director of interactive in the US to help clients integrate their online communications to make marketing more immersive.
Scott Kirkpatrick joined the firm to lead its US sports marketing practice.
H&K continued to invest in generating insights on communications.
The annual survey, Tech Decision Makers Study, provides insight into the decision-making process for B2B technology purchases, assessing the criteria and sources of influence on senior tech decision makers when making their short list of vendors.
H&K also commissioned a Consumer Inuences Study to analyze the sources of influence on consumers as they pass through the purchasing life cycle in key B2C product Paul Taaffe and service categories.
The study pinpoints the most inuential Chairman and chief executive officer sources and identies the experts for each category, enabling Hill & Knowlton a targeted approach to spreading word-of-mouth.
Asia Pacics crisis and issues management and 005 at Hill & Knowlton saw a dramatic training practice launched Planning for Pandemics: A Stepacceleration in clients requiring expanded by-Step Communications Approach for Responding communications services from the firm.
Effectively to the Risks of Outbreaks.
This multi-faceted All regions in the rm experienced revenue communications planning approach, extrapolated from the growth year-over-year with dramatic expansion 2003 SARS crisis in Asia, is a plan that helps companies in North Asia and, in particular, China where better understand how pandemics, such as avian u, can half of that growth was driven by existing clients.
threaten their operations and reputations.
The offering H&Ks focus on client service continues to be measured helps companies undertake risk assessment, plan by the retention of its top 30 clients.
HP, Motorola, Merck, communications strategies to mitigate the threat and offers SABIC, P&G, Microsoft and AstraZeneca remain atop a post-pandemic recovery strategies.
Annual Report 2005 56 How were doing How were doing The year was one of transformation for Blanc & Long a proponent of social responsibility for its Otus, H&Ks stand-alone technology company.
Celebrating clients, Hill & Knowlton promotes that philosophy inits twentieth anniversary, B&O added 20 new clients and house.
H&K, JWT Pakistan and local associate Asiatic PR six new staff members to its analyst relations joint venture provided assistance to the government of Pakistans rescue, with H&K, which is led by former Gartner Group analyst relief and reconstruction efforts following the devastating Josh Reynolds.
Its consumer business grew to more than October 8 earthquake.
With on-site support in Pakistan, 40% of revenue by years end.
along with teams in Washington DC, London, Singapore B&Os clients include Hitachi Data Systems, and Islamabad, the team helped government officials DreamWorks Animation, Panasonic, Universal Electronics, coordinate aid from around the world and provided Disneys Moviebeam venture, the Blu-ray Disc Association, strategic communications counsel and media engagement.
Sonys US PlayStation division, and start-ups, including In addition, Hill & Knowlton contributed to the American photocasting pioneers FilmLoop, mobile phone GPS Red Cross through its John Hill Foundation for the victims innovator Destinator Technologies and VOIP telecom of US hurricane Katrina, as well as matching employee provider My People.
B&O added major new assignments charitable donations.
in its burgeoning London ofce for LG and MCI to major B2B work in the US for Computer Associates, Hyperion, Paul Taaffe Agile and Fujitsu Software.
Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates had a successful 2005, with revenue increasing 12% over 2004.
Helping to drive this growth were two significant hires out of the Bush Administration: John Duncan, who served as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Legislative Affairs: and Tom Blank, who came from the Department of Homeland Security where he served as Deputy Administrator Acting of the Transportation Security Administration.
Among the rms client successes in 2005 were passage of umbilical cord blood legislation for Cord Blood Registries, Inc. : passage of legislation facilitating the exportation of pharmaceutical products overseas and job creation in the US for Cephalon, Inc. : passage of the Central American Free Trade Agreement for Comprehensive Market Access Coalition: and passage of energy legislation for the Alliance for Hydroelectric Licensing Reform.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 57
