What we think The Life & Works of Stephen King 1931-2006 The Life in brief by Jeremy Bullmore hese four pages are devoted to a brief biography of Stephen King followed by an analysis of his published writings and edited highlights from them.
For many readers of this Report, Stephens will be an unknown name, but he earns his place here for many reasons.
He spent 31 years with J. Walter Thompson: four years as a non-executive director of WPP: and seven years as a director of The Henley Centre.
He was also Visiting Professor of Marketing at the Craneld School of Management.
In the course of this long career, he subjected the business of advertising and indeed, of all marketing communications to an intellectually rigorous interrogation that to this day has never been equalled.
By exposing cant and sloppy thinking, always deftly, he illuminated advertisings real value.
His healthy scepticism and lethal demolition of pseudo-science were never allowed to remain destructive: he turned them, always, into positive insights and guidelines of great clarity and practical application.
Today, account planning is an accepted agency discipline around the world: and it was Stephen concurrently and almost coincidentally with Stanley Pollitt of BMP who re-thought the planning process from the bottom up and formed a new department to practise it.
The first Account Planning Department, with Stephen in charge, opened for business in JWT London in 1968.
The worldwide agency had long enjoyed the reputation, first earned in America in the 1930s, of being the university of advertising.
Account planning, and the disciplines it preached, built on this reputation and were in time adopted by the entire company.
But neither Stephen not his beliefs were remotely academic in the dismissive sense of that word.
Typically, he called his planners guide-books, Toolkits: if a greater understanding of theory didnt lead to more efficient communication, then he had no time for it.
For him, function was everything.
Perhaps his greatest talent lay in developing theories and practices that outlawed imprecision when setting strategy while liberating the imagination when turning that strategy into creative execution.
He was, himself, both numerate and literate and knew instinctively when it was time for rationality to give way to unfettered speculation.
Much of his writing, including prize-winning papers, is as perceptive and telling today as when it was written.
With the enthusiastic support of his wife Sally, work is already in hand to re-publish much of it, with up-to-date comment.
Meanwhile, Judie Lannon who like me had the great good fortune to work with Stephen over many years here reminds us of some of the many highlights.
Annual Report 2005 90 What we think What we think The Works in brief by Judie Lannon nlike many thinkers and writers in the eld of communications whose reputation rests on one, usually didactic idea, Stephens work owed from a restless curiosity that continually asked questions.
Answers then led to further questions with knowledge and understanding accumulated along the way.
And it was because his mind worked in this extremely creative but disciplined way that he found the philosopher Karl Popper so exciting.
To me the best describer of the New Science was Karl The proper approach is a cycle of analysis, theory, Popper.
He seemed to turn the whole Baconian process experiment feedback, new theory, and so on.
Proof with all of deduction from observed facts upside down.
He thought its implication of final solutions, doesnt really belong here.
of Science as a spiritual adventure, describing the main Even if we could, we dont simply want to prove needs in Science and in Scientists as vision and creativity.
whether we were right or wrong in the past, but to learn He pointed out that Archimedes, Copernicus, how to do better in the conditions of the future.
We need Galileo and Einstein had all been visionaries, all had been to understand in order to make better judgments.
They worked by challenging accepted to know not just whether advertising worked but how ideas and this was very similar to the great painters.
We should judge research by whether it helps The Impressionists, the Cubists, Picasso, Matisse all this whole process, whether it improves our decisions.
challenged the accepted ideas of the time.
One of the most critical things Popper said was From: Improving Advertising Decisions that you dont start with observations.
You start with Improving Advertising Decisions, ADMAP what you call a trial solution, what we might call an idea.
1997 He wrote, in fact: Observations are always interpretations of the facts observed.
They are interpretations in the light of theories In other words you cant make any sense of The starting point for Stephens intellectual journey was the facts until youve had an idea, or as Einstein put it, Theory fundamental question: how does advertising work?
And cannot be fabricated out of the results of observation it here, after studying the writings and theories of academics, can only be invented.
of advertising practitioners and of researchers in the eld, he concluded that they had all got it completely wrong.
In his evaluation of the shortcomings of existing From: Art and Science theories and practices, he wrote: Asian Advertising Congress, New Delhi 1982 Perhaps the most overt attempt to apply research directly to Stephen profoundly resisted what he thought of as bogus decision making has been in off-the-peg advertising research.
scientism the assumption of scientific certainty implied Advertising research is unusual in that the research method in the language of many writers about advertising.
He found is chosen first and the problem to be solved only sorted out afterward, if indeed at all.
This happens because its terribly it pretentious and dangerously misleading.
The following succinctly sums up his beliefs about research: hard to know how advertising works.
So people say, At least lets pick a measure that we know how to use.
Its as if an art critic said The proof of advertising value.
The very use of words like I dont know how to measure artistic merit, but I do proof or test, and analogies from Euclidian mathematics or understand how a tape measure works so Ill use that.
engineering can mislead us about the nature of marketing The trouble is that any measure implies some model and advertising.
We should get our analogies from history or the social sciences.
The planning and execution of of how advertising works: there is no way of evading the marketing and advertising is surely a process of continuous problem.
Lurking behind most of the off-the-peg learning and adaptation in a competitive environment advertising research systems are some questionable ideas.
where the norm is uncertainty and change.
For instance, that the mind is some sort of inert and passive receptacle for messages, an intellectual sponge, Annual Report 2005 What we think 91 What we think or that all advertising works by converting people in toto We will never be able to use from brand A to brand B.
Or that it always works by research to the full unless we rational persuasion.
What nearly all the off-the-peg systems have in started from a carefully worked common is that their underlying models are opposed to out theory of what the brand is, more or less every other theory of how the mind works or how markets behave.
Theyre based on our trying to why it is successful or not, and measure what ads do to people rather than starting at the what advertising can contribute.
other end and asking what people do with ads, how they use them and how they respond to them.
From: Applying research to decision making Marketing Intelligence & Planning Vol 1, Number 3.
1983 So how should you research advertising if the existing practice is not only wrong but likely to be dangerous and, as the following extract from his seminal article, What is a Brand illustrates, woefully incomplete?
If advertising works mainly by giving We will never be able to use research to the full unless we started from a carefully worked out theory of what added values to a brand in the the brand is, why it is successful or not, and what long run, what can we learn from advertising can contribute.
If a brand is a complex blend of elements, with the a single exposure advertisement relationship between them as important as the elements test whose results are based themselves, can it really make sense to test the elements in isolation?
Can a name test in isolation mean anything?
Or a pack test in isolation?
If advertising works mainly by giving added values to a brand in the long run, what can we learn from a single exposure advertisement test whose results are based on short-term brand switching?
If brands seem to consumers almost living things with personalities, are we learning anything by getting people to choose between phrases printed on a bit of card?
Again, if brands have personalities with all the The value of a good advertising subtleties of people are we using the right balance of idea linked inexorably to a brand qualitative and quantitative research?
Once you have heard people describing [cleaning products] Lifebuoy as rather is enormous.
It is clear that the idea abrupt: Tide as gruff and ex-army: Camay as a bit catty, would be even more valuable to will you be content to rely solely on the sort of research that gets people to put crosses on a seven-point scale a company brand, because its running from kind to the hands to not so kind to products services are likely to the hands?
Once the theory is there the questions be even less distinguishable from about our current use for research come pretty easily.
the competitors and because its contacts with consumers are From: What is a Brand?
JWT 1971 likely to be even more diverse.
Annual Report 2005 92 What we think What we think Stephen wasnt the first to write about brands and branding.
Of course, it is a very great deal harder to nd an But he was unquestionably the first to codify what all the adequate metaphor for the personality of a whole servicemarketing and communication activities involved in based company, usable in a much wider range of media building brands were.
Its not easy to think of many examples He knew that organisational structure and theres Lloyds Banks black horse, Legal & Generals organisation culture were at least as important as individual brolly, the Prudentials Rock of Gibraltar, Merrill Lynchs talent in creating good work hence the invention of thundering herd.
So his ultimate aim was Some companies have used the personality of the to provide a framework for thinking that best served the founder for the brand idea Habitat, Laker, The Body Shop, needs of the people making the advertisements.
Next but of course that can mean a rather dangerous His last article anticipated the growing importance impermanence.
There are some good brand gestures some of both the corporate brand and the service brand.
But, as public policy designed to symbolize a company personality the following extract on the importance of a brand idea such as Marks & Spencers no-quibble exchange of goods illustrates, the same principles that guide simple packaged or John Lewiss no-quibble return of cash if shown to be goods brands are still relevant.
But on the whole there seem to be a lot of missed opportunities for company brand ideas.
Many of the best of the classic brands are famous at least partly because they have had a vivid and enduring From: Brand Building in the 1990s advertising idea.
By contrast, research has shown that Journal of Marketing Management people are scornful of the more hackneyed themes and Vol 7, Number 1.
1991 campaign types, especially on television the musical wallpaper, the side-by-side comparison, the talking heads, the computer graphics, the  did more than any thinker on the subject to unique-opportunity sales.
They are equally aware of some build a practical framework for creating effective brand very entertaining advertising for some brand whose name communication.
Although advertising was the original has temporarily slipped their mind.
inspiration and context, the framework and the questions it The value of a good advertising idea linked inexorably demands answers to is timeless.
And even more necessary to a brand is enormous.
It is clear that the idea would in todays complex and fragmented media environment.
be even more valuable to a company brand, because its products services are likely to be even less distinguishable from the competitors and because its contacts with consumers are likely to be even more diverse.
It would have to have something broader than an advertising idea, simply because of the wider range of communication vehicles used.
Its easier to recognize a good idea years later than to see it at the time or to describe it.
But generally a good communication idea for a company brand would be an original metaphor for the brands personality.
The brand would be borrowing from the outside: something with the same personality characteristics which could be uniquely associated with it: that could be reasonably longlasting: and that in some way illuminated and enhanced the brand itself.
There are many examples from the advertising of the classic brands: Marlboro: the cowboy.
The individual facing the elements.
Metaphor for taking care of clothes.
Tone of voice as metaphor for traditional craftsmanship.
Annual Report 2005 What we think 93
