How were doing Agency networks across regions and disciplines, creating new and compelling communication solutions.
Yes, we are a long way from just the ad business.
Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide Last year we reaped the benefit of more than a dozen years of honing 360 Degree Brand Stewardship.
This business platform enables us to integrate successfully our growing range of disciplines which now include 141, Ogilvys brand activation company, Ogilvy PR and Ogilvy Healthworld.
We also have brought digital and direct media back into our operations this year as Neo Ogilvy.
@ We have made changes in leadership that have allowed us to further our 360 agenda.
In North America, where Ogilvy Advertising and OgilvyOne are already closely collaborating, the appointment of Carla Hendra and Bill Gray as co-CEOs of North America promises more cohesion.
They succeed Tro Piliguian who is now WPPs chief operating officer.
Gary Leih, formerly at Ogilvy South Africa, has dramatically reorganized Ogilvy in London: uniting our companies as the single largest marketing communications group in the UK.
While changes like these promise better 360 execution, as practitioners we know that capability alone is not enough.
If there is not a great idea at the heart of a campaign, it is a missed opportunity.
Great ideas are what clients come to us for.
And weve had a number of those big ideas over this past year.
The Dove Campaign for Real Beauty has met with astounding success.
It has been overwhelmingly embraced by consumers, including the 90 million who saw the first Dove TV spot to ever air on the Super Bowl.
This 360 campaign, now in 30 countries, has generated unprecedented PR, retail excitement, interactive engagement and big sales jumps for Unilever.
Doves designation as international advertiser of the year by Campaign magazine and its winning the Grand Prix award at the Euro Efes, demonstrate the admiration from the industry that this campaign has generated.
We continue to innovate on IBM, American Express, Kodak, DHL, Cisco, Kraft and BP among many other Shelly Lazarus Chairman and chief executive officer clients.
Our current clients get the lions share of our Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide focus and talent because that is the implicit promise of Brand Stewardship.
Doves breakout campaign came after s the marketplace, the media, and 50 years on our roster, which demonstrates how potent consumers expectations have evolved, we deep brand knowledge is in the creative process.
have structured our offering to seize the This year we also added a number of new global initiative.
It could not be more clear what clients like Lenovo, Morgan Stanley, AstraZeneca, clients want.
They want great ideas that Bristol-Myers Squibb and Novartis.
We also gained new can move effortlessly through multiple business from existing clients such as Coca-Cola, Ford, channels.
They want thinking unfettered to specic media.
Goodyear, GSK, Pzer, Prudential, Unilever and Yahoo!
They want diverse capabilities and they want experienced always a great measure of the value we bring.
They want leaders who can work together.
We are the common denominator in winning all this new business delivering.
We have the partners in place who are working was our 360 approach.
It is the platform for growth.
Annual Report 2005 28 How were doing How were doing Beyond the management changes in the UK and Ofces in other parts of the Ogilvy world also North America, there was significant planned succession received recognition.
Ogilvy South Africa was again named elsewhere.
Daniel Sicouri took over from Mike Walsh as best large agency, with Cape Town named as the regional head of EAME: Guerino Delno, head of OgilvyOne Italy, Agency of the Year and its chief Gary Leih now heading now runs all Ogilvy units in that country: Enric Pujadas the UK the Agency Leader of the Year.
Ogilvy Italy was was named to follow Rolando Sinz fide la Pea as head cited as the agency with the best reputation.
OgilvyOne of Ogilvy in Spain.
Christopher Graves now leads Ogilvy was named top agency network for both direct and digital PR in Asia, and Martin Liptrot is heading Ogilvy PR in marketing by The Won Report.
Departures opened the way for new Worldwide Adweeks North American interactive agency of the year, Board members: Tim Isaac, Paul ODonnell and Tham OgilvyOne North America was BtoB magazines direct Khai Meng broadened our representation from Asia and agency of the year, and Carla Hendra was named from OgilvyOne, with Khai adding another significant Advertising Woman of the Year by Advertising Women creative voice.
We continue to innovate and expand our Ogilvy Beyond Doves Euro Efe and Mexicos Gold Lion, offering.
This year, we launched David, a network of 10 we did a brisk business at the award shows.
At the New ofces in Asia targeted at companies looking for quick-toYork Addy Awards we took home 12 gold and 13 silver market brand solutions.
We launched a consulting practice awards for 12 different clients.
Our long partnership with specializing in the unique trading relationship between American Express was honored with a special Grand Addy Brazil and China.
We expanded in Russia and Eastern only the second to have been awarded.
We opened an OgilvyOne ofce in San Francisco the ceremony, Ogilvy and American Express created to take on more digital assignments for Yahoo!.
We opened superior advertising done over the long haul, from Malden three new ofces in Australia and China, and established to Superman, theyve all been great.
an afliate in Nepal only the second international agency At the One Show, Ogilvy took 13 Pencils including in that market.
four gold and four silver.
At Cannes, the total was 24 Our Ogilvy partners continue to provide thought Lions, including five gold, with Ogilvy Chile winning leadership, with many becoming recognized experts on the prestigious Outdoor Grand Prix for work on Lego.
the key issues facing our industry.
Several colleagues have Once again, OgilvyOne dominated the DMA Echo recently published books.
In China, where we are the awards, taking home 14 of 30 awards more than any leading international agency, we established a think tank other agency for 10 different ofces.
A special Echo on branding with Tsinghua University.
Verge, our hugely was given to OgilvyOne in New York and Chicago for popular digital communication summit launched in 2004, collaborative work on Allstate.
has been transformed into a global seminar series.
We swept the Asian Adfest with a record breaking To date we have held 15 Verge events in 13 countries.
43 awards, including seven golds and 12 silvers.
At the Its been an enormous success in educating clients, bringing FIAP awards in Latin America, Ogilvy won 17 medals.
knowledge to the industry, and directly generating new At the DM Asia awards Ogilvy swept with 34 awards, business.
Our ability to lead in this area is essential as almost half of the total.
And at the Asian PR Week awards, digital and interactive grow ever more central in the Ogilvy won 15 awards across categories.
That we have such a range of winners, across regions We had an excellent year in terms of awards and disciplines is testament to our clients.
Make no mistake, and recognition.
it is committed client partnerships that make the difference Ogilvy Latinas largest ofces Argentina, Brazil, in the quality of the work.
Chile and Mexico all won multiple Agency of the Year I cannot end a review of 2005 without awards and numerous creative awards across disciplines, acknowledging the passing of Jock Elliot, Ogilvys beloved including Mexicos first-ever Gold Lion at Cannes.
He was the consummate partner.
It was his Ogilvy Asia continued its regional creative wise leadership that guided the agencys expansion in the dominance as the hottest agency in Asia.
We were also 1960s and 1970s while allowing David Ogilvy to focus on named the No.
1 regional network in the region, and the creative and cultural side of the business.
They were our creative director, Tham Khai Meng was named the complementary in skills, collaborative in nature, and leading creative person.
Ogilvy India was named the contributed all to the enterprise.
Together they built the Creative Agency of the Year for the eighth time in nine foundation that sustains us today a strong and vibrant years.
1 agency for the third time, network, and a culture that values ideas and creativity with creative leader Piyush Pandey named industry leader.
in an environment of mutual support and partnership.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 29 How were doing Singapore, Australia, France, Germany, Mexico and Canada.
In 2006, we will take Verge to new markets such as Brazil, Spain and Korea.
We have also just launched Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide The OgilvyOne Report on digital trends, a global study into the Net generation, and a proprietary research initiative called Personal Circuits, which assesses how An era has passed and so has the baton to all the partners individual consumers use digital media to shop and purchase.
at Ogilvy who look to the future armed with rich history, We are very proud of our creative accomplishments encouraged by strong results, and confident in each others in 2005 the OgilvyOne Worldwide network won a record talent and commitment.
We are partners in progress.
We were named the top agency network for both direct and digital marketing by The Won Report and The Cyber Won Report.
And we dominated the 2005 Shelly Lazarus Direct Marketing Association Echo Awards for creative excellence and results, winning more than half of the OgilvyOne Worldwide awards.
Signicantly, over 50% of our total awards in 2005 were for digital marketing programs.
OgilvyOne enters 2006 with strong client In 2005, OgilvyOne Worldwide established a new record relationships, outstanding talent and momentum in for its financial performance, and set a strong pathway for future growth.
The most significant initiative of the We entered the year with three strategic goals: new year is the launch of Neo Ogilvy, our new digital, @ to deepen our client service culture: strengthen talent direct response and search marketing media division.
retention efforts: and expand our leadership in digital Neo Ogilvy places us squarely at the center of the fastest- @ marketing.
The company made excellent progress on all growing parts of the total communications business.
We can now offer clients a fully integrated digital marketing Our client satisfaction scores which we measure solution strategy creative media metrics and do it systematically each year increased globally.
Neo Ogilvy is off to a tremendous start.
We have @ our relationship with many key clients including Unilever, an outstanding portfolio of clients including IBM, Yahoo!, Nestl, Hutch, Allstate, Starwood and Yahoo!.
We also Cisco, American Express and SAP.
Already, we have 200 won significant new assignments across the entertainment, digital media and search marketing experts on board personal care, travel, beverage and consumer electronics around the world.
OgilvyOne Worldwides goal is to lead in the growth 2005 will perhaps be remembered as the year segment of marketing communications.
2005 was an excellent that digital marketing went from niche to mainstream.
year and 2006 looks equally promising.
Underlying the growth of digital marketing are the two monster trends in the global communications business: Brian Fetherstonhaugh 1 consumers seizing control of their media and Chairman and chief executive officer entertainment choices: and 2 marketers stepping up OgilvyOne Worldwide their pursuit of accountability and return on investment.
Digital marketing is no longer a technology story.
It is a consumer adoption story.
We see profound changes in how people shop across so many brand categories and markets.
Most signicantly, we see digital marketing intersecting at the moments of truth as customers journey from awareness to purchase.
OgilvyOne is deeply committed to helping our clients navigate and win in the new digital marketing landscape.
To open everybodys mind to what is possible, we launched Verge, a series of conferences where Ogilvy leaders, our clients and other industry experts gather to discuss the realities and possibilities of digital marketing.
First run in New York in 2004, Verge was expanded to 12 markets through the end of 2005, including Japan, China, Annual Report 2005 30 How were doing How were doing Ogilvy Healthworld The third dimension of Ogilvy Healthworlds business transformation is our collaboration, on a true 360 Degree basis, with the wider Ogilvy client network.
This includes 2005 saw Ogilvy Healthworlds For the Life of the Brand working closely with Ogilvys Global Brand Community business philosophy further realize its market ambition.
Today, the organization offers a complete array of on accounts where aspects related to healthcare are vital healthcare communication disciplines all focused on to the success and growth of the client.
Unilevers Dove and Slim Fast and Nestls Nutren t Our global network of 53 ofces in 33 countries well into this arena.
brings together solutions that link clinical trial recruitment At every level, our client partnerships drive our and medical education with PR, health professional continued growth.
They form the core of our strategic advertising and consumer-directed communications.
emphasis for 2006 our unique ability to deliver big Together, these services work to build a stronger brand ideas in the expanding and increasingly diverse at each stage of the commercial lifecycle and across all healthcare marketplace.
geography a winning growth strategy with clients.
In 2005, we grew our medical education and PR Steve Girgenti business with key clients Lilly and Roche, among others.
Chief executive officer We also enjoyed cross-market wins and referrals that grew Ogilvy Healthworld our advertising business with important clients such as AstraZeneca, Novo Nordisk and Pzer.
Our clinical trial recruitment business provided the 141 Worldwide network with emerging new business opportunities as we assisted clients in the early stages of brand development and 2005 was a turning point year for 141.
Yes, it was a year market preparation.
of significant business expansion and financial growth In addition, Ogilvy Healthworld also won portfoliofor the company.
But what we are most proud of is the wide assignments in major markets, including CRM for the network weve established to connect our global services, Wyeth Womens Health franchise in the US.
the engagements weve driven across Ogilvy businesses We won a broad array of industry awards across and, as always, the outstanding work weve done with our geography and service sectors.
Among them were our client partners.
PR groups win of the international SABRE award for The world is changing.
Marketers are searching for Redening Hope and Beauty, the breast cancer ways to navigate a constantly shifting landscape.
Control awareness campaign for AstraZeneca: recognition of our and choice are increasingly in the hands of the consumer ofce in Mexico as the most creative healthcare agency and the retailer.
Return on investment remains as critical in the country from the Aspid Awards: and PMEA award and as elusive as ever.
There is less time, more pressure and success in the UK for direct-to-patient communication.
We believe a number of initiatives are driving This is where our clients leverage the work of 141. our growth: We create action through a platform we call Behavior First, knowledge transfer across the network has enabled Transformation.
Everything we do is focused on us to move with greater speed and impact in meeting and changing behavior where it can most immediately exceeding clients needs and ambitions at both global and influence the purchase of a brand.
With all the change around us, building a strong Second, by drawing on Ogilvys 360 Degree Brand brand is still the pre-requisite to winning in market.
Those Stewardship philosophy, we have improved the quality who are going to market most successfully are realizing that and consistency of our own creative work, which has the way to win is to build ownable brand experiences enabled us to compete for and win more global and which move the consumer.
We believe in improving both regional assignments than ever before.
Examples include brand sales and brand equity at the same time.
the international brand development for Roches Herceptin, At 141 we are doing this by creating media neutral the integrated European launch of Pzers new smoking programs from the street up by creating shopper and cessation brand, Champix, and the global advertising trade marketing plans which reect strategic insights into campaign for Altanas leading Pantoprozole brand both the consumer and the trade customer.
Our emphasis is involving over 20 markets worldwide.
on what we call the last mile.
Our promise is measurable results a goal we all desire.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 31 How were doing marketing disciplines which demonstrably enhance client service.
As the lead agency for this program, it was a great example of how 141 is able to partner with WPP, Ogilvy Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and our clients.
It is a testimony to the possibilities in our collaboration.
As we enter 2006, we feel momentum, opportunity One of our key growth strategies has been to build and excitement.
The marketplace is changing in ways our business across the Ogilvy network and to offer clients which reward those who know how to influence behavior activation programs which are tailored but can travel and those who know how to get results through the line.
We have become a natural We welcome those changes with open arms.
t within Ogilvys 360 Degree Brand Stewardship offering.
Whether we engage independently or in partnership with Rick Roth Ogilvy, we are able to offer our clients channel-neutral Chief executive officer solutions tailored to specic needs.
Our business with global clients has grown 20% over the past year.
80% of our top 10 clients now have us working with them in two or more regions around the world.
Across various units and around the world, we have broadened our relationships with clients like American Express, BAT, BP, Coca-Cola, Ford, Gilette, GlaxoSmithKline, Kodak, Kraft, Michelin and Unilever.
Over the past year, we added three key services to our offering.
The first was the acquisition of K&L Marketing, renamed 141 Boomerang.
141 Boomerang is a marketing company specializing in events, eld marketing and face-to-face activation.
Having this offering means we can implement many of the programs we create without having to outsource projects, providing a seamless engagement for our clients.
Within a year, this part of our business has more than doubled in size.
Second was the creation of 141 Premire, our sports and entertainment joint venture with Premiere Sponsorship Marketing PSM, a unit of WPP.
With years of experience working with the Olympics, professional sports leagues, franchises and athletes, as well as entertainment companies, studios and agents, this group offers our clients a real advantage in the growing area of sponsorship marketing.
The third is the development of 141 Shopper, our trade marketing consultancy, committed to developing programs targeted to retail entities.
We believe that creating trade partnerships will be fundamental to a marketers success and clients are rewarding 141 for this consultative service.
Our work around the world speaks for itself, but we do value the recognition from others.
Throughout the year, 141 was the recipient of awards in every region, across each of our disciplines.
Perhaps most inspiring was winning the 2005 WPP Worldwide Partnership Program award for work done on behalf of Boeing.
The award was created to encourage and recognize collaboration across Annual Report 2005 32 How were doing
