How we behave The Board of Directors The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the The shareholdings of non-executive directors are set success of the Company by directing and supervising the out on page 126.
Non-executive directors do not participate Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to in the Companys pension plans, share option or other share owners for the Groups financial and operational incentive plans, but may receive a part of their fees in performance.
Responsibility for the development and ordinary shares of the Company.
implementation of Group policy and strategy and for The Board considers that the non-executive directors day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board remuneration conforms with the requirements of the to the Group chief executive and other executive directors.
For the year under review, Philip Lader continued The fees payable to non-executive directors represent as chairman of the Board, responsible for the leadership of compensation in connection with Board and Board the Board.
Sir Martin Sorrell, as the Group chief executive, committee meetings, and where appropriate for devoting continued to be responsible for the development and additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group implementation of policy and strategy and for the day-toin a wider capacity.
day operations of the Group.
The biographies of the current Details of directors remuneration and service Board members appear on pages 94 to 96. contracts form part of the report of the Compensation All directors are fully briefed on important committee which commences on page 116. developments in the various business activities which the Details of the Scheme of Arrangement under s425 Group carries out worldwide and regularly receive of the Companies Act 1985 are described on page 108. extensive information concerning the Groups operations, As a result of the Scheme of Arrangement all of the directors nances, risk factors and its people, enabling them to full of the Company who were not appointed as directors on the their duties and obligations as directors.
The directors are incorporation of the new parent company which is now called also frequently advised on regulatory and best practice WPP Group plc are required to submit themselves for election requirements which affect the Groups businesses on a global at the Annual General Meeting.
Only Sir Martin Sorrell, basis, but particularly in the US and the UK.
Paul Richardson and Mark Read were appointed at the During 2005, the Board met six times formally and incorporation of the Company as a consequence of which all held a number of ad hoc meetings throughout the year.
the remaining directors other than Howard Paster who is not With the exception of John Quelch, Lubna Olayan and seeking election need to be considered for election at the Colin Day each absent for one meeting and David Komansky Annual General Meeting.
absent for two meetings, there was full attendance at all As a matter of policy the Company requires all directors formal meetings of the Board during 2005. to submit themselves for re-election by share owners at least The Board consists of 16 directors of whom four are every three years or every year in the case of those directors executive and 11 plus the chairman who are non-executive.
who held ofce for more than nine years or who are 70 years The Board considers that nine of the 11 non-executive of age or over.
directors, in addition to the chairman, are independent, The Board recommends that share owners vote in with John Quelch and Korchiro Naganuma being the favour of the Resolutions to elect the relevant directors only non-executive directors considered by the Board to and set out their reasons for this recommendation in the be not independent.
Appendix to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Annual Report 2005 How we behave 105
