As a network of companies that span all the communications disciplines, we balance the individual expertise of each of our brands with our collective objective Young & Rubicam Brands to deliver the most powerful ideas that will drive business results.
We have the mission, the processes and commitment to work seamlessly together on behalf of our client partners.
Not surprisingly, most of our Global Client Partners use both Y&R and Wunderman.
All but one work with Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe or RLM, and more than 60% of our GCPs engage Landor for branding and identity work.
Sudler & Hennessey is often asked to lend its expertise on healthcare concerns for consumer brands.
Bravo and Kang & Lee help many of our client partners reach targeted consumer segments.
We made a major investment in VML, a top-ranked digital company, which is working closely with many of our client partners across Young & Rubicam Brands.
And we continued to offer targeted resources from smaller agencies like the Banner Corporation and SicolaMartin that are also part of our global network.
In 2005 we advanced our knowledge through continued investments in our proprietary global brand management tool, BrandAsset Valuator.
We continued to develop our people through crosscompany training programs like Virtuoso, which is helping to build the next generation of leaders at Young & Rubicam Brands.
This intensive workshop, taught by the top leaders across all of our companies, helps its participants sharpen their individual skills to lead teams across disciplines and develop strong relationships with their client partners.
We continued to improve our operations, through initiatives like Lean Six Sigma that are making us more productive and exible.
Ultimately, the simplication that comes from this effort gets us to the real work of creating ideas for our client partners brands much faster.
As media and technology continue to converge, as power and influence continue to shift to the consumer, there Ann Fudge Chairman and chief executive officer has never been a stronger need to create ideas that will Young & Rubicam Brands penetrate the clutter and deliver results in the short and long term.
Here is how Young & Rubicam Brands n 2005, Young & Rubicam Brands turned in a solid companies shaped their businesses to do so.
performance that reected the strength of our collaborative, multidisciplinary model.
We are well Y&R organized to help our client partners reach consumers across the spectrum of communications channels and In 2005, we strengthened our global leadership, added key well positioned to capitalize on the shifting trends in creative talent and recommitted ourselves to delivering the the marketplace.
best creative ideas and work to our roster of client partners.
Our Global Client Partner GCP structure The most critical appointments in the year were in continued to deliver the best global resources and talent, North America and Europe.
Gord McLean was named CEO the most appropriate communications channels and of North America and Massimo Costa was named CEO of Annual Report 2005 How were doing 35 How were doing more than 100 new clients during the year, and they were as diverse as they were many.
Shlomi Avnon, a partner in one of Y&Rs most Young & Rubicam Brands successful agencies, Shalmor Avnon Amichay Y&R Israel, was named vice-chairman of the region, and new leaders were appointed for Y&R France and Y&R Poland.
Along with Chris Jaques in Asia, Eddie Gonzalez Y&R Latin America delivered one of its best in Latin America, Hamish McLennan in Australia New performances in 2005, driven by key markets Brazil, Mexico Zealand and Arun Nanda in India, we now have a strong and Chile, while Argentina rallied around a revitalized local global leadership team.
During 2005, significant wins included Telecom in We focused equally on building our creative talent Colombia, Pzer and UOL in Brazil, Bacardi and Sanford and product.
With Michael Patti as global creative regional business.
Our largest local client in Brazil, Casas director, we strengthened our commitment to creating Bahia, also continued to invest heavily.
outstanding work all around the world.
North America Y&R in Asia had its most successful new business and Europe added key talent.
Gary Goldsmith, one of performance for many years, winning major new North Americas top creative stars joined as chief creative multinational and local assignments.
These included the win officer of New York, with a brief to work on regional and of Singapore Tourism Boards global account, Tiger Beer for global client business, as well.
Adrian Holmes, one of the Europe, OCBC Bank in Singapore and Malaysia and most respected creatives in Europe, joined as the regions Universal Studios in Japan.
In addition, we strengthened our executive creative director, a new post there.
partnership with current clients like Philip Morris, Measat, At the end of the year, the global win of Bacardi Cerebos and Ovaltine.
afrmed to us that our changes had traction and that we Y&R Singapore was voted Singapores Agency of are on the right road to recasting ourselves as a stronger, the Year for 2005 and Y&R China was the most creatively more vital global network.
With One Y&R working as awarded China agency in the world in 2005.
A new a borderless, boundary-less agency, we delivered the best management team for our ofces in Greater China was talent and resources to each client partner.
As a result, appointed to improve Y&Rs competitiveness there.
exciting new campaigns were created for Accenture, In Australia New Zealand, where Young & Rubicam Chevron, Hilton Hotels, Land Rover, Lincoln Mercury, has led the Top 10 Business Performance League rankings Miller Brewing Company, Pepperidge Farms, 7Up, Sears for three years, 2005 was the year in which Y&R focused on and Weight Watchers.
With renewed momentum, 2006 negotiating and consolidating the biggest advertising and promises to be an even stronger year for North America.
marketing communications acquisition in Australian history.
In North America, we made some key The merger of The Communications Group TCG, home to appointments that began to reshape the network after a icon agency George Patterson, was concluded to create the tough 2004.
In addition to bringing Gary Goldsmith on countrys largest and most diverse marketing services group.
board, we named new managing partners Paul Venn and We also successfully merged The Campaign Rick Eiserman in early 2006 for our Detroit and Irvine Palace Red Cell, which set the stage for their stellar agencies.
Critical growth came from existing clients, performance, winning Hutchinson 3 and Origin Energy.
Our evidenced most publicly in the consolidation of the entire New Zealand ofce also dominated their market, picking up Sears advertising account with Y&R.
New client partners Telecom NZ, Bank of New Zealand and Tower Insurance.
included Hilton Hotels, AMD, Ontario Tourism and Finally, our agencies in India continued their SunTrust.
tremendous growth, with business coming both from At Kang & Lee, which is part of the North regional client partners and global client partners like Xerox.
America network, new business growth was robust with The agency continued to be a beacon of creativity, winning large new wins like Harrahs Entertainment and the numerous awards, including agency of the year in Bangalore.
consolidation of existing business with client partners like With the individual strength of our regions and the Western Union.
Ad Age ranked the agency as the No.
1 collective strength of our global network, we are confident Asian American multicultural agency.
that we are positioned for greater growth in 2006.
In the EMEA region, Y&R crowned an energetic and highly successful 2005 with a raft of account gains Ann Fudge around the end of the year including Volvic and Hitachi at a regional level and a major contribution to the global win of Bacardi.
Y&R agencies across EMEA reported Annual Report 2005 36 How were doing How were doing Wunderman Wunderman amassed strong credentials in travel and leisure.
Deutsche Lufthansa AG and Turkish Tourism Board named Wunderman Global Agency of Record.
Explosive growth in mobile technologies, CRM relating to Wins from Aeropublica, Callaway, Jet Airways, Hotels.
com e-mail databases, interactive TV, podcasting, blogs, viral marketing and gaming was the hallmark of 2005.
Digital and Hilton Hotels, and new projects from Star Alliance work now accounts for more than one-third of Wunderman round out this sector experience.
The agencys strong postal business worldwide.
Large global clients openly embrace experience led to new business from Deutsche Poste, digital solutions because they understand future success lies Canada Poste, DHL Global Mail and Poste Italiane.
in both current and uncharted digital territory.
The power of Wundermans global marketing Daniel Morel services network is evidenced by the continuing expansion Chairman and chief executive officer of Microsoft, our largest digital client.
Mid-year, the Wunderman agency opened doors to the global hub in Seattle.
The hub guarantees high service standards and streamlines knowledge sharing across borders and disciplines.
As of Burson-Marsteller this writing, Microsoft work spans 29 countries.
To broaden our digital offering, Wunderman 2005, my first year as worldwide chief executive officer, was worked closely with digital powerhouse VML.
Wunderman a year of transition for Burson-Marsteller, but it was also a also recruited top digital talent, including renowned digital year of exciting new opportunities and accomplishments for creative director Jon Williams in Europe, and online the rm, our client partners and employees.
marketing expert Tina Miletich in New York.
Burson-Marstellers strengths remain rmly rooted On the data front, KnowledgeBase Marketing, in our client relationships, the quality of our employees and Wundermans data services arm, strengthened its ability to our commitment to thought leadership.
Among the years grow marketing services through analytics and reporting.
new business wins were US Patent and Trademark Ofce, It acquired Fortelligent, specialists in next-generation Ferrero, Merck, UICI, Symbian, Wrigley, Innovene, Bacardi analytical and modeling solutions.
The acquisition and Limited, Sun-maid Growers, Novartis, Football Federation strong delivery of traditional data services led of Australia and Auto-Suisse.
KnowledgeBase Marketing to its best performance since Burson-Marsteller was as successful expanding our joining Wunderman in 2001.
Mid-year, Wunderman hired long-standing client relationships.
Global, regional and local Andrew Rutberg as the agencys first chief data officer, expertise, coupled with an all-encompassing worldwide responsible for building a global data strategy that turns network, fueled growth in relationships with key client data into knowledge for our largest global clients, including partners in every corner of the world.
include The Coca-Cola Company, HP, Dow Chemical, New creative talent in every region continued to Visa International, Transitions Optical, Merrill Lynch, infuse our teams with fresh ideas.
Wunderman was named QUALCOMM, Activision, McDonalds, Barilla, Colgate, Agency of the Year in Spain and Mexico.
Germany moved Hormel, LG Electronics, Celestial Seasonings, Pzer, CDW up 10 spots to No.
Corporation, IKEA, Kimberly-Clark and Heinz.
Wunderman was recognized with more than 434 Asia-Pacic, the rms fastest-growing region, and awards and citations all over the world, including runnerLatin America both saw impressive double-digit growth, up Agency of the Year at the International Cannes Lions with the China market growing by more than 40%.
Marsteller, Burson-Marstellers advertising, design, Growth remains a priority.
Wunderman captured interactive and production company, benefited from strong 382 additional assignments from existing and new clients growth in its Interactive and Design Divisions.
BKSH & that span the globe, including the Royal Canadian Mints Associates, Burson-Marstellers global government relations 2010 Olympic sponsorship and a pan-Latin American rm, saw burgeoning demand for its strategic government Agency-of-Record win from Diageo.
In healthcare, business relations and advocacy expertise.
from Abbott, AstraZeneca, Berlex, Forrest, Glaxo SmithKline 2005 was also a year of continued partnership with Beecham and Pfizer grew substantially.
In addition to Young & Rubicam Brands and WPP colleagues.
The U. S. significant Microsoft expansion in IT and electronics, Department of the Treasurys Bureau of Engraving and Nokia in Latin America, Hewlett-Packard in New York Printing, Lincoln Mercury, The City of Madrid, and the and TESSCO in Washington, DC were added to the Mexico Tourism Board were among the clients that benefited client roster.
from the expertise and creativity of integrated teamwork.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 37 How were doing Landor Associates 2005 was a record-breaking year for Landor.
Driven by Young & Rubicam Brands our commitment to achieving brand-led business transformation for our clients, Landor set many new milestones, producing our highest revenue and profits to To further strengthen our capabilities in the Asiadate with strong performances across all regions.
Pacic region, Burson-Marsteller acquired Genesis, one A critical and consistent element of our success is of Indias most respected public relations companies.
The our depth of talent at every level.
In 2005, several senior acquisition extended the rms representation across more executives were promoted to ll key roles and drive many than 80 cities throughout India, a market that is globally of Landors expanded offerings.
Craig Branigan and Rob significant and critical to clients.
Horjus were promoted to chairman and CEO and CFO, Furthering our commitment to aligning clients respectively, of the newly formed WPP branding and design ever-changing communications needs, we launched a entity, B to D Group, a network that includes Landor.
Global Financial Communications Practice and Executive I was promoted to president of Landor, Worldwide: Mark Positioning Specialty Group.
We also entered into a Kennedy was promoted to chief strategy officer: Peter partnership with Intelliseek, BzzAgents, Converseon and Knapp was promoted to executive creative director, Europe Oddcast to form the User Generated Media Alliance.
We and the Middle East: and Kenny Holmes was promoted to maintained our strategic investment in thought leadership executive director, Brand Experience.
and launched the fifth wave of our CEO and corporate Additionally, with the aim of expanding Landors reputation research.
footprint around the world, on-the-ground resources were Performance at industry award competitions ranks established in Richmond, Virginia and Kobe, Japan, while among Burson-Marstellers nest accomplishments in 2005. the win of high-prole assignments in Russia and India More than 125 global, regional and local awards were won increased our visibility in those key markets.
Among our proudest achievements was Landors 2005 success was both a result of new the No.
1 ranking in client satisfaction in the US PRWeek clients won and the continued strength of our Key Client Agency Excellence Survey.
Relationships KCRs around the world.
Notable client Chief among Burson-Marstellers priorities in 2006 additions include: Citigroup, Hitachi, Bristol-Myers Squibb, are further integration with Young & Rubicam Brands and Sudatel, LG, FIFA, China Construction Bank, IngersollWPP companies, and expansion of the digital spectrum for Rand and Speedo.
KCRs that turned in strong employees and clients.
performances in 2005 include P&G, PepsiCo, Diageo, BP, Numico and Telefonica.
An emphasis on enhancing client offerings also Mark Penn paved the way for the year of growth.
Our worldwide Worldwide chief executive officer disciplines of Brand Engagement, Brand Experience, Burson-Marsteller Innovation, Digital Branding, Naming and Airlines were all invigorated in 2005.
Strengthened operations led to a fullscale positioning and Brand Engagement program with the National Football League, the creation of a total Brand Experience for the Burj Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, among others.
In recognition of the quality of work in 2005, Landor received several prestigious awards including: Agency of the Year from Marketing magazine, as well as Packaging Agency of the Year from the Grocery Advertising and Marketing Industry Awards, and the A. G. Laey Design Award from the P&G Brand Building Awards for our work on the Febreze brand.
There were also notable first-time accomplishments.
Our clients concerns for accountability and return on investment motivated us to conduct the first ever Breakaway Brands Study, which was published in Fortune magazines Annual Report 2005 38 How were doing How were doing 31 October 2005 issue.
Working with BrandEconomics and Bruno Stucchi, ensure an ongoing global creative dialogue using Young & Rubicam Brands BrandAsset Valuator to within the S&H network.
develop the list of brands, the study is the first to explicitly In 2005, we expanded operations in Europe, Africa link brand health to shareholder wealth.
The results of this and Asia.
In Europe, after years of working with an alliance study exceeded expectation.
The study was picked up in partner in Spain, S&H established its own ofce in Barcelona.
markets all over the world and garnered interest from many In Africa, S&H is opening up an operations unit in prospective clients.
And in India, S&H expanded We are committed to continuing to grow and enhance its reach both promotionally as well as digitally, with a new our company with an eye towards shattering our records S&H ofce in Bangalore and a new Avenue-e ofce in again next year.
Mumbai, spearheaded by Anthony Manson, managing director of Avenue-e in New York.
Charlie Wrench President Jed Beitler Landor Associates Chairman and chief executive officer Sudler & Hennessey Sudler & Hennessey The Bravo Group Sudler & Hennessey had another great year in 2005, adding new clients in all major regions of the world and In 2005 Bravo celebrated its twenty-fifth anniversary.
continuing its strong revenue and profit growth, especially Three touchstones in its DNA are the real reason for in North America and the Asia-Pacic region.
S&H celebration: reaching for a higher standard, thought continues to be included in a significant number of agency leadership and continual evolution.
Today The Bravo selection searches, which this past year resulted in business Group is refreshing its focus on these objectives in response from new clients such as Allergan, Monogram Biosciences, to the dynamic evolution in our marketplace.
To address Ortho-McNeil and BMS.
these market changes, we heightened our focus on Particularly rewarding is the growth that resulted planning, with the addition of Graham Hall.
from new assignments from some of our current clients, In 2005, Bravo elevated our experiential marketing including new brands assigned to us by Schering AG Berlex, disciplines to business unit status.
These include, Bravo Roche, Abbott, Pzer, Amgen, Boehringer Ingelheim, and RPM, retail marketing and promotions and Bravo Uno-AForest.
Several of our new assignments were awarded to us Uno, the agencys one-to-one marketing practice covering because clients have recognized the strength of the S&H direct marketing, CRM, digital interactive and branded global network.
In fact, one of the biggest accomplishments entertainment.
for Sudler & Hennessey in 2005 was the recognition by its Bravos new clients included Microsoft, peer agencies with the Best Global Agency Network award AstraZeneca, Pzer Consumer Healthcare, Liberty Mutual from Medical Advertising News.
and Cingular, for whom notable creative work included In addition to the MANNY Award, the agencys launching the worlds first iTunes cellphone in the Hispanic many ofces around the world were also recognized for market.
their creative excellence, with numerous awards from the The agencys media group won best media plan Rx Club, the Globals, the MM&M Awards, PMT Readers using OOH for Banco Popular, an award issued by the Choice Awards, National Pubblicio Awards, the Comprix Association of Hispanic Advertising Agencies AHAA.
Awards, the Targa dOro Awards, the Freccia dOro 2005 saw the merger of Mendoza Dillon and Mosaica Awards, and the HAAG Awards.
into MosaicaMD, headquartered in New York and focused S&Hs New York ofce added the new position of on Hispanic and multicultural marketing.
2006 will continue brand catalyst to its talent pool hiring 20-year veteran to drive growth in the expanding Hispanic market.
Kathy Jenkins in this ground-breaking role to stimulate new, better, and bigger ideas from across all disciplines.
Gary Bassell We also appointed Rob Rogers currently president of Chairman and chief executive officer our Asia-Pacic region to serve in the new role of chief The Bravo Group creative officer for the U. S. Rob will bring seasoned insights and, partnering with global creative director Annual Report 2005 How were doing 39 How were doing Robinson Lerer & Montgomery Robinson Lerer & Montgomery, a New York-based Young & Rubicam Brands strategic communications rm, turned in excellent financial results.
The rm provides senior management of USand overseas-based corporations with a broad range of Cohn & Wolfe communications support for financial transactions, crisis management, regulatory and governance issues, public policy campaigns and strategic marketing programs.
Cohn & Wolfe outperformed the market again in 2005 RLMs work involves many of the most prominent with our third year of significant growth on the top and bottom line and record-breaking financial results for the assignments and issues in the corporate world.
Cohn & Wolfe is known for its brand-building the rm served a roster of continuing clients while also expertise and works for some of the best known brands in expanding its base with a number of new clients.
In 2005, the company added significant clients to its roster including Ford, Weight Watchers, Air New Linda Robinson Zealand, Michelin, Panasonic, Deloitte Consulting and Chairman Procter & Gamble.
Robinson Lerer & Montgomery Known as a big-tique that delivers powerful ideas and resources with speed and efficiency, Cohn & Wolfe is entering the Asian market in 2006 with its first ofce BrandBuzz in Shanghai.
Driven by global client demands for service in China, the move will be the agencys first geographical 2005 saw a continuation of BrandBuzzs significant expansion expansion beyond Europe and North America.
and success, as clients continued to respond to the agencys The company has initiated a New Media Practice to channel-neutral, business objectives.
An impressive new ensure we maintain our reputable creative edge and meet business win streak saw BrandBuzz winning six of six the growing need for viral and guerilla marketing for client with the consolidation of LG Electronics, Green Mountain brands.
This initiative complements the agencys drive for Coffee Roasters, Nets Basketball & Entertainment, Burts innovation through creative training, awards programs and Bees, Dymo Label Writers and Tamiu.
BrandBuzz is also a culture of entrepreneurialism.
playing a key role on the Young & Rubicam Brands The key to Cohn & Wolfes success is in its people, Microsoft team, leading all viral efforts for MSN.
who believe in and protect the agencys strong culture of Long-term BrandBuzz clients saw a year of awardaccountability, excellence and fun.
Cohn & Wolfe ranked winning and effective work, with LG winning an EFFIE No.
1 in employee morale in the 2005 Holmes Report for mobile phones in the highly competitive consumer Employee Satisfaction Survey.
At the start of 2006, I was appointed president and the new leadership team of Christian Barnett, executive Donna Imperato director of planning: Frank Cavazzini, CFO: Jen Kohl, President and chief executive officer COO: Kara ONeill, general manager: and Graham Turner, Cohn & Wolfe executive creative director and I secured another new business win with the consolidation of six Sanford brands, including Expo and Sharpie, under BrandBuzz.
Mike Reese President BrandBuzz Annual Report 2005 40 How were doing
