How were doing Letter to share owners Dear share owner PPs twentieth year was our best ever with currency movements.
On a like-for-like basis revenues were key measures exceeding the previous peak up 5.5% for the year, up 6% in the first half and 5% in the years of 2001 and 2004. second half.
This appears to have been above the growth in Most importantly, total share owner the worldwide market, with the Group increasing market return improved, with your share price share.
rising by almost 10% to 629p over the Revenue growth was also consistently strong in year and dividends rising 20% to 9.34p.
Pleasingly, your successive quarters, on a like-for-like basis up 5.7%, 6.2%, share price has advanced a further 8% to 681.5p at the 4.8% and 5.2%.
The momentum was maintained in the time of writing.
first quarter of 2006, with like-for-like revenues up almost Revenues were up 25% to 5.4 billion.
Our like-for-like revenue objective for 2006 remains margin was up one margin point to 14% 15% under over 4%, well in line with or above forecasts for the 2004 UK GAAP.
Headline PBIT that is before goodwill advertising and marketing services industry and worldwide impairment, amortisation of acquired intangibles, interest, GNP growth.
tax and investment gains and write-downs what a mouthful!
Headline profit Media investment management continues before tax was up over 36% to 669 million.
to lead growth profit before tax was up over 36% to 592 million.
Headline diluted earnings per share were up 29% to 36.0p By sector, Media investment management led the way, and reported diluted earnings per share up almost 27% together with Healthcare and Specialist communications, to 29.7p.
the latter particularly in direct, interactive and internet.
These results reect faster growth in almost all regions But Advertising, Information, insight & consultancy, and North America, Eastern Europe, Asia Pacic, Latin Branding & identity also registered good performances.
America, Africa and the Middle East the slower growth Public relations & public affairs registered its strongest area being Western Europe.
Similarly, growth was year since 2000.
Marketing services fell to 52% of our encouraging across all communications services sectors revenues in 2005 from 54% in the previous year, due to Advertising, Media investment management, Information, strong growth in Media investment management and the insight & consultancy, Public relations & public affairs, acquisition of Grey Global Group Grey, which was Branding & identity, Healthcare and Specialist more concentrated in Advertising and Media investment communications.
As in 2004, we were ring on all cylinders.
We are still, however, more than just an These results also reected continued improvement advertising company.
in productivity, with like-for-like revenues up 5.5% and By geography, Asia Pacic, Africa and the Middle average headcount on the same basis up 5.2%.
Liquidity East, Latin America and Central and Eastern Europe led improved with average net debt up only 132 million the way.
The only laggard was Western Europe, at 2005 exchange rates despite a net cash outow of particularly France, Germany and the UK, although there 195 million.
Operating margins improved signicantly, was some improvement towards the end of the year and too up one margin point after incentives and 0.9 margin into 2006.
As a result, and because of the acquisition of points before incentives.
Grey, which was more concentrated in North America, The rest of this letter to you is based on constant markets outside North America remain at around 61% of currency comparisons, which are more meaningful given our revenues, as compared to 58% in 2003 and 56% in Annual Report 2005 18 How were doing How were doing 2002.
The influence of the faster-growing markets outside Industry prospects North America is increasing rapidly.
Theoretically, 2005 should have been the weakest year of profits up: liquidity improved the 2005-2008 quadrennial cycle, with no special events to stimulate growth.
In fact, it was the contrary perhaps Headline PBIT margins rose to 14.0% from 13.0%, ahead reecting a growing realisation among clients that the of our original objective of 13.2%.
This was particularly only way to succeed is by generating like-for-like revenue encouraging as our income statement reected our largestgrowth through innovation and branding.
2006 should, ever incentive pools for record performance.
Pre-incentive again in theory, be a stronger year, with the Turin Winter headline PBIT margins rose by 0.9 margin points to 18.3% Olympics, the FIFA World Cup in Germany and the US from 17.4%.
Incentive payments rose to 228 million, or Congressional elections stimulating growth.
The industry more than four margin points, from 190 million in 2004. will probably grow at 4-5% in 2006, compared to 3-4% Total incentive payments including share-based payments in 2005, with marketing services outpacing advertising, were more than 24% of operating profits before bonuses, driven primarily by growth in direct, interactive and taxes and income from associates.
Our objective remains internet marketing.
2007 should again be a good year, to pay out approximately 20% at maximum and 15% at reecting the build-up to the Beijing Olympics and the target, excluding share option costs.
Variable staff costs 2008 US Presidential election, in which both parties are freelance, consultants and incentive payments, including expected to have well-nanced, multi-candidate elds.
share option charges now account for 7.6% of revenues, 2008 should be a blockbuster year not only because of almost at last years peak of 7.8%.
This provides a useful the Summer Olympics and the US elections, but also with shock absorber for operating margins, should revenues the European Championship in Austria and Switzerland.
Spending beyond ones means may nally catch up with As a result of all this, headline PBIT rose to 755 the US economy in 2009 and result in a global slow-down.
million, well over $1 billion for the second year in a row, 2007 should see growth similar to 2006s or slightly up more than 31% in constant currencies.
Although 2005 stronger growth, with 2008 escalating to 5-6%.
was a strong year, some of our first-generation businesses 2005 was an excellent year: 2006, we believe, will continued to suffer and a non-cash impairment charge see WPP strengthen more.
The Company continues to be reecting accelerated amortisation of goodwill of 46 in its most robust position since 2000.
Revenue growth, million was taken, compared to 41 million in 2004. cost management, productivity, liquidity and balance sheet Pre-tax profits, therefore, rose by almost 32% to 592 strength all continued to improve over last year and million, more than $1 billion for the first time, and diluted continue to do so in 2006.
Most importantly, our talent headline earnings per share by more than 25% to 36p.
base continues to strengthen, particularly as we invest in Free cash ow was up strongly at 565 million, increasing headcount in 2005 and in 2006. compared to 466 million in 2004.
Excluding the cash As far as 2006 and beyond is concerned, there payment for Grey, for the third year in a row we more are two principal concerns: Americas twin deficits, and than achieved our recently introduced cash ow objective Western Europes stagnation.
How long growth can of covering all acquisition payments and share re-purchases, continue when the US government continues to run and managed to cover dividend payments, too.
current account and scal deficits remains to be seen.
Liquidity improved as well, and even after the The American consumer remains sluggish, and chairmen part-cash acquisition of Grey, your company remains and CEOs do not seem willing as yet to raise corporate comfortably geared.
Net debt averaged 1.212 billion capital spending consistently to bolster the economy, up 132 million at 2005 exchange rates despite a gross which in our view remains patchy.
The 2000 recession cash payment of 376 million in respect of the acquisition was stimulated by a sharp decline in corporate capital of Grey.
In the first quarter of 2006, liquidity has continued spending, which was then ameliorated by stronger to strengthen, with average net debt only up 215 million consumer spending.
The reverse has not happened yet, to 1.043 billion at 2006 exchange rates compared with notwithstanding the strength in corporate profitability, the same period in 2005, again despite the gross cash liquidity and margins.
profits as a proportion of GNP are payment for Grey.
Headline interest cover in 2005 was at a 50-year high.
At the same time ination, stimulated well over eight times.
Analysts appear comfortable with by commodity price ination, in oil and steel in particular, average net debt levels of more than twice EBITDA, or has increased, and the dollar has weakened.
Perhaps this over 2 billion, versus our current levels of approximately is an old-fashioned approach, but operating beyond your 1.2 billion.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 19 How were doing means seems perilous to us.
And a countrys currency, we think, comes close to representing its stock price.
Our second worry is that Western Europe continues to stagnate, although there are signs of a slight Clients are increasingly improvement.
France, Germany, Italy and, to a lesser extent the UK, resemble a mature company in a mature coming to the view industry.
There is little top-line growth.
With healthcare and pension costs becoming an increasing burden, unless there is only one way relative interest rates decline and growth is stimulated by to compete through further broadening of the European Union, for example by the early entry of Turkey or by more liberal corporate innovation and branding.
and social tax policies, Western Europe may be trapped in a sluggish, lack-of-growth scenario, falling further behind the US and Asia Pacic.
Social and structural costs are significant elements of this concern.
The recent introduction of transfer of undertakings legislation in the EU TUPE, for example, represents another burden to bear.
In certain circumstances, it is possible that having won an account, the winning agency would have to take on the losing team or pay severance.
Despite these issues, there is evidence particularly in 2004, 2005 and the early part of 2006 of a growing focus on top-line growth.
Given a low-inationary environment, limited pricing power and more concentrated For the past three or four retail distribution, clients are increasingly coming to the view there is only one way to compete through years, there has been an innovation and branding.
Promote on price and you create commodities.
Innovate and differentiate, you create brands inexorable focus on cost.
and the right to demand a premium from the consumer.
It is much more fun to focus There is a growing realisation that cutting costs alone will not deliver growth targets promised to Wall Street and the on growth perhaps this City of London.
There is a limit to cost reduction, but no ceiling on top-line growth at least until you reach 100% partially explains the recent market share.
Further reinforcing this trend, strategic surge in merger and advisors, such as management consultants like McKinsey, counsel a switch in focus from costs to revenues.
Corporate strategic plans are increasingly concentrating on managing for growth, instead of managing for value.
Finally, managements are just plain tired of grappling with debilitating cost-management programmes.
For the past three or four years, there has been an inexorable focus on cost.
It is much more fun to focus on growth perhaps this partially explains the recent surge in merger and acquisition activity, too.
Annual Report 2005 20 How were doing How were doing Grey delivers benets Our top priorities Grey, which accounts for about 15% of the enlarged Our reason for being, the justication for WPPs existence, Company, has now been fully integrated and has brought to continues to be to add value to our clients businesses and the Group important strategic assets and strong people.
Our goal remains to be the worlds has a powerful planning and account handling advertising most successful provider of communications services to agency led by Jim Heekin, with relationships with major multinational and local companies.
And it is now raising its levels To that end, we have three top strategic priorities.
Its strong Media investment management First, in the short term, having weathered the internet capability, led by Alexander Schmidt-Vogel, is now fully bust successfully, we need to build on the solid base we integrated into GroupM, winning large accounts using have established.
Our people are stronger: they are GroupM networks and planning and research tools.
better resourced, motivated and incentivised than when Its public relations capability, led by Jeff Hunt, is now we exited the last recession in the early 1990s.
co-ordinating and co-operating with Cohn & Wolfe, The Company is also more profitable, more liquid, ably led by Donna Imperato.
Its very strong healthcare less leveraged and better structured than then.
In the most capability, probably our fastest growing, is run by recent economic cycle, margins peaked at 14.5% and Lynn OConnor Vos.
Its strong direct, sales promotion, bottomed at 12.3%, as opposed to 10.5% and 5.6% the interactive and internet capability, now uniformly branded previous time.
Geographic strengths include the Second, in the medium term, to build upon the US and Europe including Eastern Europe in particular, successful base we have established with the with interesting bases in Asia Pacic, Latin America, Africa acquisition of Young & Rubicam Brands and Grey.
and the Middle East, which are being built up further, At Grey, the new management structure is now in place and organically and by acquisition.
Grey also presents big whatever integration targeted, now completed.
At Young opportunities to build on existing common client & Rubicam Brands, our plans are also largely completed, opportunities, and explore new relationships.
the one remaining task being to complete the management structure at the Y&R advertising agency, where momentum Our margins has picked up recently.
Our third priority, in the long term or over the Our 2006 budgets indicate organic growth of 4%, equally next five to 10 years, is to increase the combined balanced between first and second halves, and skewed to geographic share of revenues of Asia Pacic, Latin greater growth in marketing services.
Operating margins America, Africa and the Middle East, and Central and are projected to reach 14.5%.
So far, we are ahead of Eastern Europe, from around 20% to one-third.
The margin objective for 2007 is 15.0% and in also aim to increase the share of revenues of marketing 2008 we will aim even higher.
services from around 52% to two-thirds: and to increase 2006 should be a better year for the industry, the share of more measurable marketing services such stimulated by an additional 1% growth through the minias Information, insight & consultancy, and direct, quadrennial factors, such as the mid-term US Congressional interactive and internet from around one-third of our elections, the Turin Winter Olympics and the FIFA World revenues to 50%.
The following year should be its equal or even better, as we gear up for the maxi-quadrennial in Our six objectives 2008.
As previously noted, that year should be a blowout.
In February, when we announced our results for 2005, Our six objectives remain as follows: we already had given guidance on life beyond 15%, and First, to continue to raise operating margins to how we might improve further our margin to 19% or 20% the levels of the best-performing competition.
This is not so outrageous as some 15% under 2004 UK GAAP has nally been believe, given that our best performing companies in each achieved.
20%, or 19% under IFRS, is much tougher, services sector already perform at a combined Group but not out of the question.
BBDO, Dentsu and McCann margin of 17%.
have done so historically, although the pressure became too great in some instances.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 21 How were doing Second, to continue to increase exibility in the cost structure.
Great strides were made in 2004 and 2005 on this.
Peak exibility historically was in 2000, at 6.6% of revenues in variable staff costs.
Now at 7.6% It is a relatively recent in 2005, and 7.8% in 2004, we have seen new peaks: and once again we have a sufficient shock absorber in development for certain our cost structure, if revenue growth weakens.
Third, to improve total share owner return by multinational marketing maximising the return on investment on the companies, when looking Companys 600 million free cash ow.
There are broadly three alternative uses of funds: to satisfy their global Capital expenditure, which usually approximates the depreciation cost.
Pressure here has eased as technology communications needs, to pricing has fallen, although we are investing more in real make their initial approach not estate, particularly in the US, to secure greater efficiencies.
Mergers and acquisitions, which have historically taken to operating companies but the lions share of free cash ow.
Here we have raised the hurdle rate on capital utilised so that our return on capital directly to parent companies.
Even so, there are still interesting opportunities, particularly outside the US, where pricing remains lower and where there is a closer t with the Companys strategic objectives.
Private transactions remain more attractively priced at single-digit price-earnings multiples.
Happily, return on capital from Grey exceeded our cost of capital in the first year, and the return from Young & Rubicam Brands, although still below the cost of capital, is rising satisfactorily.
We have been the only FTSE 100 company to increase its dividend by 20% per All our clients, whether global, annum over the past 10 years.
Given dividend cover of more than four times headline earnings and a dividend multinational or local, continue yield of just over 1%, we can continue to increase the dividend.
However, a rolling share buy-back programme to focus on the quality of our appears to offer a more significant benefit to total share thinking, co-ordination of owner returns, and we are looking at boosting the level of the share buy-back programme from 1.5-2% of the communications, and price.
outstanding share capital to over 2%.
In the first quarter of 2006, we were buying back shares at an annualised In response, we focus on rate of 2.5%.
Fourth, we will continue to enhance the contribution of the parent company.
WPP is not just a holding company focused on planning, budgeting, reporting and financial issues, but a parent company that can add value to our clients and our people.
We will continue to do this through a limited group of 250 or so people at the centre in London, New York, Hong Kong and So Paulo.
This does not mean that we seek to diminish the strength of our operating brands.
Our objective is to maximise the added value for our clients with their businesses and our people with their careers.
Annual Report 2005 22 How were doing How were doing Many of our initiatives are possible because of the orderly succession.
We continued to scrutinise and modify scale on which we now operate.
In the optimum use of our compensation practices: both to offer competitive and property, in information technology and in procurement justly based rewards to our existing people and to attract generally, we are able to achieve efficiencies that would outstanding talent from elsewhere.
For the first time be beyond the reach of any individual operating company.
Grey was included in our performance and assessment But it is also clear that there is an increasing requirement approach in 2005.
Our incentives assessment and rewards for the centre to complement the operating companies in methodology have been enthusiastically received.
professional development and client co-ordination.
A communications services company must be a It is a relatively recent development for certain model of excellent external and internal communications.
multinational marketing companies, when looking to To that end, we are broadening the understanding of satisfy their global communications needs, to make their the Groups vast resources through a raft of regular initial approach not to operating companies but directly communications: our regular FactFiles proling Group to parent companies.
Such assignments present major, and resources companies products: our monthly public online increasingly frequent, opportunities for the few groups news bulletin, e. wire: our quarterly global newspaper, The of our size.
It is absolutely essential that we have the WIRE: our annual Atticus Journal of original marketing professional resources and the practice development thinking: and our annual Corporate Responsibility Report.
capability to serve such clients comprehensively, actively Our online communications continue to be expanded with and creatively.
a comprehensive redevelopment of the WPP intranet and All our clients, whether global, multinational or Group website www.
local, continue to focus on the quality of our thinking, In property management, we continue to improve co-ordination of communications, and price.
In response, the return on our investment in real estate through the we focus on talent, structure and incentives.
WPP Space Program, with planned investment in property database and systems, innovative design and continuous People, people, people review of key locations.
Surplus space, primarily inherited through recent acquisitions, is steadily released from the Talent and its management therefore remain the lynchpin portfolio, resulting in a reduction of 1,000,000 square feet of our reason for existence: that is what our clients pay us during the past two years: on our average cost per square for.
Development of our people and the way we manage foot equivalent to a saving of 24 million.
Following this that talent is a critical driver of performance: and on reduction, at the end of 2005 our portfolio was 18.2 that critical dimension, we continue to make significant million square feet and a further release of 300,000 square progress.
In the creation of extremely attractive working feet is expected during 2006. environments, with highly competitive incentives, we In procurement, we have set ourselves the goal of increasingly differentiate ourselves from our competitors becoming the undisputed leader of procurement practice and improve the attraction of WPP companies as in the global advertising and marketing services industry.
With intensied internal training in this area, we have Our quarterly reviews with the operating focused on our major markets and categories more companies have been restructured, consequently, to favourable for global, regional or country contracts such give more time and attention to talent and to clients.
as IT, telecoms, facilities, travel, professional services Our recruiting efforts throughout 2005 were dedicated and production.
This programs success has been and especially fruitful as we successfully targeted and demonstrated by improvement of the non-staff costs attracted top talent within and beyond our industry, to revenue ratio in recent years.
often competing with investment banking, management In information technology, we continue to integrate consulting, and private equity offers.
The war for core infrastructure support across our ofces.
As with talent is erce, and there is more to be done.
Cordiant, Grey operations have been quickly integrated The blueprint for our executive development into our IT platform, which has allowed the operating curriculum has been completed, and our new client companies to concentrate on client-related IT systems leadership training programme has been successfully development.
Convergence of transmission of electronic introduced.
Each of our operating companies installed data, internet, wireless, IP and traditional voice telephony its own approach to performance assessment and presents us with a further opportunity to standardise our succession planning, aimed at developing the careers approach to technology at the regional if not global level, of their people, improving the quality of feedback, and to take advantage of current overcapacity in many of coaching and mentoring they receive and providing for these sectors.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 23 How were doing Finally, in practice development we continue to the UK, Germany, South Africa, Israel, China, Singapore develop horizontal initiatives in a focused set of highand Brazil: in Public relations & public affairs in India: potential areas across our vertical operating brands: in and in Direct, internet & interactive in the US and China.
media investment management, healthcare, privatisation, These acquisitions continue to move us forward new technologies, new faster-growing markets, internal to our aforementioned strategic priorities: expanding the communications, retail, entertainment and media, financial market shares of our businesses in Asia Pacic, Latin services, and hi-tech and telecommunications.
specifically, America, Africa and the Middle East to one-third: in we continue to invest in sharing insights and developing marketing services to two-thirds: and in Information, initiatives through The Channel in media and research insight & consultancy, direct and interactive, to one-half.
and The Store in distribution and retail.
We will expand our strong networks Ogilvy & In key geographic markets we are increasingly Mather, JWT, Y&R, Grey, United, BatesAsia, MindShare, co-ordinating our activities through WPP Country Mediaedge:cia, MediaCom, Research International, Managers.
Despite events at WPP Italy, we continue to Millward Brown, KMR, Hill & Knowlton, Ogilvy believe that increasing co-ordination is required between Public Relations Worldwide, Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & our brands at the country and global levels, as the Wolfe, GCI, OgilvyOne, Wunderman, 141 Worldwide, arguments for investment in regional management become G2, CommonHealth, Sudler & Hennessey, Ogilvy weaker.
However, the activities of Country Managers must Healthworld, Grey Healthcare, Enterprise IG, Landor be closely aligned and monitored.
In addition, we are and Fitch in high-growth markets or where their appointing a small number of WPP Global Client Leaders market share is insufficient.
to co-ordinate our efforts on behalf of clients and to ensure In 2005, in addition to the completion of the they get maximum benefit from their relationships with acquisition of Grey, we strengthened our position in WPP operating brands.
Advertising and Media investment management in the US, Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal the UK, Denmark, the Netherlands, Spain, Russia, Israel, strategic alliances and promote co-operation.
Practice Argentina, Hong Kong and Australia: in Information, development initiatives have thereby been reinforced in insight & consultancy in the US, the UK, Poland, China, such areas as healthcare, internal communications, and Hong Kong, Korea and New Zealand: in Public relations media and entertainment.
This has been especially & public affairs in the US, Denmark, Bahrain, Argentina, important to manage our portfolio of direct investments India, China and Australia: in Healthcare communications in new media.
in the US, the Netherlands and Switzerland: and in direct, All these initiatives are designed to ensure that internet and interactive in the US.
we, the parent company, really do and are perceived to We will also enhance our leadership position inspire, motivate, coach, encourage, support and in Information, insight & consultancy by further incentivise our operating companies to achieve their development of our key brands with particular emphasis strategic and operational goals.
on North America, Asia Pacic and Latin America.
Fifth, as we move up the margin curve, we intend We will accelerate our growth of panels and have to place greater emphasis on revenue growth.
One established a Kantar-wide operational capability.
legitimate criticism of our performance against the We will reinforce our growing position in media best-performing competition is our comparative level of research through KMR, which includes our investments organic revenue growth.
2000 was a bumper year but in television audience research through IBOPE, unsustainable.
In 2001, we disappointingly moved back AGBNielsen Media Research and Marktest, which, into the middle of the pack.
But there was a significant combined, are the market leader outside North America.
revival in 2002 and 2003, when we were one of only two In addition, we will reinforce our worldwide strength in of the major companies that showed revenue growth.
direct and interactive marketing and research through our 2004 was punctuated with a number of high-prole wins, traditional channels such as The Digital Edge, OgilvyOne, resulting in the second strongest organic growth Wunderman, Blanc & Otus and Lightspeed.
Although performance in the industry, and 2005 saw strong growth the early 2000-2001 compressions in financial valuations again among the leaders in the industry.
initially offered significant opportunities, we will now Our practice development activities are also aimed also invest directly in the new channels through start-ups, at helping us position our portfolio in the faster-growing particularly as US valuations in search, for example, have functional and geographic areas.
So far in 2006, the Group become prohibitive.
Lastly, we will continue to develop has made acquisitions or increased equity interests in our specialist expertise in areas such as healthcare, retail Advertising and Media investment management in the US, and interactive and to identify new high-growth areas.
Annual Report 2005 24 How were doing How were doing Creativity remains paramount As a parent company, we continue to develop practical principles and policies for our companies Our sixth objective is to improve still further the charitable giving and services to the environment, quality of our creative output.
Despite the growing education, the arts and healthcare based on best-practice importance of co-ordinated communications and guidelines.
We conservatively calculate that the WPP price effectiveness, the quality of the work remains and organisation contributed an estimated 17.3 million will remain paramount.
If you drew a graph plotting worth of time, skills, materials and money to social and creative awards as a proxy for creativity against margins community causes in 2005.
A summary of the Groups for any group of agencies, there would be a very strong approach to corporate responsibility can be found on correlation.
The more awards, the stronger the margins.
The clients procurement department fades into the background when the work is strong.
Of the three things And nally a reminder we do strategic thinking, creative execution and coordination creative execution is undoubtedly the most Those who own shares in WPP and those who analyse important, and that means creativity in its broadest sense.
and comment on its performance quite rightly see Clients look for creative thinking and output not it as a single entity: they rate it according to its overall just from advertising agencies, public relations and achievements.
And its those achievements that this Report design companies, but also from our media investment features.
management companies, MindShare, Mediaedge:cia, But of course, what those aggregate numbers fail to MAXUS and MediaCom, and our research companies.
reveal are the extraordinary number, range and diversity Millward Brown remains arguably one of our most of quite separate achievements that go to make up those creative brands.
Witness its new global brands survey impressive company totals.
By applying their brains and their talent and their We will achieve this objective by stepping up our experience to the service of their clients, every company training and development programs: by recruiting the in every discipline on every continent has contributed to nest external talent: by celebrating and rewarding that parent company total.
The contribution of some outstanding creative success tangibly and intangibly: by 92,000 individual people, representing a vast variety of acquiring strong creative companies: and by encouraging, skills, has gone to make up that parent company total.
monitoring and promoting our companies achievements And, as always, it is those individual skills that our in winning creative awards.
For additional leadership in clients value, and pay for.
Project by project, some tens of this regard, Robyn Putter, still worldwide creative director thousands of them in all, as WPP companies helped make at Ogilvy, has agreed to take on the additional role of their clients more successful, so, project by project, they WPPs worldwide creative head.
added inexorably to the final gures presented here.
We are committed to achieving these objectives So it is entirely right that we should end this letter as a substantively responsible corporate citizen of the by acknowledging the true source of our success and world at large and the communities in which we operate.
offering our wholehearted gratitude to all those many people who made it happen.
Looking forward A colossal amount remains to be done challenging our clients, and therefore us.
It seems certain that once these objectives are achieved, they will be replaced by new ones.
As companies grow in size, most chairmen and Philip Lader CEOs become concerned that their organisations may Chairman become abby, slow to respond, bureaucratic and sclerotic.
Any sensible business leader aggressively resists this phenomenon: we all seek the benets of size and scale without sacrificing the suppleness and energy of a smaller rm.
And, for the first time, new technologies now make this possible on a global platform.
Sir Martin Sorrell WPP wants the scale and resources of the largest Group chief executive rm together with the heart and mind of a small one.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 25 How were doing Annual Report 2005 26 How were doing
