Who runs WPP Members of the Board of Directors Board of Directors Philip Lader Philip Lader Age 60 Non-executive chairman Non-executive chairman Philip Lader was appointed chairman in 2001.
The US Sir Martin Sorrell Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 to 2001, Chief executive he previously served in several senior executive roles in the Paul Richardson US Government, including as a Member of the Presidents Finance director Cabinet and as White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Howard Paster Before entering government service, he was executive vice Director president of the company managing the late Sir James Mark Read Goldsmiths US holdings and president of both a prominent Strategy director American real estate company and universities in the US Colin Day and Australia.
A lawyer, he is also a Senior Advisor to Non-executive Morgan Stanley, a director of RAND, Marathon Oil and Esther Dyson AES Corporations, a member of the Council of Lloyds Non-executive Insurance Market, a trustee of the British Museum and Orit Gadiesh a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Non-executive David Komansky Sir Martin Sorrell Age 61 Chief executive Non-executive Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, Christopher Mackenzie becoming Group chief executive in the same year.
com @ Stanley Bud Morten Non-executive Paul Richardson Age 48 Finance director Koichiro Naganuma Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP Non-executive in 1996 after four years with the Company as director Lubna Olayan of treasury.
He is responsible for the Groups worldwide Non-executive functions in finance, information technology, procurement John Quelch and property.
He is also the country manager for Italy.
Non-executive Previously he spent six years with the central financial Jeffrey Rosen team of Hanson PLC.
He is a chartered accountant and Non-executive member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He is Paul Spencer a non-executive director of Chime Communications PLC Non-executive and STW Communications Group Limited in Australia, both of which are companies associated with the Group.
com Members of the Advisory Board @ Howard Paster Age 61 Director Jeremy Bullmore Howard Paster was appointed a director in January 2003.
John Jackson He was previously chairman and chief executive officer of Hill & Knowlton, Inc.
He joined the WPP parent company Company Secretary in August 2002, overseeing WPPs portfolio of public relations and public affairs businesses.
Prior to joining Marie Capes Hill & Knowlton Inc. he served as assistant to President Clinton and director of the White House Ofce of Legislative Affairs.
He is a member of the board of trustees of Tuskegee University, president of the Little League Foundation and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
com @ Annual Report 2005 94 Who runs WPP Who runs WPP Mark Read Age 39 Strategy director Orit Gadiesh Age 55 Non-executive director Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
He has Orit Gadiesh was appointed a director in April 2004.
She is been WPPs director of strategy since 2002.
He worked at chairman of Bain & Company, Inc. and a world-renowned WPP between 1989 and 1995 in both parent company and expert on management and corporate strategy.
She holds an operating company roles.
Prior to rejoining WPP in 2002, MBA from Harvard Business School and was a Baker Scholar.
he was a principal at the consultancy rm of Booz-Allen & She is a board member of the Harvard Business School Hamilton and founded and developed the company Visiting Committee, the Deans Advisory Board at Kellogg WebRewards in the UK.
School in the US and the Haute Ecole Commerciale in France.
com She is a member of the Foundation Board for the World @ Economic Forum, and on the Board of Directors of The Colin Day Age 50 Non-executive director Peres Institute for Peace.
She is a member of the Council Colin Day was appointed a non-executive director in July on Foreign Relations, a trustee for Eisenhower Fellowships, 2005.
He is group finance director of Reckitt Benckiser plc, a committee member of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, having been appointed to its board in September 2000.
New York, and a vice chairman for The Kennedy Center.
Prior to joining Reckitt Benckiser he was group f finance director of Aegis Group plc and previously held a number David H Komansky Age 67 Non-executive director of senior finance positions with ABB Group plc and fide La David Komansky was appointed a director in January 2003.
He is a non-executive director of Imperial He was chairman of the Board of Merrill Lynch & Co, Inc, Tobacco plc and, until 30 September 2005, of easyJet plc.
serving until his retirement on 28 April 2003.
He served as chief executive officer from 1996 to 2002, having begun his Esther Dyson Age 54 Non-executive director career at Merrill Lynch in 1968.
Among many professional Esther Dyson was appointed a director in 1999.
In 2004 afliations, he serves as a director of Black Rock, Inc. and she sold her 21-year-old company, EDventure Holdings, to as a member of the International Advisory Board of the CNET Networks, the US-based interactive media company.
Active in many civic She remains editor of her newsletter, Release 1.0, and and charitable organisations, he serves on the Board of the continues to host the annual PC Forum conference under New York Presbyterian Hospital.
She is an acknowledged luminary in the information technology industry, and has been highly Christopher Mackenzie Age 51 Non-executive director inuential for the past 20 years on the basis of her insight Christopher Mackenzie was appointed a director in 2000. into the evolving online information technology market He is chief executive of Equilibrium, a London-based worldwide, including the emerging IT markets of Central investor group.
He is also a board member of the Abdul and Eastern Europe and Asia.
An angel investor as well as Latif Jameel Group, the Borets Group, Minerva plc and an analyst observer, she recently participated in the sale of Champagne Jacquesson et Fils S. A.
He served as the chief Flickr to Yahoo!.
She sits on the boards of other IT startexecutive of financial service groups including Brunswick ups including EVDB, Meetup.
com, NewspaperDirect Capital in Russia, Trizec Properties in the US and GE Canada, CV-Online Hungary and Yandex Russia.
She sat on the consumer advisory board of Orbitz until its sale to Cendant.
She is also active in public affairs and was founding chairman of ICANN, the domain name policy agency, from 1998 to 2000.
Annual Report 2005 Who runs WPP 95 Who runs WPP Stanley Bud Morten Age 62 Non-executive director John Quelch Age 54 Non-executive director Bud Morten was appointed a director in 1991.
He is a John Quelch was appointed a director in 1988.
He is Senior consultant and private investor.
He is currently the Associate Dean and Lincoln Filene Professor of Business Independent Consultant to Citigroup Smith Barney with Administration at Harvard Business School.
Between 1998 responsibility for its independent research requirements.
and 2001 he was Dean of the London Business School.
He Previously he was the chief operating officer of Punk, Ziegel also serves as chairman of the Massachusetts Port Authority.
& Co, a New York investment banking rm with a focus Professor Quelchs writings focus on global business practice in on the healthcare and technology industries.
Before that he emerging as well as developed markets, international marketing was the managing director of the equity division of Wertheim and the role of the multinational corporation and the nation Schroder & Co, Inc. in New York.
He is a non-executive director of Inverness Medical executive director of Register.
com, which was sold to a private Innovations, Inc. and Pepsi Bottling Group Inc.
He served equity rm in November 2005 and is no longer a public previously on the boards of Blue Circle Industries plc, easyJet company.
He is also a non-executive director of The Motley plc, Pentland Group plc and Reebok International Limited.
Fool, Inc. which is a private company.
Jeffrey A. Rosen Age 58 Non-executive director Koichiro Naganuma Age 61 Non-executive director Jeffrey Rosen was appointed a director in December 2004.
Koichiro Naganuma was appointed a director in February He is a deputy chairman and managing director of Lazard.
He is president and group chief operating officer Previously, he was a managing director of Wasserstein of Asatsu-DK, also known as ADK.
Joining the agency in Perella & Co. Inc. since its inception in 1988, and chairman 1981, he began his career with the account service of global of Wasserstein Perella International.
He has over 30 years clients in the agency.
His mandate thereafter expanded experience in international investment banking and corporate to the total operation of the group.
He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations Chairman Masao Inagaki on the Board who retired upon and is President of the Board of Trustees of the International the appointment of Mr Naganuma.
ADK is Japans third Center of Photography in New York.
largest advertising and communications company, and ninth largest in the world.
WPP took a 20% interest in ADK in 1998.
Paul Spencer Age 56 Non-executive director Paul Spencer was appointed a director in April 2004.
Lubna Olayan Age 50 Non-executive director He is a nancier with 20 years experience in the financial Lubna Olayan was appointed a director in March 2005. management of a number of blue chip companies, including Lubna Olayan has been the deputy chairman and chief British Leyland PLC, Rolls-Royce PLC, Hanson PLC and executive officer of the Olayan Financing Company OFC, Royal & Sun Alliance PLC.
He served as UK chief executive a subsidiary of The Olayan Group, and the holding entity of Royal & Sun Alliance PLC between 1999 and 2002. for the Olayan Groups operations in the Kingdom of He is the chairman of State Street Managed Pension Funds Ltd. Saudi Arabia and the Middle East, since October 1986.
He is also chairman of the Association of Corporate OFC operates or actively participates in more than 40 Treasurers Advisory Board, NS&I National Savings, the companies, often in partnership with leading multinationals.
UK government-owned retail savings institution, and Sovereign OFC is also one of the largest investors in the Saudi and Reversions Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director of regional stock markets.
In December 2004, she was elected CMC Group plc, Resolution Life Group plc and Nipponkoa to the Board of Saudi Hollandi Bank, a publicly listed Insurance Europe Ltd. Paul is a governor of Motability, company in Saudi Arabia.
She also served on the Board of a UK charity for the disabled.
the UK property developer, from 1996 to 2004.
Ms Olayan is a member of the International Business Beth Axelrod served as a director during the year, resigning Council of the World Economic Forum and the International on 24 March 2005.
Advisory Board of the Council on Foreign Relations, which she joined in November and December of 2005 respectively.
Ms Olayan joined the Board of Directors of INSEAD in January of 2006, and has been a member of the International Council of INSEAD since March 1997.
Annual Report 2005 96 Who runs WPP
