How were rewarded No current member of the committee has any Principles of remuneration personal financial interest other than as a share owner as disclosed on page 126 in the matters to be decided by the At its heart all executive compensation at WPP is governed committee, potential conicts of interest arising from crossby three guiding principles: directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the competitiveness: Groups businesses.
performance: and The terms of reference for the Compensation alignment to share owner interests.
committee are available on the Companys website and will be on display as set out in the Notice of Annual General Competitiveness Meeting.
These terms of reference are regularly reviewed.
Compensation packages for Group executives are reviewed Advisors to the Compensation committee on a regular basis on average every 24 months.
When reviewing an executives package the committee usually consults with the Group chief executive, the Group chief The Compensation committee regularly consults with talent officer and the chief executive officer of the Group executives, particularly the Group chief executive who was not present at any meeting when matters relating appropriate operating company.
to his own compensation or contracts were decided, In making its assessments, the committee considers the chief talent officer, the Director of compensation and individual and business unit performance, level of benets and the Group general counsel.
During the year, the experience and scope of responsibility.
It also takes into committee received material assistance from Towers Perrin.
account the overall value of the package, including both Significant advice was also received from Hammonds xed and variable elements, and focuses on the on-target solicitors on a number of legal and governance issues level of remuneration.
The competitiveness of this total surrounding compensation and benets which arose during package is then reviewed in relation to the most the course of the year.
Hammonds provide legal advice on appropriate benchmarks.
a range of matters to the Group.
For example, for the Group chief executive three During 2005, no advice was required in relation to separate benchmarks for remuneration opportunities the remuneration of the chairman of the Company and are used: the non-executive directors.
Had it been required it would the most senior executive position in the Companys two have been provided by Towers Perrin to the Board and not closest comparators, Omnicom and Interpublic Group: to the committee.
the CEO position in companies of comparable size and Advice is received by the committee on issues complexity in the UK: and including the following: the CEO position in public companies of comparable size analysis of competitive compensation practices and and complexity in the US.
determination of competitive positioning: The same approach is taken for the other senior base salary levels: executives, including executive directors.
The Compensation annual and long-term incentive plans and awards: committee considers data from the latest industry surveys policy relating to WPP share ownership: covering the senior positions in WPPs operating companies.
pensions and executive benets: WPP participates in the leading global surveys of executive service contract terms for executives: remuneration in the advertising, market research, healthcare, changes in accounting, taxation, legal and regulatory public relations and public affairs sectors.
In addition, for practices: heads of operating companies the committee considers governance issues relating to compensation and the role public disclosures for similar positions in listed companies of the committee: and of comparable size and complexity in the relevant sector.
policies for preventing employee harassment and discrimination.
Annual Report 2005 118 How were rewarded
