How were doing Grey Worldwide Grey Worldwide once again ranked among the top tier of Grey Global Group global advertising agencies in revenue thanks to the strength and success of our network in 90 countries.
Our blue-chip client roster counts one-fifth of all Fortune 500 companies.
The bedrock of Grey is our enduring relationships with high value, high potential global clients.
Last year, we grew the number of clients we serve in multiple countries, multiple disciplines and the number of global brands we handle.
The agencys vitality was evident in the new assignments we received from Procter & Gamble, GlaxoSmithKline, BAT, Novartis, Diageo, Nokia and Volkswagen around the world.
New business is the lifeblood of a growth company and Grey was proud to win such prestigious clients as Lehman Brothers, Manpower, Lands End, Max Factor, Symantec, Major League Baseball, Citigroups Primerica and Southern Company in the US.
Internationally, we won Deutsche Bank and Ikea in Europe: Pzer and Rayovac in South America: and AXA, China Merchants Bank and the launch of the new Passat in Asia-Pacic.
We are off to a good start in 2006 with such wins as SanDisk, Darden Restaurants Smokey Bones Grill, Hasbros adult games, Diageos Tanqueray Ten in the US: Morgan Stanley in the UK: and China Mobile.
In September, my appointment was announced as chairman and CEO of Grey Worldwide.
Recently, we convened an extraordinary meeting of Grey executives from 35 countries around the world to chart the future of our company.
I laid out a clear blueprint for the new Grey, an integrated global network with a unique positioning and creative point of view, designed to accelerate our momentum by capitalizing on our considerable strengths in every discipline and channel.
During the year, we sent a clear signal that Grey is committed to reclaiming our historic pre-eminence in Ed Meyer Chairman and chief executive officer thought leadership and delivering a best-in-class creative Grey Global Group product with the appointment of superb talent in every region.
Nat Puccio and Suresh Nair, two of the industrys e recently completed a major milestone in nest leaders in consumer insights, were appointed as global the evolution of Grey Global Group: our co-directors of strategic planning.
first year as an important and dynamic They joined many outstanding creative leaders who member of WPP.
2005 was remarkable in have been given new or expanded roles at Grey including two ways.
First, we remained steadfast in Tim Mellors in North America, Dave Alberts in London, our commitment to our clients success, an Frank Dopheide in Germany, Todd McCracken in Asiaethic deeply rooted in the culture of Grey, that Pacic, Miyagawa Kanji in Japan, Pablo Gil and Sebastian resulted in our companys success.
Second, we set out to shape Garin in Argentina and Silvio Matos in Brazil.
In addition, Greys future with bold initiatives designed to energize the we have made improvement in creative quality and leadership of our company, sharpen our competitive edge in recognition a key benchmark for the achievement of integrated communications and recommit ourselves to incentive compensation.
superlative creativity as our reason for being.
No transition is We have begun to see the positive impact of this new seamless but our performance last year dramatically undercreative leadership across the globe.
The AOL discuss scored the promise and potential of the Grey merger with WPP.
campaign, promoting a provocative dialogue on the merits Annual Report 2005 How were doing 41 How were doing of the internet, has received press acclaim across the UK provide the breakthrough creative ideas that resonate and generated sales success.
Kmarts fresh, funny television across all marketing channels clients are demanding.
has broken new ground in retail advertising in the US.
Panasonics Life is work, mini-cinematic masterpieces, Joe Celia has changed the look and feel of consumer electronics Chairman and chief executive officer marketing, to name a few recent successes.
G2 Perception often lags reality in the shaping of a creative reputation and so we have redoubled our efforts to improve Greys showing in awards.
Grey EMEA was Grey Healthcare Group named Agency of the Year at the 2005 European Efes and Grey New York recently swept the Addys winning 22 Grey Healthcare Group, one of the worlds top five healthcare Golds, 11 Silvers and Best of Show for its quirky, human marketing agencies, remained one of our fastest-growing take on cell phones in a campaign for Nokia.
The agencys expanding client roster now includes Allergan, AstraZeneca, Aventis, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Jim Heekin Merck, Novartis, Pzer, Procter & Gamble and Wyeth.
Chairman and chief executive officer Grey Healthcare Group was honored for creating the Grey Worldwide 2005 Best Professional Advertisement and nominated as 2005 Agency of the Year, Most Admired Agency and Best Global G2 Network by Med Ad News, one of the industrys top publications.
In addition, I was honored to be named 2005 Woman of the Year by the Healthcare Businesswomens Association.
Years ago, Fortune magazine called Grey a superagency for its ownership of premier resources, across the total spectrum of marketing channels, available under one roof.
Lynn OConnor Vos While other agencies talked holistic, we walked the walk Chief executive officer and built an array of strong, integrated marketing companies Grey Healthcare Group on the leading edge of their disciplines.
We anticipated the marketing landscape then and, once again, we are positioning Grey for leadership in the new communications environment GCI transforming our business.
Recently, we announced that all of the specialized GCI Group, our global public relations company, also posted marketing communications services grouped under Grey strong growth.
The agency added such premier clients as Synchronized Partners will be unied under a single global Genentech, Cephalon, Listerine, Whole Foods, Sony Pictures brand called G2.
The companies within this global business Home Entertainment and Paramount.
GCI continued to unit will be rebranded: G2 Branding & Design formerly expand its consumer and technology practices as well as its G2 : G2 Interactive formerly Grey Interactive : G2 Direct global reach, consolidating its offer with Cohn & Wolfe.
& Digital formerly Grey Direct and G2 Promotional Marketing formerly J.
Brown Agency and comprise a Jeff Hunt global network across 42 countries.
Chief executive officer We have designed the G2 brand to become GCI synonymous with leadership thinking and creativity in the world of marketing communications, the fastest growth sector in our industry, and one evolving at warp speed.
In conclusion As the silos come down, G2s mission is not merely to deliver the first true total offer in its space: its mission There is a saying that real change demands real change.
2005 is to deliver the first true total integrated offer, working in was a year of significant change at Grey and yet we stayed true close partnership with Grey Worldwide.
to our heritage of growing leading brands for our clients and Together, G2 and Grey Worldwide will offer deep building their bottom lines.
This marks my ftieth year at Grey specialist expertise and integrated brand communications.
and the imagination, passion and creativity of our people We will be more agile, more responsive, and better able continue to inspire me.
I truly believe Greys best days lie ahead.
to optimize client brand communications in a relevant, targeted and measurable way.
Most importantly, we will Ed Meyer Annual Report 2005 42 How were doing
