How we behave Risk assessment The internal audit department carried out Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations throughout reviews and testing of the documentation and the the world is given the highest priority by the Group chief relevant controls for a majority of the Group during 2005, executive, the Group finance director, the chairman of the results of which were reported to the Audit committee.
the Audit committee and the Board, as it is essential to the creation and protection of share owner value and the Financial reporting development of the careers of our people.
The Board realises Each operating company annually updates a three-year that WPP is a service company and its ongoing prosperity strategic plan which incorporates financial objectives.
depends on being able to continue to provide a quality These are reviewed by the parent companys management service to its existing and potential clients in a creative, and are agreed with the chief executive of the relevant efficient and economic way.
At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the presents a Brand Check review of each of the business development of operating company budgets which build operations, incorporating a risk monitor, providing up the Groups budget.
During the final quarter of each feedback on the business risks and details of any change financial year, operating companies prepare detailed in the risk prole since the last Board meeting.
budgets for the following year for review by the parent The Brand Check covers such issues as: company.
The Groups budget is reviewed by the Board changes in political security: before being adopted formally.
Operating company results the possibility of the loss of major business eg as a result are reported monthly and are reviewed locally, regionally of a change of senior management at a major client : and globally by the business groups and by Group loss of a key executive of the Group: management on a consolidated basis and ultimately by introduction of new legislation in an important market: the Board.
The results are compared to budget and the change in accounting or corporate governance practice.
previous year, with full-year forecasts prepared and updated Each operating group undertakes monthly and quarterly throughout the year.
The Company reports to quarterly procedures and day-to-day management activities share owners four times a year.
to review their operations and business risks.
These are At each year-end, all operating companies supply formally communicated to the Group chief executive and their full-year financial results with such additional other executive directors and senior executives in quarterly information as is appropriate.
This information is review meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
consolidated to allow the Group to present the The Board is firmly of the opinion that the necessary disclosures for UK and US GAAP reporting monitoring of risk has always been and continues to be and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS strongly embedded in the culture of the Company and of including International Accounting Standards IAS.
the operating companies, in a manner which the Board The Disclosure committee gives further assurance considers goes beyond the Turnbull recommendations and that publicly-released information, including this Annual the requirements of Rules 13a-14 and 15 of the Securities Report, is free from material omission or misstatement.
Adoption of IFRS Control activities and monitoring Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set As required by European law, the Group has prepared out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal its consolidated financial statements for the year ended control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
The application 31 December 2005 in accordance with International of these policies and procedures is monitored within the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including IAS.
individual businesses and by the Companys director of Comparative gures for the year ended 31 December 2004 internal audit and the Group general counsel.
have also been presented on this basis.
More detailed Operating companies are required to maintain and information on the Groups transition from UK GAAP update documentation of their internal controls and processes.
to IFRS IAS is shown on pages 172 to 176.
This documentation incorporates an analysis of business risks a summary of which was considered by the Audit committee, detailed control activities and monitoring, together with controls over security of data and the provision of timely and reliable information to management.
IT and financial controls are also included.
Annual Report 2005 How we behave 107
