How were doing At its core was our new point of view, which recognizes the imperative to create ideas that people want to spend more time with.
JWT Over the past year, we have worked unaggingly to create a atter, faster, and more fun environment.
An environment that challenges the old ways of doing things, encourages big multi-dimensional ideas, and embraces innovation.
To advance this type of thinking in our work, we promoted Craig Davis to worldwide chief creative officer in January 2005.
Under his creative leadership, we implemented a set of 10 exacting standards ranging from world-beating to damaging that are meant to identify high-quality versus intolerable work and everything in between.
Our purpose was very clear to create ideas that people want to spend time with.
A point of view that feels even more relevant and more powerful than it did a year ago.
Thanks to our adherence to this exacting system, were seeing some real signs of improvement.
At last years Cannes International Ad Festival, JWT took home 17 Lions a vast improvement over 2004s seven.
Not only did we take home 17 Lions, but 47 of our entries made it to the shortlist, nearly double the 25 that advanced last year.
What is impressive is that the work recognized for its creativity, originality, and inventiveness is for our major clients, including Kimberly-Clark, Diageo, Reckitt Benckiser, Ford, Kelloggs and Pzer.
In the UK, for instance, we earned recognition for taking advantage of interactive TV for Diageos Smirnoff.
If the viewers chose to interact with the ad, it deepened their engagement with the creative idea and allowed them to spend more time with the brand.
For the Ford Fusion, we developed an emotional connection with young US buyers raised in import-car households and highly skeptical of advertising messages through smart product placement on such popular shows as American Idol and Extreme Makeover: Home Edition.
So, when Ford vehicles appear, they become an instantly integral, Bob Jeffrey Chief executive officer natural part of the programs overall emotional content.
JWT In Paris, we created a fictitious organization for Wilkinson Sword to promote eccentric shaving in an s an agency with a rich heritage of rsts, attack against the image of the perfectly shaved man.
JWT has invented and re-invented the way The organization, called Wilkinson D. A. R. E. hosted the ad industry does business over its 142- a website containing viral spots of men converting to year history.
And we are determined to eccentric shaving, a fake history of eccentric shaving, trail blaze again by leading the industry an eccentric shaving simulator, and contests allowing forward in todays consumer-controlled, people to send in photos of their own eccentric shaves.
For Vodafone, we parodied the hippy-led movement of That was the purpose of our re-launch on February the 60s and 70s to increase SMS usage among university 28, 2005, which went far beyond scrapping the J. Walter students they had free love, we had free SMS: they had Thompson signature script for the sleeker JWT logo.
The Joy of Sex, we had The Joy of Text.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 33 How were doing Not only are these efforts innovative, but they are As one of the largest and oldest agencies in the based on world-class strategic thinking what has always world, weve stayed big for a very long time by staying on been and will always be one of our points of differentiation.
the leading edge, bringing in new people with new skills, At JWT, we have always considered ourselves and being open to new ideas.
This year, we are as anthropologists first, advertising people second.
We believe committed as ever to the constant improvement of our that insights are the spark that ignites fresh thinking, the performance, our growth, our consistency, and our quality key to opening up categories, and the fuel that drives of relationships, quality of work, quality of resources, and business.
Towards that end, we are dedicated to ensuring quality of talent.
a regular supply of insights to energize business and drive numbers across clients vital categories.
Bob Jeffrey Unilever is a case in point.
Last year, we commenced a qualitative study on 20-something singletons for Unilevers Sunsilk, which has taken us to every region of the world.
The ongoing project, which is delving into an emerging post-education, pre-marriage life stage of young women, is helping to inform the clients global strategy and business.
For Diamond Trading Company, we continued to tap into such insights as womens desire for reafrmation of love.
So, last Christmas, we used an interactive, integrated campaign to pose the question What would you do for love?
: the effort followed a mans planes, trains and automobiles adventure, as he did everything in his power to get home to his wife.
By now, we all understand that we have to think of TV or print or outdoor as one of many vehicles.
We understand the importance of putting the web, mobile phones, and other new unique media platforms on equal footing with traditional modes of communication.
That is why our CRM network, RMG Connect, which helps us and our clients reach elusive consumers in new and interesting ways, is so vital.
Our global work for HSBC, which launched last fall, is a prime example of such thinking.
Some 1,000 people from 22 JWT ofces around the world took part in the multimedia effort, which highlighted that HSBC is a bank that values peoples different points of view.
RMG played a hugely significant role in the campaign, the ofine part of which drove thousands upon thousands of people to the website, yourpointofview.
com, to engage further with the brand.
RMG was responsible for the interactive component, which helped to move HSBC from an interruptive environment to a more interactive one.
Heres where one of JWTs biggest strengths lie when it comes to our multinational clients: the diversity of our multi-layered, multicultural network.
Having opened our first international ofce in London in 1899, we helped pioneer the ad network.
Today, we are redening the network for the 21st century, developing a model for intelligence, efficiency, and effectiveness that can deliver multi-disciplinary, multi-ofce, cross-borders attention, strategic insights and creativity 24 7, 365 days a year.
Annual Report 2005 34 How were doing
