How were doing and Tokyo all performed strongly.
The highlights were in Dubai and Shanghai, where the rapidly expanding market for branding and identity services allowed us to considerably Enterprise IG strengthen our presence and in London, where John Mathers guided the ofce to its strongest result since 2001.
As we go to press, we are moving to strengthen our presence in Eastern Europe, India and Asia Pacic.
Enterprise IGs stated ambition is to serve the needs of the worlds most demanding clients.
The science of brand growth and engagement has never been more acute in client organisations.
Thus Enterprise IG has stepped up to play a major partnership role with significant international clients such as American Express, Caterpillar, Electrolux, Masterfoods, SABMiller and Vodafone.
It was also gratifying to see the traction that Enterprise IG has achieved in new business, winning significant new clients such as Airtel, Credit Suisse, Diageo, Motorola and Ulster Bank, which also helped us grow our revenue over 2004.
In terms of people, we continued to enrich our talent pool ofce by ofce.
At the CEO level, we appointed Rita Rodriguez to run North America, Neil Hudspeth was recruited to run Asia Pacic and Ulrika Dellby was recruited to run the Nordic region from Stockholm.
Tracey Wood was appointed chief technology officer, directing all aspects of technology and knowledge sharing globally, and Alex Spark was appointed chief financial officer.
As part of our continued emphasis on people development, our international talent transfer programme continued to strategically relocate our people, whilst our commitment to multi-ofce training programmes helped reinforce our international culture.
At the beginning of 2006 I was appointed as the Worldwide CEO to lead Enterprise IG on this path of transition and growth.
The strategy is in place and the network is delivering.
Simon Bolton Simon Bolton Worldwide chief executive officer Enterprise IG 005 was a year of consolidation for Enterprise IG, cementing its position as a leading global brand agency.
Strong ofce performances, deepening client relationships, key personnel appointments and continued investment in network infrastructure characterised the year.
Enterprise IG now has operations in 21 countries around the world.
Most offer a portfolio of strategic counsel, design implementation and brand engagement.
In particular, our ofces in Dubai, Dublin, London, Paris Annual Report 2005 How were doing 61
