How were rewarded Elements of remuneration The principal elements of WPP executive remuneration were fully reviewed in 2005 and currently comprise the following: Base salaries xed : Annual incentives variable : and Long-term incentives variable.
Pension contributions, life assurance, health and disability, and other benets are also provided.
Key elements of short - and long-term remuneration Objective Participation Performance Conditions period Annual 1 Base salary To maintain package competitiveness All employees.
But salary levels at all levels within the Group.
are determined taking a number of relevant factors into account, including individual and business unit performance, level of experience, scope of responsibility and the competitiveness of total remuneration.
Cash bonus To incentivise delivery of value at all Approximately 10% of 1 year Achievement of challenging levels within the Group.
employees are eligible to performance goals financial receive a performance bonus.
and non-financial at the individual and business unit level.
Performance To incentivise delivery of value and to Key operating company executives.
1 year Achievement of challenging 2 share awards align with interests of share owners.
performance goals financial and nonfinancial at operating company level.
Executive To incentivise delivery of value and to Parent company executives 1 year Achievement of individual 2 share awards align with interests of share owners.
Long-Term 3 WWOP To develop a stronger ownership Employees with two years 3 years None.
Not offered to those participating in other share programs or to executive directors.
Renewed LEAP To incentivise long-term performance Participation offered only to those key 5 years Relative TSR performance against of the most senior executives against executives currently less than 20 a group of key communication the TSR of key comparators and people whose contributions services comparator companies, maximise alignment with share owner transcend their day-to-day role, subject to a fairness review by interests through a high level of including executive directors.
Restricted To encourage a share ownership Directors and senior executives of Typically 3 year None.
Stock Plan culture and long-term retention the operating companies and senior retention as well as supporting recruitment.
executives of the parent company.
Executive Stock To provide a tool to promote retention Occasional use only to deal with 3 years Conditions are determined at Option Plan and recruitment.
the time of grant of the award.
This table does not include details of previous plans, such as operating company LTIPS and PSP which are no longer used for regular grants of new awards.
1 Base salary is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
2 Awards are granted under the Restricted Stock Plan.
3 Since its first adoption in 1997, grants have been made annually under this plan and as at 4 May 2006 options under this plan had been granted to over 53,000 employees for approximately 26.6 million ordinary shares of the Company.
Annual Report 2005 122 How were rewarded How were rewarded Base salary one-third is based on the achievement by the individual director of critical business objectives assessed by the committee at the end of each year.
For 2005 in the case of The Compensation committee believes that base salary is the Group chief executive these included amongst others only one element of compensation and therefore should only be reviewed in the context of the total compensation strengthening the geographic position of Group companies being provided to an executive.
in both developed and fast-growing markets, ensuring During 2005 the base salary of Mark Read was orderly and effective succession of leadership for a number increased to 225,000 as part of the overall review of his of specific key operating company and parent company compensation arrangements when he was appointed to roles, developing collaboration amongst the business the Board.
No other change was made to the base salary leaders and encouraging cross-selling between Group of any other executive directors.
companies, including client co-ordination initiatives.
In assessing the individual performance of each Annual cash bonus executive director in 2005, taking into account the performance referred to above, the committee determined that the appropriate bonus for each was as follows: The annual cash bonus is paid under plans established for each operating company and for executives, including Sir Martin Sorrell 190% of salary executive directors, of the parent company.
Challenging Paul Richardson 108% of salary performance goals are established and these must be achieved Howard Paster 68% of salary before any bonus becomes payable.
Mark Read 73% of salary Each executives annual incentive opportunity is defined at a target level for the full achievement of objectives.
Higher awards may be paid for outstanding Share awards performance in excess of target.
The target level for Group executive directors other Following the policy review undertaken in 2005, the than the Group chief executive and Group finance director operating company LTIPs were replaced by PSAs.
This has is currently no more than 50% of base salary and the considerably simplied the measurement of performance maximum is currently 75%.
In the case of the Group while at the same time increasing retention by ensuring a finance director, the target level is 80% of base salary and greater percentage of the bonus pool is paid in shares.
The target level for the Group chief At the parent company the comparable change executive is 100% of base salary and the maximum is 200%.
meant that no further awards were granted under the PSP In the case of the Group chief executive and other and instead ESAs are used to reward executive directors for parent company directors, the annual cash bonus is based performance over a single year.
Performance under these on Group and individual performance: awards is against the same measures currently used to one-third is based on Group financial results.
This goal determine the annual bonus payment, but in this case is common for all executive directors including the Group delivered entirely in the form of shares with a further twochief executive For 2005 the Groups financial results were year retention period.
very strong, with Headline PBIT increasing by almost 35% These awards are not pensionable and will be satisfied to 755 million, Headline PBIT margin increasing from out of one of the Companys ESOPs and not out of a new 13.0% to 14.0% and Headline diluted earnings per share issue of WPP or treasury shares.
Both profit and cash ow were above budget.
: one-third is based on individual strategic objectives determined prospectively by the committee at the commencement of each year.
In the case of the Group chief executive this related to the relative financial performance of WPP against its peer group.
For 2005 WPP ranked first in the peer group for operating profit growth, EPS growth and margin improvement.
: and Annual Report 2005 How were rewarded 123 How were rewarded Renewed Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan For the 2005 awards the vesting schedule is as follows: Renewed LEAP Rank compared to peer group Number of matching shares 1 5 Renewed LEAP was approved by share owners in April 2004.
As with Original LEAP the purposes of Renewed 2 5 LEAP are to: 3 4.5 reward superior performance relative to WPPs peer 4 3.5 companies: 5 2.5 align the interests of executive directors and other key 6 1.5 executives with those of share owners through significant Below median 0 personal investment and ownership of stock: and For actual performance between these positions the match is calculated on a pro rata basis.
For participants for whom 2005 is the first year in LEAP, performance below median results in a half ensure competitive total rewards.
Under Renewed LEAP, participants have to commit WPP shares investment shares in order to have the As at the year end WPPs TSR growth was below opportunity to earn additional WPP shares matching median for both the 2004 and 2005 performance periods.
For each participants first LEAP award, at least The comparator companies for the awards made in 2005 one-third of these investment shares have to be purchased were: in the market.
The number of matching shares which a participant can receive at the end of the investment and Omnicom Aegis performance period depends on the performance based Interpublic Taylor Nelson Sofres on TSR of the Company measured over five financial Publicis Dentsu years four years in the case of awards made in 2004.
Havas Arbitron It is expected that all matching shares to which Ipsos VNU participants may become entitled will be provided from Gfk one of the Companys ESOPs.
The Compensation committee believes that TSR On a change of control, matching shares under relative to a group of key comparator companies is the Renewed LEAP can be received based on the Companys most appropriate measure for determining  to that date.
based rewards for Group executive directors, as it most Awards are made on an annual basis, taking into closely aligns reward with the delivery of share owner value.
account prevailing market and competitive conditions.
However, the Compensation committee also acknowledges Under Renewed LEAP, Sir Martin Sorrell committed that TSR may not always reect the true performance of investment shares having a value of $10 million, namely the Company and in exceptional circumstances it therefore 1,032,416 shares, for the award made for 2004.
In 2005 may need to perform a fairness review to vary the number Sir Martin committed investment shares having a value of matching shares that will vest if it determines that, of $2 million, namely 203,394 shares.
during a performance period, there have been exceptional circumstances.
Factors that the Committee will consider Retirement benets in its fairness review of any awards will include various measures of the Groups financial performance, such as All pension coverage for the Companys executive directors growth in revenues and in earnings per share.
is currently on a dened contribution basis and only base salary is pensionable under any Company retirement plan.
Details of pension contributions for the period under review in respect of executive directors are set out on page 125.
The form and level of Company sponsored retirement programs varies depending on historical practices and local market considerations.
The level of retirement benets is regularly considered when reviewing total executive remuneration levels.
Annual Report 2005 124 How were rewarded
