How we behave Scheme of arrangement Responsibilities in respect of the preparation of financial statements In October 2005, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under s425 of the Companies Act 1985, a new parent UK company law also requires the directors to prepare company was introduced which is now called WPP Group financial statements for each financial year which give a plc Newco.
The previous parent company has been true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company renamed and re-registered as WPP 2005 Limited Oldco.
and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of The introduction of Newco constituted a group the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing reconstruction and has been accounted for using merger those financial statements, the directors are required to: accounting principles.
Therefore, although the reconstruction select suitable accounting policies and then apply did not become effective until October 2005, the financial them consistently: statements of WPP Group plc are presented as if Newco make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and and Oldco had always been part of the same group.
prudent: and Accordingly, the results of the Group for the entire year state whether applicable accounting standards have been ended 31 December 2005 are shown in the consolidated followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and income statement and the comparative gures for the year explained in the financial statements.
ended 31 December 2004 are also prepared on this basis.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at all times the financial position of the Company and Sarbanes-Oxley S404 enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible Effective for the 2006 year-end, the Group and its auditors for safeguarding the assets of the Company and consequently will be required to report separately to the share owners for taking all possible steps for the prevention and detection on the design and effectiveness of internal controls over of fraud and other irregularities.
financial reporting, in accordance with section 404 of the The following information, together with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Group has planned its response to the necessary statements regarding directors responsibilities and testing procedures and is committed to achieving compliance statement of going concern set out above and the directors given the rigour of the controls, processes and documentation remuneration and interests in the share capital of the described above.
Company set out on pages 125 and 126, constitute the Directors report.
Going concern Substantial share ownership UK company law requires the directors to consider whether it is appropriate to adopt the financial statements on the As at 4 May 2006, the Company is aware of the following basis that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital As part of its normal business practice, the Group prepares of the Company: annual and longer-term plans and in reviewing this Legal & General 4.15% information and in particular the 2006 three-year plan WPP ESOPs 4.05% and budget the directors believe that the Company and Legg Mason 3.98% the Group have adequate resources for the foreseeable Barclays 3.11% future.
Therefore the Company and the Group continue AIM Management 3.05% to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the The trustees of the ESOPs are entirely independent.
It is the Companys intention that the total financial statements.
number of shares held in the ESOPs at any one time is such as may be required to satisfy outstanding incentive plan share awards but allowing for a contingency element, e. g. to deal with hirings in the course of a year.
The number of shares held in the ESOPs as at 31 December 2005 was 53,297,356.
The ordinary shares and ADRs held in the ESOPs did not receive the interim dividend paid on 14 November 2005 as they waived their respective rights.
The disclosed interests of all of the above refer to the respective combined holdings of those entities and to interests associated with them.
The Company has not been notied of any other holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
Annual Report 2005 108 How we behave
