How we behave Bud Morten Chairman of the Compensation committee during 2005 Review of the Compensation committee Company Long Term Incentive Plans, the Performance Share Plan, and the Executive Stock Option Plan.
Dear share owner Because the previous Executive Stock Option Plan This will be my last report to you as chairman of the and the Worldwide Ownership Plan were set to expire in Compensation committee.
Jeffrey Rosen will take over as March 2006, we renewed both of them, with share owner chairman following the Annual General Meeting convened approval, in 2005.
The Worldwide Ownership Plan will for 27 June 2006.
Jeffrey brings to that role a wealth of continue to be used, as it has in the past, to encourage a acumen and experience.
share-ownership culture at all levels throughout the Group.
Let me also welcome as a new committee member, The Executive Plan, having been largely supplanted by Esther Dyson, who has served as a non-executive director the new Restricted Stock Plan, will only be used in special of WPP for six years and, like Jeffrey, brings to the circumstances, such as senior hirings.
committee keen judgement and insight.
The committee was also closely involved in ensuring After 12 years as a member of the committee, that all of the Groups compensation plans were correctly 11 of them as its chairman, I would also like to take this transferred to, and adopted by, the new parent holding opportunity to thank everyone for their help during my company after the re-organisation, which was put into tenure, including Board colleagues who have served effect with share owner approval in the autumn of 2005. with me: executives in the parent company, particularly During 2005, Sir Martin Sorrells arrangements Adrian Jackson, the Groups director of compensation were rationalised and simplified.
Awards under the and benets: advisors in the compensation and benets Notional Share Award Plan, the Capital Investment Plan area, particularly Carol Arrowsmith and her colleagues CIP and Original LEAP all vested in September 2004, at Deloitte: and nally those in WPPs legal and audit having been deferred over a number of years since their functions, particularly David Calow, the Groups former original vesting dates, although Sir Martin has further chief legal advisor.
All have contributed enormously to deferred 2,649,208 shares under the CIP until late 2008. fullling the committees increasingly complex and often Also, in March 2005, JMS Financial Services Limited pressing responsibilities.
JMS exercised all of its remaining Additional Fee Rights I would also like to express my appreciation for the phantom options and all rights then exercisable by Sir open and stimulating dialogue I have enjoyed over the years Martin JMS under the Performance Share Plan were also with share owners and their advocates on both sides of the exercised.
With effect from 1 April 2005, Sir Martin Atlantic.
We have not all agreed on all of the issues all of became a direct employee of the Company in respect of the time, but I believe that is as it should be, and I hope that all of the services that he provides to the Group outside we at least share unanimous pride in the professionalism the US.
He therefore no longer provides his services through that has always characterised our deliberations.
As of 1 September 2005, Sir Martins contractual The year under review has been a busy one for the arrangements both within and outside the US are on an committee.
Much effort was invested in a comprehensive at will basis.
review of the Groups compensation strategy and of evolving During 2005, the committee held nine formal best practice.
As a result, a new Restricted Stock Plan was meetings and also had many informal discussions.
introduced, and the first such awards were made in 2005.
Committee meetings are frequently attended, in whole This plan essentially replaces grants under the Operating or in part, by the Group chief executive, the chief talent Annual Report 2005 How we behave 103 How we behave officer, the director of compensation and benefits, the All the experts Higgs, RREV, ABI, Hermes, etc.
Company Secretary and the Group general counsel.
agree with this, and they all stress the need for exibility My able colleagues on the committee during 2005 in the application of governance codes.
However, it is were Philip Lader and Christopher Mackenzie.
As noted questionable whether in practice adequate manpower and above, Jeffrey Rosen has subsequently joined the committee other resources are being committed to make the thoughtful and will take over as chairman following the Annual and intelligent distinctions, based on performance and General Meeting along with Esther Dyson.
All the past special circumstances, that such exibility requires.
Good and present members of the committee are considered by judgement, transparency and accountability are important the Board for this purpose to be independent.
on both sides of the dialogue, and in todays intensely During the year, the committee received advice from competitive global markets, there is little consolation for senior executives and also from those external advisors the share owners of a defeated company in remembering referred to in the Report of the Compensation committee that it was once admired for being rigidly compliant with on page 116. all the governance codes and will be missed by admiring I would like to close with a few general observations box tickers.
on the subject of corporate governance.
WPP has always welcomed and supported growing share owner activism Bud Morten and involvement because thoughtful dialogue on important 11 May 2006 governance and policy issues is constructive for all concerned.
As growth in the number of rules and standards continues to outpace our ability to assess fully their impact including their inevitable unintended consequences we must all be mindful that it is simply not possible to legislate success at creating wealth for share owners by demanding rigid compliance with one size ts all regulations.
Annual Report 2005 104 How we behave
