How were doing We continue to run our MEC Navigator Academy, a major professional training program that ensures we integrate and deliver the best of MEC to all our clients all around the world.
MindShare The clearest sign of vitality is our ability to grow with our existing client base and to win new business.
2005 saw major regional and global wins from new clients such as IKEA, Paramount Pictures, Michelin, Cingular Wireless, Toys R Us and Monster.
Perhaps most satisfying of all is that the majority of our growth comes from our long-standing client partners where were managing an increasing share of their investment in media and communication services.
Additionally, weve seen certain MEC markets bloom where everything clicked and a staggering run of success all happened at once China and Poland are two great examples of that for us.
Its our ability and depth at the local market level, all around the world, that ultimately defines the core strength of MEC.
We continue to play our key role in GroupM, the worlds leading media investment management group, leveraging the scale and intelligence of WPPs media capabilities.
As we look ahead, its essential that we keep both our clients and the consumer at the heart of everything we do.
In this context, our priorities must be to deliver growth both for our clients and our own business to continue to diversify our capabilities by either building or acquiring and to attract, retain and develop the best talent.
Were proud of what we achieved.
And as we look ahead to 2006, we do so with great confidence.
Charles Courtier Dominic Proctor Chief executive officer MindShare 005 was another wonderful year for MindShares people.
Our eighth year of existence saw our eighth consecutive year of serious double-digit growth as we developed new services and skills to apply to our clients businesses.
In turn our clients rewarded us with many new responsibilities and new accounts.
It was another record-breaking year for MindShare.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 49 How were doing Our ambition moved from being leading marketing feedback, internal communications.
Overall they greatly partners for our clients to being their leading business value the collaborative attitude.
This change in emphasis has led to major Similarly the feedback from clients is very positive investments in developing strategic resources, especially in and client retention rates are very high.
the areas of communications planning, content, insights, They have told us they want us to be more digital and return on investment ROI.
Our clients have accountable but also more creative.
To increase our global always told us that they want us to be brilliant at reach as well as our local expertise.
To get the old stuff implementation and execution but now also increasingly right while developing the new stuff.
To be a huge to help them much more at a strategic level.
For example, resource but delivered bespoke.
We do not see these as we have developed extremely sophisticated tools which contradictory ambitions.
Rather, as a service business, we help us answer a key question posed by all of our clients, need to maintain high levels of exibility as each of our what is the most effective way to deploy my budget?
clients has different requirements and these individual In a communications landscape that offers such requirements themselves shift rapidly.
The way we try to incredible choice and complexity, clients have asked achieve this is by minimising the bureaucracy and MindShare to be their partners in navigating these new maximizing the common behaviour of collaboration, channels.
And, in an increasingly accountable world, they creativity, accountability, networking and fun.
We dont want our advice to be based on sound metrics and data as want each MindShare ofce to be the same but we do see well as intuition and creativity.
great advantage in similar behaviour.
With the resources of WPP and GroupM, we are In last years report we commented on how well positioned to meet these challenges.
wonderfully interesting the media sector has become.
In 2005 we signicantly enhanced our reputation for This is still the case.
Technology and imagination still drive really delivering on pitch promises.
In a market which has change and opportunity for our people and our clients become highly measurable it is a key competitive advantage globally.
We intend to stick with our simple strategy and for us to be known as the agency which over-delivers.
Not we are confident that the people and clients who comprise only does this add profit to our reputation but it also adds MindShare will continue to enjoy it here.
to our income as most of our contracts now have an element of performance-related bonus.
Dominic Proctor Our partnerships with clients are enduring rather than project-based, so it is crucial that we can be trusted to deliver.
Many of these partnerships are global, or at least international, and our global network remains our single biggest competitive advantage.
This has been the case for five years now.
Actually, the network of 5,000 people comprises several mini-networks which represent all aspects of our business so, for example, there are networks of managers, researchers, sponsorship experts, finance experts, traders, ROI specialists, knowledge managers, HR specialists, content specialists, digital experts and of course networks of people dedicated to servicing each of our clients.
As our growth has been so rapid we were concerned that such a strong network culture might dissolve, but in fact it has strengthened.
This remains a key management priority as we move towards our tenth year.
Media investment management is becoming a global and consolidated business and this uniquely strong network enables us to capitalize on that fact.
We seek regular feedback from our people and the vast majority are very happy and motivated to be part of the MindShare team.
From this feedback we know that we have plenty of things to improve e. g. training, management Annual Report 2005 50 How were doing
