How were doing Information, insight & consultancy some fantastic people from diverse backgrounds and have an operational base which we can be proud of.
It is always nice to be publicly recognised in the way The Kantar Group that IMRB and BMRB were in being voted Agency of the Year in India and the UK respectively, but we must set our own standards and work hard to ensure that we are the place where motivated, passionate, talented people can thrive and where clients can nd a proactive partner who delivers great work consistently.
Our Kantar Gold Award winners in 2005 Millward Brown US and Ziment demonstrated this clearly through the way in which they innovated, deepened their relationships with clients and won new business, created an even better environment for their people and, in the process, grew revenues and profits substantially.
Our Kantar Performance Winners Added Value UK, BMRB, Lightspeed Research, MVI, Research International South Africa and Research International US also developed extremely well.
Overview inancially, we did well in 2005.
Our revenue performance was satisfactory in the light of the shift to internet-based research and the lower prices which that involves.
Given that as a measure, revenue growth captures the extent to which our offer is suited to client needs, the extent to which we are price-competitive, the extent to which we deliver against our promises and the degree to which we innovate with our clients we can be pleased with the acceleration in our revenue growth over the past few years but we know that there is still more to do our revenue growth was better than most of our competitors but not as strong as that of Ipsos or Synovate.
Our margin performance was very good in the light of increased price competition and procurement initiatives from clients and the fact that our margins are at higher Eric Salama levels than all of our major competitors in ad hoc research Chairman and chief executive officer TNS, Ipsos, Synovate, NOP and increased by more in The Kantar Group 2005 than anyone else in the industry.
However we know that there is still more that we can do and we know that f this entry reads a bit like last years, it is no there are still parts of our operation by brand and by coincidence.
Our strategy has not changed.
Our success geography where we can improve.
depends on how well we execute against it.
From that Our businesses performed superbly in the US, Asia point of view our stakeholders employees, clients, and Latin America during the year but struggled in Continental WPP and its share owners had reasons to be satisfied Europe and performed poorly in the UK.
The UK industry with our progress in 2005.
Our financial performance went through a tough time in 2005 revenue amongst was good, our clients experienced more innovation and the top 10 companies actually fell for the first time in consistency in delivery than ever before, our people over a decade but we contributed to our own problems.
benefited from greater investment in development, training We know what we need to do in the UK improve our and focus on their careers than ever before, we recruited talent pool, restore our thought leadership, become more Annual Report 2005 How were doing 51 How were doing We have more and better sources of syndicated data and insights The Kantar Group In an attempt to deliver better insights more cost effectively to our clients we have increased our focus on syndication.
In the past year: price-competitive, be more proactive with clients and we We have established Focalyst, a joint venture with the are very focused on achieving this.
AARP, to deliver syndicated research on the needs and attitudes of the over 50s.
Role in community Ziment has launched iMAP Research with immediate client demand in four therapeutic areas as a way of delivering attitudinal market tracking with physicians, Our financial success has gone hand in hand with playing patients and payors in the US and Europe and has rolled a stronger role in the communities in which we live and work.
Public sector contracts continue to be a feature of our out the US National Health and Wellness Survey work.
Research International carries out the Retail Price www.
Index in the UK and is responsible for measuring service Mattson Jack has integrated DaVinci and established delivery for both the Royal Mail and OzPost: BMRB itself as the leading authority in oncology.
carries out the British Crime Survey, the authoritative IMRB launched the Wallet Monitor which provides measure of crime in the UK: IMRB carries out a host of estimates of consumer spending and the Individual work for the Indian Government and for bodies such as Purchase Panel iPulse.
USAid and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to Center Partners pioneered the use of trained remote understand attitudes towards AIDS, behaviour around agents in call centres.
TGI is now available as the leading source of media And, as communities around the Pacic dealt with consumption data in over 50 markets.
the effects of the tsunami during 2005, Kantar and its AGBNMR enhanced its TV ratings offer by measuring people did more than simply raise $500,000 in contributions homes with digital PVRs in UK for its client BARB, to help our people in IMRB took the lead on our behalf a world first.
and used part of the money directly on the ground, Cannondales Shopper Genetics frequent shopper supporting the rebuilding of six schools and a science databases have been used by clients in a wide range of resource centre in India and the support of a wide range of category management and channel-related work to psychosocial facilities and activities in Sri Lanka including understand individual consumers reaction to in-store pre-schools, camp care committee meetings, community marketing while its RichMix product is now a leader in building events and computer education classes.
helping clients decide on assortment strategies.
MVI analysed and interpreted the strategies of leading Client needs and Kantar strategy retailers in more markets than ever before and delivered those insights to clients through seminars, workshops and web-based modules.
In the last two Annual Reports we wrote about clients who Henley Centres merger with HeadlightVision has want insights which are actionable, timely and value for money, and of clients who complain of an industry that is enabled us to launch products such as Streetscape and too focused on data, which doesnt enable them to connect Henley World around the world, providing usable trends deeply with their customers and which doesnt make as big and insights into what is driving them.
a contribution to their business as they need.
If anything, client needs have become even more acute.
We have developed a stronger offer in Consumer packaged-goods clients are nding it hard areas of critical importance to our clients to push through price increases through European and US retailers unless they can offer new, genuinely innovative We have continued to improve our existing offers and have products and more and more clients are focused on brought more genuine innovation to the market than at any understanding how they should allocate their media time in our recent past.
Particularly noteworthy has been budgets and their in-store budgets to best effect.
the progress we have made in helping clients allocate their Against that backdrop we have concentrated our budgets effectively, in measuring the value of brands and in offer development in a number of areas: helping clients innovate.
Annual Report 2005 52 How were doing How were doing Millward Brown has introduced Demand And Our talent pool is stronger Activation to its clients a way of quantifying the impact which each media paid-for such as internet advertising We tell our clients that their brands are built through the and not-paid-for such as word of mouth has in driving quality of the interactions which they have with their demand, of quantifying the extent to which latent demand customers and it is no different for us.
We have thousands is translated into purchase in-store and of quantifying what of people and they each have hundreds, if not thousands, is driving a decision in-store.
of interactions with our clients.
Each one of those is an Together with other Kantar businesses notably opportunity to understand the client better: to provoke, Glendinning, Cannondale, MVI and Research International, help, inspire.
and companies such as G2, Millward Brown was also Seen through that perspective, the emphasis we have instrumental in developing a Path To Purchase methodology, put in the past two years on training and development, on a way of measuring and understanding the way in which individual career focus, on improving the quality of our consumers progress from the first impulse to purchase leadership capabilities, on bringing in people with talents through deciding on stores and brands through and capabilities we do not have enough of is nothing more consumption of a particular brand and its effect on than a necessity.
We measure our progress through talent reviews, We have also made great progress in measuring the regular succession planning, town hall and informal impact of brands.
Added Value has taken industry thinking meetings and an annual Kantar-wide survey of all a step forward by focusing on the role of emotion in brands employees progress against which we include in all and the way which a brand makes people feel as the best senior managements bonus targets.
Across the board we guide to understanding behaviour.
Millward Brown Optimor are doing OK, but still not good enough.
There is now a used its approach in valuing brands to team up with the talent mindset across the business: we have passionate Financial Times in publishing a special supplement ranking people who love their work and who feel stretched and the worlds most valuable brands.
challenged, but we are still not making as positive a And Research International has packaged up difference to the experience of all of our people as I would existing and new capabilities to offer a unique end-to-end like us to be making.
innovation offer, with everything from concept screening Given that we want to be judged by what we do and and idea generation all the way through to forecasting sales the impact we have and not just by what we say, we have of new products and services and measuring performance more work we need to do.
Our aim is to do great work for in-market.
But we know that we will only do so consistently if we create and recreate an environment in which talented, We have helped clients make better use passionate people thrive.
of their insights Our infrastructure is improving but we must pay more attention to respondent issues It is not just through the generation of superb insights that we help our clients.
Research International, Added Value and Henley Centre HeadlightVision have made use of 2005 saw the consolidation of our operational base in the innovative presentation approaches including video and live US under a single management team.
Kantar Operations, acting to make insights come alive in the minds and hearts as it is now called, manages eldwork, data processing, of clients: we have carried out organisational development scripting and all other operational capabilities for the whole consulting projects with clients to help them better connect of Kantar in the US and the UK.
We are now able better to the generation of insights with decision makers: we have align capacity to needs, to manage transition to new forms pioneered the use of creative briefs in research as a way of of data collection such as the web and to do so costkeeping ourselves and our clients focussed on what is really effectively and with the quality standards that we expect important in any given project.
The focus this year will be on Global We also have Kantar-wide account directors on Operations, Locally Delivered a way of being able to some of our key client located in our clients HQs, whose deliver on global projects through harmonized standards job it is to anticipate client issues and ensure that the best while taking into account local needs.
of Kantar is delivered to them at appropriate times.
Lightspeed Research continues to be an industry leader in the provision of global online market research with panels that number over 17 million households across 29 countries.
Last year, we conducted 12 million online Annual Report 2005 How were doing 53 How were doing Full circle back to clients As I said last year, we do not often see our output displayed The Kantar Group publicly.
But we know that 2005 was a good year in terms of the impact that our work has had on clients in setting their strategic agendas, shaping their communication, surveys for clients.
To increase global reach and increase developing new products and services, optimising their ability to conduct online market research in emerging trade and media spend, helping them deliver higher internet markets, Lightspeed Research has formalized two productivity from their employees, deepening the loyalty strategic global panel partner agreements and developed and repurchase rates of their customers, setting prices for online specialty panels targeting the US Hispanic their products and services which have raised margins market, healthcare, financial services, automotive and without losing customers and setting KPIs against which telecommunications.
WebSurvey has increased its physician they are measured internally.
Our largest clients have grown panel to over 100,000 strong across the US, UK, France, at twice the rate of all our clients a reection of the value Germany, Spain and Italy with access in Japan as well.
It still features the highest-known response rates for a We know that our structure and approach can physician panel.
deliver to clients in ways which no other organisation can.
We believe that quality of eldwork, privacy, ethical Our aim continues to be to extend the range of occasions use of respondent data and other respondent issues will and the consistency with which we can celebrate success become increasingly important and that clients and the together with our clients.
industry will begin to refocus on these things in years to come.
We want to lead the industry in this area and will Eric Salama work with any clients, competitors and third parties who are committed to the same goals.
Adding to our existing capabilities Our primary focus is always on our existing people and our existing businesses.
But there will be occasions when recruiting externally or acquiring a business can enhance our business in a way that we could not organically.
Mark Cranmer who joined us as CEO of Research International having run Starcom across Europe, Sonia Bueno who joined us as Research Internationals Latin American CEO from LatamPanel, Angus Porter who joined us as CEO of Added Value having been on the board of Abbey National, Joanna Seddon who joined us as CEO of Millward Brown Optimor from FutureBrand are examples of numerous talented people from diverse backgrounds who are bringing us fresh perspectives and who are positively challenging the way we do things.
Similarly, the acquisition of Pentor in Poland and RI China for Research International, of MRI in Korea and Dynamic Logic for Millward Brown, of RMS as the leader in observing in-store behaviour, have helped us take our offers a step further.
Annual Report 2005 54 How were doing
