How were doing Specialist communications Overview ur specialist communication businesses provide Specialist communications clients with unique marketing capabilities, specialized industry expertise, and deep knowledge of particular audience segments.
In 2005, several new specialist resources were added, some existing units were further developed, and others aligned structurally or collaboratively with our large group networks.
Direct, promotional and interactive marketing Bridge Worldwide, a recent acquisition, brings to WPP networks world-class capabilities and dynamic growth in the interactive and relationship marketing space.
In 2005, Bridge was selected for Procter & Gambles best-in-class interactive agency roster, solidifying a longstanding relationship which now extends across over a dozen brands, including four of P&Gs billion dollar brands Charmin, Pringles, Folgers and Bounty as well as P&Gs corporate online initiatives P&Gs Everyday Solutions.
Also in fast-moving consumer goods, Bridge added notable digital marketing relationships with McCormick & Company, the largest spice company in the world, and ConAgra Foods, one of North Americas largest packaged food companies.
Bridge Worldwides healthcare business also experienced strong organic growth at Johnson & Johnsons Ethicon Endo-surgery and Abbott Labs Ross Products Division.
Tackling chronic disease states such as morbid obesity and diabetes, Bridges focus on healthcare demonstrates the power of digital media to act as a hub in cementing relationships with professionals as well as consumers in high-involvement categories.
Bridges work on the professional launch for J&Js BariatricEdge won a Silver at the RxClub Awards.
MJM benefited from a wide range of opportunities as face-to-face marketing truly came into its own in 2005.
The result was a diverse portfolio of exciting work encompassing all the companys varied offerings.
Projects ranged from incorporating live performance into traditional museum environments for the New York Historical Society, to staging a meeting in the desert around Dubai, opening new HSBC branches across the UK, and providing webcast support for key internal communications at GlaxoSmithKline.
Among the most dramatic projects was the design and creation of Canon Expo 2005 in New York.
This proprietary trade fair-like event attracted more than 10,000 invited guests and comprised 130,000 square feet of theaters, exhibits, product displays, and media and live presentations.
Annual Report 2005 64 How were doing How were doing Geographic Kids won a distinguished Reggie Award from the Promotion Marketing Association.
Mando Brand Assurance strengthened its relationship with Unilever, via significant wins from Pot Noodle and Dove.
Other major campaigns included Walkers PepsiMax, The Guardian newspaper and Callaway.
Mando continued to extend its coverage and knowledge of text and web sales promotion campaigns during 2005.
Headcount Field Marketing broadened its client base, adding LOreal, Fexco and the Environment Agency while growing existing relationships with clients such as Epson.
The year ended with the win of a long-term contract from Warner, and the development of a Field Marketing European alliance across all major markets.
Warwicks focus on the automotive industry helped earn an assignment with The Automotive Academy during 2005.
Early this year, work was awarded for Sytner BMW car dealerships to handle local press advertising and customer-focused marketing.
Custom media Forward continued to develop its UK business with customer direct work for Tesco, Barclays and Ford.
The business also secured its first North American work for Sears Holdings Corporation, based in Chicago, the start of a planned expansion for Forward.
Spafax had a strong year, winning new inflight entertainment contracts with Singapore Airlines and Quantas and renewing contracts with Malaysia Airlines, Mary Ellen Howe Cathay Pacic, British Airways and Delta.
The acquisition Chief operating officer of DMX Inflight in early 2006 strengthens Spafaxs Specialist communications, North America integrated inight entertainment offering and gives them a greater presence in the US market.
EWA continued to develop its data and relationship management services and recorded another strong Demographic and sector marketing performance in 2005.
Growth was boosted by a new contract with BAA Stansted and expansion of existing Pace registered a very strong performance in 2005, contracts with the Department of Health and the Training winning national recognition once again for its prestigious and Development Agency for Schools.
real estate clients at the National Association of Einson Freeman continued to make news in the Homebuilders annual convention.
Substantial billing world of brand promotion and integrated marketing.
growth from existing clients, coupled with significant The agency enjoyed both new and expanded relationships wins in new geographic markets, kept Pace ahead of with Dunkin Brands, HSBC, Pzer, Bristol-Meyers Squibb, performance expectations.
Anticipating future needs of the Simon Properties Group and more.
Highlights included marketplace, the rm has also launched new web site and the branding and fully-integrated launch of Dunkin virtual tour initiatives.
Donuts new avored coffee line and a focus on employee Geppetto helped clients as varied as Pzer, Samsung, incentive programs for HSBC as part of the WPP multiSanford, Kraft and Little Tikes tap into the power of the disciplinary team.
In addition, the creation of a unique youth market with work in the areas of product tie-in between Pzers Purell brand and National development, advertising, promotions and positioning.
Annual Report 2005 How were doing 65 How were doing The Food Group enhanced its leadership position in food industries through the creation of a strategic consultancy for corporate business and industry clients.
Specialist communications Notable wins in 2005 included an engagement by Johnson & Johnson to launch a system-wide healthy eating initiative.
Food Group retained agency of record assignments for many of the nations leading foodservice clients, such as TABASCO, Kraft, Florida Department of Citrus and newly acquired Dannon.
BDG McColl, Edinburgh-based architects and interior designers, showed continued international growth alongside appointments in the UK for BPs new North Sea Operations Headquarters, and for the architectural and interior design of the new Veterinary School for the University of Edinburgh.
BDGworkfutures had a successful year with significant new wins, including Barclays, Honeywell Control Systems and Robson Rhodes.
In addition to corporate clients, BDGworkfutures also secured a number of contracts to deliver workplace strategy and design within the Government sector, and this area is expected to continue to be strong in 2006.
Dovetail built on relationships with the architectural and design community to develop new business opportunities through specifying furniture for major new projects.
These included Discovery Channels new offices in Chiswick, Melli Banks new facility at London Wall, as well as The National Trusts award-winning HQ scheme in Swindon.
Sports marketing PRISM showed continued growth with the addition of a number of new blue-chip clients providing sponsorship assignments.
Campaigns included Shells sponsorship of Ferrari and Fords DestinationFootball.
PRISM continued to use Brand Sponsorship Valuator 6.0 to help companies clearly define the return on investment from sponsorship investments and to create intelligent sponsorship activation Andrew Scott programs.
Clients included Deutsche Bahn, Samsung, Chief operating officer Telefonica, Visa and Xerox.
International specialist communications PSM opened afliate operations with WPP sister companies Bates Pan Gulf in Dubai and Ogilvy RedCard in Singapore.
New clients included Gillette, Nikon Europe, the European Space Agency and Chevrolet.
The launch of Sportz III, the WPP sports equity tool in which PSM partners with Hill & Knowlton, promises to be a major boost.
Annual Report 2005 66 How were doing How were doing Global Sportnet GSN continued the implementation of its strategy to move from being a specialized football agency to a full service sports marketing agency marketing the media television, mobile, broadband and sponsorship rights of sports rights holders.
In 2005 GSN brought in VELUX as the naming rights sponsor for Clipper Ventures 5 Oceans Race, the solo around-the-world yacht race.
Media and lm production services Metro showed successful growth with further in-roads into the High-Denition broadcast market and strong performance in the events and staging business.
The broadcast business shot and edited Totally Frank and provided production facilities for various high-prole programs for UK terrestrial television.
The events and staging business provided internal communication and external trade events for clients such as Accenture, BP, CSFB, Experian, Innovene, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, RBS and UBS.
The Farm Group, including Uncle, had another successful year despite difficult trading conditions, and was voted Best Post Production Company in the Broadcast magazine awards the fifth time in six years.
Numerous high-prole lm, TV and DVD projects were handled by the Farm Group throughout the year including X Factor, Jonathan Ross, Hustle and Little Britain in the London facility, and Space Cadets and Deal or No Deal in the Bristol facility.
Mary Ellen Howe and Andrew Scott Annual Report 2005 How were doing 67 What we think The Advertising & Marketing Services Industry New markets and new technologies Sir Martin Sorrell Page 70 The Life & Works of Stephen King A tribute Jeremy Bullmore Judie Lannon Page 90 It is our custom to invite marketing commentator and member of the WPP Advisory Board, Jeremy Bullmore, to contribute an essay to our Annual Report each year.
In a change for this year only, we are devoting these pages to the work of Stephen King, one of the founding fathers of modern advertising practice and a long-serving director of JWT, WPP and The Henley Centre.
Its unfair that one man should have so much wisdom and be able to express it so beautifully and entertainingly.
Campaign Apples, Insights and Mad Inventors An entertaining analysis of modern marketing by JEREMY BULLMORE Foreword by SIR MARTIN SORRELL Readers may be pleased to learn that a collection of Jeremys Annual Report essays, written over the past eight years, has just been published in book form by Wiley.
Apples, Insights and Mad Inventors: An entertaining analysis of modern marketing is available from Amazon and major booksellers, including Blackwells, Borders and Waterstones.
Annual Report 2005 68 What we think Annual Report 2005 What we think 69
