Directors report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Articles of Association Company and the Group, together with the financial statements and The Directors propose to seek shareholder approval at the AGM the independent auditors report, for the year ended 31 March 2005. to amend the Companys Articles of Association with respect to the These will be laid before shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Companys borrowing limits because of the impact of the transition AGM to be held on 7 September 2005. to International Financial Reporting Standards.
A detailed explanation of the proposed amendment to the Articles of Association is provided Principal activities and business review in the Notice of the Meeting accompanying this report.
WS Atkins plc is a leading provider of professional services with offices in the United Kingdom, Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and the USA.
Corporate governance As at 31 March 2005 it employed 13,890 2004: 13,691 permanent A report on corporate governance is on pages 36 to 38. staff worldwide.
It reports through the following major segments: Transport: Design and Engineering Solutions: and Management and Corporate social responsibility Project Services, supported by Equity Investments.
A summary report on corporate social responsibility is on page 45.
In addition, the Group produces a separate annual report on corporate The Chairmans statement pages 12 and 13 and the Operating and social responsibility which includes detailed information in respect of financial review pages 14 to 31 report on Atkins performance during social responsibility, health and safety, the environment and human the past year and prospects for the future.
The reviews are included in resources.
A copy of that report is sent to all shareholders and is also this report by reference, together with the list of the principal subsidiary available on the Companys website www.
undertakings and the countries in which they operate Note 30 to the financial statements.
Employees The Group communicates financial results and significant business Results and dividends issues to all employees via the use of e-mail, the intranet and in-house The Group profit after tax for the year of 38.6m 2004: 37.4m publications.
Feedback from employees is obtained annually via a is shown in the Consolidated profit and loss account on page 47. confidential survey.
Where appropriate, consultation with employee and union representatives takes place.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 8.0 pence 2004: 7.0 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 30 September 2005 to ordinary Employee share ownership has been encouraged over a long period.
shareholders on the register on 2 September 2005 which, together with UK employees have the opportunity to become shareholders via the the interim dividend of 4.0 pence paid on 28 January 2005, makes a Companys Share Incentive Plan.
total of 12.0 pence for the year 2004: 9.0 pence.
The Group is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all its Disposals employees irrespective of gender, race, age, religion, disability or sexual Disposals made by the Group in the year are described in Note 3 to the orientation.
Policies have been implemented across the Group to ensure financial statements on page 58. that this commitment is acted on in practice.
Directors The Groups policy and practice is to encourage the recruitment and Full biographical details of the Companys Directors at the date of this subsequent training, career development and promotion of disabled report are given on pages 32 and 33. people on the basis of their aptitude and abilities, and the retention and re-training of employees who become disabled.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all Directors appointed during the year retire at the AGM and offer themselves Business conduct policy for election.
In addition, one third of Directors must retire and may The Board is responsible for the Groups Business Conduct Policy.
The Group believes that integrity is a fundamental prerequisite for successful business relationships, both internally and externally.
Stephen Billingham resigned from the Board on 24 August 2004 and Reputation, trust and confidence are essential elements which we seek Michael Jeffries retired from the Board on 1 January 2005.
Ed Wallis, to protect and enhance to the benefit of all with whom we have a who was appointed as a Director on 8 September 2004, will retire at relationship.
The Group seeks to understand and meet its customers the AGM and, being eligible, offer himself for election.
needs, whilst seeking continuous improvement.
Across the Group there are procedures in place which seek to underpin this approach.
By so Christopher Kemball and James Morley will retire by rotation at the doing the Group aims to meet the needs of customers, shareholders AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Struan Robertson will retire as a Director following the conclusion of Supplier payment policy the AGM.
The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers and The Board considers that the performance of those Directors proposed endeavour to make payment to these terms, subject to the terms and for election or re-election continues to be effective and that they conditions being met by suppliers.
As at 31 March 2005 the number demonstrate a strong commitment to their role.
of days annual purchases in the Group represented by year end creditors was 21 2004: 20 days.
Directors interests Directors interests in the Company are described in the Remuneration Charitable and political donations Report on pages 39 to 44.
During the year the Group made charitable donations of 85,000 2004: 101,000, principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates or charities relevant to the Groups activities.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations either in the UK or overseas.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 34 The Group has no intention of making any political donations or They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the incurring such expenditure in the future.
However, the Political Parties, assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Elections and Referendum Act the PPER Act defines EU Political and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
There is still some uncertainty over which bodies are covered by the definition and what will be classified as a The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Donation.
The Board will therefore seek authority at the forthcoming Groups website.
Financial information published on the website is AGM for the Company and its main trading subsidiary Atkins Limited based on legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation to make such political expenditure up to 100,000 in order to prevent and dissemination of financial statements that may differ from inadvertent breach of the PPER Act.
Share capital Going concern Full details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has including changes during the year, can be found in Note 22 to the adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the financial statements.
foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Purchase of own shares The Company is authorised to purchase its own shares in the market Auditors under authorisation given by shareholders at its AGM held in 2004.
The Companys auditors,  LLP, have Although no such purchases have been made, the Company will seek expressed their willingness to continue in office and resolutions for to renew the authority from shareholders at its forthcoming AGM.
Any their re-appointment and to authorise the Directors to determine shares purchased pursuant to that authority may be held as treasury their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
shares in accordance with the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf Substantial shareholdings On 20 June 2005 the Company had been notified, in accordance with Philip Davis Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following Company Secretary interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: 21 June 2005 Number of Percentage of Name of holder ordinary shares issued capital The Atkins No.
4 Employee Benefit Trust 4,677,005 4.48% Barclays plc 12,564,059 12.03% Legal & General Group plc 3,522,139 3.37% Zurich Financial Services and its Group 3,235,951 3.10% Save as referred to above, the Directors are not aware of any person as at 20 June 2005 who was interested in 3.0% or more of the issued share capital of the Company or could directly or indirectly, jointly or severally, exercise control.
Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by English company law to prepare for each accounting period financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the accounting period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to select and apply consistently suitable accounting policies framed by reference to reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates.
Applicable accounting standards also have to be followed and a statement made to that effect in the financial statements, subject to any material departure being disclosed and explained in the notes to the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 35
