1 Ed Wallis 3 Robert MacLeod Chairman, age 65 Group Finance Director, age 41 Ed Wallis was appointed a Director in Robert MacLeod was appointed Group Finance September 2004, taking up the post of Director in June 2004.
He is a Chartered Chairman in January 2005.
He joined the Company as Group Engineer.
He was the founding Chief Executive Financial Controller in March 2003 having of Powergen where he also held the position of previously worked in a variety of senior Chairman before retiring in 2003.
Prior to this financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc.
A graduate he gained more than 30 years of experience of Cambridge University, he trained at KPMG.
working for the Central Electricity Generating Board.
He has a wide range of other Board 4 Struan Robertson level experience including the Chairmanship Non-Executive Director, age 55 of Lucas Varity and London Transport.
He was Struan Robertson was appointed a invited to become a Companion of the British Non-Executive Director in 2000 and Senior Institute of Management in 1994 and in 1997 Independent Director in 2003.
He will step became a Fellow of the Royal Academy of down from the Board after the AGM on Engineering.
In 1996 he was awarded 7 September 2005.
He is a mechanical honorary doctorates by both Brunel University engineer with an MBA.
He retired from BP and Aston University.
He is Chairman of the after a 25 year international career during Nomination Committee.
which he held posts as Chairman of BP Asia Pacific, Chief Executive Oil Trading International 2 Keith Clarke and Senior Vice President Technology and Chief Executive, age 53 Marketing.
During his time at BP he lived and Keith Clarke was appointed a Director in worked in Africa, Europe and the Far East.
Following retirement he was appointed as He joined the Group from Skanska AB where Group Chief Executive of Wates Group Limited.
he was Executive Vice President responsible He stepped down in January 2004 to pursue for their activities in the UK, Poland, Czech his non-executive interests.
He is a past Deputy Republic, India and China.
He has over Chairman of the International Petroleum 30 years experience in construction and Exchange and Director of the Major Contractors engineering having previously worked for the Group Limited.
He is a Non-Executive Director Board of Directors City of New York, Olympia and York, Trafalgar of Forth Ports plc, Henderson TR Pacific Trust House and Kvaerner.
He was appointed plc and International Power plc.
He is the Non-Executive Chairman of Metronet on Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 13 April 2005.
He is a member of the and is a member of the Audit and Nomination Nomination Committee.
Committees and will continue to serve in these capacities until he steps down from the Board on 7 September 2005.
1 2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 32 5 Admiral the Lord Boyce 6 Christopher Kemball 8 Sir Peter Williams Non-Executive Director, age 62 Non-Executive Director, age 58 Non-Executive Director, age 60 Lord Boyce was appointed a Non-Executive Christopher Kemball was appointed a Sir Peter Williams was appointed a Director in May 2004.
He has had a Non-Executive Director in 2002.
He is Non-Executive Director in May 2004.
He distinguished career in the Royal Navy and Chairman of The Davis Service Group Plc graduated from Cambridge University with the Ministry of Defence MoD.
He qualified and a Non-Executive Director of Control Risks an MA and PhD in Physics.
He initially pursued as a submariner in 1965, and commanded Group Limited.
He is also a Vice-Chairman of an academic career first at Selwyn College, three submarines and HMS Brilliant.
He Hawkpoint Partners Limited, the independent Cambridge and subsequently at Imperial attended the Royal College of Defence Studies.
Most of his career has been College, London.
After a period with Lord Boyce was promoted to Admiral in 1995 in investment banking in Europe, Emerging VG Instruments Limited he joined Oxford and was Second Sea Lord and subsequently Markets and the USA.
He ran the North Instruments plc in 1982.
He became its Commander-in-Chief Fleet before becoming American operations of Kleinwort Benson plc Chief Executive in 1985 and was Chairman First Sea Lord, Professional Head of the Royal from 1983 to 1986 before moving to Dillon in 1991 until his retirement in 1999.
He is Navy from 1998 to 2001: and Chief of Defence Read & Co. Inc. as Managing Director jointly Chairman of the UKs Engineering and Staff, Professional Head of the Armed Forces in charge of their European business.
In 1992, Technology Board, and of the National Physical from 2001 to 2003.
He is a Non-Executive he joined Baring Brothers & Co. Limited as a Laboratory.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Director of VT Group plc.
Lord Boyce is a Director and ran its international corporate GKN plc.
Sir Peter was Master of St. Catherines director of the White Ensign Association, Lord finance activities from 1994, leaving in 1999.
College, Oxford, Chairman of the Board of Warden of the Cinque Ports, a Trustee of the He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Trustees of the National Museum of Science National Maritime Museum and a member of & Industry, President of the Institute of Physics, the Council of the RNLI.
He is a member of the 7 James Morley President of the British Association for the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Non-Executive Director, age 56 Advancement of Science and President of James Morley was appointed a Non-Executive the Association for Science Education.
currently joint Patron of WISE Women into He is Group Finance Director of Cox Insurance Science and Engineering.
He is a member Holdings plc and a Non-Executive Director of of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He was previously Finance Director at Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc, Guardian Royal Exchange plc and Avis Europe plc.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
