Systems role in defence procurement The MoD has embarked on the Future Rapid Effect System FRES programme to develop the next generation of medium-weight armoured vehicles for the Military.
With procurement costs for the overall programme estimated at 14bn, it is the largest land systems programme ever undertaken in the UK and one of the top two programmes across UK defence over the next two decades.
Atkins has been awarded the Systems House role a huge and particularly complex two year project to manage the initial assessment phase, under the strategic direction of the MoD.
PLAN As the Systems House, Atkins is utilising well-established industry techniques to fide-risk the programme and contribute an industrial perspective to the definition of the most effective acquisition strategy, while taking into account competing demands such as capability, time to delivery and affordability.
DESIGN The Atkins team is working closely with the MoD Integrated Project Team to define the system requirements for a rapid effect land capability.
The new vehicles will need to support a wide number of operational roles, provide maximum inter-operability with other UK forces and our allies, and work effectively alongside existing vehicles.
ENABLE Atkins brings a unique perspective to this role, drawing on our considerable experience as a defence supplier, and proven expertise in programme management across many industries and markets.
Our systems engineering and risk management processes, and knowledge of military and civilian programmes, will ensure the project enables the MoD to retain flexibility of procurement options for future phases.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 4 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 5 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 6 Managing motorway traffic in Wales Under the umbrella of Traffic Wales, Atkins is responsible for traffic management on the entire Welsh motorway and trunk road network.
Atkins has provided traffic management services in Wales for the past 25 years and was awarded a four year contract by the Welsh Assembly Government to undertake this latest work in April 2004.
PLAN Atkins is now responsible for operating the North and South Wales Traffic Management Centres in Coryton, near Cardiff and Conwy in the north.
Previously, Atkins was responsible for designing and managing the project to build the state-of-the-art Coryton Traffic Management Centre and arranged the seamless migration of transport and telecommunications systems from the previous building near Newport.
DESIGN Our team is now utilising the latest telecommunications and intelligent transport systems ITS technologies to improve traffic flows in the Principality, and to manage peaks in demand which occur when major events take place at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff, for example.
ENABLE Operating 24 hours a day, seven days a week, the Traffic Management Centres employ a complex combination of communications technology and intelligent transport systems to provide accurate travel information, improve road safety and support the wider economic growth of Wales.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 7 Helping the Airbus A380 take to the skies Though the first test flight of the new Airbus A380 took place in April 2005, Atkins is continuing to play an important role in the development of this high profile, international engineering project.
PLAN Atkins property design team supported by our Faithful & Gould subsidiary is responsible for site masterplanning services for the provision of new manufacturing and support facilities at the Airbus plant in Filton, Bristol.
DESIGN An Atkins-led team is responsible for performing the A380 wing certification activities.
This is one of the largest design analysis projects ever sub-contracted by Airbus.
ENABLE We are working to ensure the certification deliverables are submitted to Airbus in time for the A380 to enter service in 2006.
As a strategic supplier, Atkins has also established a team working on the latest aircraft project from Airbus, the A350.
This is a long-range, medium-sized aircraft which would build on technologies developed on the A380 programme and extend the use of carbon fibre composites into the main wing structure.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 8 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 9 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 10 Urban designs support Chinas growth China is growing rapidly and, as it does, more and more of the rural population is seeking work and improved prospects in urban areas.
To help satisfy a soaring demand for urban accommodation, the Chinese Government has instigated a major urban development programme.
Atkins is one of the first international companies to provide masterplanning and detailed design services in support of this programme.
This year we completed a three year project to provide the architectural design and landscaping at Thames Town, a new development in Songjiang, near Shanghai.
PLAN Multi-disciplinary Atkins teams in both China and 2 the UK contributed to the masterplan for the 1km town area, and developed the concept designs for the major buildings, streetscape and the overall landscape masterplan, including new riverbanks and quaysides.
DESIGN Built to the traditional style of an English town, the first of the Atkins-designed buildings was constructed in 2004.
Our architectural and landscape teams were on site throughout to oversee quality issues and guide the local contractors.
ENABLE The first of the completed buildings is now being fitted out and will be formally opened this year.
Residents will begin moving into the town in the latter part of the year: and the fully functioning town will be complete by 2006.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 11
