YELL GROUP PLC... acting responsibly Meet Tina Tina Horne Corporate Support Manager, Yell UK I enjoy my role in Yell because its challenging and a new area of focus for the company.
Corporate Responsibility is about the way you manage your business and it is very exciting to be part of this.
18 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Governance and Responsibility Introduction Governance Vision In our report last year we explained how we had established a Corporate Governance Steering Group, under the chairmanship of the Company Secretary, with responsibility for Guiding Principles reviewing Yells performance against corporate governance best practice and for designing and implementing policies and Excellence Reliability Responsibility Integrity procedures to ensure our continuing compliance.
Over the last 12 months this group now renamed the Governance and Responsibility Steering Group, in consultation Governance Elements with representatives from across the business and the Board, has been considering: What in the broadest sense governance means for Yell Vision How our overall governance vision can be clearly For Yell, Governance and Responsibility is about: articulated and communicated to all our stakeholders.
Providing our shareholders and other stakeholders with There were three outcomes.
Firstly, a simple vision statement confidence that Yell is a well managed and responsible setting out the essence of what good governance means to company.
Secondly, producing our core values or principles which it would be necessary for all Yell people, whether a graduate This statement reflects our commitment both to our shareholders trainee or a senior executive, to uphold, to ensure delivery of and to the wider community of stakeholders, which includes our vision.
Thirdly, our Governance and Responsibility our users and advertisers, suppliers, communities and, framework setting out the key elements of governance we of course, our people.
believe will ensure that we have a fully integrated approach across our business.
Guiding Principles This project has resulted in a Governance and Responsibility Supporting our Governance and Responsibility vision are our programme which has been fully endorsed by the Board.
For Guiding Principles excellence, reliability, responsibility and Yell, corporate governance and corporate responsibility are integrity.
They define how we work and underpin our inextricably linked.
We firmly believe that good governance approach to all aspects of our business.
involves being a responsible company and that a sound approach to corporate responsibility necessitates good governance.
Our programme brings the two together both for internal management purposes and for reporting to investors, who are increasingly considering these two areas as one.
