Operating and financial review Land & Armaments The Land & Armaments business the UK and the Swedish Modular Armoured configurations is the subject of one of group, headquartered in the US, the largest ongoing programmes being Tactical System.
is a global leader in the design, undertaken by the group.
development, production and Land & Armaments continues to make service support of armoured Land substantial progress on the development combat vehicles, major and Contract awards on current systems have and maturation of the  calibre naval guns, missile been exceptional.
Most noteworthy were the Cannon NLOS-C, the lead system of the launchers, canisters, artillery orders in 2005 worth some $1.5bn for the US Armys FCS manned ground vehicles.
refurbishment and upgrade of Bradley and In 2005, company engineers and the Army M113 fighting vehicles, demonstrating the completed functional and preliminary During 2005, Land & Armaments achieved value and potential of the United Defense design reviews.
The NLOS-C remains 2 1 EBITA of 42m 2004 8 m on sales acquisition.
Other contracts on current on track to deliver prototypes in 2008 of 1,270m 2004 482m, and generated systems included the remanufacture and and achieve system fielding in 2010.
3 an operating cash inflow of 168m upgrade of 59 M88A2 HERCULES Improved 2004 60m.
Other contract wins and ongoing development programmes related to This group was established in June 2005 The M777 lightweight 155mm howitzer, 495 Manned Ground Vehicles for the US Armys from the newly acquired United Defense of which were ordered for the US Marines FCS include the Integrated Army Active and the existing Land Systems formed by and US Army in 2005, has now expanded its Protection System and the common the integration of RO Defence and Alvis in market with the first delivery of guns to the Traction Drive Subsystem for all FCS 2004.
This global business has operations Canadian Department of National Defense.
in the US, UK, South Africa and Sweden, with markets in more than two dozen countries.
In addition to mine protection, current The group secured two key contracts in survivability programmes include an robotic systems the acceleration of the The Land & Armaments business is shaped armouring programme of M113 personnel FCS Armed Robotic Vehicle ARV, together by the contracts awarded for its products by carriers in Iraq, the manufacture and with Carnegie Mellon University, and the primarily the governments of the US, the UK installation of Transparent Armour Gun US Marine Corps Gladiator Tactical and Sweden.
The success of the business Shield kits for Humvees, trucks, M2 Unmanned Ground Vehicle.
It also showed results from its history of securing key Bradleys, M1 Abrams and add-on armour its own internally-developed Armed Robotic government contracts and the ability to for the Stryker.
Demonstrator at the annual meeting of satisfy customer needs in its various home the Association of the US Army.
In the US, the Armys In the area of development, Land & Armaments requirement to restore its current systems is well positioned for key future forces In the UK, the award of the AS90 Equipment to combat-ready condition following programmes including the Future Combat Support Contract followed by the contract to extensive operational use and to upgrade Systems FCS programme for the US Army, upgrade 500 of the British Armys FV430 and remanufacture to the most advanced Future Rapid Effect System programme for tracked vehicles, are key enablers in Land & Armaments Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Sales of 625m from acquired Transatlantic growth with 1 Sales 1,270m 482m United Defense business acquisition of United Defense 2 EBITA 42m 8 m 2 6 EBITA stated after UK Global land systems business Underlying EBITA 86m 2 m 3 rationalisation charge of 24m Cash inflow 168m 60m established 1 Number of employees 10,600 4,800 Cash flow benefits from advance Key contracts secured 1 Order book 4.4bn 2.2bn payments secured Bradley reset and upgrade Danish CV90, US RG-31, M777 Order book growth 4 2 Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA UK Future Rapid Effect System FRES demonstrator award UK cost base being addressed 8% 3% includes six months of United Defense 26 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005  NLOS-C The fully automated NLOS-C will deliver more firepower with greater effects faster and more accurately than ever before.
BAE Systems is proving new capabilities on the fully automated, 38 calibre NLOS-C Concept Technology Demonstrator, which has fired more than 1,900 rounds at Yuma Proving Ground, Arizona.
The first NLOS-C Increment 0 prototypes are scheduled for delivery in 2008.
Artists impression becoming the through-life support and CV90.
The newest customer, Denmark, Development of the 155mm Advanced Gun capability provider to the UK armed forces.
brings to six the number of European System AGS and the Long Range Land countries fielding this highly successful Attack Projectile LRLAP for the US Navy In the UK and export markets Trojan, an infantry fighting vehicle.
continues to support Navy and Marine Corps obstacle-crossing vehicle and Titan, a tank expeditionary and joint operations forces bridgelayer, are both based on Challenger 2.
The growing international need for mineengaged near the coastline and deep inland.
Roll-out of the first production vehicles is protected vehicles has generated orders for The AGS will be capable of a maximum scheduled for the first quarter of 2006. the four-wheeled RG-31 from South Africa sustained firing rate of 10 rounds per minute including the sale of 148 vehicles to the US at ranges of up to 60 nautical miles with an Over the past ten years, some 25m has been with further exports to Canada and the objective of being able to reach targets invested in developing insensitive munitions United Arab Emirates under contract.
In 2005, the technology and in UK production facilities.
engineering development models Naval The first contract was awarded in 2005 by successfully demonstrated the key the UK MoD for the manufacture of 105mm One immediate benefit of the United Defense requirements to support the DD X ship improved ammunition for the L18 Light Gun.
acquisition for BAE Systems was the design.
Tests have already established the Subsequent awards have been contracts to opportunity to meet the US Navys urgent propulsion approach for the LRLAP needed qualify 155mm ammunition for the L15 and need for a superior medium-calibre gun and to meet the challenging range targets.
ammunition for the DD X next-generation destroyer and the Coast Guards Deepwater In addition to key new gun systems, The premium that militaries are placing on modernisation programme.
Both have BAE Systems is designing and testing accuracy and precision in both area and selected the Land & Armaments 57mm a new Vertical Launching System VLS, point target fires has raised the importance Mk 110 as a close-in gun system for the Mk 57.
This next generation VLS will of intelligent munitions for artillery and mortar DD X and as the main battery for the provide capabilities for the DD X ship to systems.
Land & Armaments has a leading Maritime Security Cutter Large.
Partnering launch a wide range of missile designs.
role in the accelerated fielding of Excalibur with Northrop Grumman Ship Systems, the to US and Canadian forces in Iraq and first Mk 110 will be delivered in December Afghanistan.
The weapon system is also baselined 155mm munition fielded in Sweden and on both the General Dynamics and France, is being evaluated by the US and UK.
Lockheed Martin designs for the Littoral Combat Ship for the US Navy.
BAE Systems operations in Sweden continue their strong presence in the northern European armoured fighting vehicles market with further orders for the 1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of Land & Armaments is expected to contribute growth in 2006 driven largely intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital by the ongoing requirements in the US to both reset and upgrade the Bradley expenditure net and financial investment, and family of vehicles.
Reset is the need to repair vehicles to return them to a dividends from equity accounted investments 4 fully operational condition as a result of wear incurred by sustained military before elimination of intra-group sales 5 as restated under International Financial operations.
Upgrade activity is enhancing the vehicles mobility, lethality Reporting Standards and survivability to support effectively the US Army as it drives to deploy 6 earnings before amortisation and impairment of a modular force.
intangible assets, uplift on acquired inventories, finance costs and taxation expense In the UK, there will be continued emphasis on improving profitability and establishing a role on the Future Rapid Effect System programme.
The businesses in both Sweden and South Africa continue to perform well in both home markets and in securing export opportunities.
In the longer term, progress on the US Armys Future Combat Systems programme, where BAE Systems has a major role for both manned and unmanned vehicles, will be a major sensitivity for the business.
