Operating and financial review Business portfolio actions The business portfolio actions are championed by relevant Executive Committee members and are delivered either separately or jointly by the business groups.
Grow our business in the Establish in the UK sustainably Grow our global land systems United States profitable through-life businesses business In the summer of 2005, BAE Systems in air, land and sea Following the successful completion Good progress continues to be made completed the acquisition of United of the acquisition of Alvis in 2004 and Defense, growing the US business base across all major platform programmes.
United Defense in 2005, BAE Systems by $2.6bn in annual sales and 8,000 In 2005, the financial performance of has established a major land systems additional employees.
This acquisition the Programmes business group position, with home markets in the US, established BAE Systems as a major land benefited both from improved project Sweden, South Africa and the UK.
The systems prime contractor with a strong execution and agreement on the way formation of the Land & Armaments position in support of the US Department forward on the Typhoon programme business group in June 2005 brought of Defenses requirements for force made in December 2004.
BAE Systems existing land systems sustainment and affordable transformation.
activities together with those of United The acquisition provides new opportunities In December 2005, the UK MoD published Defense, to create a global leader in in land vehicle and naval gun programmes.
its Defence Industrial Strategy DIS.
This armoured combat vehicles and armaments.
It also broadens our access to platforms, strategy will shape the future of the UK supporting our customers with enhanced defence industrial base and recognises These integrated capabilities, our position solutions including new target acquisition, the need to sustain in the UK the highest on future programmes and our extensive communications and networked awareness system integration skills and capabilities installed base of legacy systems provides systems, and diversifies our business base across air, land and sea domains.
The BAE Systems with a platform from which with the US Army.
DIS also emphasises the importance it can develop its global land systems of a through-life capability approach and business.
We shall capitalise on the reset In addition, the existing US business envisages long-term partnering agreements and modularity priorities of the US Army is achieving organic growth across within each of the key sectors of air, land to restore battle-worn equipment and its established businesses with key and sea.
Successful implementation of this to convert active and reserve units to successes in electronic warfare, strategy will create a positive investment standardised expeditionary organisations.
The Company will work The next generation of combat systems systems, information technology, closely with the MoD to help them realise will be rapidly deployable, lethal, survivable and customer support.
We have an integral role in the UKs Future Rapid Effect System The enduring requirement for retaining programme, the US Armys Future Combat an on-shore, through-life, prime systems Systems programme and the Swedish SEP integration capability across air, land future ground systems programmes.
and sea presents BAE Systems with opportunities to sustain its UK In the UK land support arena the award of business base.
the AS90 equipment support contract was an excellent first step as we enter a longterm partnering arrangement with the MoD to support the UK armoured fighting vehicle fleet.
22 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Grow our global support, solutions Grow and maximise the Manage non-strategic businesses and services business value of Airbus for optimal value In the UK, Customer Solutions & Support In addition to its 20% equity interest in Where a business is operating in a market CS&S has continued the evolution of its Airbus, BAE Systems continues to exercise that is not contributing to achieving our successful partnering relationship with the important management influence on the desired long-term strategic positioning it UK Defence Logistics Organisation.
Airbus achieved good growth in will be managed to optimise value.
This relationship is underpinned by a partnering 2005.
It secured net new orders for 1,055 could mean focusing on managing for arrangement which is being refreshed to aircraft in 2005, including firm orders cash or divesting the business.
Whatever reflect the drive for through-life capability received from China, Kingfisher Airlines, the chosen action, such businesses will management as emphasised in the DIS.
be managed to maximise their contribution The CS&S International and Australian to the overall Group performance.
businesses continue to implement their In 2005, Airbus delivered 378 aircraft growth strategies.
The 2005 total A number of disposal transactions were comprised 289 single-aisle A320 family agreed during 2005.
Good progress has been made with aircraft and 89 wide-body and long-range the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where the airliners essentially A330s and A340s.
Company employs some 4,600 people, in particular with the signing of the In April 2005, the first A380 successfully government to government Understanding undertook its maiden flight.
The entry into Document in December 2005. service for the A380 is now expected in late 2006.
Restructuring in the US led to the creation of the US Customer Solutions organisation, Development of the A400M military strengthening our position to address transport aircraft continues, with the first emerging support opportunities.
The US export order for the aircraft achieved business is focused primarily in the areas during 2005. of technology solutions and services, Information Technology IT, and ship repair.
Following approval from its shareholders, While the US services market is large, it is EADS and BAE Systems, Airbus formally generally flat, resulting in a very competitive launched the new long-range A350 airliner in environment.
Future growth plans remain October 2005.
Airbus has already received centred in the high growth IT market.
BAE Systems is in an excellent position to grow business by assisting customers with defence logistics transformation to increase operational effectiveness.
