Operating and financial review Group strategic objectives Embed a high performance culture across the Company Developing employees The Developing You programme is at the heart of the continual training and skills development that BAE Systems provides for employees.
In 2005 over 1,350 engineers participated in Engineering Developing You, a framework which maps engineering capability to an individuals career aspirations and BAE Systems business needs.
Developing You now spans most of the business functions and comprises a bespoke range of training modules, many of which are accredited by leading universities and professional bodies.
A high performance culture within BAE Systems is focused on embedding A further aspect of the high performance BAE Systems will be achieved by a high performance culture by consistent culture is driven through Performance ensuring that: application of its core assets of governance, Centred Leadership PCL.
This is a processes and values, and identifying and leadership and performance management the Company operates with sharing best practices across the Company.
system, introduced in 2002, that clear governance establishes a clear link between businesses and employees To help achieve this strategic objective, in performance and rewards.
It establishes have clear objectives 2005 the Company formed the Centre for an underpinning competency and behaviour Performance Excellence CfPE, which is set for business leaders, enabling all best practices are shared now playing a key role in accelerating the leaders to understand what high across the Company pace of change to achieve higher levels performance means for them and their benchmark core processes of performance.
The system continues to be are consistently applied extended to a wider set of managers to The CfPE is introducing a set of Group-wide ensure that the principles of PCL are appropriate values and measures, so that business data can be embedded further throughout the Company.
standards are applied monitored in a comparable and transparent way, facilitating assessment of progress Consistently delivering good programme towards achieving our Group strategy.
execution is what drives customer In 2006, the CfPE will focus on identifying satisfaction, financial growth, and and sharing best practices, in order to ultimately returns to shareholders.
foster performance improvement across the Company.
