Operating and financial review Market overview Defence New threats and conflict arenas are placing Global defence spending grew by eight percent in 2004 among the fifteen largest unprecedented demands on military forces and military nations.
With major operations presenting BAE Systems with new challenges on five continents and defence customers in some 130 nations, BAE Systems is well and opportunities to assist those forces in placed to use its strong UK and enhanced US presence as a springboard for further meeting changing defence and security needs.
growth in both new and established defence markets.
2006 forecast defence procurement Forecast defence budget by major region BAE Systems is heavily reliant upon the levels of funding committed by the US$ billions in constant 2006 prices US$ billions in constant 2006 prices domestic governments where the 100 1,200 Companys operations are based, principally the US and UK.
In addition, 80 900 export markets are defined and regulated 60 by our domestic governments.
600 40 Although defence spending in some 300 20 western European nations is static, the 0 0 region still offers significant opportunities 2000 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 for BAE Systems.
As has been the case Rest of world Rest of world for a number of years, central European Europe Europe countries are investing in their armed US US forces as they move from Warsaw Pact Source: BAE Systems internal analysis Source: BAE Systems internal analysis to NATO standard equipment.
The US accounts for approximately 40% of The US represents over 45% of the total forecast The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is another forecast total global procurement in 2006. global defence spend including equipment, major market with the Company serving personnel and operating costs to 2010. as prime contractor for the UK  agreement.
BAE Systems provides support to the Royal Saudi Air Group sales by market Force, the Kingdoms ground defence infrastructure and naval minehunters.
Commercial Saudi Arabia maintains one of the largest Aerospace 21% defence budgets in the world.
In late Defence 79% December 2005, the governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK signed an Understanding Document intended to establish a greater partnership in modernising the Saudi Arabian Armed Forces.
The above chart shows the percentage contribution to 2005 Group sales from the Defence and Commercial Aerospace markets.
8 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Asia represents a significant growth Passenger traffic forecast Our UK customer is undergoing a opportunity for BAE Systems, with transformation, driven by the need for RPKs billion nations such as South Korea, Thailand greater agility, affordability and more and Malaysia all representing fast growing effective technology exploitation.
5,000 and attractive markets where the Company Fundamentally, this transformation 4,000 9 11 SARS Iraq War has a long history.
Elsewhere in Asia, is a shift towards integrated capability 3,000 BAE Systems has a growing relationship managed through-life to deliver the with India, with significant progress being required military effect.
2,000 made last year on the Hawk programme 1,000 for the Indian Air Force.
This evolution is expected to see the scope 0 of industrys role change as the MoD seeks 2000 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 BAE Systems Australian business has long-term partnering relationships to deliver Source: BAE Systems internal analysis continued to build on its position as the through-life capability management as Australian Defence Force capability partner indicated in the recently published MoD Global passenger traffic is forecast to increase of choice in integrated military systems Defence Industrial Strategy.
Strong growth is and support contracts.
expected in Asia and the Middle East and lower Aerospace growth in the more mature North American and South Africa is another market which The market for large commercial jets is European markets.
continues to offer opportunity to forecast to continue to grow on the back BAE Systems and where the Company of rising passenger travel.
Annual revenue has in-country capability with the OMC passenger kilometres RPKs are forecast to 1 land systems business.
grow by approximately 5% through to 2023 creating an expected average demand of It is in the UK and US that BAE Systems some 830 aircraft deliveries a year.
Key risks has the strongest presence.
The US to the forecast include the potential impact represents 45% of the world defence of higher oil prices and slower than currently market.
It is, and will remain, one of expected future global economic growth.
BAE Systems key markets, offering programme scale and a high level of The market in 2005 was particularly investment in research and development.
New large jet aircraft order Although growth in US defence spending intake was strong across the industry is expected to slow, the Company is well with the benefits of a recovering airline placed to support the US Department of economic cycle in some regions, rapid Defenses DoD likely emphasis on force growth in low-cost airline carriers and the sustainment and affordable transformation.
emergence of strong regional growth markets such as China, India and the With the acquisition of United Defense, Middle East.
In addition, high jet fuel BAE Systems businesses managed from prices have stimulated interest in new, the US will have an annualised turnover more fuel efficient, aircraft.
BAE Systems is now a major domestic prime player in the US Airbus, in which BAE Systems has a 20% market in addition to being a major supplier interest, delivered 378 aircraft representing of sophisticated sub-systems to the DoD.
57% of large jet deliveries in 2005.
The Companys enhanced position in the US in turn strengthens its capacity and BAE Systems supports a number of reach in many of the other major markets regional aircraft supplied in prior years.
The leasing market for these smaller aircraft remains difficult.
In the UK, BAE Systems is seeing the 1 Airbus forecast December 2004 benefit from its work over recent years to eliminate inappropriate risk and improve returns from its Programmes business with the UK Ministry of Defence MoD.
Also in the UK we have continued to deliver wideranging support activities in partnership with the MoDs Defence Logistics Organisation and the armed forces.
