Operating and financial review Group strategy framework BAE Systems strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company.
This is delivered through Group Strategic Objectives, Business Portfolio Actions and Integrated Business Plans.
The five Group Strategic Objectives are owned by the Executive Committee and applied across the Group.
The Business Portfolio Actions are championed by relevant Executive Committee members and are delivered either separately or jointly by the businesses.
Many of our businesses now support more than one portfolio action to encourage them to work together across business boundaries.
Group Strategy To create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier transatlantic defence and aerospace company Group Strategic Objectives Embed a high performance culture across the Company Win profitable new business and optimise value from our order book Grow our export business from a strong transatlantic business base Increase US UK industrial technology sharing Optimise our business portfolio Business Portfolio Actions Grow our business Establish in the Grow our global land Grow our global Grow and maximise Manage non-strategic in the United States UK sustainably systems business support, solutions the value of Airbus businesses for profitable through-life and services optimal value businesses in Air, businesses Land and Sea Integrated Business Plans 10 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 What do we mean when we say Why transatlantic?
Transatlantic relates to our most While defence remains our core market, Shareholder value means growth in our important markets.
It means having a our historically strong presence in the share price and dividends.
Sustainable presence in both the UK Europe and in aerospace sector, through our holding in means continually reviewing the portfolio the US.
The US, by a very large margin, Airbus, is a major contributor to the value of businesses and building a consistent is the worlds largest defence and of the Company.
track record of delivery to our shareholders.
aerospace market and the largest investor It also means continually improving the in technology.
This technology investment, Over half of the Companys total sales are consistency and quality of application as well as the scale of the market, is key now from electronic systems, software and of our best practice processes and to our drive to grow in the US.
Defence platform programmes the skills of our people to enable us home markets, Sweden, Saudi Arabia, contribute roughly a quarter and the balance to deliver on our commitments to South Africa and Australia, complement comes from the commercial aerospace customers and shareholders.
On both sides of the Atlantic, defence now increasingly includes Homeland Security markets.
The following pages 12 to 23 describe how we are delivering the strategic objectives and actions that underpin the Group strategy.
Eurofighter Typhoon BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 11
