Operating and financial review Customer Solutions & Support The Customer Solutions & Support As previously indicated, margins have been CS&S business group provides reduced within the Al Yamamah support support solutions for current and operations as the programme embraces future requirements.
It addresses greater indigenous Saudi content in repair the trend within armed forces to and overhaul work.
work more closely with industry to optimise their military capability BAE Systems has a major presence in in the most effective manner.
Key Saudi Arabia, as prime contractor for capabilities include the integration the UKs largest export contract.
The and delivery of effective supply contract includes the provision of aircraft chain and logistics management, and associated hardware, radar and spares, maintenance, repair and communications support, manpower overhaul, capability upgrade, training and infrastructure for the Royal technical information services, Saudi Air Force.
The business group facilities management and employs some 4,600 people in the manpower services.
CS&S is Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, of whom the prime contractor on the more than half are Saudi nationals.
Performance on the programme in Saudi Arabia remains on plan.
The Company 2 Delivering upgraded ex-Royal Navy Type 22 During 2005, CS&S achieved EBITA continues to develop a greater indigenous 1 frigates for Romania.
of 419m 2004 497m on sales presence in Saudi Arabia and has made a of 2,923m 2004 2,856m, and number of investments in offset companies.
3 generated an operating cash inflow The security of our employees is the highest of 850m 2004 1,102m.
of our priorities and a significant investment is being made in new residential facilities and increased security measures.
Customer Solutions & Support Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Sales growth of 2% over Delivery of Saudi strategy 1 Sales 2,923m 2,856m 2004 18% from non-Al on track 2 EBITA 419m 497m Compound construction Yamamah activity 3 Cash inflow 850m 1,102m Saudi joint venture company 2 1 EBITA lower on reduced Number of employees 14,300 13,800 formed 1 Order book 5.0bn 4.6bn contribution from Al Yamamah Increasing employment of support programme Saudi nationals 4 2 Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA Cash flow benefits from Government to government programme debt reduction Understanding Document signed on Saudi armed forces Order book growth modernisation 18% 35% Delivery of UK partnered support growth strategy Improved performance from Australian business 30 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Saudi Arabia BAE Systems is providing a comprehensive defence package to Saudi Arabia under the long-running Al Yamamah contract and CS&S has played a key role in providing training for local people.
The proportion of Saudi nationals now working on the contract has exceeded 50% an important objective for the Saudi government.
In the UK, CS&S has continued the In addition, the naval joint ventures BAE Systems Australian business has evolution of its successful partnering continue to perform strongly.
BAE Systems made considerable progress in realising relationship with the UK Defence Logistics has 50% interests in Fleet Support Limited its strategy of becoming the Australian Organisation DLO during 2005.
This and Flagship Training Limited.
These Defence Forces capability partner of relationship is underpinned by a partnering support and services joint ventures choice in integrated military systems arrangement which is being refreshed to form an integral part of the CS&S strategy.
An important reflect the drive for through-life capability Flagship Training Limited, which manages milestone is agreeing the wider industrial management as emphasised in the UKs the Royal Navy training establishments participation with Boeing on the Wedgetail Defence Industrial Strategy.
and markets their courses to overseas programme and with Lockheed Martin customers, has had another strong year.
Key highlights in the air domain include Fleet Support Limited also continued securing major orders on VC10, Harrier, to perform well underpinned by the a major third-party support contract on partnering agreement at the UKs E3D Sentry and Tornado.
A joint DLO BAE Systems team gained CS&S continues to develop a coherent MoD approval in November for the next information and logistics infrastructure in phase of Tornado support to deliver support of both new and in-service systems.
increased availability and operational Trilogi, a web-based documentation system flexibility at much reduced cost.
This ATTAC jointly developed by BAE Systems and the programme Availability Transformation: DLO, has now been selected for more than Tornado Aircraft Contract will integrate all 20 UK MoD programmes and the F-35 Joint non-engine Tornado support and upgrade Strike Fighter JSF.
activity into one incentivised arrangement.
In July 2005, the MoD announced that In the Naval domain, BAE Systems secured Defence Logistic Solutions DLS, in the sale of three ex-Royal Navy frigates which BAE Systems was a partner, to Chile.
This follows the successful was unsuccessful in the bid for the reactivation and upgrade of the two Future Defence Supply Chain initiative.
Type 22 frigates for Romania completed on schedule in April 2005.
1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of CS&S will continue to work closely with the UK Defence Logistics intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital Organisation to provide smarter, more integrated, support solutions on expenditure net and financial investment, and customer bases.
Good progress is being made on the future support model dividends from equity accounted investments for the UK Tornado aircraft.
Opportunities for similar support arrangements 4 before elimination of intra-group sales 5 exist on other UK platforms.
as restated under International Financial Reporting Standards Looking forward, CS&S will continue to work to sustain a long-term presence in Saudi Arabia, delivering on our commitments on current support contracts and developing new business following the signing of the Understanding Document in December 2005, between the governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK.
