Operating and financial review Group strategic objectives Optimise our business portfolio Eurosystems The Eurosystems transaction, completed in April 2005, achieved BAE Systems and Finmeccanicas mutual goals of securing control and clear management responsibility for their European defence electronics businesses.
Following the transaction, BAE Systems formed Integrated System Technologies by combining the capabilities of the former AMSs UK operations and BAE Systems C4ISR Networked Systems and Solutions business.
This business is working in partnership with the UK MoD to identify opportunities to participate in the transformation of the capabilities of the UK armed forces through the application of emerging network enabled capability technologies.
To ensure delivery of value to To maximise returns the Company will In March 2005, BAE Systems reduced its shareholders the Company is continue to focus on markets with attractive interest in Saab AB from 34.2% to 20.5%.
focused on determining where terms of trade as well as addressing costs, appropriate returns can be achieved.
In August 2005, BAE Systems sold To achieve this, businesses operating in Precision Aerostructures, the US based markets not considered central to the aircraft component machining and Companys strategy are managed to fabrication facility.
maximise their contribution to the Group.
In December 2005, an agreement for the Actions to optimise our business portfolio sale of the Atlas Elektronik business to in 2005 included further restructuring of ThyssenKrupp and EADS was announced.
the Companys activities in Europe and the acquisition of United Defense in the In January 2006, an agreement for the sale United States.
of the UK based Aerostructures business to Spirit AeroSystems Inc. was announced.
In Europe, the Eurosystems transaction was completed.
This comprised the sale of the The acquisition of United Defense was a key UK-based sensor systems and electronic step in our strategy to build BAE Systems warfare activities of the former Avionics position as the premier transatlantic business group and the restructuring of the defence and aerospace company.
The former AMS joint venture business to exit Company is now well placed to support the businesses in Italy and consolidate its UK US militarys growing emphasis on internetwork enabled capability activities in operability, affordable transformation and a wholly-owned UK-based business, force sustainment.
