Operating and financial review Group strategic objectives Grow our export business from a strong transatlantic business base M777 The M777 is the worlds first 155mm howitzer weighing under 10,000lbs and meets requirements for rapid deployment and accurate artillery fire support.
It has been designed and developed in both the US and the UK and has been selected by the US Marine Corps and US Army as their next generation medium force weapon.
M777 is now in full rate production and units have already been delivered to the US Marine Corps, US Army and Canadian Armed Forces.
Transatlantic markets remain at From a strong transatlantic base we shall This created one of the worlds leading the core of our strategy given our continue to export to, and work in, markets design, manufacture and support providers leading position in the UK Europe around the world where we can deliver good of land and armament systems.
Less than and strong and growing presence in shareholder returns.
We prioritise key export two years ago, the Company had a small the US.
These markets will continue markets and identify potential products and foothold in this sector.
BAE Systems is the to shape our capabilities and our services which will be better suited to those worlds second largest global land systems product and services portfolio and markets.
In addition, the expansion of business, with an annualised turnover in form the basis from which export existing home markets, where our business excess of 2bn.
operations are located, and identification of new ones is a strategic objective for 2006.
Both organic growth and growth through acquisitions will continue to be pursued The acquisition of United Defense was a key in the US.
step in our strategy to build BAE Systems position as the premier transatlantic With its transatlantic foundation defence and aerospace company.
The BAE Systems is well positioned to grow at Company is now well placed to support the very highest level of technology and the US Militarys growing emphasis on capability in the US whilst also delivering interoperability, affordable transformation value from its strong technology base, and force sustainment.
In particular, the capabilities and market position in the UK acquisition enables us to address the and its other home markets of Sweden, increasing emphasis on land systems in Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Australia.
emerging customer requirements, including the refurbishment, upgrade and long-term support of existing vehicles and equipment.
Following the acquisition of United Defense, we combined our existing land systems activities in the UK, Sweden and South Africa with United Defense to form the Land & Armaments business group.
