Operating and financial review Group strategic objectives Win profitable new business and optimise value from our order book Type 45 HMS Daring was launched on 1 February 2006.
It is the first of a planned class of up to eight Type 45 destroyers for the Royal Navy, and will be the UKs next generation anti-air warfare destroyer.
Daring has been assembled from large pre-outfitted megablock modules, increasing build efficiency and driving down construction man-hours.
The division of work between shipyards across the UK, at BAE Systems facilities at Scotstoun and Govan in Glasgow and VT Shipbuilding in Portsmouth, has pioneered a new way of building complex warships.
BAE Systems has had considerable BAE Systems is determined to build on its The Companys programme execution recent success in establishing an strong market positions by continuing to win is being achieved by the consistent appropriate balance of risk and business with an acceptable balance of risk application of our Lifecycle Management reward in its order book, creating and return for shareholders.
LCM lies at the heart of a sound foundation for growth and made in this regard, particularly with major the Companys project management.
It enabling the Company to focus on UK programmes, will be sustained for future provides a powerful and flexible process winning profitable new business.
contracting arrangements, including the and control environment within which anticipated production contracts for Nimrod to execute projects.
The LCM process maritime patrol aircraft, Astute submarines considers the whole life of projects from and additional Type 45 destroyers.
inception to delivery into service and eventual disposal and provides the A key objective is to deliver greater value framework for the application of best to shareholders from our order book by practice programme management.
applying best practice, tools and processes in a consistently efficient manner throughout A key enabler to winning new business is the Company.
establishing a track record of delivering projects on time, to specification and cost.
