Operating and financial review Electronics, Intelligence & Support Electronics, Intelligence & Support a provider of network centric warfare As a market leader in advanced information EI&S is headquartered in the US, solutions to command centres, platforms technology, geospatial exploitation software and is responsible for the former and individual soldiers in the battle space.
and data production, integration of businesses of BAE Systems North It has a prominent position integrating knowledge-based systems and avionics test America, the Groups UK-based communications on the US Armys Future equipment, the Company was selected as displays and inertial systems Combat Systems, including provision of an one of the prime contractors for the US Air activities and US marine repair Integrated Global Positioning and Inertial Force mission planning consolidation in activities.
EI&S comprises two Navigation System for the programme.
Another programme, Gridlock, gives businesses, Electronics & Integrated In 2005 the Company was also selected the war fighter distinctive advantages with Solutions and Customer Solutions.
to provide the new mobile military its smart imaging targeting that rapidly communications system for the Slovak generates accurate target coordinates using During 2005, Electronics, Intelligence armed forces.
still or motion imagery from tactical manned 2 of 324m & Support achieved EBITA and unmanned platforms.
1 The Company is a major supplier of 2004 256m on sales of 3,697m integrated avionics systems for military Capabilities in vehicle management, human- 2004 3,063m.
Such systems include the machine interface, precision guidance and generated operating cash inflow of electronic countermeasures for the US power systems provide improved operational 323m 2004 190m.
Air Forces F-22 Raptor and development safety and enhanced mission effectiveness.
of the electronic warfare suite for the F-35 Contract awards in 2005 included the digital Electronics & Integrated Solutions Joint Strike Fighter.
In 2005 the Company electronic engine controls for the GE T700 The Electronics & Integrated Solutions was selected by the US Navy to develop engine that will make BAE Systems the leader E&IS business is a major defence and the Tactical Aircraft Directable Infrared in the army helicopter segment.
aerospace electronics business with Countermeasures system and has been products and services encompassing: BAE Systems also provides the HybriDrive successfully flight testing a related infrared Communications, including propulsion system, used on commercial missile countermeasures system for tactical networking buses, which improves fuel economy by commercial aircraft.
Electronic warfare, including electronic 35% and dramatically reduces emissions.
protection and information warfare E&IS provides signals and information Five hundred systems for operation in Avionics and controls management solutions for defence and New York City were ordered in 2005. government agencies.
Its Diamond In a related technology, the US Office of Sensors Software product family architecture Naval Research selected BAE Systems to Integrated systems underpins the latest generation of develop an on-board power system for the electronic support measures for the UK Marine Corps High-Mobility Multipurpose E&IS is an industry leader in a variety of Shaman communications programme.
military communications, electronic The Companys radiation hardened identification, navigation and guidance computers have guided spacecraft on systems.
The Company has wide technical 6 7 missions to Mars and to intercept a comet.
expertise in C4ISR and C3I systems and is Electronics, Intelligence & Support Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Organic sales growth of 6% Sustained leadership positions 1 Sales 3,697m 3,063m over 2004 in electronic warfare and 2 EBITA 324m 256m military communications 3 Return on sales improved to 8.8% Cash inflow 323m 190m secured US Air Force mission 1 Number of employees 32,900 30,000 2 Good conversion of EBITA 1 planning contract Order book 3.5bn 3.1bn to operating cash flow Acquisition of largest US Order book growth 4 2 non-nuclear ship repair business Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA Successful integration of 2004 acquisitions 23% 27% Successful flight test of infrared missile countermeasures system for commercial airliners 24 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Advanced Airborne Systems BAE Systems designs, develops and The tests were funded internally and outside manufactures a wide range of electronic of the JSF programme flight test schedule in systems and subsystems for both military order to evaluate potential cost savings and and commercial applications.
The Electronics performance improvement options.
To date, & Integrated Solutions business develops the EW system continues to exceed all contract advanced airborne systems, including the performance metrics within the System Design electronic warfare suites for the F-35 Joint and Development phase.
Strike Fighter JSF, F-22 Raptor and other air platforms.
In July 2005, BAE Systems successfully completed the first flight test of its F-35 electronic warfare EW suite.
The Company is a supplier of state-of-the-art suppliers to the US Navy, is a leader in air antenna systems to high performance infrared, millimetre-wave, and laser scalable signal processing technologies, and missile defence systems and is one technologies for missile seekers, guided mixed-signal digital, RF and optical of the worlds largest manufacturers of munitions, and target designators.
It is devices, and advanced sensors.
It also includes the USs leading upgrading the technology for the Theater non-nuclear ship repair company.
The Center for Transformation focuses on High Altitude Area Defense THAAD seeker development of advanced programmes and for Lockheed Martin.
In an important entry During 2005, the major projects for the US 6 domain and deploys concepts in the C4ISR point to the $1bn military thermal imaging government included a blanket purchase leading-edge technology solutions to solve market, the Company is producing the agreement for the supply of information time-critical problems.
new thermal weapons sights to equip technology support and services, a costthe US Army and Marine Corps, and is plus award fee level of effort contract for Customer Solutions to manufacture the TIM1500 thermal operations, and maintenance support Customer Solutions comprises three imaging module for the US Armys Stryker for IT systems.
Combined annual sales business units: armoured vehicle.
for these are estimated at $94m.
BAE Systems Information Technology IT In 2005, BAE Systems won the US Air Technology Solutions and Services TSS TSS provides professional engineering Forces key Design and Engineering services to the NAVSEA DDG51 Shipbuilding BAE Systems Ship Repair Support Program II, leveraging expertise Program Office under a $863m contract IT capabilities include enterprise-wide in aircraft modifications and operations.
It also handles managed IT operations, mission-critical the SETAC contract, for which the primary performance and information analysis The business operates two technology customer is the Army Space and Missile and assured delivery.
TSS provides organisations focused on enhancing Defense Command.
The full year sales for services including system engineering its technology base, Advanced Systems SETAC are $90m.
and technical assistance, system and and Technology and the Center for sub-system integration and operations Transformation.
Ship Repair has continued to support and maintenance.
Ship Repair provides the US Navy repairs, alterations and Advanced Systems and Technology identifies non-nuclear ship repair, conversion and continuous repair work on Landing Platform strategic technology needs and delivers modernisation, principally in the home Dock Landing Ship Dock LPD LSD class that technology in four major domains: ports of the US Navy.
vessels in San Diego, as well as similar LSD Sensors and Signal Processing: Radio Multi-Ship Multi-Option in Norfolk, Virginia.
Frequency: Electro-Optical and Infrared: The business provides a broad range and Networking and Information Processing.
of services in the areas of systems Major customers include the US Defense integration, systems engineering and Advanced Research Projects Agency and technical assistance, operations and other government laboratories, with maintenance and logistics.
It also develops research and development programmes communications systems and precision ranging from multi-functional low-observable tracking radars, is one of the largest 1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of Defence spending in the US continues to be robust for the near term, intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities however fiscal pressures may make the budget environment more after capital expenditure net and financial investment, challenging in subsequent years.
Customers will need to balance priorities and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 to equip effectively the current fighting force, whilst developing capabilities before elimination of intra-group sales 5 as restated under International Financial to transform the future force.
Reporting Standards 6 Command, Control, Communications and Computing, EI&S was reorganised in 2005 to enable it to compete more effectively.
The Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance 7 business group can now leverage a breadth of capability in critical domains, Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence whilst rapidly aligning technologies and resources to those sub-segments of the market which are likely to see higher than market growth.
