Operating and financial review Programmes The Programmes business group Air Systems is a major contributor to the The principal Air Systems programmes are: defence of the UK, with the MoD its principal customer.
The business Typhoon group comprises the Companys air The introduction of the Typhoon to the systems, naval ships and submarines Royal Air Force RAF was successfully activities together with the implemented under the Case White initial Companys participation in the UKs support arrangement.
The contracted flying Future Carrier CVF programme.
hours were completed ahead of schedule, and the first two RAF squadrons have now 2 During 2005, Programmes achieved EBITA been deployed to their operational base 1 of 133m 2004 10m on sales of at RAF Coningsby.
A total of 74 aircraft 2,819m 2004 2,219m, and have been accepted by the air forces of 3 generated an operating cash inflow the four partner nations for deployment of 285m 2004 442m.
to operational and training squadrons across Europe.
Discussions are underway regarding further development to enhance the capability of the aircraft.
In addition to the sale of 18 aircraft to Austria, further The Astute class submarine.
export possibilities are being pursued.
Artists impression Hawk The Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer AJT development programme made good progress during 2005, with a successful maiden flight for the first RAF Mk 128 in July, two months ahead of schedule.
A production order is expected in 2006.
Export contracts for Bahrain, South Africa and India were progressed during the year.
Programmes Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Sales growth of 27% over 2004 37 Typhoon aircraft delivered 1 Sales 2,819m 2,219m in the year 12 to UK RAF Margin recovery to 4.7% 2 EBITA 133m 10m 3 including 30m benefit from risk First flight of UK Hawk Advanced Cash inflow 285m 442m 1 retirement on Typhoon Number of employees 16,200 15,700 Jet Trainer aircraft achieved early 1 Order book 12.3bn 13.0bn Margin constrained Successful delivery of F-35 JSF No contribution from Astute airframe assemblies 4 2 Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA and Nimrod sales Type 45 first of class launched No margin traded on Type 45 in February 2006 with programme at an early Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary 18% 11% stage first ship delivered Good cash performance 28 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Astute Demanding targets and a modular build strategy have combined during 2005 to achieve the accelerating production schedule for the Astute submarine project.
Recognition of the challenges of commissioning a first-of-class submarine has driven high achievement in the build and integration stages to derisk the programmed delivery date of August 2008.
Nimrod MRA4 Naval Ships and Submarines 40 days early in June, the command deck Nimrod passed a number of key The principal Naval Ships and Submarine module 5 weeks early in November, while milestones in 2005, and the development programmes are: shop floor led innovation enabled the bridge fleet of three aircraft continues its fin and casings to be completed 22 weeks extensive flight testing programme.
Design Type 45 early in October 2005.
An innovative alland development continues to meet the The Company is the prime contractor and employee bonus scheme has strongly targets to support the production bid, which design authority for the Type 45 destroyer, contributed to this performance.
was submitted in July, and to serve as the which will be the largest and most powerful CVF technical baseline for future work.
anti-air warfare destroyer ever deployed by the Royal Navy.
Of a projected eight ships, The CVF project will be executed within F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF six are under contract of which the first, an Alliance structure comprising the MoD, Air Systems is partnered with Lockheed HMS Daring, was launched in February BAE Systems, VT Group, Babcock, Thales Martin and Northrop Grumman on the JSF 2006.
Build on ships 2 and 3 is progressing and KBR.
Within the Alliance framework, programme, with responsibility for the design well, with anticipated build efficiencies BAE Systems continues to play a significant and manufacture of the rear fuselage and already being achieved between first and role in the leadership and execution of the empennage.
Work progressed on the second of class.
The Roles and Responsibilities system development and demonstration agreement signed in December 2005 contract, with the successful delivery of the LSD A formally appointed BAE Systems to lead first rear fuselage and empennage to Two Landing Ship Dock Auxiliaries for the overarching design and integration Lockheed Martin.
The first conventional the Royal Fleet Auxiliary RFA are under of the two ships, as well as continuing to takeoff and landing flight is planned for 2006. contract.
The first, RFA Mounts Bay, was lead the mission systems elements of the Activity has also continued in preparation for handed over in December 2005: and RFA project.
From a shipbuilding perspective, the bid for the first JSF production contract, Cardigan Bay will be delivered in mid-2006.
BAE Systems will design and build two of with the contract award expected in 2007. the four major blocks at both its facilities OPV in Glasgow and in Barrow.
Unmanned Air Vehicles UAVs The customers refusal to accept the three In July 2005, the MoD formed the Strategic Brunei Offshore Patrol Vessels is now The MoD has approved a further 300m UAVs Experiment integrated project team.
for the next phase Demonstration This will assemble evidence to allow the Phase Contract which will fund the UK to make informed decisions about the Astute Alliance for a further 18 months for potential role of UAVs in future force mixes.
The Astute programme has achieved continued design evolution and BAE Systems has been selected as prime milestones on or ahead of schedule procurement of long-lead materials.
contractor, and has received a series of throughout the year with closure of the contracts for fide-risking work.
In 2005, every module was shipped ahead of schedule with the main propulsion package shipped 1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of The future of Programmes is closely linked to the future requirements of the intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital UKs armed forces as well as its ability to generate profitable export business.
expenditure net and financial investment, For Air Systems the outlook is for reduced sizes of aircraft fleets, leading and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 before elimination of intra-group sales to increasing levels of weapons system upgrades, as customers seek to 5 as restated under International Financial incorporate technological improvements into existing platforms.
There is Reporting Standards continued demand for training aircraft offering improved cost effectiveness and the ability to train operators for the latest combat aircraft.
In the UK this need is being addressed by the advanced mission training capabilities of the Hawk Mk128.
There is increased interest in the potential of UAVs.
In the naval domain, the CVF programme and the longer term Military Afloat Reach and Sustainability MARS programme to replace the RFA fleet with new ships by 2020 offer encouraging growth prospects.
BAE Systems is a key participant in the UK governments Maritime Industrial Strategy review.
In the medium to longer term, growth prospects are dependent on anticipated higher activity, as UK development programmes move to production, and the potential for Hawk, Typhoon and naval ships exports.
