Operating and financial review Integrated Systems & Partnerships exercisable by BAE Systems in the three Integrated Systems & Partnerships working as the lead in the SEABRIDGE team, is a portfolio of high-technology month period from the beginning of June with partners Aerosystems International, defence systems businesses 2007 and a call option by Finmeccanica EDS, Flagship Training, MDA and Serco.
comprising the wholly-owned at any time to August 2007.
MCTS will provide the Royal Navy with a Integrated System Technologies, new shore-based warfare operator training Underwater Systems, and Atlas The Group also reduced its equity interest capability that will meet the training needs Elektronik, together with a 37.5% in Saab from 34.2% to 20.5% generating of the Type 45 destroyer in 2007, and interest in the pan-European MBDA cash of 125m.
In a revision to the earlier current in-service ships.
joint venture, a 20.5% interest in Saab joint marketing arrangements for the of Sweden and a 50% interest in the Gripen combat aircraft, Saab has now The creation of the Insyte business gives Gripen International joint venture.
assumed responsibility for winning new BAE Systems a new strength in the export business.
integration of high technology systems.
The Integrated Systems & Partnerships 2 business group generated EBITA of 109m Integrated System Technologies MBDA 37.5% 1 of 1,834m 2004 2004 95m on sales The Integrated System Technologies Insyte 2005 saw MBDAs sales increase by 6% 2 2,022m.
There was an operating cash business was formed in May 2005 from the to 3.2bn and EBITA grow by 19%.
inflow UK based defence systems activities of the performance was driven by significant AMS joint venture and existing BAE Systems deliveries of the Storm Shadow and Scalp 6 A significant restructuring of the Companys activities.
UK based C4ISR EG precision strike cruise missile to the portfolio of European defence systems French and UK customers in addition to Insyte projects include the full-scale business interests was accomplished first deliveries to the Italian air force.
in 2005. engineering development of the Sampson Significant deliveries of the Mica air-to-air multi-function radar.
A revised timetable missile to both the French air force and The Eurosystems transaction, which was has been agreed to address maturity in the export customers also underpinned the completed in April 2005, restructured the systems software, currently impacting the sales performance together with the entry AMS joint venture with the UK based Principal Anti-Air Missile System for the into service of the advanced air-launched defence systems activities being retained Type 45 destroyer programme.
anti-armour weapon system, Brimstone, by BAE Systems and with Finmeccanica to the Royal Air Force.
retaining the Italian based activities.
Insyte has been selected for two key UK transformational technology network MBDAs order book of 12.6bn at As part of this transaction the electronic enabled capability systems, the Falcon 31 December 2005 benefited from the warfare systems and sensor systems communications infrastructure programme award of the design and development activities of the former UK based avionics and the Shaman communications phase of the new Medium Extended range business group were sold to Finmeccanica.
electronic support measures system Air Defence System MEADS, which is a for the Royal Navy.
mobile ground-to-air missile defence system The Eurosystems transaction realised a net to provide protection from future air and cash inflow of 402m in 2005 with a further Insyte also secured the order for the missile defence threats.
MBDAs share of 268m receivable subject to a put option Maritime Composite Training System MCTS the MEADS order was 512m.
Other orders Integrated Systems & Partnerships Summary Financial highlights Key points 5 2005 2004 Financial results reflect portfolio Continued restructuring of 1 Sales 1,834m 2,022m restructuring in the year European business portfolio 2 EBITA 109m 95m Eurosystems transaction 2 3 EBITA improved by 15% Cash inflow 17m 59m completed 1 over 2004 Number of employees 12,000 13,900 1 Integrated System Order book 5.9bn 7.0bn Continued good cash flow Technologies formed Saab stake reduced to 20.5% 4 2 Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA Atlas Elektronik sale agreed Revised Gripen International marketing arrangements 12% 9% with Saab 32 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Maritime Composite Training System MCTS BAE Systems has been awarded a contract to supply the Royal Navy with a new shore-based Warfare Operator Training capability to meet the needs of current in-service surface platforms and the Type 45 Ready for Training later this decade.
in the year included the French contract mine countermeasures system for the in Neuron, a European Unmanned Combat for the development and production of Dutch and Belgian navies.
Export orders Air Vehicle demonstrator project was over 2,000 of the new Mistral RMV air for DM2A4 contributed to good order effectively confirmed with the Swedish defence missiles for the new FREMM intake in the year.
government announcement of its multi-mission frigate programme for involvement in the programme.
which MBDA is the primary combat On 30 December, an agreement was system partner.
Two important export entered into for the disposal of Atlas In the same month, Saab signed a orders, including from India, for the Exocet Elektronik jointly to ThyssenKrupp and EADS provisional contract to supply airborne anti-ship weapon, were also achieved.
for a cash consideration of approximately surveillance systems to Pakistan, with a 145m.
In addition, pension and related value of approximately SEK5.5bn 400m.
MBDA has made good progress on the liabilities valued at 31 December 2005 of Important conditions do remain to be met multi-national Meteor and Aster-PAAMS 96m will remain with Atlas following the before the contract becomes effective and programmes.
In 2005, Atlas Elektronik contributed order intake should be recognised in 2006.
2 development milestones in the year sales of 216m and EBITA of 10m.
culminating in flight trials of the missile Saabs financial performance for 2005 on the Gripen and Rafale aircraft by the Completion of the sale, which is conditional was affected by difficulties on a contract upon regulatory clearances, is expected end of December.
Key firings were also for the supply of tactical mission systems successfully completed of the Aster 30 to take place in the first half of 2006. for 18 Swedish helicopters.
missile, an integral part of the PAAMS air defence system for the Royal Navys Underwater Systems Gripen International 50% new Type 45 destroyers, while the new The main production order for Sting Ray Gripen International has been responsible 180km-range Exocet Block 3 anti-ship Mod1, an autonomous  for the design and sale of the export variant weapon commenced qualification.
lightweight torpedo, is well underway.
of the Gripen new generation, multi-role The first torpedoes will enter service in combat aircraft.
The aircraft has been The acquisition of the German missile 2006.
In April 2005, the Company secured ordered by South African, Hungarian and company, LFK, was agreed at the end of an extension to the existing support Czech Republic air forces.
The first of the 2005 and the process to obtain regulatory arrangements for the Spearfish torpedo aircraft for South Africa flew in November, approval is currently in progress.
in a contract worth 58m over three years.
Deliveries of Gripen combat aircraft to the Czech Republic Atlas Elektronik Securing a UK MoD agreement for the continued as part of a leasing arrangement, Atlas Elektronik, the Bremen-based naval upgrade of the Spearfish heavyweight with final aircraft deliveries completed in systems business, had a year of good torpedo will be an important feature in August 2005.
Hungary has also ordered 14 progress with the completion of trials for determining the future shape of the business.
Gripen with deliveries commencing in 2006. the COSYS Malaysia system.
Important Both these countries will be the first Gripen Saab 20.5% progress has also been made towards operators within NATO.
The UK Empire Test completing the development of the DM2A4 2005 has seen a number of important Pilots School is also operating Gripen as heavyweight torpedo and in successfully developments in the Saab business.
an advanced fast jet training platform for concluding the NATO trials for the IMCMS In October, the companys participation test pilots worldwide.
1 Looking forward including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of The Integrated Systems & Partnerships businesses are expected to face intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital continued budget pressures in their principal domestic and export markets.
expenditure net and financial investment, The substantial order books and strong positions of the businesses in their and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 respective market sectors are expected to sustain activity over the near term.
before elimination of intra-group sales 5 as restated under International Financial With a number of development programmes maturing, the MBDA business is Reporting Standards expected to progress to a higher proportion of production activity going forward.
6 Command, Control, Communications and Computing, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Realignment of the business portfolio continues with the completion of the sale of Atlas Elektronik anticipated in the first half of 2006.
