Operating and financial review Group strategic objectives Increase UK US industrial technology sharing F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF BAE Systems JSF involvement includes delivering the System Development and Demonstration SDD phase of the programme involving airframe assemblies and mission systems.
The aft fuselage and empennage for each aircraft are being designed, engineered and built at the BAE Systems Samlesbury site in the UK.
The JSF will set new standards for assembly precision and pace.
Innovative precision machining techniques help ensure that the JSF meets its stealth requirement.
Accuracy is achieved through digital design and manufacturing controls pioneered by BAE Systems.
The US and the UK have a long The UK governments Defence Industrial BAE Systems therefore fully supports the history of defence industrial Strategy, published on 15 December 2005, UK governments efforts to establish a cooperation that has provided made clear the importance of transatlantic technology sharing agreement with the significant benefits to both defence industrial cooperation in enabling US government that will enable government countries.
BAE Systems has itself both UK and US Armed Forces to acquire and industry on both sides of the Atlantic played an important role in that more effective military capabilities, at better to work more effectively together both to transatlantic cooperation and value for money, than would otherwise be enhance interoperability and to facilitate continues to do so, most notably in the case, and to cooperate together in the delivery of systems that our respective the M777 howitzer and F-35 Joint pursuit of common security objectives.
It went on to say It is in the interest of both governments and of both industries For BAE Systems an improved technology to improve the current situation.
sharing environment would enable our engineers and scientists in the US and the Notwithstanding the strong tradition of UK to collaborate more effectively, and bring cooperation, the constraints imposed by together their collective skills and expertise the current US export control regulations to the benefit of our two major customers, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations the UK and US governments, as well as to act as a disincentive to maximising the our shareholders.
While it is self-evident that the movement of sensitive information and technology has generally to be controlled, in todays environment of coalition operations it would be to the advantage of both governments and defence industries to allow and, indeed, to encourage freer technology sharing between the UK and the US.
