Directors report The directors of BAE Systems plc present Office of Fair Trading undertakings Within this policy framework the treasury their report, together with the accounts, As a consequence of the merger between departments principal responsibilities are: for the year ended 31 December 2005.
British Aerospace and the former GECto manage the Groups core funding Marconi Electronics Systems businesses and liquidity: Principal activities in 1999, the Company is required to comply to manage exposure to interest BAE Systems is a group engaged, through with undertakings given to the Secretary rate movements: its wholly owned subsidiaries and equity of State for Trade and Industry.
Compliance to manage exposure to foreign accounted investments, in the development, with the undertakings is monitored by an currency movements: delivery and support of advanced defence independent compliance officer.
Further to control and monitor bank credit risk and aerospace systems in the air, on land, information regarding the undertakings and and credit capacity utilisation: and at sea and in space.
The Company designs, the contact details of the compliance officer to manage the Groups relationship manufactures and supports military aircraft, may be obtained through the Company with debt capital market investors, surface ships, submarines, combat Secretary at the Companys registered office.
vehicles, radar, avionics, communications, Corporate governance electronics and guided weapon systems.
The treasury department transacts with Further details of the principal activities of Disclosures on the application of the an extensive range of counterparty the Company and likely future developments principles and compliance with the banks and financial institutions, and in the business are set out in the operating provisions of the UKs Combined Code adopts a systematic approach to the and financial review on pages 2 to 41. can be found on pages 48 to 56. control and monitoring of counterparty credit risk.
A credit limit is allocated to Research and development Treasury policy each counterparty with reference to its The Company is engaged in a significant The Groups treasury activities are overseen relevant credit rating.
For internal credit programme of research and development by the Treasury Review Management risk purposes, all transactions are markedin support of the platforms, systems and Committee TRMC.
Three executive to-market and the resultant exposure is services that it provides to its customers.
directors are members of the TRMC, allocated against the credit limit.
The programme covers a wide range of work including the Group Finance Director and includes performance innovations, who chairs the committee.
The TRMC The Company, through its internal audit improvements to manufacturing techniques, also has representatives with legal and department, monitors compliance against and technology to improve the through-life taxation expertise.
the principal policies and guidelines support of products.
A particular priority is including the utilisation of credit and research and development into systems The Group operates a centralised treasury any exceptions found are reported to the integrating both platforms and other department that is accountable to the TRMC.
Further disclosure on financial systems and also the horizontal integration TRMC for managing treasury activities instruments is set out on in note 32 to of systems.
The development and in accordance with the framework of the Group accounts.
demonstration of capabilities in networked treasury policies and guidelines approved systems, and enabling interoperability, is by the Board.
An overriding policy is that Supplier payment policy an important area of focus in both the UK trading in financial instruments for the It is Group policy that each business unit and US.
Long-term research is undertaken purpose of profit generation is prohibited, is in compliance with local best practice through partnerships with the academic with all financial instruments being used in the country of operation in respect of sector and in the Companys Advanced solely for risk management purposes.
Agreed payment Technology Centre and Systems Engineering Other key policies are: schedules are maintained provided that Innovation Centre.
Application of this to maintain a balance between continuity the supplier complies with all relevant research is managed by the Companys of funding and flexibility through the use terms and conditions.
It is Group policy business units through business focused of borrowings with a range of maturities, that changes to the agreed payment research and development programmes.
currencies and fixed floating rates of schedule are only made with the prior Customers fund directly much of the near interest reflecting the Group risk profile: agreement of the supplier.
term product development work undertaken to maintain adequate undrawn committed by the Company.
Note 4 to the Group borrowing facilities: The average number of days credit accounts details the amounts spent on to mitigate the exposure to interest rate provided in 2005 by suppliers was 38 days research and development in 2005. fluctuations on borrowings and deposits 2004 39 days.
by utilising interest rate swaps, interest rate options and forward rate agreements: and to hedge all material firm transactional exposures as well as to manage anticipated economic cash flows over the medium term.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 75 Directors report continued Employment Share capital Lord Hesketh retired as a director at the The Group has a programme in place to As at 22 February 2006, the Company conclusion of the AGM held on 4 May 2005. assist employees to achieve their full had been advised of the following potential and to develop the skills necessary significant interests in the issued Peter Weinberg was appointed as a to meet the current and future expectations ordinary share capital of the Company: director of the Company on 16 June 2005. of our customers.
The programme focuses Phil Carroll and Roberto Quarta were FMR Corp and on both personal and technological appointed as directors of the Company Fidelity International Limited: 7.1% development.
All employment policies on 7 September 2005.
Franklin Resources, Inc include a commitment to equal opportunities and its affiliates: 5.9921% regardless of sex, race, colour, nationality, Beneficial and non-beneficial interests, Legal and General ethnic origin, religion, age or disability, including family interests, in the share Investment Management Limited: 3.7% subject only to considerations of national capital of the Company for those persons security.
The Companys policy is to who were directors at the end of the The Companys Articles of Association provide, wherever possible, employment financial year are detailed on page 68.
There contain provisions to the effect that no opportunities for disabled people and to have been no changes in such interests in foreign person, or foreign persons acting ensure that disabled people joining the the period from the year end to 22 February in concert, can have an interest in more Company and employees who become 2006 except as declared on page 68. than 15% of the Companys issued ordinary disabled whilst in our employment benefit share capital.
from training and career development The Board is not aware of any contract of opportunities.
The Company has put significance other than service contracts or At the Annual General Meeting AGM held into place a number of ways of consulting as disclosed in the remuneration report on 4 May 2005 the Company was given with employees and providing them in relation to the Company or its authority to purchase up to 321,041,924 with information on the performance subsidiaries in which any director has, of its ordinary shares.
The authority will of the Company and other matters that or has had, any material interest.
The effectiveness of the no ordinary shares have been purchased communication process is assessed Directors indemnities by the Company during the period from regularly with the aim of ensuring continual The Company has entered into deeds of 4 May 2005 to the date of this report, improvement so as to provide employees indemnity with all its current directors, which a special resolution will be put to with the information they want by the most are qualifying third party indemnity provisions shareholders at this years AGM to renew effective means.
for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985. the authority to make market purchases A similar indemnity has been provided to of the Companys shares up to a maximum Employees are actively encouraged to Sir Richard Evans, a former director who of 10% of the share capital of the Company.
become shareholders in the Company retired from the Board on 30 June 2004 by way of employee share schemes.
but remains an employee of the Company Results and dividends in a part-time customer relationship role.
Profit for the year was 555m 2004 3m.
Honours The directors propose a final dividend of Annual General Meeting In the UK, the following individuals were 6.3p per ordinary share, amounting to honoured in Her Majesty the Queens 2005 The Companys Annual General Meeting 203m 2004 178m, which together Birthday Honours and 2006 New Year will be held on 4 May 2006.
The Notice with the interim dividend, amounts to a Honours lists: of Annual General Meeting is enclosed total annual dividend of 10.3p per with this annual report and details the ordinary share 2004 9.5p.
OBE: Alison Wood resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Dick Wise These include a special resolution for the Charitable donations Alastair McInnes disapplication of pre-emption rights During 2005, the amount donated for pursuant to section 89 of the Companies charitable purposes in the UK was 1.2m MBE: Dr David Ashcroft Act 1985.
Further details of the Companys charitable activities are Steven John McNair Auditors set out on page 45.
KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the Company, have indicated their willingness to Political donations continue in office and a resolution proposing No political donations were made in 2005. their re-appointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Directors The names of the current directors are listed By order of the Board on pages 46 to 47.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 57 to 74.
David Parkes Company Secretary 22 February 2006 76 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 CONTENTS Index to the accounts 78 Independent auditors report 79 Consolidated income statement 80 Consolidated balance sheet 81 Consolidated cash flow statement 82 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 83 Notes to the group accounts 84 Company balance sheet 146 Notes to the company accounts 147 Five year summary 158 Shareholder information 160 Glossary 162 Shareholder feedback 163 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 77
