Directors report Activities to communicate a full understanding of the objectives and performance of the The Chairmans statement and Chief Executives review on pages 12 to 17, the Group and the opportunities and challenges facing it: Operating review on pages 22 to 31 and the Financial review on pages 34 to 37, to provide pay and other benets which reect good local practices and reward report on the principal activities of the Group, its operations during 2005 and future individual and collective performance: and developments in its businesses.
to ensure that all applicants and employees receive equal treatment regardless Dividends of origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, religion or belief.
The Directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary shares of 4.6p net Individual businesses use a variety of methods to communicate key business goals per share, making, with the interim dividend of 3.5p, a total dividend for 2005 of and issues to employees and also consult and involve their employees through 8.1p net.
Preference dividends totalling 10.75p gross per preference share have local publications, brieng groups, consultative meetings, training programmes and been paid for 2005. working groups to assist the process of continuous improvement in the way they operate and do business.
Regular publications inform employees of major business Directors interests and technical achievements.
Most of our UK based businesses have either attained No Director had any material interest in any contract of signicance with the Group or have committed to attain the UK Investors in People standard.
during the period under review.
The interests of Directors in the share capital of the Regular communication is maintained with the in-service and pensioner Company and its subsidiary undertakings and their interests under the long-term members of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund.
incentive scheme the Performance Share Plan 2001, and in respect of options, are set out in the tables in the Remuneration report beginning on page 44.
Donations The Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors in the terms set out in During 2005 the Group has both facilitated the raising of funds for charity and Article 155 of the Companys Articles.
provided donations in cash and kind to charitable organisations, to a total aggregate sum of approximately 265,000.
This sum had three main components.
First, the Groups regular efforts have been directed at three main charities: Share capital and major shareholders Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2005 are set out in Groundwork, which carries out urban regeneration projects, Marie Curie, the cancer Note 27 on pages 85 and 86.
During the year to 31 December 2005 no ordinary charity, and the Construction Industry Trust for Youth now renamed Construction Youth Trust, which is active in seeking to support young people in acquiring basic shares were repurchased for cancellation and 6,837,500 preference shares representing 5% of the preference share capital were repurchased for skills through the medium of the construction industry.
A total of 20,000 was contributed to Groundwork for two specic regeneration projects, one in cancellation for a total consideration of 10,722,218 at an average price of 156.8p.
1,814,611 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of options held under Manchester and one in Shefeld.
For Marie Curie, employees raised 65,000 the Companys Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and 1,442,708 ordinary through a variety of fund raising activities to which the Company added a further 15,000, making a total of 80,000.
5,000 was contributed to Construction shares were issued following the exercise of options held under the Companys Executive Share Option Schemes.
No other shares were issued during the year.
Secondly, the Group has provided material assistance in kind, to an estimated At 31 December 2005, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders resolutions of 12 May 2005, to purchase through the market 42,397,267 ordinary value of 50,000, for the charitable organisation Engineers Against Poverty, which shares and 19,004,566 preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions.
carries out small engineering projects in developing countries.
Finally, and as mentioned in the 2004 Annual Report, the Group provided This authority expires at the conclusion of the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
considerable assistance both in practical terms and approximately 110,000 in cash As at 7 March 2006, the Company had been notied in accordance with Sections for the relief of those affected by the earthquake and tidal wave on 26 December 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 of the following interests in its ordinary 2004.
This help has been channelled through the Groups long established joint share capital: venture company in Indonesia and subsidiary company in Sri Lanka.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 5.01% The Group continues to enable UK employees to donate through the Give-as-you-Earn scheme to various charities of their choice.
HBOS plc 4.01% Prudential plc includes the interest of Taxation status The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 3.49% The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited included in the interest of Prudential plc above 3.47% Post balance sheet events Legal and General Group plc 3.02% Details of post balance sheet events are set out in Note 34 on page 92.
Corporate Social Responsibility Research and development The Group continues to be committed to investment in research and development Safety, Environment and Social Report in all its areas of activity.
This covers new products and processes and innovation For the fifth year we are publishing a separate Safety, Environment and Social in areas such as information technology and asset management systems.
A copy will be available to shareholders attending the Annual General We continue to undertake a range of development initiatives throughout our Meeting and to preference shareholders attending the separate class meeting.
businesses which are supported by links with selected universities.
Details of the Groups 2005 research and development expenditure are given Group policies Our published policies on Health & Safety, the Environment, Ethics and Human in Note 4.1 on page 63.
Rights remain in place and are subject to regular reviews.
Our progress in the areas of Health & Safety and the Environment is described in the Safety, Environment Political donations and Social Report.
Under the current law, shareholder authority is required for political donations to be made or political expenditure to be incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries Employment in the EU.
In common with previous years, no such donations or expenditure As the Group operates across a number of business sectors in different were made or incurred in 2005, and there is no intention to do so in the future.
environments it has a decentralised management structure, with employment Because, however, the current law is so widely drafted, it remains unclear whether, policies designed to suit the needs of individual businesses.
However, each for example, granting paid time off for local government or trade union activity employing company is expected to comply with certain key principles in its design could be regarded as political expenditure.
It is for this reason, given the penalties and practice of employment policy.
for breaching the law, that the Company has sought, and will continue to seek, These are: limited authority from shareholders to incur political expenditure in the EU.
In 2005, the Companys Georgia USbased Heery subsidiary made to provide an open, challenging and participative environment: contributions in the US in accordance with state law amounting in aggregate to to enable all employees to utilise their talents and skills to the full, through $10,500 to state political party committees and to campaign committees of various state candidates afliated with the major parties.
The amount and destination of appropriate encouragement, training and development: Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 40 the contributions were decided by US nationals in Heery and the funds in question Corporate governance and the Combined Code have not been and will not be reimbursed by any non-US entity or person.
Overview The Board continues to endorse and apply the principles of good corporate Payment of creditors governance reected in the Combined Code the Code, as appended to the In the UK, the Companys policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
when agreeing the terms for each transaction or series of transactions: to seek to The governance of the Company in the light of the principles and supporting ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and to abide by these principles and provisions of the Code is described in the following paragraphs.
terms of payment as and when satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005 and save as otherwise explained or services in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 31 December 2005 the year in the paragraph headed Compliance with Code on page 43, we believe that the end creditors days of the Company were 21 2004: 19.
Company was in compliance with the provisions of the Code.
Financial instruments Honorary President The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are described in the Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company, having been appointed to this position in May 2003, following his retirement as Chairman.
Financial Review on pages 36 and 37, and its exposures to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash ow risk are included in Note 20 on page 74.
The Board The Board currently comprises 10 Directors, of whom six, including the Chairman, Statement of Directors responsibilities are non-executive.
During most of 2005, the Board comprised 12 Directors, The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the with five executive Directors and seven non-executive Directors.
Steven Marshall Independent Auditors report on page 51, is made with a view to distinguishing for was appointed a non-executive Director on 1 November 2005.
At the end of 2005, shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in Richard Delbridge and Sir David Wright retired as non-executive Directors and relation to the financial statements.
Alistair Wivell retired as an executive Director.
The Directors believe that the Board The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group continues to include an appropriate balance of skills and, with them, the ability to in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have provide effective leadership for the Group.
also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with The Chairman of the Board is Sir David John, and the Chief Executive is IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in Ian Tyler.
Robert Walvis, who was appointed a non-executive Director in 2001 accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International continues as senior independent Director.
The chairman of the Audit Committee Accounting Standard IAS regulation.
is Steven Marshall, who succeeded Richard Delbridge in that role on 1 January IAS 1 requires that financial statements present the Companys and the 2006.
Sir David John continues as chairman of the Nomination Committee and Groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows fairly ie.
give a Robert Walvis as chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir David John also true and fair view for each financial year.
This requires the faithful representation chairs the Business Practices Committee.
of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the The Board operates both formally, through Board and Board Committee denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set meetings, and informally through regular contact between Directors as required.
out in the IAS Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of Financial Decisions on a list of specic matters, including the approval of financial Statements.
In nearly all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by statements, major tenders and capital expenditure, and most acquisitions and compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: disposals, are reserved to the Board or Board Committees.
Matters falling outside the list are delegated to management.
properly select and apply accounting policies: Meetings of the Board are normally held in London, but meetings are on present information, including accounting policies, in a manner which provides occasions held in other parts of the UK and overseas to enable Directors to visit relevant, reliable, comparable and comprehensible information: and the Groups businesses at the same time.
In 2005, the July meeting was held at Terminal 5 Heathrow, where BAA kindly acted as host and Directors were able provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements to see the project, in which a number of Group companies are involved, at first in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular hand.
The November meeting was held in Dallas, Texas, where the Directors transactions, other events and conditions on the Companys and the Groups were able to view with US management certain construction projects being carried financial position and financial performance.
out by the Groups US business.
The Directors consider that they have met these requirements in preparing these Papers for Board meetings are generally sent out at least three days in financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting advance of the meeting.
These include a written report from each of the Chief records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Executive, the Finance Director, the director of Health, Safety and the Environment, of the Company and the Group, and are reasonably directed at safeguarding the and the group managing directors.
At Board meetings, oral reports are made on assets and detecting and preventing fraud and other irregularities.
Directors are issues arising from the written reports, and both those and other matters of also responsible for the preparation of a Directors report and a Remuneration immediate interest or concern are discussed by the Board.
Apart from the Board report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. meetings that approve the interim and final results respectively, and the Board meeting prior to the Annual General Meeting AGM, a separate presentation Auditors on a topic of interest or concern, such as the operations of a particular business, Deloitte & Touche LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as auditors to is normally made to the Board.
Each meeting lasts about four hours, but can the Company and a resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the be longer.
The Board met on 10 occasions in the course of 2005.
A table showing attendance at these meetings and at meetings of the Audit Committee, the Annual General Meeting Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Business Practices Sir David John, who chairs the Nomination and Business Practices Committees, Committee, is on page 43.
In addition, the non-executive Directors held two Steven Marshall, who chairs the Audit Committee, and Robert Walvis, who chairs separate meetings during the year, one being attended by the Chairman and one the Remuneration Committee, will be available at the Annual General Meeting to taking place without the Chairman.
answer any questions arising from the work of these Committees.
The Board Chairman regards the Annual General Meeting as an important occasion on which to Sir David John became Chairman in May 2003, having joined the Board in August communicate with shareholders, and research into subjects of likely interest to 2000.
Normally, Sir David spends two days per week on the business of the shareholders is undertaken so that questions can be answered during the meeting Company.
He has other significant commitments as non-executive chairman of The for the benefit of all shareholders present.
Shareholders may also put questions in BSI Group and of Premier Oil plc.
The Board considers that his other commitments advance of the Annual General Meeting by writing to the Company Secretary.
are not of such a nature as to hinder his activities as chairman of the Company The business to be put to the Annual General Meeting is set out in the separate or those as chairman of the Nomination and Business Practices Committees.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 41 Directors report continued Directors meeting was also held during the year to review and recommend to the Board the Brief biographical details of the Directors, including the Chairman, are given on announcement which was made on 23 June concerning the impact on Group pages 38 and 39.
All the Directors shown served throughout the year save for financial statements of the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS.
At the invitation of Steven Marshall who was appointed on 1 November.
In addition, Richard the Committee, partners from the external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit, the Delbridge, Alistair Wivell and Sir David Wright, who are not pictured, served as Finance Director and the Chairman regularly attend each meeting.
In addition, any Directors throughout the year.
Alistair Wivell retired on 31 December having joined independent non-executive Director who is not a member has an open invitation the Company as a young engineer in 1966.
Richard Delbridge joined the Board in to attend meetings.
2002 and Sir David Wright at the beginning of 2003 and both also retired on In 2005, as in previous years, the Committee met prior to the Board meetings 31 December.
The Board considers that all the non-executive Directors continue to at which the interim financial statements and the annual report and accounts were be independent.
The Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, financial From September 2003, non-executive Directors have been appointed for reporting issues and judgements and, in conducting these reviews, considered specic three year terms, and it is part of the terms of reference of the Nomination reports from the external auditor, finance management and internal audit.
Committee to review all appointments of non-executive Directors at three year Throughout 2005 the Committee continued to review the Groups risk intervals and make recommendations to the Board accordingly.
Mr Walviss management processes, and to consider findings from the internal audit reviews of appointment was reviewed during 2005 and his appointment for a further internal controls and reports on the status of the correction of any weaknesses in three years was confirmed, subject to re-election as required by the internal controls identied by the internal or external auditors.
During the year the Articles of Association.
Committee reviewed the external auditors Group management letters on accounting procedures and the systems of internal financial control.
Rotation of Directors, election and re-election It considered the effectiveness of the external audit process, the audit The Articles of Association of the Company provide that each Director shall retire strategy and plan and the qualications, expertise and resources of the external from ofce in the third year following his last election, and shall be eligible for auditor, Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte.
It reviewed and approved the proposed re-election.
This year, the Directors who retire are Ian Tyler and Peter Zinkin.
audit fee and terms of engagement for the 2005 audit and recommended to the Each is seeking re-election, being eligible.
In addition, Steven Marshall, who Board that it propose to shareholders that Deloitte continues as the Companys was appointed on 1 November 2005, seeks election.
It reviewed the independence procedures of Deloitte and received a letter Board Committees The main Board Committees, the membership of which is either wholly or from Deloitte conrming that, in their opinion, they remained independent of the substantially comprised of non-executive Directors, continue to be the Audit Company.
Non-audit work remains covered by the policy on non-audit work which was approved by the Board in June 2003.
The policy was briey described in our Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Business Practices Committee.
last Annual Report on page 42, and remains unchanged from last year.
An analysis of non-audit fees incurred in 2005 is set out in Note 4.2 on page 63.
Reports on the workings of these Committees are set out below.
The report of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration Report beginning Finally, the Committee continued to receive regular reports on the work of the on page 44. internal audit function and reviewed the effectiveness of the department during the year.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit Committee chairman The Audit Committee and at each of the four main Committee meetings during the year, the Committee The membership of this Committee currently comprises Steven Marshall the held a separate meeting with each of the Head of Internal Audit, the Finance Committee chairman, Chalmers Carr, Christoph von Rohr and Gordon Sage.
Christopher Pearson, the Company Secretary, remains secretary of the Committee.
The Committee was chaired throughout 2005 by Richard Delbridge, who retired The Nomination Committee The Committee was established by the Board in November 2003.
Its terms of at the end of the year.
Sir David Wright, who retired at the same time as Richard Delbridge, also served on the Committee throughout the year.
reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committee continues to be chaired by Sir David John.
Its other members Steven Marshall joined the Committee on 1 November 2005, and took over as chairman on 1 January 2006.
All of the members have extensive experience of currently are Gordon Sage, Robert Walvis, Ian Tyler and Steven Marshall.
The management in large international organisations.
The Committee chairman, secretary of the Committee is Paul Raby, director of human resources.
Sir David Wright served on the Committee throughout the year until his retirement from the Board.
Steven Marshall, is an accountant and a former group finance director of Thorn plc and Railtrack plc.
The Committee met on two occasions in 2005, rstly to consider the terms of reference for the identication of a new non-executive Director, secondly to The terms of reference for the Committee, based on the Smith report and the requirements of the Code, were approved by the Board in October 2003 and remain consider candidates for the position of non-executive Director, and then to unchanged.
They are available on the Companys website.
The main responsibilities recommend to the Board, the appointment of Steven Marshall as a non-executive Director of the Company.
The candidates, including Mr Marshall, were interviewed of the Audit Committee are as stated in last years report: to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to initially and put forward by an external recruitment rm experienced in seeking candidates for non-executive positions.
the Groups financial performance: to review the Groups internal financial controls established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial risks, and receive The Remuneration Committee reports from management on the effectiveness of the systems they have Information about the working and membership of this Committee is contained in established and the conclusions of any testing carried out by the internal and the Remuneration report beginning on page 44. external auditors: to monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of The Business Practices Committee the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of The Business Practices Committee is chaired by Sir David John, and throughout the the external auditor: to assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of year its other members were Chalmers Carr, Christoph von Rohr, Gordon Sage, the external auditor and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the Robert Walvis and Sir David Wright.
Christopher Pearson, the Company Secretary, external auditor to supply non-audit services: and to review arrangements by which is secretary to the Committee.
Its terms of reference cover matters of business staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of conduct, ethics, reputation, health, safety and the environment and matters of financial reporting.
It is also charged with reviewing the Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board for a period of up to effectiveness of the whistle-blowing procedures established in the Group.
three years, extendable by no more than two additional three year periods, so long The Committee met four times in 2005.
Among matters considered by the as members continue to be independent.
Any additional remuneration of members Committee in 2005 were: the final draft of the Safety, Environmental and Social of the Committee is set by the executive Directors and the Chairman.
At the Board report published in May, health & safety statistics from around the Group, reports meeting following each meeting of the Committee, the Committee chairman from the charities committee, the introduction of an expanded ethical framework provides an oral report on the work of the Committee and any significant issues for the Group and the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
The minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all Details of the number of meetings of, and attendances at, the Board and members of the Board.
the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Business Practices Committees during In May 2003 it was decided to increase the number of regular meetings each the year are set out in the table following.
The relevant total number of meetings year from three to four, and four principal meetings were held in 2005.
A fifth held in 2005 in each case is included in brackets after the name of the Board or Committee.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 42 Business Business Practices Committee, including: Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Practices Name of Director 10 5 2 7 4 results of internal audits reviews of internal financial controls: C Carr 9 5 7 4 a Group-wide certication that effective internal controls had been maintained, J L Cohen 9 or, where any significant non-compliance or breakdown had occurred with or R Delbridge 10 5 7 without loss, the status of corrective action: and Sir David John 9 2 1 4 a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent and mitigation of S Marshall 2 1 1 1 significant risks and on the systems of internal controls.
A L P Rabin 10 The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that the Groups exposure Dr H C von Rohr 10 3 6 3 to significant risk is properly managed, but the Board recognises that any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to G H Sage 9 4 2 3 achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute I P Tyler 10 2 assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all the material R J W Walvis 10 1 6 3 joint ventures in which the Group is involved are treated, for these purposes, as A J Wivell 10 part of the Group.
Where they are not, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the parties to the venture.
Sir David Wright 9 2 2 2 Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes and P J L Zinkin 9 framework for risk management.
These accord with the Turnbull Guidance on internal controls and were in place throughout the year and up to the date of Resigned from Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 February 2005. signing this report.
The Groups systems of internal control operate through a number of different Board, Committee and individual director evaluation processes, some of which are interlinked.
These include: The Boards responsibilities are listed in a schedule of matters reserved for its the annual review of the strategy and plans of each operating company and of attention.
These were reviewed and updated during the year.
the Group as a whole in order to identify, inter alia, the risks to the Groups As reported in last years report, the Board as a whole and its main achievement of its overall objectives and, where appropriate, any relevant Committees were the subject of an evaluation exercise carried out in 2004 by an mitigating actions: external consultant.
The actions agreed which arose from the report have been implemented through 2005, and the process continues.
monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results and No further evaluation exercise has been carried out in 2005.
In particular, and forecasts by executive Directors and line management, including particular areas as reported last year, individual evaluation is seen as the second stage in the of business or project risk.
This is used to update both managements process, and most likely to be of benefit when the Directors have had more time to understanding of the environment in which the Group operates and the methods work together as a board.
Given the four board changes towards the end of 2005, used to mitigate and control the risks identied: any individual evaluation is unlikely to be carried out in 2006 but will be considered individual tender and project review procedures commencing at operating for 2007, as part of another full board evaluation exercise.
company level and progressing to Board Committee level if value or perceived Dialogue with shareholders exposure breaches certain thresholds: The Company has a long-established programme of regular communication with regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety and environmental institutional investors and brokers and this continues.
Presentations are made matters: to brokers analysts, the press and institutional investors at the time of the announcement of final and half-year results and there are regular meetings with the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and capital analysts and investors throughout the year, which are organised through the expenditure through the Boards Committees and the Board itself: Companys brokers, so that the investment community can be kept informed of the review of specic material areas of Group-wide risk and the formulation and longer term strategic matters and can communicate their views to the Board.
monitoring of risk mitigating actions: We expect to continue this programme, within the constraints of relevant legislation and practice.
The Groups website is a regular channel of communication the formulation and review of properly documented policies and procedures, with shareholders and others.
updated through the free and regular ow of information to address the changing Regular reports are made by executive Directors to the Board on meetings risks of the business: and other contact with major shareholders or their representatives.
The Chairman specic policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, covering the financial on occasion attends meetings with shareholders.
The non-executive Directors management of the Group, including arrangements with the Groups bankers and believe that, by having direct and ready access to the Chairman at all times, bond providers, controls on foreign exchange dealings and management of through the senior independent Director and by reports given at Board meetings, currency and interest rate exposures, insurance, capital expenditure procedures, they are kept fully aware of the views of the larger shareholders and the wider investment community.
It is open to them or any of them to attend or arrange application of accounting policies and financial controls: meetings with investors if they wish to do so.
a Group-wide risk management framework which is applied to all functions in the Group, whether operational, financial or support.
Under it, the key risks Compliance with Code facing each part of the Group are regularly reviewed and assessed, together The Company believes it is compliant with the Code save in the following respects: with the steps to avoid or mitigate those risks.
The results of those reviews a The effectiveness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures is reviewed by the are placed on risk registers and, where necessary, specic action plans Business Practices Committee, and not the Audit Committee.
This is because, are developed: based on experience, the great majority of whistle-blowing type complaints reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business financial arise out of non-financial matters, mainly employment-related.
The Audit processes and controls and spot checks in areas of perceived high business risk: Committee is copied with all whistle-blowing reports made to the Business and Practices Committee.
b An individual director evaluation exercise has not yet been carried out, as the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
Directors report Risk management Signed by order of the Board The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and reviews their effectiveness.
The Board has continued to C R ON Pearson assess the effectiveness of the risk management processes and internal controls Secretary during 2005, based on reports made to the Board, the Audit Committee and the 7 March 2006 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 43
