Board of Directors Right: Sir David John KCMG Chairman Sir David John Non-executive Director Middle row, left to right: Age 67 Ian Tyler: Anthony Rabin Appointed a Director in 2000 and became Chairman Bottom row, left to right: Jim Cohen: Peter Zinkin in 2003.
He is chairman of Premier Oil Group and The BSI Group, and immediate past chairman of The BOC Group.
Formerly a director of Inchcape plc, he is a member of CBI International Advisory Board, and a governor of the School of Oriental and African Studies.
Ian Tyler Chief Executive Age 45 A chartered accountant.
A Director since 1999, he became Chief Executive on 1 January 2005, having been Chief Operating Officer since 2002 and prior to that, Finance Director.
He joined Balfour Beatty in 1996 from the Hanson Group where he was finance director of ARC Ltd, one of its principal subsidiaries.
Anthony Rabin Finance Director Age 50 A chartered accountant and a barrister.
A Director since 2002, he is also responsible for the Groups Investments and Developments interests, having previously been managing director of Balfour Beatty Capital Projects.
Prior to joining Balfour Beatty, Mr Rabin was a partner at Coopers and Lybrand and before that, a senior assistant director at Morgan Grenfell.
Jim Cohen Managing Director, Rail Engineering and Services Age 64 An economist.
A Director since 2000 having joined the Group in 1993.
Prior to joining Balfour Beatty, he held senior management positions with GTE and GEC and prior to those, he was a senior civil servant at the Department of Energy.
He is senior independent non-executive director of office2office plc, the office solutions and supplies group.
Peter Zinkin Planning and Development Director Age 52 Joined the Group in 1981 and became Planning and Development Director in 1991 after a series of senior positions in the finance function.
Previously, he worked at the London Business School and UMIST.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 38 Right: Chalmers Carr Non-executive Director Chalmers Carr Age 68 Middle row, left to right: Appointed a Director in 2003.
He is a solicitor Steven Marshall: Gordon Sage who is a legal adviser to Standard Chartered plc, Bottom row, left to right: Hans Christoph von Rohr: Robert Walvis having previously been general manager and group legal adviser to HSBC Holdings plc for eight years.
His career experience also includes senior legal and other management positions with Coutts & Co, the Central Electricity Generating Board, Bridon plc and GKN plc.
Steven Marshall Non-executive Director Age 49 Appointed a Director in November 2005.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
He was executive chairman of Queens Moat Houses plc until November 2004, having been chief executive of Railtrack Group plc, and prior to that group finance director, between 1999 and 2002.
Previously, he was group chief executive of Thorn plc, having joined as finance director in 1995.
He is currently non-executive chairman of Delta plc and also a non-executive director of Southern Water.
Gordon Sage Non-executive Director Age 59 Appointed a Director in 2003.
A chemical engineer, he is deputy chairman of ERM Holdings Ltd, the environmental services consultancy, and a non-executive director of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc.
Between 1970 and 2001 he held a series of increasingly senior positions in Rio Tinto plc, finally as executive director responsible for its industrial minerals and diamonds businesses.
Hans Christoph von Rohr Non-executive Director Age 67 Appointed a Director in 2003.
He is a partner of the international law firm TaylorWessing and a board member of several corporations.
He is also chairman of the German Institute for Market Economy and Competition.
Previously, he was chairman of the Industrial Investment Council and also chief executive officer of the German manufacturing group, Klckner-Werke AG.
Robert Walvis Non-executive Director Age 59 Appointed a Director in 2001.
Previously with the Shell Group, latterly as chairman of the Corporate Centre of the Royal Dutch Shell Group of Companies.
He is a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc.
He is the senior independent Director.
Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Business Practices Committee Robert Walvis Chair : Steven Marshall Chair : Sir David John Chair : Sir David John Chair : Chalmers Carr: Chalmers Carr: Gordon Sage: Ian Tyler: Chalmers Carr: Richard Delbridge: Christoph von Rohr: Robert Walvis: Sir David Wright: Christoph von Rohr: Christoph von Rohr: Gordon Sage: Sir David Wright: Steven Marshall Gordon Sage: Robert Walvis: Steven Marshall Richard Delbridge Sir David Wright From 1 November 2005 Retired 31 December 2005 Balfour Beatty plc From 1 January 2006 Annual report and accounts 2005 39
