Directors Report The directors submit their report and the accounts for the year ended 30th June 2005.
ACTIVITIES OF THE GROUP The Group's principal activity continues to be housebuilding and development.
A full review of the Group's performance and prospects can be found in the Chairman's Statement on pages 4 and 5, and in the Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 18.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit on ordinary activities after taxation for the year ended 30th June 2005 was 290.7m 2004 260.5m.
An interim dividend of 8.99p per share 2004 6.90p was paid on 20th May 2005 and it is proposed to pay a final dividend of 17.99p per share 2004 14.68p on 18th November 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21st October 2005.
The dividends paid and proposed to be paid amount to 63.9m 2004 51.4m.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the annual general meeting on page 23 contains three resolutions relating to the Companys share capital.
Resolution number 12 requests shareholder approval to renew for one year the directors' authority to allot unissued shares in the capital of the Company and Resolution number 13 requests shareholders to authorise the directors to allot shares for cash in the context of a rights issue and otherwise up to a limit equal to 5% of the issued share capital without initially offering such shares to existing shareholders.
The directors consider that the Company should maintain an adequate margin of unissued shares for use, for example, in connection with a future acquisition although they have no present intention of issuing any shares except to satisfy options under the Companys share option schemes.
Under Resolution number 14, the company is seeking renewal for a further year of its authority to make purchases in the market of its own ordinary shares subject to specified limits.
Purchases under this authority will only be made on the London Stock Exchange and will be funded from distributable profits.
Following implementation of new treasury shares legislation, any ordinary shares so purchased may either be cancelled or held by the company in treasury.
The company would consider whether to hold any ordinary shares that it purchases in treasury at the time of purchase.
Any ordinary shares held in treasury would be available for reissue including pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution number 13.
In seeking this authority, the Board is not indicating any commitment to buy back ordinary shares.
The Board will only exercise the authority if it considers that the purchases of ordinary shares can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The total number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding as at 28th September 2005 was 9,367,125 being 3.9% of the issued share capital at that date and representing 4.8% of the share capital which would be in issue if both the existing authority to purchase shares granted at the 2004 AGM and the authority being sought were fully utilised.
Under Resolution number 15, which will be proposed as a special resolution, the Company is seeking shareholder approval for the adoption by the Company of new Articles of Association.
As the Companys current Articles of Association the Current Articles were adopted in 1997, the Board has concluded that the time has come to amend and update the Current Articles in order to reflect the considerable number of changes to, among other things, company law and practice which have taken place since then.
Because the proposed amendments to the Current Articles are numerous, the Board has decided that the updating process will be best achieved by adopting an entirely new set of Articles of Association the New Articles.
The Circular to Shareholders dated 13th October 2005 explains more fully the material differences between the Current Articles and the proposed New Articles.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR SHAREHOLDINGS The current directors of the Company are listed on page 22.
Mr W Shannon was appointed a director on 1st September 2005.
All other directors listed on page 22 held office throughout the financial year.
The beneficial interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary share capital of the Company during the relevant year are shown below: Ordinary shares of 10p each 30th June 2005 1st July 2004 Fully Executive share Fully Executive share paid options paid options C G Toner 8,000 8,000 D A Pretty 100,325 551,759 91,235 620,000 H Walker 273,877 772,801 273,877 634,679 P H Ashworth 5,700 5,700 S J Boyes 65,238 336,018 45,238 370,917 R J Davies C A Dearlove 65,710 331,406 54,646 834,275 C Fenton 9,973 215,376 9,973 112,275 P R Gieron 96,089 344,734 86,999 629,633 G K Hester 61,264 344,734 56,264 349,633 A E Kilburn 4,000 4,000 M Pescod 10,000 10,000 25 Directors Report At 30th June 2005 the executive directors had a potential future interest in 4,414,640 ordinary shares which are held by the Barratt Developments PLC Employee Benefit Trust.
Details of movements in the directors interests in executive share options are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 34.
No notification had been received of any change in the above interests during the period 30th June 2005 to 28th September 2005.
Under the provisions of Article 87 of the Companys memorandum and articles of association, Mr C G Toner, Mr D A Pretty and Mr H Walker offer themselves for re-election.
Mr W Shannon retires in accordance with the provisions of Article 86 and offers himself for re-election.
Mr P H Ashworth will retire at the annual general meeting and will not seek re-election.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any director have a material interest in a contract of significance in relation to the business of the Group, other than the transactions detailed in note 26 to the accounts.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board believes that in terms of the overall direction and control of the Company effective corporate governance will come principally from the values, standards and disciplines it seeks to apply in dealings with shareholders, customers, staff, suppliers, contractors and other stakeholders.
Many of the Companys core values and standards are set out in a range of procedures and practice guidelines which are extensively communicated throughout the Group.
However, external governance codes set the framework for our internal standards and we therefore seek to comply with established best practice in all areas of corporate governance.
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
Statement of Compliance Throughout the year ended 30th June 2005 the Company complied with the provisions of the Code except in the following area.
Schedule A to the Code recommends that in general the annual bonus of executive directors should not be pensionable.
By virtue of long-standing contractual arrangements the pensionable salaries of Mr S J Boyes, Mr C A Dearlove, Mr P R Gieron and Mr H Walker included bonus.
As detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 41, with effect from 1st July 2005 the pensionable salaries of all directors, including the above named, will be based on basic salary only.
The Structure The Company is headed by the Group Board which, during the year, comprised the Chairman, four non-executive Directors and seven executive Directors.
During the year an additional non-executive Director, Mr W Shannon, was recruited and joined the Board with effect from 1st September 2005.
The Director biographies and details of service are set out on page 22.
The Board delegates management of the business to the Executive Board led by the Group Chief Executive.
The other members of the Executive Board are the Group Deputy Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Corporate Director and Company Secretary and the Regional Chairmen of our six operating Regions covering our 34 housebuilding divisions.
Each housebuilding division is headed by a Managing Director and a local management team which make up the divisional board, each of which is chaired by a Regional Chairman.
Each divisional board meets monthly to oversee local housebuilding operations and performance.
Although each division is run and monitored as a freestanding business, they each operate within clearly defined central parameters in relation to strategic direction and financial control.
This tried and tested structure enables the divisions to be responsive to local demand and market conditions, whilst at the same time benefiting from the disciplines, financial strength and economies of scale of a large national Group.
Decision Making The Group board is responsible to shareholders for the entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a framework of policy and decision making controls for the setting of Group strategy, assessing and managing risk and ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to enable strategic aims to be met.
The Board is also responsible for measuring and monitoring performance against key financial and operational indicators and for determining the Companys values and standards.
The Group Board has adopted a reserved list of matters and decisions which can only be approved by the Board and which is reviewed annually.
The list of reserved matters includes the formulation of strategy, the approval of budgets, business plans, dividends and financial statements and the approval of major capital investment and business acquisitions and disposals.
The list of reserved matters was last reviewed on 13th May, 2005.
26 Directors Report The Executive Board is responsible for implementing approved strategy and business plans and for monitoring operational and financial performance against agreed objectives and budgets.
The Executive Board also formulates budgets and capital expenditure proposals for approval by the Group Board and is responsible for the efficient day to day management of the business.
Defined levels of autonomy and responsibility are set for all senior management in relation to the approval of financial commitments and key risk areas such as land purchase, cash management, health and safety and environmental performance.
Board Meetings and Membership The Board met on seven occasions during the year, including one full day meeting set aside for a comprehensive review of Group business strategy.
Twice a year the Board meets in one of our divisional operating units setting aside time for site visits and the opportunity to meet with divisional management and local staff.
All Directors were in attendance at all meetings apart from the September meeting for which Mr R Davies gave his apologies.
The Code requires a balance of executive and non-executive Directors so that no individual or group can dominate the Boards decision taking.
The number and calibre of the non-executive Directors on the Board, together with their diverse backgrounds and experience, ensures that this principle is met.
The Board considers that numerical balance between executive and non-executive Directors in line with Code expectations should be achievable by the end of 2006 as a result of natural turnover.
The Board believes that the Chairman and all non-executive Directors, with the exception of Mr P H Ashworth, are wholly independent in that they have no business or other relationship with the Group that might influence their independence of judgement.
Mr Ashworth has an ongoing business relationship with the Company, details of which are disclosed on page 53.
Mr Ashworth is not a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and will stand down as a non-executive Director immediately following the Annual General Meeting on 17th November 2005.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board, Mr C G Toner, and the Chief Executive, Mr D A Pretty, is clearly defined and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
He is also responsible for organising the business of the Board, for setting its agenda and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of non-executive Directors and also ensures that the Board receives timely and accurate information so as properly to conduct its business as well as ensuring that communications with shareholders are effective.
The Group Chief Executive has direct charge of the Executive Directors and is responsible for the management of all Group operations and day to day activities.
It is the Group Chief Executives responsibility to formulate strategic options for consideration by the Board: to deliver the strategic objectives set by the Board and to ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control systems.
The Board has appointed Mr A E Kilburn as Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director has specific responsibility for co-ordinating the evaluation by the Nominations Committee of the Chairmans effectiveness as well as being a point of contact for shareholders in the event of there being any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Chief Executive have failed adequately to address.
The Group Company Secretary, a practising solicitor, attends all Board and Committee Meetings and all directors have access to his advice and, if necessary, to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Board Committees The Board has established three standing committees, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee, the functions of which are clearly specified within defined terms of reference and which are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference were last reviewed in December 2004 in line with the requirements of the Code.
The Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee comprised Mr M Pescod Chairman, Mr R J Davies and Mr A E Kilburn, all of whom are wholly independent non-executive Directors.
The Audit Committee met on five occasions throughout the year and all members were present at each meeting.
The Committee members are considered to possess recent and relevant financial experience.
Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external audit process and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the Groups financial management and reporting systems and for assessing the integrity and effectiveness of its accounting procedures, system of internal control and the process for identifying and monitoring the risks facing the Group.
Lastly, the Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the terms of reference of the internal audit function, its work programme and priorities and the quarterly reports on its work during the year.
27 Directors Report In the year to 30th June 2005 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:- reviewing the interim and annual financial statements, trading updates and related Stock Exchange announcements made during the year: reviewing the external auditors work plan for the audit of Group accounts: reviewing the external auditors annual audit report, management letter and the forward action plan in relation to all material issues identified in the annual audit process: reviewing the internal audit function, its resourcing, work programmes, the results of internal audits and the adequacy of managements response: reviewing Group internal control and risk management systems: approving a policy regulating the Groups use of external auditors for non-audit services under which assignments exceeding a specified value must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
The Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and other members of senior management and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings as required.
Remuneration Committee During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Mr A E Kilburn Chairman, Mr R J Davies, Mr M Pescod and Mr C G Toner.
All members of the Committee are considered by the Company to be wholly independent.
During the year under review the Remuneration Committee met on eight occasions with all members present.
The Committee operates under defined terms of reference which were last reviewed in December, 2004.
The Committees principal responsibilities are:- reviewing and approving executive remuneration policy, including the terms and conditions of employment for executive Directors and their individual remuneration packages: approving the rules of and the basis of participation in Group share option, long-term performance plans and cash based bonus incentive schemes and the specific awards, grants and payments made under any such schemes: obtaining independent advice in relation to executive Director remuneration: monitoring Group remuneration policy against competitor and industry norms.
During the year the Remuneration Committee undertook a comprehensive review of executive remuneration policy, full details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 41.
Nominations Committee During the year the Nominations Committee comprised Mr C G Toner Chairman, Mr P H Ashworth, Mr R J Davies, Mr A E Kilburn, Mr M Pescod and Mr D A Pretty.
The majority of members of the Committee are considered by the Company to be wholly independent.
The Nominations Committee met on three occasions during the year and all members were present for each meeting.
The Nominations Committee operates under defined terms of reference and its principal responsibilities include:- ensuring the Board is comprised of the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience: identifying and nominating for approval by the Board candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: overseeing the Groups succession planning process: undertaking the process of Board, Committee and individual Director performance evaluation.
In recruiting and selecting new Directors the Nominations Committee has followed a rigorous process with the initial shortlisting being prepared using external recruitment consultants followed by one to one meetings with members of the Committee and the final selection being made by the Board as a whole.
In the year ended 30th June 2005 the Nominations Committee:- reviewed and agreed the succession plan for the Group and Executive Boards and for the divisional management teams: undertook a recruitment selection process involving external consultants Spencer Stuart, to appoint an additional nonexecutive Director, Mr W Shannon, with effect from 1st September 2005.
28 Directors Report Performance Evaluation During the year a formal and structured process of evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was undertaken by the Nominations Committee under the leadership and direction of the Group Chairman.
The main aims of the process, which is based on the guidance set out in the Higgs report Review of the role and effectiveness on nonexecutive directors, are to:- promote a culture of continuous improvement, learning and development: identify gaps or problem areas in terms of knowledge and skills: assist with succession planning: improve openness, communication and motivation.
Central to the evaluation process are the Boards annual review of business strategy and the objectives and performance targets set by the Board each May for itself, its Committees and for the Chief Executive and, through him, for the Executive Board, against which overall performance is measured.
In this way the evaluation is undertaken within clear parameters linked to overall strategy, operational and financial performance and the role and contributions made by the Board, its Committees and individual Directors in the attainment of the agreed objectives and targets.
To facilitate the process the Chairman met with all Directors and the Company Secretary on an individual basis, enabling each to give their views on the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, in particular by identifying any shortcomings in procedures, working methods or any other areas of weakness requiring attention and improvement.
In addition, the performance of individual non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive was appraised by the Chairman and the performance of the Executive team by the Chief Executive.
The Senior Independent Director led the appraisal of the Chairmans performance after obtaining the views of all Directors in one to one discussions.
The results of these various interviews, assessments and appraisals were then reviewed and evaluated by the Nominations Committee and reported to the Group Board.
On the evidence provided the Board and its Committees are satisfied with their overall effectiveness and balance and with the performance and contribution of the individual Directors.
The results of the exercise will be used in setting Board and Committee objectives for the coming year and in reviewing and implementing the Board and Executive succession plan.
It is intended next year to introduce a performance evaluation questionnaire for completion by all Directors in accordance with the Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice Guidelines.
Accountability The Directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards and which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit and loss of the Group for the period under review.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board believes that the financial statements and reviews contained in this report provide a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently and that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 30th June 2005.
The Annual Report and Accounts will be published on the Groups Investor Relations Website.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work undertaken by the external auditors does not include consideration of these matters.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going Concern After making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board confirms that it has maintained a system of internal control in accordance with Code provisions C. 2 and C. 2.1 and that this statement has been prepared in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control appended to the Code.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage risks that may impede the achievement of the Groups business objectives rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
The system of internal control therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control does, however, provide reasonable assurance that potential difficulties can be identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
29 Directors Report It is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management to implement and maintain the Groups internal control and risk management systems in accordance with policy approved by the Board.
The key aspects of the Groups internal control and risk management framework are as follows:- A clear organisational structure with defined levels of authority and responsibility for each operating division.
Comprehensive financial and management reporting systems under which financial and operating performance is consistently reviewed against budget and forecasts at divisional, regional and Group level on a monthly basis.
Key risk areas such as land purchase, planning permission, production, sales, quality, customer care and service standards, adverse publicity, the market, corporate responsibility, environmental and health and safety performance, are embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting system so that risk identification and the control of risk are a routine aspect of management responsibility.
Internal control and risk management systems are supported by the Group Internal Audit Team which is responsible for advising senior management, the Executive Directors and, through the Audit Committee, the Board on the operations and effectiveness of those systems.
The Internal Audit Team undertakes a planned programme of audit appraisals across Group operations approved by the Audit Committee, including full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk areas.
Material issues identified in these audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and by the Board on a quarterly basis.
During the year the Audit Committee has undertaken a review of the staffing and resourcing of the Internal Audit Team with a view to the further development of Group risk management systems.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance and is satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
A whistle blowing policy and procedure has been established under which directors, management and staff can report in confidence any concerns they may have of malpractice, financial irregularity, breaches of health and safety, environmental or other Group procedures, discrimination, harassment or any other unethical behaviour.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY During the year Barratt Developments PLC has made considerable progress in Corporate Responsibility CR.
We have developed our CR policy and added seven strategic objectives.
These are to help embed into the business our actions in the areas of: governance and management systems, creating value for society, managing our environmental impact, procurement and design, occupational health and safety, employment and diversity and our engagement with our stakeholders and communities.
This year we have also evolved a risk-based approach to CR.
We carried out a non-financial risk assessment ensuring that plans and procedures are in place for risks of highest priority.
This approach will also help us to prepare our Operating and Financial Review next year.
We identified priority areas of risk as: climate change, our supply chain, access to land and planning, water supply, unfavourable media exposure, workplace accidents, the lack of skilled labour in construction and customer and community dissatisfaction.
Our key achievements have been in the development of our CR-related management systems - which work towards helping us minimise some of the risks above.
We have introduced an ISO14001 certified environmental management system at six of our thirty two divisions and intend to roll this out to a further eight divisions next year.
We have introduced a Health and Safety audit system to prepare the Group Health and Safety systems for accreditation to the international standard OHSAS 180001 in forthcoming years.
Barratt Northampton gained this accreditation this year.
We are already beginning to see the business benefits that our commitment in these areas is bringing.
We have achieved considerable improvements in our health and safety performance with no Health and Safety Executive HSE interventions this year.
In environmental terms we have also significantly reduced the average tonnes of waste generated per development.
We will continue to monitor our other impacts going forward to form a clear picture of where we can bring further benefits.
Next year we intend to focus on the long term environmental and social legacy of the houses we build.
We will complete an ecovillage show complex at Buckshaw Village near Chorley which will pilot a number of environmental technologies and aim to build a second similar village in the South East in the near future.
We will use these developments to gauge consumer preferences and inform our designs going forward.
We will continue to work closely with all our stakeholders.
This year we have concentrated on engagement with investors and non-governmental organisations and also our customers.
Next year our focus will be on our supply chain, looking at packaging and the environmental performance of the products we purchase.
We have also expanded our Human Resources and Training team which will help us to work towards managing, recruiting, retaining and training one of our key assets our people.
30 Directors Report Our achievements are recognised in the second WWF Insight Investment survey of the major housebuilders in which we improved our score from 31% last year to 69% this year.
We are aware that there is more to do, but are pleased that we have achieved so much in the last twelve months.
Further details of this progress and our future objectives and targets are available in our second Corporate Responsibility Report, at www.
Detailed CR-related policy statements are also available on this website.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY Through its environmental policy the Group seeks to restore and enhance the natural environments in which its developments are set to improve the environmental performance of its products and to minimise the potential adverse impacts of our business operations.
For 30 years Barratt has been at the forefront of urban regeneration in the UK and over 82% of our developments now utilise brownfield land: in the South East the figure rises to 95%.
All of our land reclamation projects, often involving difficult sites in urban locations, are subject to rigorous feasibility assessments, including environmental and risk surveys undertaken by specialist external advisors, identifying both potential adverse impacts and opportunities to preserve and enhance existing environmental features.
Site preparation and construction operations are monitored in close conjunction with the National House Building Council NHBC, local authorities and the environmental agencies.
We also work closely with our construction teams and contractors to address issues arising from on-site activities, minimising any disruption to local communities and to encourage efficiency.
Since 2001 we have comprehensively improved waste management performance across all of our site operations and the standards now achieved are at the forefront of the industry.
Working in conjunction with Wastefile UK, our waste management facilitator, waste tonnage data is collected and monitored from all operational sites.
All waste is segregated, recovered and wherever practicable allocated for recycling or reuse.
All operational sites have a controlled auditable waste transfer system, tracing waste from creation to storage and segregation, collection and disposal or recycling and reuse.
In the year under review there have been no legal breaches of environmental legislation by the Group.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The Board is committed to the continuous improvement of health and safety performance and during the year work has continued on the further development of our Group Occupational Health and Safety Management System OHSMS introduced three years ago.
The OHSMS is designed for ease of use to ensure that all staff understand their responsibilities for the management of health and safety at every stage of the development process from scheme viability, site purchase, tender and construction through to individual purchaser sales and after sales service.
The OHSMS incorporates as a technical reference the CITBs GE 700 Site Safety Notes, which are regularly updated to reflect all statutory regulations, approved codes of practice, HSE guidance and British and European Standards and directives.
GE 700 is also the standard reference for site management health and safety training throughout the industry.
The investment made in the development of our occupational health and safety management systems has led to a sustained and measurable improvement in the safety standards achieved on our sites.
For the third year running the average safety standard ratings achieved by the Group as measured by an independent site safety inspection service undertaken by the NHBC have been ahead of the average ratings of all other national housebuilders using the service.
The incident rate on our sites in the year, including both notifiable and reportable incidents, was 1,060 per 100,000 employees including subcontractors and we have an ongoing objective to improve on this performance in the year ahead.
EMPLOYMENT POLICY The Board recognises that employees need to understand and contribute to the broad objectives of the business and seeks to develop good relations with employees through regular communications and consultation.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on the objective assessment of ability and experience and the Group is committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination of any sort.
The Group strives to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities for all irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, mental health, marital status, sexual orientation or age.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are considered on their merits with due regard to the individual skills and abilities of the applicant.
Where disability arises in the course of an individuals employment the Group will seek to enable the person to continue working by making appropriate adjustments to the working environment and by offering appropriate support and training.
The Group is committed to employee training and development at all levels of the organisation and endeavours to contribute to the industrys future skills base by an extensive recruitment and training programme for apprentices and graduate trainees.
31 Directors Report The Group currently employs 536 apprentices and 59 graduate trainees recruited from communities close to its areas of operation and its policy is to ensure that the majority of divisions and housebuilding sites employ both graduates and apprentices.
To stimulate further graduate recruitment the Group continues to subscribe to Graduate Prospects, a national publication used by most universities and colleges of further education, and has recently established a recruitment and employment opportunities website.
The Group works closely with the Construction Industry Training Board CITB and the NHBC in training provision and a training plan is prepared annually linked to identified business priorities and objectives.
Having regard to the nature of our business, particular focus is given in the training programme to construction management, trade skills, health and safety and customer care.
We have also committed to the Construction Skills Certification Scheme CSCS for our employees and subcontractors as part of the Major House Builders Group Qualified Workforce Initiative.
As a business our commitment to quality and continuous improvement is absolute.
Our National Employee Award scheme forms an important part of our Forward Through Quality initiative which seeks to raise quality and performance standards through a process of internal monitoring and appraisal.
The Board recognises that the strength and quality of its leadership resource is crucial to the continued prosperity and commercial success of the business.
The Board is therefore undertaking a review of the Groups succession planning arrangements and a management development and support programme linked to our target operational growth areas is being developed.
This year, an Employment Procedures Guide for Managers was developed and will be launched following the recruitment of five Regional Human Resource & Training Managers who will assist in the implementation of our strategic and also our day to day human resource objectives.
INVESTOR RELATIONS The Board believes that the effective management of investor relations is critical to its relationship with its shareholders and to the market in which the Companys shares are held, analysed and traded.
The Groups corporate governance framework sets the context for its continuing investor relations programme particularly in respect of key areas such as Board membership, remuneration and public accountability statements.
During the year the investor communication programme has been taken forward in conjunction with Weber Shandwick Square Mile our financial PR advisors.
Also the investor relations website www.
co. uk provides a full Company profile, regular corporate news updates and access to Company share price and regulatory announcements.
Further shareholder services have been established whereby shareholders may deal in the Companys shares via its website and also access the Companys share register to view their shareholding, with the opportunity to make changes to their account details including the downloading of appropriate forms and also access the history of their shareholding.
Our annual and interim reports, together with half-yearly trading updates, will continue to be the primary means by which information about the Group, its Board and its business is communicated to institutional and private shareholders, investors and analysts.
In addition, other major company publications are also circulated to shareholders, which this year includes the Groups second Corporate Responsibility report.
The Annual General Meeting is used to enable all shareholders, both large and small, to discuss the Groups operations and progress directly with the Board.
Information of a price sensitive nature is communicated as required by the Company Secretary to the Company Announcements Office of the Stock Exchange and the Group strives to ensure that all key information is effectively and clearly communicated.
In addition to the above formal communications, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts in order to convey an understanding of the Companys operations, the market and its management objectives and in the year under review a total of 71 such meetings have been held.
The aim is to meet with major institutional shareholders at least once a year.
Press releases on the Companys activities are made to journalists and the media through the Group Press Office and its external financial public relations consultancy service, Weber Shandwick Square Mile.
The Groups joint brokers JPMorgan Cazenove and UBS Investment Bank also work actively on our behalf in an effort to ensure that investors and potential investors in the business are given reliable information on the Groups operations, its values and ethos in order to make informed investment decisions.
32 Directors Report STATUTORY INFORMATION At 28th September 2005 notification had been received of the following interests which exceed a 3% interest in the issued share capital of the Company.
Date of Ordinary shares % of issued notification of 10p each share capital FMR Corp 26.09.05 31,111,206 12.86% Barclays PLC 05.09.05 12,506,021 5.17% Causeway Capital Management LLC 21.04.05 10,202,259 4.23% Legal & General Group Plc 27.09.05 7,695,307 3.18% During the year the Group made charitable donations of 61,000 2004 6,000.
No political contributions were made during the year.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS The Group will be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the year ending 30th June 2006 which will include restated comparative information for 2005.
Our core policies for turnover and profit recognition and the value of land and work in progress should be unaffected.
The major areas of change are expected to relate to accounting for pension costs, share based payments, financial instruments and the timing of dividend payment recognition.
A team has been established to assess the full impact on the Group of IFRS, which are currently undergoing a period of further change.
CREDITOR PAYMENTS Each Group company is responsible for agreeing the detail of terms and conditions relating to transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group policy to abide by the agreed terms of payment with suppliers where the goods and services have been supplied in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
Implementation of this policy resulted in a supplier payment period for the Company of 33 days 2004 36 days for its trade creditors at 30th June 2005.
AUDITORS A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
On behalf of the Board L Dent Secretary Newcastle upon Tyne 13th October 2005 33
