BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Materials Technology Strategy The strategy for Materials Technology is: To grow differentiated, tailored non-woven solutions in attractive industrial sectors, such as construction, filtration and graphic arts To expand in fast growing markets in Asia and Latin America To further develop our leading customer relationships in large, growing hygiene markets To continue to improve productivity, particularly in North America.
MATERIALS TECHNOLOGY REVENUES AT Performance CONSTANT CURRENCY 1000 In 2005, Materials Technology, under the brand name 'Fiberweb', increased sales by 12 per cent to 619 million.
800 Underlying operating profit declined by 5 million to 44 600 million due to the continued increase in raw material input prices which adversely impacted operating profits by 12 400 million compared to 2004.
Operating cash flow was good 200 again at 44 million despite the cash cost incurred in closing the Toronto plant and relocating its two production lines to 0 02 03 04 05 existing plants in Mexico and Germany.
Midway through the year a new management team, led by Daniel Dayan, joined the business and after reaffirming the strategic direction of the business has accelarated the implementation of cost reduction measures and investment in 619m product innovation.
At the end of the first half we sold our 40 per cent investment in Finotech, based in Germany, to Clopay, our joint venture partner.
Sale proceeds were 46 million and this resulted in a gain to the Group of 24 million.
MATERIALS TECHNOLOGY Following high raw material costs at the start of the year there was some reduction by the half year and at the time of our interim announcement there was an expectation that prices could ease further through to the year end.
In the event, the dual impact of rapidly rising oil prices and hurricane damage to the petrochemicals capacity on the US Gulf coast, led to tight supply conditions and record prices during the fourth quarter.
Chief Executives Review FURTHER DEVELOP OUR CUSTOMER CONTINUE RELATIONSHIPS TO IMPROVE IN HYGIENE PRODUCTIVITY MARKET TO EXPAND IN FAST GROWING MARKETS TO GROW DIFFERENTIATED, TAILORED NON-WOVEN SOLUTIONS INVESTING FOR GROWTH STRATEGY 14.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Since the end of 2005, prices have eased somewhat although the outlook for the rest of the year remains uncertain.
We FIBERWEB continue to focus on a wide range of productivity initiatives Production to start in to optimise yields and improve recycling.
2007 at the worlds largest spunbound In North America the closure of our Toronto site and the production line in Sweden reconditioning and relocation of two production lines to Mexico and Berlin is on schedule to be completed in the summer of 2006.
Full year savings are expected to be in the region of 5 million with cash pay back expected within three years.
The Mexican site at Queretaro will enable Fiberweb to consolidate and expand in the Americas region, and the resulting 40 per cent capacity increase in Berlin will allow Fiberweb to exploit further rapid growth in construction markets in Eastern Europe.
In the Industrial business, significant progress has been made in accelerating new product development.
During 2005, Fiberweb housewrap sales grew by 20 per cent, the sixth straight year of volume and value growth.
The launches of products capable of protecting property by withstanding hurricane-force winds have generated significant interest in coastal areas of the US.
In pool and spa filtration, where Fiberweb is the market leader, the launch of a biocide impregnated filter resulted from a real focus on the needs and concerns of the consumer.
Further sales and marketing investment has been initiated in Brazil to accelerate the growth of industrial products in South America, and developing growth plans for industrial segments in Europe and Asia are priorities for 2006.
In the Hygiene business the focus has been on cost reduction and improving customer relationships.
The authorisation of a major new spunbond line in Sweden, expected to be commissioned in early 2007, will increase quality and productivity in the European market.
A number of collaborative development programmes with customers have demonstrated that product development continues to be a core strength and differentiator.
New Product Development Chief Executives Review
