BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Aviation Strategy The primary markets we currently serve are: Airport Services Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul Our strategy is focused on building a balanced portfolio of aviation business, concentrating on airport services and aftermarket businesses with good returns and strong cash flows.
Since 2001, in constant currencies, sales have grown from AVIATION REVENUES AT 649 million to 892 million, a compound annual growth CONSTANT CURRENCY rate of 8 per cent of which roughly half has been organic and 1000 half through acquisitions funded through free cash flows.
800 During this period, our focus has remained on services and aftermarket support.
This growth has come against a 600 backdrop of wars, SARS, record oil prices, turmoil in aviation 400 markets and economic slowdowns, which is a reflection of the 200 resilience and potential of the business.
0 02 03 04 05 Performance The market for both business and commercial aviation continues to grow.
Sales for the year increased by 9 per cent to 892 million.
Whilst fuel costs have risen to record levels during the year, the impact on our profits has been minimal as we do not take ownership of fuel in commercial aviation, and in business aviation increases have been passed through our retail pricing.
Airport Services Airport Services saw sales growth of 23 per cent to 515 million, underlying operating profits up by 20 per cent to AIRPORT 60 million.
Underlying operating margins were slightly SERVICES lower at 11.7 per cent down from 11.9 per cent.
Signature Flight Support is the worlds largest and leading FBO network and service provider to business aviation with 80 locations at airports worldwide.
In the last two years, we have doubled our position outside North America from 17 to 34 bases.
Chief Executives Review AVIATION AIRPORT MAINTENANCE SERVICES REPAIR AND OVERHAUL 515m 377m 892m 10.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 During the year we acquired a total of five FBOs for a total of 17 million and those acquisitions made in 2004 have been successfully integrated.
Signature continued to grow its network with acquisitions in Cape Town, Paris Le Bourget, Long Beach and Oxnard California, with investment in further capacity at London Luton.
Signature now has 80 locations worldwide of which 34 are now outside North America, making us the largest and only truly international business aviation support chain in the world.
A three-year agreement to provide advertising space in selected locations was signed with Clear Channel during the year.
Our strategy is to grow Signature and our business aviation interests aggressively both in North America and the rest of the world.
ASIG is the leading fueller of commercial aircraft in the USA and the UK, and overall the world's fourth largest independent provider of support services for fuelling, ground handling, fide-icing, cargo and other related services.
It operates in 65 cities worldwide, including 44 of the world's top 100 airports.
Our acquisitions of AGI and Boker in 2004 were successfully integrated and have performed to plan since acquisition.
New contracts were won with Disney, Northwest Airlines, All Nippon, Cathay Pacific and Singapore Airlines.
Coronet Aviation Services was purchased in September 2005 providing ASIG with a good initial position in executive lounge services at London Heathrow.
In the commercial aviation market we see opportunities to grow geographically and through expansion of product offerings in niche areas where we can see good returns.
Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul We are the industry's leading independent turbine engine repair and overhaul provider, focused on business and regional jet engines, with growing positions in military and industrial platforms.
We will continue to focus on these areas in the near term whilst looking for geographic growth opportunities.
In Component Repair, Overhaul and Distribution, we have a number of speciality companies with high returns.
We will be looking to grow this sector via further acquisitions.
Sales were down from 402 million to 377 million reflecting the relocation of the Millville, New Jersey sites and lower ASIG revenues from Spey engines, offset by growth in the newer Coronet Aviation TFE731 programme.
Underlying operating profits were 34 Services purchased million 2004: 37 million and underlying operating margins were unchanged at 9.1 per cent 2004: 9.1 per cent.
At Dallas Airmotive, the Pratt & Witney PW300 and 500 programmes, for which we reported winning full authorisations last year, started to build in the second half.
In the UK, H&S Aviation received approval to overhaul the Pratt & Witney JT15D in Europe.
Our speciality components businesses, ITS and Barrett, Dallas Airmotive New contracts from US saw growth in sales and margins and we acquired Air Force and Netjets International Governor Service IGS in Colorado, specialising in turbine engine fuel system accessories, which will provide around US$ 10 million incremental sales on a full year basis.
At APPH, our hydraulics and landing gear business in the UK, demand increased with the upturn in the aerospace cycle.
In the first quarter of 2006 APPH acquired Arnoni Aviation Services Inc. based in Houston, Texas, for a consideration APPH of up to 4 million.
This repair and overhaul and spares $7m contract to design distribution company specialises in support for a number of and develop landing aircraft including Raytheon HS125 Hawker Series.
Sales are gear system for Korean expected to be 7 million in 2006.
In December, APPH was military awarded the contract to design and develop the landing gear system for the Korean Military Helicopter Programme with a value of $7 million over six years with further potential for long term revenues for logistic support and repair and overhaul.
In Oxford Airport UK training demand improved and the airport is seeing more business jet activity where we are investing in increasing hangar capacity and enhancing the runway.
Finally, Becorit, our railway brake equipment company in Germany, which is included in this business grouping, had another satisfactory year.
Acquisitions and New Business Wins
