THIS SECTION ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTAINS INFORMATION ON THE FOLLOWING: 43.
CHAIRMAN AND GROUP CHIEF A FINANCIAL REPORTING EXECUTIVE B AUDIT COMMITTEE 5.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS C SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL 6.
INFORMATION AND CONTROL PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 10.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS The Boards policies and procedures are set out in a Directors 1.
Compliance File which is provided to all directors on appointment and which The Board is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate is routinely updated.
governance are maintained at BBA.
The Company applies the principles of corporate governance 3.
The Board and Independence set out in Section 1 of the revised Combined Code issued in At the date of this report, the Board comprises three executive July 2003 through its own behaviour, by monitoring corporate and five non-executive directors who contribute a wide range of governance best practice and by adopting appropriate complementary skills and experience.
A short biography of each recommendations of relevant bodies.
current director is set out on page 38.
The directors can confirm compliance throughout the year The Board is headed by Roberto Quarta, who has been with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Chairman since March 2001.
During the year he was appointed except that bonuses and benefits in kind of certain executive non-executive director of BAE Systems plc.
This is explained further The Chief Executive is Michael Harper.
During the year under in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 49. review, the Group Chief Executive was Roy McGlone.
The Boards The auditors report concerning the Companys compliance Senior Independent Director is David Rough.
He is available to with the Combined Code appears on page 93. shareholders if they have concerns that normal channels of contact with the Chairman or Chief Executive would not resolve.
The Boards Role John Roques appointment as a non-executive director was The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the success renewed for a further period of three years with effect from of the Company.
Its role includes providing effective leadership 11 January 2005.
His re-appointment was fully reviewed in the and setting the Groups strategic aims.
It assesses business light of the Boards performance evaluation and additional Board opportunities and seeks to ensure that appropriate controls are discussion took place.
Michael Harper was appointed a nonin place to assess and manage risk.
It is responsible for executive director of the Board on 23 February 2005 for a period reviewing managements performance and oversees senior level of three years.
On 27 February 2006, he was appointed Chief succession planning within the Group.
The Board is responsible Executive following Roy McGlones resignation as a director on for setting the Companys values and standards, ensuring the the same date.
The Board intends to renew Bob Phillips Companys obligations to its shareholders are met.
appointment as a non-executive director for a further term of The full Board met on seven occasions during 2005 and one year with effect from 5 May 2006.
His intended these meetings were attended by all the directors, except that re-appointment was fully reviewed in the light of the Boards Ross McMillan was absent from two meetings prior to his date performance evaluation and additional Board discussion took of resignation from the Board on 23 February 2005.
meetings concentrate on strategy, financial and business Andrew Wood, Bob Phillips and Richard Stillwell retire performance.
Additional meetings are called as required to deal by rotation and intend to seek re-appointment at the with specific matters.
The agenda is set by the Chairman in forthcoming AGM.
consultation with the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance The Board believes that Bob Phillips and Richard Stillwell Director and the Group Secretary.
should be re-elected by shareholders as non-executive directors because each continues to be effective and demonstrates The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for commitment to his role.
The Board believes that each director decision including approval of matters such as: will continue to do so.
strategy and objectives: The Board has determined that all its non-executive directors Group policies: are independent in character and judgement.
As specified in the annual budgets: revised Combined Code, such assessment is not required for a dividends: serving Chairman.
acquisitions and disposals of businesses: However, the Board believes that its Chairman, expenditure over a certain limit: Roberto Quarta, should be considered independent although financial results: and he was Group Chief Executive of the Company for a number of appointments to the Board.
The Board considers that there are substantial benefits to having a Chairman who is familiar with the business Matters outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided and that the Chairman has, throughout his period of office, by management in accordance with delegated authorities demonstrated his independence.
approved by the Board and Audit Committee.
The schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 During the year, the Chairman held a meeting at which only the candidates.
The Nomination Committee will then meet to finalise non-executive directors were present.
In addition, the nona recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment.
executive directors met the Senior Independent Director without The Board has a written framework for the induction of the Chairman present.
There were several other occasions new directors.
This includes site visits, meetings with senior during the year when discussions between various directors management and advisers and the provision of corporate took place.
A personal induction programme is prepared Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the for each new director tailored to the experience and needs of Board before accepting a non-executive directorship in any other the individual.
Major shareholders will be offered the opportunity company.
Executive directors may retain the fees from any such of meeting new directors.
During 2005, Roy McGlone was paid 33,500 in fees Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the in respect of his non-executive directorship of Aggreko plc.
Board for an initial term of three years.
This term is subject to the usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory 4.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive performance of duties following the Boards annual performance There is a clear division of responsibilities between the evaluation.
Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and this is reinforced by but may be made by mutual agreement.
In addition, it is the a written statement of the division of responsibilities approved Companys practice that all directors are subject to re-election by the Board.
The Chairman, a non-executive director, is at least every three years.
primarily responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its The fees of the non-executive directors, including the effectiveness.
He is responsible for setting the Board agenda Chairman, are determined by the Board as a whole on the and ensuring the directors receive information in an accurate, recommendation of the Group Chief Executive.
No director is clear and timely manner.
He is responsible for promoting involved in deciding his own remuneration or fees.
Letters of effective decision-making, ensuring the performance of the appointment for the non-executive directors are available to Board, its committees and individual directors are evaluated on review on request.
an annual basis and that appropriate Board training and development occurs.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible 6.
Information and Professional Development for the development and implementation of Board strategy and The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors policy, the running of the Groups business, ensuring that the receive accurate, timely and clear information with Board and business activities are effectively communicated and promoted Committee papers being circulated in advance of the meeting.
within and outside the business and for building positive The Board and its Committees are kept informed of corporate relationships with the Companys stakeholders.
governance and relevant regulatory developments as they arise and receive appropriate briefings.
Board Appointments Remuneration Committee arranges an annual market review The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and from its independent external advisers whilst the Audit progressive refreshing of the Board.
It believes that the Committee is routinely briefed on accounting and technical necessary arrangements to manage succession issues promptly matters by senior management and the external auditors.
and effectively are in place.
There is a formal and transparent In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board, the maintains regular contact with the Group Chief Executive and prime responsibility for which is delegated to the Nomination other directors to discuss specific issues.
The appointment process is initiated by the Board from the Groups Divisions present to the Board on a regular and a selection procedure established to identify suitable basis and opportunities exist during the year for informal external search consultants for the vacancy.
Board site visits are arranged, collectively and differ in its detail depending on whether the appointment is for individually, and non-executive directors are free to meet an executive or non-executive position, but the essentials will members of the senior management team.
Following the appointment of a suitable The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of its external consultant, details of the role and capabilities required current directors, the identification of individual development for the appointment will be prepared.
The consultant then draws needs is best left to the individual directors discretion.
If any such up a list of potential candidates and a shortlist is created needs became evident through the annual performance evaluation, through consultation amongst Committee members.
The Board the director would be encouraged to pursue the necessary as a whole is also regularly updated as to the status of the development.
The Company will provide the necessary resources appointment process.
Meetings as appropriate are arranged with for developing and updating the directors knowledge and skills.
Committee members and the Committee aims to ensure that All directors have access to the advice and services of the each Board member is given the opportunity to meet the final Group Secretary and the Board has established a procedure Directors Corporate Governance Report 45. whereby directors wishing to do so in furtherance of their The Chairman and the executive directors may attend these duties may take independent professional advice at the meetings by invitation.
The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in Role respect of legal actions against its directors.
The Committee has two principal functions: first, making recommendations to the Board on the framework and broad 7.
Performance Evaluation policy on executive directors remuneration: and second, A formal appraisal process for the Board and its main Committees determining on behalf of the Board the specific remuneration is conducted annually.
In 2005, the evaluation was conducted package for each of the executive directors, including pension internally on a confidential basis and was led by the Senior rights and any compensation payments.
Independent Director in conjunction with the Chairman.
As in prior The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for years, the main body of the evaluation centred on a review of the developing and monitoring a compensation framework for senior conduct of, and processes for, Board and Committee meetings, executives in conjunction with the Group Chief Executive.
During corporate governance issues, overall performance and an the year it was agreed that Remuneration Committee should assessment of the contribution of individual directors.
The also be responsible for reviewing the specific remuneration appraisal also included an assessment of information provided package for certain senior executives as designated by the Board.
to the Board and its Committees, including strategic, financial, The detailed implementation of the compensation framework, operational, corporate governance and CSR information.
except as regards the executive directors and the designated The Senior Independent Director reported the Board and senior executives, is the responsibility of the Group Chief Executive.
Committee evaluation outcomes to the Board, whilst directors Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee were individually briefed regarding their own performance.
Overall, appear in the Directors Remuneration Report.
the Board was satisfied with its performance and that of its Committees.
The review concluded that there had been significant b Nomination Committee improvements in the Boards processes, procedures and culture since the first performance evaluation in 2003, with notable year Composition on year improvements.
Individual directors performance was The Nomination Committee comprises three non-executive also agreed to be acceptable with each actively contributing to directors and two executive directors.
During the year under the effective performance of the Board and its Committees.
review, its composition was as follows: Roberto Quarta, Overall, directors were satisfied with the level and quality Chairman, Roy McGlone, David Rough, Andrew Wood and of information provided to them.
Specific actions with which Richard Stillwell.
Roy McGlone ceased to be a member of the management has been tasked following the evaluation include Nomination Committee following his resignation as a director increased depth in the strategy presentations made to the on 27 February 2006 and was replaced by Michael Harper.
Other directors may attend Nomination Committee meetings by invitation.
Board Committees The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Role Committee and an Audit Committee.
Written terms of reference The Nomination Committee meets as required.
During 2005, for each Committee are available on request.
the Committee met on one occasion with attendance by all Committee members.
This was supplemented with individual a Remuneration Committee briefings and meetings.
The principal role of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment Composition of the Companys executive and non-executive directors.
It is During 2005, the Remuneration Committee comprised the responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill following independent non-executive directors: Richard Stillwell, Board vacancies.
In making appointments, the Committee Chairman, Michael Harper appointed 23 February 2005, evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Bob Phillips, David Rough and John Roques.
These directors on the Board and in the light of this evaluation considers were in place at the time of determining remuneration for the the capabilities required for the role and, in the case of a year ended 31 December 2005, apart from Michael Harper.
non-executive appointment, the time available to fulfil the role.
Michael Harper ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Use is made of independent recruitment consultants and the Committee on the date of his appointment as Chief Executive.
final appointment rests with the full Board.
More information During 2005, the Remuneration Committee met on four occasions on the role of the Nomination Committee is set out in Board and meetings were attended by all Committee members.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Details regarding the Audit Committee are set out in paragraph The Chairman has relevant and recent financial experience and 9 b on page 46. a professional accountancy qualification as required by the Smith Guidance.
In addition the other Committee members all 9.
Audit and Accountability have experience of corporate financial matters.
During 2005, the Audit Committee met on three occasions, a Financial Reporting generally coinciding with key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
There was full attendance by all the Committee Directors responsibilities for the preparation of financial members.
The external auditors and Head of Group Internal statements Audit regularly attend these meetings.
The Chairman, Group The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Controller and Divisional Chief Executives also generally join at of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year least part of Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Committee Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable director or the Companys external auditors.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Role foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the The Committee may consider any matter that might have a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In financial impact on the Group.
However, its primary role is: first, preparing the financial statements the directors are required to: reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them internal audit work programme: and second, reviewing the consistently: annual and interim reports before they are presented to the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Board.
In addition, the Committee reviews the work of the Risk prudent: and Committee as described and assesses compliance with the state whether applicable accounting standards have been directors responsibility statement.
The Committee also reviews followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy under which explained in the financial statements.
staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Committee is responsible for making recommendations financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable to the Board regarding the remuneration and appointment of its them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the external auditors.
It is the policy of the Audit Committee to Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
review such appointment at least every five years.
It discharges They are also responsible for the system of internal control and its responsibilities through the review of written reports for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, circulated in advance of meetings and by discussing these and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and reports and any other matters with the relevant auditors and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
At least once a year the Audit Committee holds a confidential session without management present with each of Going Concern the external auditors and the Head of Group Internal Audit.
In compliance with corporate governance requirements, the directors consider that after a critical review of the Groups 2006 Auditor Independence and Audit Effectiveness budget and medium-term plans the Company and the Group Central to the Audit Committees work is the review and have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for monitoring of the external auditors independence and objectivity the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements and the effectiveness of the audit process.
During the year the have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Audit Committee carried out a formal audit service assessment including a review of audit plans, the qualifications, expertise, b Audit Committee resources, effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has also carried out a detailed Composition performance evaluation and believes that it has satisfied the During 2005, the Audit Committee comprised the five requirements of the Combined Code and the Smith best practice independent non-executive directors as follows: John Roques, guidelines.
The Audit Committee has confirmed that during the Chairman, Michael Harper appointed 23 February 2005, Bob year it had formal and transparent arrangements for Phillips, Richard Stillwell and David Rough.
Michael Harper considering financial reporting and internal control principles ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on the date of and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external his appointment as Chief Executive.
A key safeguard to ensure auditor objectivity and independence The key features of the Groups internal control system are is the Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services listed below.
This policy is reviewed annually.
The Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Finance prohibits the Groups external auditors from carrying out certain Director and comprising senior executives, meets at least twice additional services for the Group including book-keeping, a year to review and analyse how business risks are being internal audit, valuations, actuarial services and financial managed.
These reviews assess the following categories of risk: systems design and implementation.
Services which the external business: auditors may be permitted to carry out include assurance financial: services such as reporting accountant work and tax services.
compliance: and The Committee is satisfied that the majority of the tax services operational and other including health, safety and environmental.
supplied by Deloitte & Touche LLP are compliance-related and represent a small proportion of Group tax fees.
Central to this process is a detailed written self-assessment of As a matter of principle, the Groups policy is not to use the risks by company and division, which is reviewed by the internal external auditors for acquisition and due diligence work.
Functional risk assessments are also carried However, where the Group considers it appropriate or conflicts out by the responsible executive.
If significant control issues arise, suppliers other than the preferred supplier may be asked arise between meetings, these can be brought to the attention to tender.
Only in exceptional and unusual circumstances will of senior executives at regularly scheduled meetings of the this include the external auditors.
The outcome of the work of The Committee Chairman is required to pre-approve certain the Risk Committee is reported to the Audit Committee, which in permitted services, which may exceed set financial limits.
Nonturn reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal audit fees paid or due to the external auditors are regularly control on behalf of the Board.
The Audit Committee receives a reviewed by the Committee.
report at least twice a year from the Group Finance Director The Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services detailing the work undertaken by the Risk Committee.
Based on currently provided by its external auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP these reviews, the Board recommends action to be taken by the does not impair their independence or objectivity.
Group at both divisional and company levels to mitigate identified risks and seize opportunities that may add value to c Systems of Internal Control the Group.
An organisation structure is in place at both head office Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and divisional level which clearly defines responsibilities for and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the directors.
operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company Management is accountable to the directors for monitoring this secretarial and insurance functions.
system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has 3.
An internal audit function undertakes a programme of done so.
The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing reviews aligned to the risks existing in the Groups businesses of process embedded in the Groups businesses for identifying, controls, risks and business processes.
The role of internal audit evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the is defined in a Group Internal Audit Charter and this includes Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The its terms of reference, the standards which it adheres to, the Group considers that it has adequate information to identify and scope and coverage of its work and its reporting processes.
The assess significant risks and opportunities affecting its long and Audit Committee receives a report from internal audit at each short-term value.
meeting which includes opinions on the adequacy and This process has been in place for the year ended 31 effectiveness of controls by site, a summary of key issues, work December 2005 and up to 28 February 2006 and the directors schedules and details of any action required.
In accordance with can therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness recent revisions to the Combined Code, the Audit Committee in accordance with the internal control requirements of the regularly monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal Combined Code throughout that period.
audit utilising outside specialists and self-assessment The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually techniques.
by the directors and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies, system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of financial controls and reporting procedures applicable to all failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide reasonable reporting units.
The Group accounting policies are aligned with but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or the latest International Accounting Standards and International loss, to the extent that is appropriate, taking account of costs Financial Reporting Standards.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets 10.
Shareholder Relations for each of the Groups reporting units.
The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on corporate 6.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to governance developments and the views of BBAs major management which measure actual performance against shareholders.
This is achieved through regular meetings during budget, together with forecasts of sales, profits and operating the year between the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance cash for the next three months and to the end of the year.
Director and major shareholders, which are then reported to the A monthly report is provided to the Board highlighting key issues Board as a whole.
The Board also receives formal written and summarising the detailed financial information provided by reports from its brokers regarding the views of its principal the operating units.
shareholders following its preliminary and interim results 7.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, announcements and at other times as appropriate.
The authorisation levels requiring the approval of major projects by Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other non-executive the Group directors and by post-investment appraisals.
directors are available to meet with major shareholders and a 8.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, number of such meetings took place during the year.
The Board currency and commodity hedging, granting of guarantees and considers that its non-executive directors, including its Senior use of treasury products.
Independent Director, David Rough, have a good level of 9.
A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for the understanding of the issues and concerns of major Groups senior executives and their direct reports in relation to shareholders, as required by the revised Combined Code.
acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial and employee A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, contracts and treasury matters.
This matrix is authorised by the fund managers and analysts takes place each year.
The directors Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and is reviewed on an seek to encourage a continuing dialogue.
Compliance with the authority matrix is reviewed maintains contact as required with its principal shareholders as part of the internal audit process.
about directors remuneration in the same way as for other 10.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or matters.
The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to businesses are approved by the Board.
It is intended that notice 11.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least regarding the following: business ethics, business gifts and 20 working days before the meeting.
Roberto Quarta, as Chairman gratuities, equal opportunities, competition law, legal policy, of the Board and Nomination Committee, John Roques as external communications and share dealing.
A bi-annual review Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Richard Stillwell as of compliance with such policies by Group companies is carried Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will answer questions, out and the results communicated to the Risk Committee and as appropriate, at the AGM.
The Senior Independent Director, the Board.
Senior executives are also required to confirm annual David Rough will also be available.
Shareholders are given compliance with certain policies.
These Group policies are the opportunity of voting separately on each proposal.
complemented by divisional and company-led initiatives, The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the including community policies.
These policies are supplemented AGM and makes available the proxy voting figures for and by a Disclosure of Unethical Conduct policy which includes a against and abstentions on each resolution.
The voting results 24 hour hotline available to all employees which is supported of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast prior by a formal investigation protocol and regular reporting to the to the meeting are also made available on request and on the Audit Committee.
The results of the AGM are also announced 12.
A Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manual details to the market via a Regulatory News Service.
policies, standards and procedures which are applicable throughout the Group.
Further details are set out on page 42 Approved by the Board on 20 March 2006 and signed on its under Corporate Social Responsibility and on our website.
behalf by: Annual self-assessments are carried out at company level against Group standards.
A monthly report is prepared and Andrew Wood circulated to the Executive Management Committee on Finance Director environmental and safety matters within all Group companies from the internal Group HSE function and external specialists.
In addition to a formal annual review, the Board receives regular reports on HSE matters.
Senior managers performance and related financial incentives are tied in part to their success against selected annual HSE improvement objectives.
