42 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility continued Safeguard the health, safety and welfare of our employees, and where possible that of our tenants, contractors, visitors, clients and the general public.
Health and Safety herafter H&S is an essential part of our business operation and it is our responsibility to achieve the highest standards for our staff and those relevant stakeholders.
In recognition of this, during 2005 we appointed a H&S Manager to ensure consistent standards across our activities.
He is a key member of our H&S committee, chaired by the deputy chief executive and made up of representatives from each division of the business.
Health and Safety In the coming year, we will continue to review our approach to H&S, including training, to ensure it is customised to the specific requirements of our different business areas.
It is essential that our large contractor and supplier base have adequate H&S policies and procedures and that high standards are being maintained.
We have developed and issued H&S guidance to all our managing agents and property managers.
Given the growth of our development activities, we recognise the particular H&S risks on construction sites.
Our intention is to move beyond the review and approval of contractors H&S policies to monitoring the standards achieved on all of our projects.
We are delighted to report that there were no reportable RIDDOR major injuries involving staff in 2005 and no fatalities on Grainger Homes or Grainger development sites during 2005.
Targets 2006 Undertake a comprehensive review of H&S risks across the different divisions.
Review and update the H&S guidance issued to managing agents.
Provide H&S training to all managers in the development division and all property managers.
Engage proactively with prioritised suppliers to ensure that they meet with our specified economic, social and environmental standards.
We recognise that a number of our suppliers will have an indirect impact on our CSR performance, particularly on our development projects.
We consider track record, technical expertise, and business management.
However, we also consider H&S and environmental performance, due to the risks these can present on-site.
In the year ahead we have more work to do in specifying and monitoring the CSR standards of our suppliers.
Within tenanted residential, the majority of our suppliers are local small-works building and maintenance contractors who have earned our trust through their reliable and speedy response.
Prior to appointment, such suppliers are asked to provide necessary documentation, including an adequate H&S policy.
Given their size and number, it is particularly challenging to monitor all suppliers consistently for their social and environmental credentials, but this has been targeted for improvement next year.
43 We receive approximately 5,000 invoices per year, paid on average 30 days after receipt.
We have centralised our purchase ledger activities and we are considering the introduction of an electronic invoice tracking and approval system.
Targets 2006 Introduce a new electronic system for the approval and tracking of invoices.
Launch an approved supplier database for tenanted residential repairs and refurbishments to assist in tracking their CSR performance.
Identify a set of CSR standards to be included in the standard contracts for construction companies appointed on major new development projects.
Maintain high standards of business conduct, and secure long-term sustainable returns for our investors.
We strive to meet our investors expectations regarding corporate governance practices, and continue to make diligent progress towards compliance with the revised Combined Code 2003.
All business risks such as reputational, environmental and health and safety are formally evaluated within a risk review matrix according to likelihood of occurrence and potential impact.
The audit committee meet quarterly to formulate the companys response to all significant risks.
We keep investors well informed of our strategy through regular meetings, presentations and property tours in order to provide them with a clear understanding of our business.
It is essential that our business is well run, and that staff operate professionally and with integrity at all times.
The companys policies and practice guidelines encompass the standards to which we expect all our staff to adhere.
Targets 2006 Develop and launch a Code of Conduct for staff incorporating updated confidential whistle-blowing procedures.
Develop a policy and training on Money Laundering.
