Mapeley overview There are three key elements to this strategy: Mapeleys history Mapeley Limited is the Guernsey incorporated holding Growing the real estate outsourcing business company of a group whose core business is the acquisition, The Group has been successful in entering the high ownership and management of a diverse portfolio of barrier-to-entry real estate outsourcing market with commercial property throughout the UK.
This property the completion of the HMRC and Abbey transactions.
is primarily let to strong credit quality tenants with The Group can leverage its established platform in the large property portfolio management needs such as pursuit of new outsourcing transactions with both the central and local government and large corporations.
public and private sector and is currently in the process of bidding on a number of new outsourcing transactions.
The Group was established in March 1999 to invest in UK real estate by participating in the growing trend of Growing the direct investment business UK Government and corporate occupiers seeking to sell The expertise that the Group has developed through its their property portfolios and outsource the management outsourcing activities has allowed it to pursue a successful of their leasehold estates and accommodation related strategy of acquiring individual office properties on a direct services.
In December 2000, the Group acquired basis rather than through outsourcing arrangements.
substantially all of the UK occupational portfolio of The Group will focus on purchasing property primarily Abbey National plc Abbey, totalling 422 freehold with low credit risk tenants, especially the UK Government, and 884 leasehold properties, and signed a 20 year who are likely to stay in the property long-term.
Since agreement involving a leaseback with Abbey.
In April November 2004, the Group has invested 531.6 million 2001, the Group purchased the estate of HM Revenue in acquiring individual properties and has identified & Customs HMRC in the UK, totalling 147 freehold a significant target pool of property it may consider and 454 leasehold properties.
As with Abbey, the Group acquiring in the future.
signed a 20 year agreement involving a leaseback to Continuing to increase returns from the current portfolio HMRC, and the Group agreed to provide comprehensive The Group will actively manage, predict and absorb property and facilities management services to the its tenants future accommodation requirements by majority of the estate.
leveraging its experience of the operational estate and The Group has used the acquisition and subsequent intimate knowledge of the UK commercial real estate management of these two large contracts to develop market.
The Group will also seek to exploit the remaining into a fully serviced real estate group, actively investing asset management opportunities in the rack-rented in, and managing real estate throughout the UK.
leases of its portfolio and continue to expand on its accommodation related service capability.
Mapeleys strategy The Groups strategy is to target regional assets let to strong Successful execution of this strategy will enable the credit quality tenants where through active management, Group to continue to increase earnings through: the Group believes the tenant will remain in occupation Organic growth from its current real estate portfolio on a long-term basis.
Mapeley places great value on both leading to a higher level of stable long-term income: its private and public sector customers and is aiming to become the market leader in ownership and management Further acquisitions of predominantly office properties of regional commercial property of this type.
throughout the UK that are accretive to earnings.
An increase in earnings will enable payment of stable and growing dividends.
The Company is a tax exempt vehicle in Guernsey and thus there is no withholding tax on such distributions at the parent level.
Mapeleys structure offers investors an opportunity to invest directly in the UK commercial real estate market in a tax efficient manner.
06 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 Our strategy Growing the real estate outsourcing business Growing the direct investment business Continuing to increase returns from current portfolio Above top: Somerset House, London WC2 Above middle: Thames Valley Park, Reading Above: Triton Square, London NW1 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 07 Competitive advantages In-depth local market knowledge Strong relationships with tenants Operational capability and capacity Access to capital resources Above left: Melbourne House, London WC1 Above: Imperial Court, Liverpool 08 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 Mapeley overview continued Access to capital resources Competitive advantages In many of the regional markets where the Group is The Group is able to deliver on this strategy by targeting acquisitions, it has an advantage over local capitalising on its significant competitive advantages: investors who cannot match the Groups access to In-depth local market knowledge capital resources, both debt and equity.
The Groups significant market presence throughout the UK gives it an advantage over more traditional real estate companies to exploit the increase in demand for regional office space from central and local government.
The Groups existing estate extends over the majority of the UKs secondary and tertiary cities.
With the UK Governments recent drive to increase its exposure in the regions, the Group is ideally placed to take advantage of this increased demand from the public sector.
Strong relationships with tenants The Group looks to enter into a partnering relationship with its tenants by maintaining consistent and constructive communication with them, as opposed to what the Group believes is often an adversarial landlord tenant relationship in the UK.
The Group has daily contact with its two major tenants through either scheduled management meetings or ongoing property and asset management efforts.
This ongoing dialogue between the Group and its tenants assists the Group in its management of the real estate outsourcing contracts, including the purchase of additional assets to fill new space requirements or otherwise adapting to its tenants changing needs for space.
Operational capability and capacity The Group has the operational capability and capacity to integrate both large and small property transactions, including real estate outsourcing contracts, into its existing portfolios.
Real estate outsourcing can be a cost effective solution for large space users who want to raise capital and reduce costs, especially within central and local governments and Mapeley believes that the ability to take on further contracts will provide additional opportunities beyond the Groups direct property acquisition programme.
Above top: Touthill Close, Peterborough Above: St Vincent Street, Glasgow Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 09
