Board of Directors John Harris, Non-Executive Director Executive Director Mr Harris is a Non-Executive Director of Mapeley.
Jameson Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer and Director He is the president of Lincoln Harris LLC, a full service Mr Hopkins is the Chief Executive Officer of Mapeley corporate real estate services firm based in Charlotte, and has been involved with the Group since its North Carolina.
He was formerly president of the Bissell formation in 1999.
He is responsible for all areas of Companies, Inc, a major commercial real estate and business, including day-to-day operations, future investment management company.
growth opportunities and long-term strategy.
He joined Mapeley from Delancey Estates, where he Charles Parkinson, Non-Executive Director was the acquisitions director and was responsible for Mr Parkinson is a Non-Executive Director of Mapeley.
investment property and asset management activity He practised as an accountant in Guernsey between in respect of the property portfolio.
Prior to that he 1981 and 2004, when he retired as Chairman of PKF was a director of Savills.
He is now Deputy Minister, Treasury and Resources Department of the States of Non-Executive Directors Guernsey and is a resident of Guernsey.
Mr Parkinson Wesley R Edens, Chairman is Chairman of the M&G Income Investment Company Mr Edens is a principal and the chairman of Fortress Limited and a non-executive director of Dexion Equity Investment Group LLC FIG, having co-founded the Alternative Limited, Teesland Advantage Property firm in 1998.
Mr Edens is responsible for the operations Income Trust Limited and The Global High Yield Bond and management of FIGs private equity business and Trust Limited.
He is a chartered accountant and is a is the chairman and chief executive officer of Newcastle qualified barrister.
Prior to forming FIG, Mr Edens was head of Global Principal Finance at UBS Securities LLC Michael Fascitelli, Non-Executive Director from May 1997 to May 1998, and, prior to that, Mr Fascitelli was appointed a Non-Executive Director he was a partner and managing director of BlackRock of Mapeley on 20 December 2005.
He is President of Financial Management Inc. where he headed BlackRock Vornado Realty Trust, a real estate investment trust Asset Investors.
In addition, Mr Edens was formerly based in New York.
He also serves on the Board of a partner and managing director of Lehman Brothers.
Trustees of Vornado, Alexanders, Inc. and GMH Communities Trust.
He was formerly a partner at Roger Carey, Non-Executive Director Goldman Sachs & Co. Mr Carey is a Non-Executive Director of Mapeley.
He was a director of Slough Estates plc from 1983 to 1996 and was chief executive of Saville Gordon Estates plc from 1997, leading a management buyout in 2002.
The company, renamed Industrious, was subsequently sold to Brixton plc in 2005.
Mr Carey was a nonexecutive director of TR Property Unit Trust from 1993-2002, and is currently the non-executive chairman of Ibis Project Services Ltd and Protego Industrial Guernsey Ltd and a non-executive director of Bassett Trust Ltd and of residual Industrious companies.
He is a past President of the British Property Federation.
