Minerva plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2005 1 Board of Directors Andrew Rosenfeld BSC MRICS Chairman Aged 43 Responsible for ensuring the running of the Board and for setting the long-term strategy of the Group.
He founded the Group in 1988, prior to which he worked for merchant bankers, Schroders, Berisford Property Group, and Land Investors plc.
2 12 Salmaan Hasan BA MBA Chief Executive Aged 40 Joined Minerva in July 2005 from Deutsche Postbank AG where, as Head of Property Finance, he concluded over 5 billion of structured property loans in the UK and Europe.
Prior to this he worked at Industrial Bank of Japan and Samuel Montagu in London.
He is responsible for setting the strategy 34 of the Group, day to day management and new business initiatives.
3 Ivan Ezekiel BSC FCA ATII Finance Director Aged 39 Responsible for finance, accounting, tax and coordination of management and external reporting.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG and worked for Capital and Regional Properties plc for three years 56 as Group Financial Controller before joining Minerva plc in November 1997 as Chief Financial Officer.
He was appointed to the Board in March 2005 as Finance Director.
78 Minerva plc 21 Annual report and accounts 2005 4 7 Tim Garnham BSC Christopher Sheridan FCIB MSI Development Director Non-executive Director Aged 48 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Joined Minerva in January 1998 from the Aged 62 Trafalgar House Property Group where, as Joined Samuel Montagu & Co Limited in Deputy Managing Director, he was responsible 1962 and became a Director in 1974.
He was for the UK development programme including appointed head of Samuel Montagus Treasury a number of major London developments.
Division, with overall responsibility for all the He is responsible for the overall control of the banks dealing activities, in 1976.
He was Chief Groups development activities.
Executive of Samuel Montagu from 1984 to 5 1994, where as head of merchant banking Paul Coster MRICS of the Midland Bank Group he oversaw the Property Director changes during Big Bang as well as the Aged 53 integration into HSBC.
He is Chairman of Responsible principally for the Park Place Yorkshire Building Society and non-executive development activities in Croydon.
He joined the Director of Alpha Bank London Limited, Group in November 1989 and was previously Hanover Acceptances Limited and Standard Managing Director of the publicly quoted Bank London Limited.
He is also a member of Centrovincial Estates plc and, prior to joining the International Executive Committee of the law Minerva, he was a main board director of firm Lovells.
Appointed to the Board of Minerva Burford Holdings plc where he was responsible in November 1996. for the management of the investment portfolio.
8 6 Christopher Mackenzie Clive Richards OBE FCA FCMA FMIM Non-executive Director Senior non-executive Director Member designate of the Audit and Remuneration Committees Chairman of the Audit Committee Aged 51 Member of the Remuneration Committee Aged 68 Adjunct Professor of corporate development Following six years at Peat Marwick Mitchell at INSEAD, the European Business School.
in 1960 he joined Wedd Durlacher Mordant, His 30 year career includes investment banking subsequently a major constituent part of in Japan and in the USA at JP Morgan and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd where he became Schroders in the 1980s.
In 1993, he joined Managing Partner.
From 1970 to 1976 he GE as President of GE Capital Europe, and worked at N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd where joined the Board of GECC in 1997.
In 2000, he rose to become Group Finance Director.
he became President and Chief Executive In 1976 he left to set up his own investment of TrizecHahn Corporation, the Canadian and financial services company Clive Richards real estate company, where he focused on & Co which has been involved in a number its core US operations, and converted it into of successful ventures.
He is currently a REIT, Trizec Properties, Inc.
He has since non-executive Chairman of Intelligent concentrated his activities in the private equity Environments Group plc and CEL International arena, including property and holds a number Limited and a non-executive Director of of non-executive board appointments including Corin Group PLC and Xpertise Group PLC.
the leading media marketing group WPP.
Appointed to the Board of Minerva in November 1996.
