Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 Directors report 20 The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 March 2005.
1 Principal activities and business review The group is engaged in property investment, directly and through specialist unit trusts and joint venture arrangements and property development and management through its subsidiaries and through joint venture arrangements.
It is intended that the group will continue to pursue further acquisition and development opportunities and to increase funds under management.
A detailed review of the activities and prospects of the company and its subsidiaries is contained in the Chairmans statement and in the Operating and Financial review on pages 2 to 15 and should be read as part of this report.
2 Results and dividends The financial statements deal with the results of the group for the year ended 31 March 2005 which are shown on page 32.
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation amounted to 21.7 million 2004 20.9 million profit.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend 2004 6.1p, an interim dividend of 2.6p 2004 2.4p was paid on 7 January 2005.
3 Share capital Details of changes in the share capital during the year are explained in note 21 to the financial statements.
4 Investment properties Investment properties with a book value of 45.0 million at 31 March 2005 were professionally valued by external valuers.
The directors have valued certain properties which are undergoing significant development which was not completed at the year end, at 96.3 million, based on formal assessments of gross development value given to the directors by the groups valuers.
5 Directors The directors of the company who held ofce during the year and as at the date of this report are shown on page 18.
Mr H R Mould, Mr V T Beresford and Mr R A Hambro retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Sir Derek Hornby, being aged 75 and Mr M C Stoddart, being aged 73, offer themselves for re-election.
The company supports the re-election of both Sir Derek Hornby and Mr M C Stoddart because their considerable experience is believed to be an asset to the company.
The interests of the directors and their families in shares of the company and in share options are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
There has been no change in the beneficial and non-beneficial shareholdings of the directors between 31 March 2005 and the date of this report.
All service contracts are for a period of less than one year.
6 Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
7 Substantial shareholdings The directors have been notied that the following shareholders have a disclosable interest of 3% or more in the ordinary shares of the company at the date of this report: Shares % General Electric Pension Trust 19,335,710 21.47 Prudential plc M&G 5,260.941 5.84 Aegon Asset Management 3,244,706 3.60 8 Going concern The following statement is made solely in order to comply with paragraph 12.43v of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and section C. 1.2 of the Combined Code.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
9 Corporate governance The directors statement on corporate governance is set out on page 28.
Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 21 10 Environment The board recognises the importance of maintaining and improving the environment.
All acquisitions are subject to assessment to identify the presence of any potential environmentally harmful materials or contaminants.
A remediation strategy is then put in place to treat any contamination as appropriate.
The board has an established policy on the environment and a framework for ensuring compliance with all relevant laws and regulations.
Consultants are used to advise on and undertake the compliance on a property by property basis.
All contracts are reviewed to ensure they fully bind third party contractors to comply with environmental regulations.
There is a regular Environmental Report to the board.
11 Health and safety The group is committed to achieving a high standard of health and safety.
The group operates and regularly reviews its health and safety policies and practices to ensure that appropriate standards are maintained.
12 Suppliers The group aims to settle supplier accounts in accordance with their individual terms of business.
At 31 March 2005 there were 13 days 2004 20 days purchases outstanding in respect of the groups creditors.
13 Donations During the year the group made charitable donations of 10,200.
There were no political donations.
14 Auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company.
15 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew the companys existing authority to purchase its own shares in the market.
This authority shall be limited to 9,004,887shares representing approximately 10% of the shares in issue at the date of passing of the resolution.
The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of authority would not exceed 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the companys ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase.
The directors would only exercise the power to purchase any shares when satisfied that such purchase would have a beneficial effect on net assets per share and generally that it would be in the shareholders interests to exercise that power.
The directors have no immediate plans to exercise this power and propose to keep the matter under review.
As a result of recent changes to the Companies Act 1985, certain listed companies which buy back their own shares are now permitted, subject to certain restrictions, to hold up to 10% of their issued shares in treasury rather than cancelling them as previously required.
Instead, such repurchased shares may be held by companies as treasury shares and later resold for cash, transferred for the purposes of an employee share scheme, or cancelled.
While any shares are held in treasury, voting rights are suspended, dividends are not paid and companies cannot take advantage of statutory pre-emption rights in respect of the shares other than in connection with a bonus issue of fully paid shares.
The board would consider holding as treasury shares any shares which the company repurchases pursuant to the authority provided by this resolution.
To the extent that any shares repurchased by the company are held in treasury, earnings per share will only be increased on a temporary basis until such time as the shares are sold or transferred out of treasury.
Overall, the board believes that the ability of the company to hold shares in treasury will provide the company with greater exibility in the management of its share capital.
As at 22 May 2005, the company held no shares in treasury.
By order of the board P J Martin Secretary 22 May 2005
