Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 14 PREF Sintra Retail Park, Lisbon, Portugal Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 15 PREF has now been operating for 12 months The park at Bretigny is not scheduled to be We are continuing to build up our management since its establishment as a closed ended completed until 2008 as the scheme is subject resources and we now have two investment Luxembourg based fund in March last year.
to local detailed planning consents.
However, managers in our small Madrid office and a project Pillars investment is c40 million which represents given its prime location and the extent of interest management surveyor has recently joined us to 36% of the equity currently invested but this will already being shown we believe that when it is provide a key input into the increasing number be reduced as new equity is drawn down.
completed, it will represent an excellent of forward development schemes with which PREF currently owns four income producing investment at the contracted gross acquisition PREF is involved alongside local developers.
retail parks, with a value of c232.8 million and yield of 7.5%.
We are pleased to have secured A Luxembourg office has been established with a total area of 114,000 sq m. These parks are our first park in France as we have been a resident European finance manager in order located outside the cities of Madrid, Bologna pursuing a number of opportunities over the to maximise administrative efficiency and reduce and Lisbon and, the most recent, is at Arlon in past two years without success.
With the increasing number of the south of Belgium.
Due to various management Further acquisitions are in prospect.
Italian investments, it is likely that the next office initiatives put in place over the past year, all We have invested a considerable amount of time will be established in Italy.
parks are now virtually fully let with an aggregate on due diligence and in detailed negotiations on Over the past three years, Pillar and its vacancy rate of less than 0.5%.
Footfall on the several schemes, four of which are in Italy, and partner, Doric have invested an increasing first three parks has been maintained or has we hope that all of them will be secured before amount of time and management resource shown a marked increase over the last 12 months too long.
If we are able to finalise contracts on in investigating and understanding the relatively and, at Arlon which opened in the Autumn, all of them, they will provide a total of an embryonic retail park market in the European feedback from tenants has been positive with additional 100,000 sq m of space and will bring countries under review.
We believe that our several reporting returns above expectations.
our total portfolio to 250,000 sq m with a value initial expectations regarding this market have PREF has also contracted to acquire a of approximately c520 million.
been fully substantiated by our experiences further two parks, at Fidenza, near Parma, Italy Total funds invested and committed now over the last 12 months.
There is an undoubted and at Bretigny-sur-Orge, south of Paris which, aggregate to c195 million.
A recent major investor increased interest in retail parks being shown when both are completed, will provide a further has been Morley Fund Management whose by both investors and retailers.
Whilst progress 70,000 sq m of retail space.
The Fidenza Park was clients have committed a total of c100 million.
in this first year has been somewhat slower forward acquired from UNIECO, a major Italian This total of c195 million is sufficient to finance than we had originally foreseen, we are construction group, for a total of circa c60 million, all current commitments and most of the increasingly confident of the success of the based on a gross yield of 7.75%.
It is located on investments being investigated but, with an outcome when PREF is fully invested with the A1 motorway and, when completed in 2006, increasing deal flow, we anticipate securing a quality retail park portfolio.
will form part of the largest out-of-town retail further investors later in the year.
Tenant interest is already strong with discussions ongoing with several national and international retailers.
Humphrey Price and Valentine Beresford, Directors
