Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 05 Balance sheet The increase in net asset value to 720.9 million of 9.96% 2004 655.6 million is despite returning 109.7 million of capital to shareholders and is due primarily to the continuing strong performance of HUT and the profits in the year from the disposal of the Manchester Fort and Farnborough retail park developments.
Total borrowings have increased by 108 million following the return of capital to shareholders in August 2004.
The net gearing at the year end was 33% 2004 19%.
At 31 March 2005, the groups average debt maturity was 0.82 years with average hedging duration of 0.25 years and total borrowings were 263.6 million with undrawn committed bank facilities of 102.1 million.
The average cost of debt is currently 4.71%.
Hedging arrangements and the debt maturity profile are monitored regularly.
Tenants covenants The profile of the retail park tenants remains strong, with over 78.5% of income from leases with first class covenants.
The average unexpired lease term is 14.18 years, including breaks, and there were no bad debts during the year.
IFRS In common with all listed companies, we will be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for our reporting period commencing 1 April 2005.
The new standards will alter the basis of reporting our financial performance.
A programme is underway to evaluate the impact of adopting the new standards.
Funds under management m HUT CLOUT Total HIF PREF 2004 2,133.7 2005 2,509.7 2004 0 2005 42.5 2004 618.0 2005 581.5 2004 130.7 2005 160.1 2004 2,882.4 2005 3,293.8 Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 06 HUT Glasgow Fort Shopping Park Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 07 In 2004 the Trust had its best performing year The investment market The property market In February 2005 the Open A1 Fife Central since its formation with a total return for the as a whole has continued to perform very Retail Park, owned by Stannifer was sold for year to 31 December 2004 of 36.9%.
The three strongly over the past 12 months with many 92 million, showing an initial yield of 3.6%.
year annualised return is now 29.9% per institutions increasing their exposure to the These transactions could set a new benchmark annum.
During 2004 the capital return achieved sector, and in particular to retail warehousing, and are an indication that a rebalancing of the was 32.4%.
which has again been one of the top performing yield relationship, to more truly reflect underlying Over the past 12 months a total of 34 sub-sectors.
demand, is beginning in the marketplace.
new lettings were achieved and 22 surrenders The continuing influx of monies into the Consequently a more traditional relationship were negotiated.
These various initiatives had market has led to further yield compression between prime and secondary retail park the effect of increasing the total rental value from across all parts of the retail warehouse market.
investments of nearer 100 basis points should the portfolio from 120.5 million per annum The solus units and secondary retail parks have emerge over the next 12 months.
benefited most and the yield gap between this The occupier market The UK retail market remains Over the same period the Trust also sub-sector and the prime Open A1 shopping extremely competitive for both the traditional completed 517 million of acquisitions and parks is, in our opinion, unsustainably close.
This high street retailers and the bulky goods operators.
Key transactions over relationship does not fully reflect the underlying During 2004 several retailers encountered the 12 months include the completion of the demand dynamics which exist between the difficulties with Powerhouse, Pilot and Courts all purchase of the new Glasgow Fort Shopping Park traditional high street operators who are appointing administrators.
and the purchase of the Parkgate Shopping increasingly occupying the Open A1 retail parks During the first few months of 2005 retailers Park in Rotherham, in addition to a 50% and the bulky goods operators.
Over the last have stated that the retail climate remains stake in the Banbury Cross Retail Park and 18 months it is the Open A1 retail parks which have extremely competitive and an increasing number the off-market purchase of Great Malvern Retail been experiencing the stronger occupier demand of operators are finding it ever more challenging Park.
The Trust sold four parks, plus a 50% as high street retailers continue to increase their to deliver positive like for like sales growth.
share of Springvale Retail Park, Orpington.
These number of out-of-town locations with some, However, demand from the same retailers remains were the parks within the Trust with restricted such as Boots and Next, also increasing the size strong on the Open A1 schemes as they pay consents or where it was felt that management of existing stores, thus stimulating superior ever increasing attention to occupational costs.
initiatives had been maximised over the medium rental growth.
Increasing occupational costs, outdated term.
Compounding the artificially narrow yield and inefficient accommodation, high service Following the year end the Trust also gap between prime and secondary stock has charges and traffic congestion have helped completed on the sale of The Retail Park Unit Trust, been the lack of retail park transactions at to drive the migration away from the town centre.
the sole asset of which is Fosse Park, Leicester.
the prime end of the sector which has resulted This was particularly evidenced by Dixons There are currently 22 parks in the property in insufficient market evidence to rebalance the announcement that they are to close a third portfolio which has grown to 2.5 billion in value yield relationship.
However, in the first few months of their town centre portfolio amounting and provides over 5.4 million sq ft of lettable of 2005 several Open A1 parks have been to 106 stores.
area, even allowing for the sale of Fosse Park.
For example in February The Trust has an average park size of over 2005 Pillar sold the 320,500 sq ft Manchester 246,000 sq ft with over 88% of the portfolio Fort Shopping Park to the Universities benefiting from Open A1 or Open Restricted Superannuation Scheme for a total consideration planning consent.
of 167.3 million, representing a net initial yield of approximately 4.5%.
Andrew Jones, Director Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 HUT continued 08 There remains more concern within the bulky Sales and acquisitions Over the last 12 months As part of the purchase of Rotherham, the Trust goods market where demand for 15,000 sq ft, the Trust has continued to reposition the portfolio sold Newport Retail Park for 60 million.
20,000 sq ft and 30,000 sq ft units remains towards Open A1 retail parks and has taken The Trust also concluded the purchase fragile.
An indicator of this is the time the market advantage of the aggressive pricing for the and sale of interests in five properties in one is taking to absorb a significant number of the secondary parks, disposing of smaller assets in transaction, acquiring a 50% interest in Banbury former Courts units, particularly those with bulky Oxford and two parks in Torquay for 72 million.
Cross Retail Park, Banbury and selling a 50% planning consents.
As noted above, the Trust also made three stake in the Springvale Retail Park, Orpington Increasingly, established retailers in this outright purchases, the Great Malvern Retail along with three smaller schemes all under sector such as Currys, Carpetright, DFS and Park, Malvern, the Glasgow Fort Shopping Park, 110,00 sq ft.
These are the Oxford Retail Park PC World, who have sufficient market presence Glasgow and Parkgate Retail Park, Rotherham.
including the Chiltern Business Centre and and customer draw, are looking to relocate The acquisition of the 118,000 sq ft Great Malvern the Riviera and Wren Retail Parks in Torquay.
away from the higher rented primary parks Retail Park in April 2004 was an opportunistic The Trust retained a 1% interest in the Torquay onto good secondary locations where rents purchase to take advantage of what was an under properties as a result of the structure of the sale are more affordable.
Tenant reconfiguration but this will not be a long-term hold.
As well as strong continuing demand has already resulted in an uplift in valuation of On 1 April 2005 the Trust also completed from the more established operators such as 40% since purchase.
on the sale of Fosse Park, Leicester.
REIT Asset Next, Arcadia, Argos and Sports World, new Glasgow Fort Shopping Park is Glasgows Management purchased a 100% interest in retailers and new concepts are entering the newest shopping development and officially The Retail Park Unit Trust, which owned Fosse out-of-town market.
It was purchased in Park, for 308 million.
Originally purchased by Asda are trialling both their Living concept an off-market transaction from Pillar and Capital HUT in 2001, Fosse Park is widely accepted as store at Walsall and Altrincham and their stand & Regional in June 2004 for 194.7 million.
the UKs premier retail park, anchored by Marks alone George concept at four out-of-town The price reflected an equivalent yield of 5.7% & Spencer, Next and Bhs.
Marks & Spencer opened two general off a range of assumed rental values from completion of a period of intensive active merchandise stores at Speke and Swansea, as 35.00 to 45.00 per sq ft dependent upon unit management it was concluded that the Trusts part of a trial format for the out-of-town market.
At 380,000 sq ft the Open A1 returns could be enhanced by investing the More recently Tesco have announced shopping park already has over 60 brands trading monies elsewhere in the sector.
The sale of plans to open two non-food Tesco Home plus and has attracted a wide range of high street Fosse was the largest ever single out-of-town stores at Aberdeen and at Denton in retailers.
Many retailers including Zara, Oasis, retail transaction in the UK.
Manchester, with two more expected to open Principles, Perfume Shop and Warehouse have Going forward the Trust will look to purchase soon after at Bristol and Telford.
entered the out-of-town arena for the first time.
further investments both within the open market At 562,000 sq ft the Parkgate Retail Park and from the Pillar development pipeline which in Rotherham is the UKs fourth largest retail offers the Trust pre-emption rights over all its retail park.
The purchase price of 260 million reflects warehouse developments.
an equivalent yield of 5.25% off a rental value of 40.00 per sq ft.
The park is clearly in line with the Trusts acquisition strategy and will increase the Trusts dominance of the shopping park sector.
Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 09 Asset management Throughout the year the Conclusion The increasing sophistication Trust has achieved considerable success in the of the retail warehouse market has continued relaxation of planning constraints across a number apace and both the planning and investment of parks in response to retailers changing needs.
environments continue to become more It is now increasingly flexible in the unit size challenging as new opportunities in the open it is able to offer to either existing retailers or new market place become harder to find.
Two key entrants to the parks.
Unit sizes ranging up to factors will challenge the Trust moving forward, 15,000 sq ft now account for over 47% of these are the rigorous enforcement of government the portfolio.
planning policies by local planning authorities Of the surrenders taken throughout the curtailing the supply of new parks even further, year the majority have been from bulky goods and the likelihood that legislation restricting operators with re-lettings made to traditional the construction of mezzanines will be introduced high street retailers improving tenant mixes.
The during 2005. effect of this is that nine of the top 15 retailers In response to this, whilst the Trust will in the portfolio, are now high street retailers.
continue to look at new opportunities, the existing Parks on which planning relaxations have assets will be aggressively managed in order to been achieved include Borehamwood Shopping increase rental values and improve tenant mix Park, New Mersey Shopping Park, Speke, across the portfolio.
We will leverage the already Deepdale Shopping Park, Preston and Colne strong relationships that we enjoy with the leading Valley, Watford.
These relaxations have enabled retailers and look to build new contacts with the retailer line ups on the parks to be enhanced operators entering the market for the first time.
and additional rental values to be achieved in both the short and medium term.
During the 12 months the Trust has also submitted large scale proposals to extend two key shopping parks within the portfolio.
At Broughton Shopping Park, Chester a proposed extension and improvements to the park are centred around the provision of a new 90,000 sq ft, two storey, Marks & Spencer full line store, along with an extension to the existing shopping terrace.
At Fort Kinnaird, Edinburgh consent to develop an additional 120,000 sq ft of Open A1 accommodation and 17,000 sq ft of leisure provision is also being sought.
Mark Stirling Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 10 HIF Kingsteignton Retail Park, Newton Abbot Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 11 In September 2004 Pillar launched the As at the end of March 2005 Pillar owned In addition two BAe Pension Funds have Hercules Income Fund HIF, a new Jersey 67% of the units in the Trust with a value of contributed a portfolio of six properties valued based property unit trust focusing on smaller 30.4 million, initially seeding the fund with two at over 54 million.
The portfolio comprises a retail parks and clusters as a key sub-sector retail parks purchased in September 2004 for retail park in Weymouth totalling 48,000 sq ft let of the UK retail warehouse market.
These were the Newton Abbot to B&Q, a stand alone B&Q unit totalling Pillar created the Trust in response to Retail Park, Newton Abbot and the Barnstaple 41,000 sq ft on the Uxbridge Road, Hayes and changing retailer demands for space as Retail Park, Barnstaple.
a 38,400 sq ft retail park let to PC World and leading brands, such as PC World and Currys, In March 2005 the BT Pension Fund Office World in the Finnieston area of Glasgow.
who have sufficient marketing presence and subscribed for new units within the Trust Also as part of the portfolio the Trust has customer draw, begin a shift away from the and in consideration for the units injected a completed on the purchase of a Matalan unit in larger Open A1 shopping parks.
This sub-sector 37,000 sq ft Homebase store in Bearsden, Romford totalling 39,600 sq ft, the 21,000 sq ft of smaller retail park locations has traditionally Glasgow.
They also invested further monies Birkenshaw Trading Estate Uddingston in been viewed as an income type investment with towards the acquisition of a 48,000 sq ft Glasgow and a 26,000 sq ft Wickes store on few active management opportunities and is Matalan store in Plymouth.
These purchases the Lower High Street, Watford.
now ripe for Pillars specialist skills and intensive increased the fund value to 42.5 million as Following these transactions the gross asset management approach.
at the end of March 2005. property portfolio will rise to 119 million upon The aim of the Trust is to establish a Since year end the Royal Mail Pension practical completion of Phase 2 at East Kilbride.
portfolio of smaller retail warehouse parks, let to Fund has provided additional funds allowing HIF is also currently in negotiations with another key retailers in dominant locations with long the Trust to purchase a new retail warehouse major UK institution to inject an additional unexpired lease terms, let to good covenants, development in East Kilbride.
The 58,000 sq ft 40,000 sq ft of retail warehousing into the but with some asset management opportunities.
DSG development for PC World, Currys and portfolio in return for units.
The portfolios critical mass will be utilised to others will be developed in two phases.
The total number of properties in the Trust actively exploit value-generating opportunities Phase 1, the PC World completed in April 2005, has increased to 11 with a GIA of over 413,000 such as extensions, voids, rent reviews, with completion of Phase 2 by the end of sq ft and 14 tenants.
Investors in the Trust have sub-divisions and lease regearing, as well as November 2005. increased to five and Pillars holding, in line with leveraging existing relationships with leading stated objectives, has been reduced to 26% retailers to create economies of scale.
following the additional subscription for units.
This investment strategy does not place The additional parks brought into the HIF in conflict with the Hercules Unit Trust portfolio will enable the Trust to grow with as HIF is targeting much smaller lot sizes of properties that have strong covenants, good less than 20 million and will place a greater security of income and generally low passing emphasis on distributable yield than HUT.
rents offering plenty of scope for rental growth and asset management in the future.
Mark Stirling and Andrew Jones, Director
