18 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Board of Directors Nigel Adrian Rebecca Ellis Wyatt Worthington Nick James Shattock Hamilton Stubber Nigel Ellis Adrian Wyatt Rebecca Worthington Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Aged 66, a Chartered Accountant, Nigel joined Aged 57, Adrian established Quintain in 1992.
He Aged 33, Rebecca joined Quintain in March 1998 Quintain in 1995 as a non-executive director is a Chartered Surveyor and a Chartered Financial as Group Accountant.
In July 2001, she was following his retirement from BAA Plc, where he Analyst.
As Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman, appointed Finance Director with additional was Group Finance Director from 1988.
Prior to he is responsible for all areas of the Groups responsibility for Quintains Investor Relations.
that he was Finance Director of Hammerson Plc.
strategy and is closely involved with all acquisitions She had previously held the position of Company and disposals.
He is also a member of the Secretary from March 2000 to July 2002.
Nigel became Chairman of Quintain in March Donations and Nominations Committees.
1996, and is also Chairman of its Nominations Rebecca qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Committee.
Prior to the formation of Quintain, Adrian spent  in 1997 and worked as 21 years at Jones Lang LaSalle, where he gained Financial Controller for Britton Group plc prior to Nick Shattock extensive experience of tax planning and financial joining Quintain.
Property Director structures as a Proprietary Partner in charge of Aged 45, a lawyer, Nick joined Quintain in 1995 fund management and founder of its finance from the City law firm SJ Berwin where he was a company.
James Hamilton Stubber Nick heads Quintains Special Projects division Business Development Director which manages the Groups larger assets, Aged 50, James joined Quintain in October 2002 complex restructuring and urban regeneration as Chief Operating Officer from Jones Lang programmes.
Projects include the major LaSalle where he was a National Director regeneration opportunities on the Greenwich leading a specialised Transaction Services Team.
Since the year end, James has taken Nick is also the Chairman of Wembley London over responsibility for securing new business Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Quintain, opportunities, having passed his administration which operates the Wembley Arena, Conference responsibilities to Rebecca Worthington.
19 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Board of Directors David Lady Judge Joan Pangbourne MacNaughton Martin John Tom Meech Plender Cross Brown David Pangbourne Lady Judge Joan MacNaughton CB Non-Executive Director previously known as Barbara Thomas Non-Executive Director Aged 65, David was appointed to the Board Non-Executive Director Aged 54, Joan MacNaughton was appointed in August 2001.
He is a Chartered Accountant Aged 58, Lady Judge was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director of the Group in and spent most of his working life with Deloitte & of Quintain in March 2000.
She is a lawyer, an January 2004.
Touche where he was a partner for 24 years until international banker and entrepreneur.
Joan has worked for the Civil Service throughout retiring in 1997.
Formerly Lady Judge was a Commissioner of the her career.
She has held the position of Director David had a special interest in taxation in the UK US Securities & Exchange Commission and an General, Energy within the DTI since January and internationally.
He has experience in working executive director of Samuel Montagu and News 2002.
Previous positions included Director with substantial multinational companies, including International, among others.
General, Policy Lord Chancellors Department, those involved in property.
Chief Executive Police Information Technology She is currently Chairman of the UK Atomic Organisation and Principal Private Secretary to David is Chairman of the Groups Audit and Energy Authority, Deputy Chairman of Friends the Rt Hon.
Kenneth Clarke, the Rt Hon.
Michael Remuneration Committees and a member of Provident plc and the Financial Reporting Council, Howard and Lord Whitelaw while he was Deputy its Nominations and Donations Committees.
She is also Chairman of the Prime Minister.
In 2004, she was elected chair Professional Standards Advisory Board of the of the Governing Body of the International Martin Meech Institute of Directors.
Non-Executive Director Lady Judge is a member of the Groups Audit, Aged 47, Martin was appointed to the Board Joan is a member of the Groups Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Donations in July 2000.
Remuneration, Nominations and Donations Committees and is the Senior Independent Committees.
He joined the Dixons Group in 1993 as Group Director.
Property and Development Director, and since Tom Cross Brown January 1999 has been Managing Director of John Plender Non-Executive Director Dixons Group Retail Properties Limited.
Non-Executive Director Aged 57, Tom Cross Brown was appointed as a Aged 60, John joined the Company as Martin is currently a non-executive director of non-executive director of the Group in May 2005. a non-executive director in July 2002.
Holborn Public Relations Limited, Currys Group Tom has extensive fund management plc and DSG Retail Limited, and a Fellow of the John trained as a Chartered Accountant and is a and corporate finance experience and was Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Martin is former chairman of PIRC.
He is currently a leading formerly Global Chief Executive Officer of Chairman of the Groups Donations Committee journalist with the Financial Times, and brings to ABN Amro Asset Management and prior to and a member of its Audit, Remuneration and the Group a wide experience in both investment that spent 21 years at Lazard Brothers where Nominations Committees.
he was latterly Chief Executive of Lazard Brothers John is a member of the Groups Audit, Asset Management Limited.
He is currently Remuneration, Nominations and Donations a non-executive director of Pearl Group Limited Committees.
and Artemis Investment Management Limited.
Tom is a member of the Groups Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Donations Committees.
