38 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 External Valuation Reports Reports from the Principal External Valuers to the directors of Quintain Estates and Development PLC From Jones Lang LaSalle Limited Following the Budget Statement by the Chancellor of Quintain Estates and Development PLC the Exchequer on 16 March 2005, exemption from Stamp Property Portfolio Valuation 31 March 2005 Duty Land Tax is no longer available on non-residential land We have valued those freehold and leasehold investment transactions within the designated disadvantaged areas.
properties referred to in your instruction letter as at All our valuations are net of Stamp Duty Land Tax and normal 31 March 2005 for the purposes of your annual accounts.
Our valuations have been made on the basis of market value in We have not made any allowance for properties that are jointly accordance with the Practice Statements in the RICS Appraisal owned and have therefore reflected the full open market value of and Valuation Standards 5th Edition.
these properties in our certificate.
Adjustments should be made elsewhere in your accounts for any partial interests.
We have inspected the top 30 properties by value, a third of the remainder and all properties acquired over the last Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the 12 months.
For each property we have made relevant aggregate of the market values of the freehold and leasehold local enquiries and obtained such other information as we properties, as at 31 March 2005, subject to and with the benefit considered necessary to provide you with our opinions of value.
of the tenancies then subsisting where applicable, was: No allowance has been made in our valuations for expenses Properties Held as Investments 345,900,000 of realisation or for any taxation which might arise in the event THREE HUNDRED AND FORTY FIVE MILLION NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND POUNDS of a disposal and our valuations are expressed as exclusive of any Value Added Tax that may become chargeable.
Categorised as follows: Freehold and Feuhold 208,495,000 Our valuations assume that there is good and marketable Long leasehold 109,140,000 title to the properties and that they are free of any undisclosed Short leasehold 14,765,000 burdens, outgoings, restrictions or charges.
We have not read Part Freehold and Part Leasehold 13,500,000 all documents of title nor leases and, for the purpose of our valuations, have accepted the details of tenure, tenancies and all Properties Occupied by the Group 11,722,000 other relevant information with which we have been supplied by ELEVEN MILLION SEVEN HUNDRED AND TWENTY TWO THOUSAND POUNDS your Company or other professional advisers.
We have not seen or read the planning consents and have assumed that the Categorised as follows: buildings have been erected and are being occupied and used in accordance with all requisite consents and that there are no Long leasehold 11,700,000 outstanding statutory notices.
Short leasehold 22,000 We were not instructed to carry out structural surveys of the In accordance with our normal practice, we confirm that this properties, nor to test any of the services, but have reflected in Report is confidential to the Company Directors for the specific our valuations, where necessary, any defects, items of disrepair purpose to which it refers.
No responsibility is accepted to any or the benefit of any improvements which we noticed during the third party, and neither the whole of the Report, nor any part, nor course of our inspections, or of which you have subsequently reference thereto, may be published in any document, statement advised us.
Our valuations assume that the buildings contain or circular, nor in any communication with third parties without no deleterious materials, and that the sites are unaffected by our prior written approval of the form and context in which it adverse soil conditions or environmental contamination, except will appear.
where we have been notified to the contrary.
Should it, however, be established subsequently that contamination exists at any Finally, we confirm that the above valuation has been carried property or on any neighbouring land or that the premises have out by us as External Valuers, qualified for the purposes of the been or are being put to a contaminative use, this might reduce valuation in accordance with the requirements of the Practice the values now reported.
Statements in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
Unless expressly advised to the contrary we assume that Yours faithfully appropriate insurance cover is and will be available on commercially acceptable terms relating to composite panels, J P Etches MRICS terrorism and flooding.
Accordingly, our opinions of value make Associate Director no allowance for the risk that insurance cover for any property For and on behalf of may not be available, or may only be available on onerous Jones Lang LaSalle Limited terms, or for any adverse market reaction to the presence of composite panels.
39 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 External Valuation Reports From Savills Commercial Limited The above total includes a 100% share of the interest at Land Holdings at Greenwich Peninsula, Silvertown Silvertown of 22,250,000.
The figure reflecting the terms of a and Wembley Joint Venture Agreement with the London Development Agency We confirm that we have inspected the above properties and at that property is 15,500,000 with the aggregate reducing to made all relevant enquiries in order to provide you with our 376,150,000 Three Hundred and Seventy Six Million One opinion of Market Value as at 31 March 2005 of the various Hundred and Fifty Thousand Pounds.
property interests which Quintain Estates and Development PLC hold.
Our Valuation Certificate comments on the high degree of subjectivity in this instance for all of the properties and various We confirm that our valuations have been carried out in other property specific matters.
In particular, our valuation of accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Wembley includes the value of an option to acquire the freehold Appraisal and Valuation Manual and that we have carried out and long leasehold interests in land notwithstanding that the the valuation as External Valuers, qualified for the purpose of option is non-assignable.
As discussed with the Company and the valuation in accordance with that Manual.
its auditors, our valuation disregards this restriction.
Our valuations have been made on the basis of the definition, This letter is a shortform confirmation of our valuation for terms of reference, information sources, assumptions and inclusion in the Companys Report and Accounts.
No reliance conditions as noted in our formal Valuation Certificate dated should be placed upon it without simultaneous reference to our 22 April 2005.
In particular, no allowance has been made in our formal Valuation Certificate, copies of which have been provided valuations for any expenses of realisation or any taxation liability to you and which are available for inspection at your offices by arising from a sale of any property and all figures are expressed interested parties.
exclusive of Value Added Tax.
Yours faithfully Our valuations are on the basis that each property has a good and marketable title and is free from any undisclosed burdens, Stephen Reasbeck MRICS outgoings, restrictions or charges.
We have, for the purpose of Director our valuations, been provided with plans and particulars as to For and on behalf of tenure and the terms of leases as have been contained within Savills Commercial Limited various documents supplied to us by the Company or its professional advisers.
Having carefully considered this matter, we have reported our opinion of Market Value as at 31 March 2005 of the freehold and other interests held, subject to and with the benefit of the existing leases and otherwise with vacant possession, at an aggregate of 382,900,000 Three Hundred and Eighty Two Million Nine Hundred Thousand Pounds.
All of the properties are held for redevelopment.
