BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 27 Report of the Directors The directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report of Bellway p. l. c. to the shareholders, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 July 2005.
Principal activities The Company is a holding company owning subsidiary undertakings which continue to be engaged principally in housebuilding in the United Kingdom.
Performance and prospects A review of the Group's performance and prospects is given in the Chairman's Statement on pages 3 to 6, the Chief Executive's Operating Review on pages 11 to 16 and in the Financial Review on pages 21 to 26.
Profits and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the year amounts to 152,763,000, of which 1,900,000 relates to preference shareholders and the balance of 150,863,000 relates to ordinary shareholders, which the directors recommend be dealt with as follows: Ordinary dividends 000 Interim dividend paid, 13.0 pence per ordinary share 14,637 Final dividend proposed, 18.25 pence per ordinary share 20,600 Total ordinary dividends, 31.25 pence per ordinary share 35,237 Retained profit for year 115,626 150,863 The directors recommend payment of the final dividend on Monday 16 January 2006 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on Friday 16 December 2005.
Directors All the directors of the Company, who are shown on pages 9 and 10, were directors throughout the year.
Three directors retire from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Two directors, Mr P J Stoker and Mr D G Perry, retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Mr L P Finn who was appointed a non-executive director on 1 August 1995 is subject to annual re-election in accordance with the Combined Code provision A.
The Board continues to consider Mr Finn to be independent.
In addition, following formal rigorous evaluation, the Board is satisfied as to the effectiveness and commitment of both Mr Finn and Mr Perry.
Being eligible, all three offer themselves for re-election.
Mr P J Stoker has a service contract which expires when he attains his normal retirement age of 60.
His contract is terminable at any time by the Company on 12 months notice.
Mr L P Finn does not have a service contract.
He has a letter of appointment with a fixed term of just over seventeen months, terminating at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in January 2007.
His letter of appointment is subject to termination by either party giving the other not less than three months' notice.
Mr D G Perry does not have a service contract.
He has a letter of appointment with a fixed term of three years, terminating on 31 October 2006.
His letter of appointment is subject to termination by either party giving the other not less than three months notice.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 28 Report of the Directors continued Directors' interests The directors' interests in the share capital of the Company and directors' share options are given in the Report of the Board on Directors' Remuneration on pages 35 to 43.
Notifiable shareholders' interests As at 17 October 2005, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Fidelity Investments holding of 10,090,918 shares, representing 8.90%.
Prudential plc holding of 4,401,651 shares, representing 3.88%.
HBOS plc holding of 4,261,453 shares, representing 3.76%.
Legal and General holding of 3,629,689 shares, representing 3.20%.
Corporate governance Introduction The Board acknowledges the importance of, and is committed to, the principle of achieving and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
This report, together with the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration as detailed on pages 35 to 43, describes how the Principles of Good Governance, as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code published in July 2003, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, are applied by the Group.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice The Group considers that it has complied with the detailed provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year to 31 July 2005.
Statement about applying the Principles of Good Governance The Group has applied the Principles of Good Governance, set out in Section 1 of the Code, including both the Main Principles and the Supporting Principles by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanations of how the Main Principles and Supporting Principles have been applied are set out below and, in connection with the directors remuneration, in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Operating Review and the Financial Review present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Board The Board consists of seven directors whose names, responsibilities and other details appear on page 9.
Three of the directors are executive and four of the directors, including the Chairman, are non-executive.
The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
It also defines the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are specifically reserved for its decision which includes various matters to do with Companies Act and other legal requirements, listing requirements, Board membership and Board Committees, management, corporate governance, employment, financial and other miscellaneous items.
In addition, it has a series of matters that are dealt with at regular Board meetings including an operational review, a financial review, land purchased, major projects, senior appointments, corporate governance, internal control and health and safety.
It has also adopted a framework of delegated commercial and operational authorities, which define the scope of powers delegated to management below Board level.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, which are recorded in writing and approved by the Board are separate with a clear division of responsibilities, ensuring a balance of responsibility and authority at the head of the Group.
The senior independent non-executive director is Mr L P Finn.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and all the directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibility as directors.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 29 Report of the Directors continued Board effectiveness The directors possess an appropriate balance of skills and experience for the requirements of the business.
During the year there were eleven Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, three meetings of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration, one meeting of the Board Committee on Non-executive Directors Remuneration and two Nomination Committee meetings.
There were no absences from any Board or committee meetings by any director, with the exception that Mr P J Stoker, Mr L P Finn and Mr D G Perry were unable to attend one Board meeting each and Mr L P Finn was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting.
Each of the non-executive directors excluding the Chairman has at all times acted independently of management and has no relationship which would materially affect the exercise of his independent judgement and decision making.
The Company considers all of its non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, to be independent, as defined in the Combined Code.
In the case of Mr L P Finn however, he has served on the Board and its Committees for more than nine years.
In April 2004, the Company consulted with its major shareholders, setting out the reasons why it considered it appropriate for Mr Finn to remain as senior independent non-executive director beyond the nine year period.
The Company received a positive response and consequently he remains as the Groups senior independent non-executive director subject, of course, to re-election each year at the Annual General Meeting, in line with the recommendations contained in the Combined Code.
The Board considers that Mr Finn continues to be independent in character and judgement.
He has experience of running a large and complex public limited company and understands the needs of institutional shareholders.
The board considered this to be vital for the role of senior independent non-executive director, particularly at a time of change as Mr. Dawe moved to become non-executive Chairman.
His independence is evidenced by his work in the public and voluntary sector, particularly in housing related matters.
One third of the directors offer themselves for re-election each year at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
In addition, each director seeks re-election every three years in accordance with the Combined Code.
Mr Finn is excluded from the foregoing as he retires each year as detailed above.
New directors appointed during the year offer themselves for re-appointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
Board balance and independence Appointments to the Board are made on merit through a formal, rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria recommended by the Nomination Committee, which also guides the whole Board in arranging orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
The appointment of non-executive directors is for a specified term and re-appointment is not automatic and is made on the recommendation of the Committee.
Mr H C Dawe was, until 1 November 2004, executive Chairman of the Group.
From that date he became non-executive Chairman.
The Board has reviewed and reaffirmed that it considers all of the non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, to be independent as defined in the Combined Code.
Whenever any director considers that he is interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Group is or may be a party, due notice is given to the Board.
No such instances of any significance have arisen during the year.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 30 Report of the Directors continued Board evaluation During the year the directors undertook an evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual directors.
The evaluation was performed using a self-assessment framework.
This involved the Chairman evaluating the performance of the other individual directors, and the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, assessing the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Board, led by the Chairman, evaluated its own performance and the Committees, led by the Chairman of each, evaluated their own performance.
As part of the process of ensuring Board effectiveness, the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, met without the Chairman present.
Additionally, the Chairman held meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present.
The Chairman also had meetings with each of the executive directors.
The Board and its Committees reviewed the results of these evaluations and are satisfied with the evidence it provided about the balance, effectiveness and performance of the Board and its Committees and the effectiveness and commitment of each director.
In coming to these conclusions, the Board can confirm that it has carried out a particularly rigorous review in relation to the effectiveness and commitment of Mr Finn and Mr Perry who are both due for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting because both will have served in excess of six years as non-executive directors of the Group at that date.
The Board Committees The Board has properly constituted Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The terms of reference for the Committees are available on request, will be available at the Annual General Meeting and are also available on the Companys website: www.
co. uk Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Mr P M Johnson Chairman, Mr L P Finn and Mr D G Perry.
It meets at least three times a year and met three times during the year under review.
It has written terms of reference and its responsibilities include the following: To consider the appointment re-appointment of the external auditors and assess their independence each year.
To recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditor and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
To agree the nature and scope of the audit and review the quality control procedures and steps taken by the auditor to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements.
To oversee the process for selecting the external auditor and make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the Annual General Meeting.
To consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
To review the Groups procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers.
To review managements reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
To assess the scope and effectiveness of the systems established by management to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks.
To review and make recommendations in relation to the interim and annual financial statements prior to submission to the Board.
The Board believes that Mr Johnson, the committee chairman, has recent relevant financial experience as a Chartered Accountant.
The Group has a written Independent Auditor Policy in place which seeks to preserve the independence of its auditors by defining what non-audit services the independent auditors may and may not provide.
There are clearly defined levels of approval depending on the value of work to be provided.
Where total non-audit fees equate to 100% of audit fees, Board approval would be requested.
Any material project with fees in excess of 200,000, where the auditors are considered for the provision of services, would be the subject of a competitive process.
During the year under review, the Finance Director and Group Company Secretary attended each meeting.
The committee met the auditors without management present on two occasions during the year.
In addition the committee chairman had regular contact with the Finance Director and the external auditors.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 31 Report of the Directors continued Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration has formal terms of reference and comprises Mr L P Finn Chairman, Mr D G Perry and Mr P M Johnson.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and last year met on three occasions.
Its duties are to review and recommend the basic salary, benefits in kind, terms and conditions of employment, including performance related payments, long term incentive schemes and pension benefits of the executive directors and the Group Chairman.
The Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 35 to 43 contains details of directors remuneration and the Groups policies in relation to directors remuneration.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Mr D G Perry Chairman, Mr L P Finn, Mr P M Johnson and Mr H C Dawe.
The Committee has formal terms of reference which outline the Committees responsibilities and define the programme of activities to support the discharge of those responsibilities.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and last year met on two occasions.
Its main duties are to make recommendations regarding appointments to the Board.
Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration comprises the executive directors and has, since 1 November 2004, been chaired by Mr J K Watson, prior to which it had been chaired by Mr H C Dawe.
It meets at least once a year to review and recommend the terms and conditions and the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Last year it met on one occasion.
Other Committees of the Board are formed to perform certain specific functions as required from time to time.
Directors and officers liability insurance The Company carries appropriate insurance cover in respect of possible legal action being taken against its directors and senior employees.
Directors remuneration The principles and details of directors remuneration are detailed in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 35 to 43.
Accountability and audit The statement on going concern and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of Preparation of the Accounts are shown on pages 33 and 44 respectively.
The Company has an Audit Committee, which has meetings at least twice a year with the Companys auditors KPMG Audit Plc.
Its role is detailed above.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and also for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed, on an on-going basis, the effectiveness of the system of internal control throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The system is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report Internal Control Guidance for Directors of Listed Companies Incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to establish, maintain and monitor a system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management to safeguard the shareholders interests in the Companys assets.
This system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Groups particular requirements and reduce the risk to which it is exposed rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
Management are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their particular areas of the business together with the design and operation of suitable controls.
These risks are regularly assessed and cover all aspects of the business, but in particular land acquisition, planning, construction, health and safety, information and reporting systems, asset protection, treasury management and legal and regulatory compliance.
In addition, there is a responsibility to mitigate risk by the provision of adequate insurance cover and by management reporting on material changes in the business or external environment affecting the risk profile.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 32 Report of the Directors continued There is a system of regular reporting to the Board which provides for appropriate details and assurances on the assessment and control of risks.
The continuing role of the Board is, on a systematic basis, to review the key risks inherent in the business, the operation of the systems and controls necessary to manage such risks and its effectiveness and satisfy itself that all reasonable steps are being taken to mitigate these risks.
The key areas of control are as follows: The Board has agreed a list of key risks which affect the Group and has considered the extent to which the measures taken by the Group mitigate those risks.
An established monitoring structure is in place, which provides short lines of communication and easy access to members of the Board.
Delegation of clearly defined responsibilities to divisional Boards with clear procedures and authority limits in place to provide and maintain effective controls across the Group.
A comprehensive reporting system entailing annual budgets, regular forecasting and financial reporting.
A central treasury function operates at Head Office.
Regular meetings with management attended by members of the Board to review divisional performance.
The acquisition of land and land interests is subject to checking by management and approval by the Board to ensure that purchasing criteria are met.
Regular reviews of site costs and revenues by senior Head Office personnel which are reported to the Board.
Regular visits to sites by senior management and external consultants to monitor health and safety standards and performance.
A number of the Groups key functions are dealt with centrally.
These include finance, banking, taxation, financial services, pensions, insurance, information technology, legal and secretarial.
Internal audit The Company does not have an internal audit function.
Under Combined Code provision C. 3.5 where there is no internal audit function, the Audit Committee should consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
During the year, having considered the position, the Audit Committee recommended that no internal audit function, as such, was presently required, given the robust systems and strong controls already present in the Group.
The position will continue to be monitored by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Whistleblowing arrangements The Group has operated throughout the year a Whistleblowing arrangement whereby all employees of the Group are able, via an independent external third party, to confidentially report any malpractice or matters of concern they have regarding the actions of management and employees.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages active dialogue with its private and institutional shareholders, both current and prospective.
Meetings are held with both existing and prospective institutional shareholders on a regular basis and as requested.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs through the Annual and Interim Reports and Trading Updates.
The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate with institutional and private investors and their participation is encouraged by the taking of questions by the whole Board both during and also informally, before and after the meeting.
The senior independent non-executive director is always available to meet with current and prospective shareholders and institutions as required.
In addition, the whole Board are regularly appraised of shareholder and investor views and activities at Board meetings by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
Further information for shareholders is available on pages 70 to 72 and also on the Companys website at www.
co. uk BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 33 Report of the Directors continued Going concern After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Employees The Group is an equal opportunities employer and the importance of good communications with employees is recognised by the directors.
Each division maintains employee relations appropriate to its own particular needs and a Group magazine is published at periodic intervals.
New employees, when eligible, are invited to join the Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
In accordance with statutory requirements, the Company also has a designated stakeholder pension arrangement.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
Environmental issues The Board recognises the importance of environmental issues and when carrying out its business, endeavours to make a positive contribution to the quality of life both for the present and the future.
An environmental policy statement approved by the Board has been adopted by all trading entities within the Group.
Environmental issues are addressed in the Environmental Policy Statement on pages 17 and 18 and in the Corporate Responsibility Report which is available to shareholders on the Companys website www.
co. uk or on written application to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Health and safety at work The Group promotes all aspects of safety throughout its operations in the interests of employees, sub-contractors and visitors to its sites and premises and the general public.
Health and safety issues are addressed in the Chief Executives Operating Review on page 16 and in the Corporate Responsibility Report which is available as mentioned above.
Donations During the year the Group made no political contributions but donated 85,290 2004 - 97,786 for charitable purposes.
Suppliers The Group agrees terms and conditions under which business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
The policy is that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier is also complying with the terms and conditions.
The Group follows the CBI Code of Practice 'Prompt payers: in good company' and its current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its materials suppliers and sub-contractors is for payment to be made at the month end following the month of the invoice.
For other supplies, particularly land, the terms are many and varied.
Trade creditors due within one year at 31 July 2005 of 88,754,000 2004 - 77,184,000 gave a creditor payment period of 29 days 2004 - 28 days.
Including land creditors, the creditor payment period was 63 days 2004 70 days.
The parent company had no land or trade creditors at 31 July 2005 2004 - Nil.
Annual General Meeting - special business Three special resolutions will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The effect of these resolutions is as follows: Resolution 9 Approval of the new articles of association of the Company The Company proposes to adopt new articles of association.
They will restate the current articles while at the same time including proposed amendments to bring the articles up to date and in line with best practice.
A summary of the principal proposed changes of substance is set out in Shareholders Information on pages 70 to 72.
Resolution 10 - Disapplication of pre-emption rights This resolution is the customary annual request that shareholders empower the directors to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them pro rata to existing shareholders as would otherwise be required by section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
This power allows the directors to allot equity securities for cash only a up to an aggregate nominal value of 707,682, being approximately equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: or b in a rights issue or other offer of securities pro rata to shareholders up to the maximum unused amount of the general authority to allot conferred on the directors on 10 January 2003.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 34 Report of the Directors continued Resolution 11 - Company's purchase of its own shares The Companys authority to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares, given at the last Annual General Meeting, expires on the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors propose that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting.
The directors will review opportunities to use this authority in the light of stock market conditions and trading opportunities during the year.
The directors will only make purchases which will reduce the number of shares in issue after paying due attention to the effect on the financing of the Group, its assets and earnings per ordinary share for the remaining shareholders.
Any shares purchased under this authority may be cancelled in which case the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly or may be held in treasury.
By order of the Board G K Wrightson Group Company Secretary 17 October 2005
