Directors Report The Directors present their Report and the Audited Financial Principal Developments Substantial Shareholdings Statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The development of the businesses is detailed in the Group As at 6 March 2006, the Company was aware of the following Chief Executives Review of Operations and Financial Review material interests, representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary Principal Activity on pages 11 to 20. share capital of the Company: Savills plc is a holding company.
Its principal subsidiaries' activities are advising on matters affecting commercial, Directors Shareholders Number of % agricultural, residential and leisure property, providing Short biographical details of the current Directors are shown shares corporate finance advice, property and venture capital on pages 27 and 28.
Trammell Crow Company 12,939,199 19.43 funding, property fund management and a range of property The Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust 4,848,689 7.28 related financial services.
In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association the Barclays Group 3,901,986 5.86 Directors retiring by rotation at this years AGM are Aubrey Legal & General Group 2,153,396 3.23 Dividends Adams, William Concannon, Tim Ingram, Derek McClain, The profit attributable to shareholders is 40.0m 2004 - Robert McKellar and Fields Wicker-Miurin being eligible, they 40.7m.
An interim dividend of 8.0p net per share amounting will offer themselves for re-election.
Fixed Assets to 4.9m 2004 - 3.4m was paid.
It is recommended that There is no significant difference between the book and market a final dividend of 16p net per share, amounting to 9.9m Interests in the issued share capital of the Company held at value of fixed asset properties.
It is proposed that this be paid on 18 May the beginning and end of the year under review by those who 2006 to shareholders on the Register at 18 April 2006.
This were Directors at 31 December 2005 or their families are set Purchase of Own Shares will be paid from existing Company retained earnings of 6.4m out on page 49 of the Remuneration Report.
Details of Details of the shares held by The Savills plc 1992 Employee with the balance from additional reserves available on the Directors' share options are given in the Remuneration Report Benefit Trust the EBT and the Qualifying Employee Share Trust payment date.
It is the Remuneration Committees policy QUEST are given in Note 25 to the Accounts.
that each Executive Director should retain shares in the Company up to the value of 2.5 times his basic salary.
29 Directors Report continued In accordance with the Listing Rules and at the Annual accounts in accordance with the individual terms of business Employees General Meeting on 4 May 2005 the shareholders gave agreed with each supplier.
There were 22 days purchases The Directors recognise that the quality, commitment and authority for a limited purchase of Savills shares for cancellation outstanding at the end of the year for the Company 2004 - 20 motivation of Savills staff is a key element in the success of the of up to 5% of the issued share capital.
During the year Savills days.
Employees are able to share in this success through plc purchased 100,000 shares representing 0.15% of the bonus schemes and share options.
The Group encourages its current issued share capital for cancellation under the Charitable Donations and Political Contributions employees to develop their skills through training and continued programme at a total cost of 516,130 excluding costs: an The amount paid to charitable organisations during the year professional development.
average cost of 516.13p per share excluding costs.
In addition to the donation above, during the year under review, the Group operated a It is the policy of the Group to provide employment on an equal The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM Give As You Earn scheme whereby employees can donate a basis irrespective of race, sex, disability, sexual orientation and on 10 May 2006 to renew the Companys authority to purchase portion of their monthly salary to a registered charity.
its own ordinary shares of 5p each for cancellation.
Details of Group also operated a bonus waiver whereby employees may the proposed resolution is outlined in the Notice of Annual elect to waive an element of annual bonus in favour of registered Auditors General Meeting dispatched to shareholders with this Report charities of their choice upon which the Group augments the In accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a and Accounts.
donation to the chosen charity by 10%.
These additional resolution for the re-appointment of  Group contributions totalled 33,100 2004 - 13,724 LLP as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting during the year.
There were no political contributions.
 LLP has also The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting AGM, to provided certain non-audit services to the Company, principally be held at 20 Grosvenor Hill, Berkeley Square, London W1K Corporate Social Responsibility advice on taxation but the Audit Committee is satisfied that 3HQ at 12 noon on 10 May 2006, is contained in a circular The Board recognises the importance of social, environmental such work was best undertaken by  sent to shareholders with this Report.
and ethical matters in the conduct of the Company's business.
LLP and its objectivity has not been impaired by reason of this The Savills Group is committed to environmental awareness further work.
In addition to the usual ordinary business of an AGM and the and improvement throughout its operations and, although the re-purchase of shares noted above, the Directors have, this impact of our activities on the environment is low compared year, recommended to shareholders a sub-division of share with other industries, it is our policy to strive to improve the Registered Office: By order of the Board capital so that, if approved, each shareholder will receive environment for employees and others wherever we operate.
20 Grosvenor Hill two shares for every one share held.
Full details and the The Group's environmental policy is approved by the Board Berkeley Square R T Michelson-Carr reasons for the recommendation are outlined in the circular and the Group Chief Executive is responsible for all London Company Secretary sent to shareholders with this report.
The Group's policy is to aim towards W1K 3HQ 7 March 2006 reduced energy consumption, reduction in waste and Creditors Payment Policy promotion of recycling within our offices and to promote The Group does not follow any specified code or standard on practices to enhance the environment when advising clients, payment practice.
However, the Group aims to settle supplier including the avoidance of pollution wherever possible.
30 100 Wood Street, London EC2 Sold on behalf of Deka for a price in excess of 140m 31 The investment sale of The Hanseatic Trade Center, Hamburg, comprises a new development of 969,000 sq ft 90,000 sq m of offices in a waterfront location constructed in five phases 32 The demand for residential and investment property abroad continues to expand both in volume and exposure to new regions Villa Norah, Grasse, France 33 Corporate Governance Report 34
