22 Directors report The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2005.
Financial results The financial results for the year are set out on page 26.
For the continuing group, profit for the year before taxation was 80.7 million compared to 81.1 million for the previous year.
profit for the period from discontinued operations, including the profit on sale of Elliott, was 69.5 million after tax compared to a loss of 8.4 million for the previous year.
After taxation, profit attributable to equity shareholders is 127.1 million, compared to 47.0 million for the previous year.
The final proposed dividend to ordinary and redeemable B shareholders will absorb an estimated 20.1 million 2004: 23.0 million of shareholders funds.
David Lawler Company Secretary Financial review The principal activities and a review of the results and future prospects are dealt with in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the financial review on pages 3 to 13.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend of 11.80 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 2nd May 2006 to shareholders on the register at 7th April 2006 which, together with the dividend of 5.50 pence paid in October 2005, makes a total dividend for the year of 17.30 pence 2004: 16.50 pence.
The directors will also pay a final dividend of 1.64 pence per redeemable B share to be paid on 2nd May 2006 to shareholders on the register at 7th April 2006.
Directors The current directors of the company are set out on page 2.
Each served throughout the year ended 31st December 2005 except Per Utnegaard who was appointed to the board on 5th January 2005 and Kevin Quinn who was appointed on 16th May 2005.
Former directors, Neil Benson and John Ivey, retired from the board on 30th April 2005 and Paul Smeeth resigned from the board on 25th May 2005.
John Burns retires by rotation at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Kevin Quinn, as a director appointed to the board during the year, offers himself for election by the shareholders.
Details of the number of board meetings held during the year and attendance by individual directors are included in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 16.
The interests of the current directors, together with those of their families, in the shares of the company, are included in the report on directors remuneration which is set out on pages 18 to 21.
Share capital Details of the movements in the year are set out in note 20.
Substantial shareholdings As at 24th February 2006 the following shareholders had notied interests in the companys ordinary share capital: Material interests in 3% or more: Aviva 3.0 Fidelity Investment Services 5.7 Legal & General 3.2 Prudential plc 6.9 Sanderson Asset Management Limited 4.3 Entire interests in 10% or more: Silchester International Investors Limited 16.2 By means of Section 203 2 b of the Companies Act 1985, Silchester International Investors Limited is deemed to be interested in the shares Sanderson Asset Management Limited control as well its own interests detailed above.
Changes in composition of the group On 25th May 2005 Elliott Group was sold for total gross proceeds of 166 million: further details of this transaction are set out in note 29 b.
The group acquired the businesses and net assets of a number of small textile maintenance operations during the year for a total consideration of 22.7m.
These transactions have been accounted for as acquisitions in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard No 3.
Details of the fair value of net assets acquired and consideration paid are set out in note 29 a to the financial statements.
B shares and reorganisation of share capital The company announced on 24th February 2006 that it intends to redeem the remaining B shares still in issue on 2nd May 2006 at a cost of 6.5 million.
The directors propose that once the B shares have been redeemed, the share capital of the company should be reorganised so that the company only has one class of authorised shares, namely ordinary shares.
Resolution 7, if passed, will effect this change by converting the B shares into an additional 502,984,176 ordinary shares, and by amending the Articles of Association of the company to remove references to the B shares and the class rights which attached thereto.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005 23 The company sought and received approval at an extraordinary general meeting on 15th August 2005 to return 74 pence per ordinary share 150.9 million in aggregate to shareholders via the issue of redeemable B shares.
On 31st August 2005 195,110,995 B shares were redeemed at a cost of 144.4 million.
As part of the return of capital the company sought and received approval for every six ordinary 25 pence shares to be converted into five new ordinary 30 pence shares.
Trading in the new shares commenced on 19th August 2005.
Copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association in their current form and as they are proposed to be amended may be inspected at the ofces of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY, during usual business hours on any weekday weekends and public holidays excluded, until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 25th April 2006.
Authority to allot shares As in previous years, resolutions will also be proposed to authorise the directors to allot shares up to approximately one-third of the companys issued ordinary share capital of which approximately 5% may be issued for cash on a non-preemptive basis.
The two resolutions numbers 8 and 9 are set out in full in the Notice of Meeting.
No issue will be made which would effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Purchase of own shares In certain circumstances it may be advantageous for the company to purchase its own shares.
A special resolution number 10 will be proposed at the April 2006 annual general meeting to seek authority from shareholders to do so, such authority to expire on the date of the next following annual general meeting or a date 18 months from the date of the resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The directors intend to exercise this power only if and when, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchases will be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the company will be taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
The resolution species the maximum number of shares which may be acquired being 10% of the companys issued share capital and the maximum and minimum prices at which they may be purchased.
The shareholders authority granted at the 2005 annual general meeting remains valid until the next annual general meeting.
The company has reviewed the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations which amended the Act on 1st December 2003 in relation to treasury shares.
The Regulations allow companies to hold shares purchased on the market in treasury with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to cancelling them.
If the company were to purchase any of its own shares, it may consider holding them as treasury shares, subject to the authority allowed by resolution number 10, provided that the number of treasury shares does not at any one time exceed 10% of the companys issued share capital.
This would allow the company to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and would provide the company with additional exibility in the management of its capital base.
The company currently has no treasury shares.
The board are committed to managing the companys capital effectively and the directors keep the option of buying back the companys shares under review.
The directors will only purchase Davis shares on the market if they believe it is in shareholders best interests to reduce the issued share capital and that to do so would increase earnings per share.
Directors indemnity The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 C AICE A came into force on 6th April 2005.
C AICE A inserts Sections 309A and 309B into the Companies Act 1985.
These provisions broadly allow a company to indemnify its directors against liability to third parties arising in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust by the directors in relation to the company.
Such an indemnity may not, however, protect a director against liability incurred by the director to the company or any associated company.
Neither may the company provide an indemnity against any liability incurred by a director in defending criminal proceedings in which he is convicted, nor against any liability to pay a ne imposed in criminal proceedings or by a regulatory authority.
C AICE A also inserts a new section 337A into the Companies Act 1985.
This allows a company to fund its directors defence costs as they are incurred in both civil and criminal cases, through the granting of a loan to a director.
The loan must be repaid by any director who is not exonerated though the costs incurred in civil cases involving third parties could be paid by the company under the indemnity discussed above.
Previously, companies have only been able to fund a directors defence costs once final judgment in the directors favour has been reached.
The board believes that the provision of appropriate indemnities and the funding of directors defence costs as they are incurred, as permitted by the new legislation, is consistent with evolving market practice, and are important to ensure that the company continues to attract and retain the highest calibre of directors.
The board therefore proposes that the companys Articles of Association be amended to reect the new statutory provisions.
The proposed resolution number 11 is a special resolution to amend Article 140 of the Articles of Association of the company accordingly.
As noted above, copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association in their current form and as they are proposed to be amended may be inspected at the ofces of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY, during usual business hours on any weekday weekends and public holidays excluded, until the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 25th April 2006.
Political and charitable donations Financial contributions to a wide range of charities and good causes during the year amounted to 30,000 2004: 13,000, of which 20,000 related to the Royal Shakespeare Company.
There were no political donations.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005
