02 Board of directors Christopher R M Kemball 59 Christopher was appointed to the board in January 1999 and subsequently became non-executive chairman in May 2005.
He is a vice chairman of Hawkpoint Partners Limited, the independent corporate advisory firm, and a non-executive director of WS Atkins plc and Control Risks Group Limited.
I Roger Dye 54 Roger has been a UK public company director since 1987 and was appointed finance director in August 2000, subsequently becoming chief executive in May 2005, following the retirement of John Ivey.
He has been a non-executive director of Nestor Healthcare plc since 2004 and is chairman of its audit committee.
John D Burns 61 John was appointed to the board as a non-executive director in 1987.
He is managing director of Derwent Valley Holdings plc.
He is also a consulting partner of Pilcher Hershman & Partners and a former chairman of the Westminster Property Owners Association.
Philip G Rogerson 61 Philip was appointed to the board in June 2004 and became senior independent director in May 2005.
He is non-executive chairman of Carillion plc, THUS Group plc and Aggreko plc, and a non-executive director of Northgate plc.
Until February 1998 he was deputy chairman of BG plc formerly British Gas plc having been a director since 1992.
Kevin Quinn 45 Kevin was appointed finance director in May 2005, following the appointment of Roger Dye as chief executive.
He has previously held senior finance positions within Amersham plc.
Prior to 1997, Kevin was with , latterly as a partner in its Prague office, having also worked in the United States of America and France.
Per H Utnegaard 46 Per was appointed a non-executive director of the company in January 2005 and was wholesale director of Alliance UniChem plc until Spring 2005.
Before this, Per was Director General of Swiss Federal Railways Cargo, having previously held various senior management roles within Danzas-Deutsche Post and the TNT Group.
Born in Norway, Per was educated in the United States of America.
He has worked and lived in Scandinavia, Central and Southern Europe and in the United Kingdom.
Top to bottom, from left to right: Christopher R M Kemball I Roger Dye John D Burns Philip G Rogerson Kevin Quinn Per H Utnegaard Board committees Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Identified by the board as an independent director The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005
