09 Operating review UK and Eire This has been a challenging year for our UK and Eire operations.
Revenue for the year increased by 2% to 268.4 million 2004: 263.3 million but adjusted operating profit at 34.3 million was down on last year 2004: 38.4 million.
The more significant part of this profit decrease occurred in the second half of the year and followed the adverse impact on the London hotel market from the bombings in July.
Management took prompt action to mitigate the impact of these unexpected events as well as continuing to operate in a competitive and price driven market place.
With the significant rises in energy and fuel prices and also in labour costs as a result of minimum wage legislation, management continued to improve efficiency.
However, these improvements were insufficient to prevent a reduction in the adjusted operating margin from 14.6% in 2004 to 12.8% in 2005.
While the hotel and restaurants sector saw volume growth in the first half of 2005, trading in the second half was significantly depressed.
Although hotel occupancy gradually returned towards the end of October, weekend occupancy from the tourist market continued at a lower level.
In addition, hotels continued to rationalise their linen stocks and this meant that volume did not recover to the same extent as occupancy.
We ended the year with revenues broadly unchanged compared to last year, having been some 3% up at the half year, with profitability significantly impacted by the lower volumes in the second half.
The healthcare division achieved solid growth in revenue with some significant new contract wins in 2005.
Re-tendering of existing contracts continued to put pressure on pricing as the NHS Trusts faced greater Department of Health scrutiny in managing their deficits.
In the third quarter we also experienced some volume fluctuations as Trusts reacted to these pressures.
Our workwear business continued to face the biggest impact of pricing and increased costs, and gains were difficult to achieve in a competitive market.
The ongoing shift from heavy duty industrial products to lighter service oriented products has continued to put further pressure on sales.
However, we have strengthened our sales force to win new business in this important sector.
In Eire, our businesses faced similar trading conditions to those experienced in the UK but management has succeeded in growing the business albeit at lower margins.
We have recently acquired processing facilities in Northern Ireland and a strong position in the Province.
Management has taken steps to improve the quality, efficiency and reach of the business organically and through acquisition.
During the year we completed improvements at our Merton and Wednesbury plants.
We made acquisitions totalling 13.3 million including the acquisition in Northern Ireland.
We acquired Hall & Letts, a direct supplier to the hospitality sector, supplementing this with the acquisition of a small workwear supplier.
In December we completed the purchase of a workwear facility in East Anglia, which has allowed us to consolidate and extend our service in that region.
Since the year end, we have spent 13.5 million acquiring further operations.
Our IT investment programme continued and we expect to substantially complete the new systems implementation in operations and customer support in 2006.
We expect the UK market to remain challenging, especially in the short-term.
Hotel volumes will be uncertain until Easter when the level at which the London tourist traffic returns can be assessed.
In healthcare, notwithstanding the attractive longer-term opportunities, we continue to monitor the potential impact of budget pressures in the NHS.
In workwear, we are seeing more price competition.
In January 2006, Rentokil Initial announced the closure of its UK linen and workwear operations.
We are actively marketing our high quality services to its customers where we can secure appropriate pricing for the service offered.
While we do not expect this to provide a significant profit contribution in 2006 we do expect it to deliver benefits from 2007 onwards.
Cost pressures, particularly in energy and fuel and wages, will remain.
However, the 2005 achievements acquisitions we have made, together with our continued focus on operational efficiency and plant restructuring, will go some way to reducing the impact of these on our business.
Made further bolt on acquisitions.
Continued to make good contract wins in all sectors.
Operating profit 2005 Before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts 34.3m The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005
