10 Operating review Continental Europe This was another successful year for our operations on the Continent.
Revenue was up 1% on last year at 393.3 million 2004: 388.2 million while adjusted operating profit increased by 9% to 61.7 million from 56.4 million in 2004.
Revenue benefited from a favourable impact of foreign exchange by 3.7 million, and adjusted operating profit by 0.6 million, compared to 2004 exchange rates.
We saw only marginal improvement in the economies of Continental Europe in 2005 and trading conditions were similar to those experienced last year.
However, against this backdrop, we were able to increase our adjusted operating margin from 14.5% to 15.7% as a result of our continued focus on efficiency, productivity and cost control.
In Scandinavia there was little growth overall in our core rental business although we continued to make changes to our customer base by not renewing contracts with unprofitable customers at the same time as bolt-on acquisitions.
This has enabled us to deliver further profits growth in the region in the year.
We believe that we are well placed to benefit from economic growth when it emerges in these countries.
We were disappointed with the lack of progress in our workwear business in Holland, which is seeing its traditional manufacturing customer base decline.
However, we continued to achieve good contract growth in the market overall, but the benefit was offset by the overall impact of more competitive pricing and reducing numbers of garment users in our existing contracts.
During the year we expanded our sales force and, although this adversely impacted our profitability in the short-term, we expect this to improve in the current year.
In Germany, we took the first steps to restructure our operating base with a workforce reduction at our plant near Hamburg in the first half of 2005.
We also acquired healthcare contracts from Rentokil Initial.
Faced with a sluggish federal economy, the healthcare market was particularly challenging with government policy to reduce costs and overcapacity in the market place, principally by more effective control of patients stays in hospitals and clinics.
However, we were pleased that the German management achieved equivalent profitability to 2004 at acceptable margins.
We have continued to take steps to improve efficiency with the announcement to close two of our smaller plants.
Our business in Poland is growing rapidly and at good margins.
We opened a second plant in the south of Poland and plan to open a further plant in Poland during 2006.
The progress we are making in this market has been very encouraging.
Our business in France is small and had another disappointing year.
With only one plant operating in difficult trading conditions, there was a small loss.
Our direct sale business in Sweden continued to perform well and saw good revenue growth in the year.
Its manufacturing site in Estonia now supplies a significant proportion of the garments for new and repeat rental contracts in Sweden and Denmark.
A fundamental part of our strategy is to seek bolt-on acquisitions, as these provide us with significant potential for profit enhancement.
In 2005 we acquired businesses and contracts in Sweden, Denmark and Norway and entered the Finnish market by acquiring two small businesses.
The total cost of these acquisitions, with our purchase of contracts in Germany, was 9.4 million.
Since the year end, we have acquired businesses and contracts for a further 6.2 million.
We invested in our plant and IT infrastructure and we are introducing substantial new IT systems into a number of countries.
We have upgraded the quality of our sales forces in particular in Denmark and Holland.
In the coming year, we are targeting further good progress at the trading level, notwithstanding that the healthcare business in Germany continues to be a particular 2005 achievements challenge.
We are seeing small levels of growth reappearing in Scandinavian countries and we continue to pursue targeted bolt-on acquisitions.
Expanded geographical coverage to Finland.
Roger Dye Chief Executive Operating profit 2005 Before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts 61.7m The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005 Improving We are constantly seeking to improve the value of our service to customers, while improving shareholder value by managing our operations more efficiently.
Continued investment in computer-controlled sorting systems reduces manual handling costs within our workwear factories.
Providing automated on-site garment issuing systems helps customers to reduce costs, shown here in the Netherlands.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005
