8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 16 MARKET REVIEW Strong long term demand There has been a sustained high level of demand for university places in the UK, from both home students and overseas.
This year the whole higher education industry is The table below is Higher Education Statistical Agency data showing the record number of existing students looking particularly keenly at applications for in the academic years 2003 04 2004 05 university places because of the introduction of the new financial arrangements for students.
Whilst 2003 04 2004 05 Movement the 2006 application figures currently point to a slight drop in applications 3.4% compared to the Full time 1,222,001 Full time 1,255,259 33,258 same point last year, these figures should be seen Sandwich 121,884 Sandwich 119,103 2,781 in the context of the exceptional increases in applications last year of some 8%.
Applications for Part time 825,521 Part time 833,141 7,620 university places will also continue right up until Other 47,262 Other 50,639 3,377 the start of the year.
2,216,668 2,258,142 41,474 UNITE continues to carefully research and target our developments to ensure that we are present in the strongest markets across the UK.
The UCAS application figures would suggest in particular that universities to deliver its market leading research The new student funding arrangements, which London, Edinburgh and Cardiff are continuing to report into the needs and aspirations of todays come into force for the academic year 2006 07, increase in popularity.
Whilst cities such as university students.
will not affect applications from overseas students.
Nottingham, Birmingham, and Leeds all saw slight However, student numbers from overseas have The key highlights of this report are: declines at a city level, these cities have dipped slightly in 2006 07 4.3% most likely due Todays students are happy and more institutions that remain in the top 5 most popular to the strength of the pound, terrorism perceptions, optimistic than ever.
They overwhelmingly universities by number of applications.
global competition and concerns about obtaining a believe going to university is a worthwhile visa.
Importantly, we are likely to see an increase The five institutions with most applications in experience and the money they are spending in applications from new EU students wanting to 2006 are: on their education is seen to be a good study in the UK.
Indeed UCAS, the agency that investment for the future.
processes all university applications, reports an University of Manchester 56,351 increase of 14% for 2006 07.
Reputation remains the most important factor University of Leeds 44,473 in the choice of university.
A high quality service University of Edinburgh 42,366 Three quarters of students believe universities Whether from home or abroad, UNITEs annual make a vital contribution to the UK economy.
University of Birmingham 36,178 Student Experience Report shows that students are The majority believe universities fulfil a number increasingly demanding much higher service University of Nottingham 36,173 of important roles in society, such as training quality from their university experience.
the workforce of the future, researching and For UNITE, the continued shortage of quality generating new innovations and ideas and An international industry accommodation in many cities and the rise in advancing medicine and technology.
Higher education is a significant export industry.
overseas students wanting safe, managed The UK is the second largest destination for Students opinions and impressions about their accommodation ensured that we had a strong year overseas students in the world and the UK university are becoming increasingly in 2005. economy benefits by some 10bn per year from favourable, the proportion now rating their The real student experience international students.
university as very favourable is up by Each year UNITE works closely with many 14 percentage points since the start of the stakeholders including Universities UK, the survey in 2000.
Department for Education and Skills, National 41% of students have a paid job during term Union of Students, Higher Education Policy time and the majority work in low skilled jobs Institute, The WorkBank, UKCOSA: The Council for such as retail, bar work and catering.
International Education, UNIAID and many 16 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 17 At present both Government and Universities are An increasing proportion of students in paid Outlook placing significant emphasis and resources on employment say they are working to provide There has been a significant increase in student raising awareness of the new regime amongst money for basic essentials.
Despite this, numbers in recent years.
So far for 2006 07 these prospective students.
At present there is evidence many enjoy their job and believe that it brings applications have been slightly affected by the that the new regime is complex and poorly a number of benefits, such as developing time introduction of variable tuition fees in 2006. understood by this audience.
management skills, gaining extra skills and However, the underlying long term trend for believe it will look good on their CV.
increased participation in Higher Education, 85% of students receive some form of together with the long term forecast growth of Raising the standard of student financial help from their parents, which they overseas students indicates a continued favourable accommodation don't have to repay, with a quarter receiving outlook for the strength of the market as a whole.
April 2006 sees the implementation of more than 1500 per term.
UNITE has identified strong target markets through The Housing Act.
UNITE has participated in our continued emphasis on good research.
Within Government consultations on the Housing Act each city we support the Higher Education sector in and supports this legislation which will raise Pay as you earn, not pay as delivering high quality accommodation, which is standards across the industry.
Implications are you learn attractive to students and provides further that there will certainly be improved availability September 2006 marks the end of up-front fees differentiation for universities.
of information on the private rented sector and for full time undergraduate students.
it is also expected that many smaller private As UNITE has been suggesting for many years, The system of student fees, grants and loans for landlords will exit the market rather than students have become true customers of higher universities is changing.
It will affect people improve their properties to the required education.
Universities will need marketing considering applying for English universities for standards.
strategies and services to attract them.
In the entry in September 2006 and onwards.
We are founder members of the ANUK Code of meantime, we will continue to emphasise the Students will have to pay up to 3,000 per year Standards for Larger Landlords, which has student experience, communicating to our for their tuition, although it wont be repayable until been endorsed by the Office of the Deputy customers that living away from home is an integral after they graduate.
A system of non-repayable Prime Minister.
The code establishes a set of part of the university experience.
grants, scholarships and bursaries are also being specific standards with particular relevance to introduced to ensure that students, particularly larger developments tenanted by students.
from low income families, are incentivised to go to university.
the underlying long term trend for increased participation in Higher Education, together with the forecast growth of overseas students indicates a continued favourable outlook for the strength of the market as a whole.
