8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:34 am Page 6, chairman s statement continued Looking forward to 2006, the Group has another Finally, we successfully placed new shares with Portfolio performance 4,276 beds on track for delivery and occupation, of investors during November, raising some 30m of Demand for our accommodation remains strong.
which 1,808 are being developed within our joint proceeds net of costs.
The shares were placed at a High occupancy of 94.0% in the current academic ventures and 2,960 will be modular.
In addition, the price of 330 pence per share and the proceeds year 94.8% in 2004 05, core rental growth and Group has 6,205 beds secured for delivery in 2007 will allow the Group to increase its development an improvement in tenancy mix towards year and 2008 of which approximately 3,800 are roll-out and take a more flexible approach to round occupation all combined to deliver strong like currently subject to planning demonstrating the certain site acquisition opportunities.
The placing for like revenue growth of some 7.2% into the continued depth of our development pipeline.
was very well received by investors, underlining current academic year 2004 05: 6.8%.
We are shareholders support for UNITEs business plan, seeing increased competition in a small minority of and the Group is now strongly placed to capitalise Financing and investment well supplied markets, such as Liverpool, which will on continued opportunities to grow its business in activity constrain rental growth in those areas in the near the coming years.
term, but we are confident that UNITEs focus on In 2005 UNITE continued to be proactive in its These initiatives helped the Group reduce its high quality locations and customer service will financing and investment strategy.
In March we gearing levels.
At 31 December 2005, adjusted deliver continued strong relative performance.
closed a significant joint venture with the gearing net debt as a percentage of adjusted net Government of Singapore Investment Corporation The Groups portfolio operating margin defined as assets stood at 162%, down from 197% at 31 GIC RE to develop and operate student net rents after all operating costs expressed as a December 2004. accommodation in the capital cities of London, percentage of gross rents: for the full operational Edinburgh, Dublin and Belfast.
We plan to develop portfolio including joint ventures and managed and operate a portfolio of 350m of student People assets increased by 1.1% to 63.2% from 62.1% accommodation through this joint venture and, as in 2004.
This reflects the growth in like for like A fundamental element of our growth strategy is of March 2006, are well on track to complete this revenues referred to above but has been partially the focus we give to the development of our programme by 2008.
This focussed joint venture offset by significant rises in the cost of utilities and people in achieving the expectations of our has allowed the Group to accelerate its by our investment in increased staffing resource to stakeholders, notably our customers and development rate in capital intensive markets, improve service to our customers.
Due to the timing shareholders.
whilst also adding new revenue streams in the form of its tenancy pricing, the Group will be unable to During 2005, with the Groups Operations Board of asset management and development recover these increased utility costs until the firmly established, we strengthened the Divisional management fees.
academic year 2006 07, for which period the executive teams in all areas.
The Group continues Group has fixed its utilities prices.
As a result, In December 2005 we successfully completed the to invest significantly in innovative programmes operating margins will continue to come under sale of a portfolio of nominated properties to focussed on leadership development and customer some pressure for the first half of 2006, with the Cordea Savills for consideration totalling 64m.
In recognition of this and the Groups expectation that margin growth will be relatively flat This equated to a net initial yield of 5.22% and wider people practices, we were delighted to compared to the first six months of 2005. demonstrated the strength of investor interest in achieve Investors in People accreditation during student accommodation as an emerging asset Looking forward, management continues to be the year, whilst also being voted one of countrys class.
The transaction indicated 55 basis points of confident of further improvements in operating top employers by The Guardian.
yield compression compared to a very similar margins, through continued rental growth and scale In meeting colleagues across the business I am transaction undertaken 13 months earlier.
During efficiencies, as a result of investment in our profoundly impressed by the high level of 2006, we will be considering the opportunities to systems and operating platform initiated in 2005. commitment, excitement and enthusiasm, which build on our joint venture and asset sale successes has been the main component behind our recent to further establish the sustainability of our success.
I would like to congratulate the Development activity financing base.
management for this decisive achievement, which UNITE has again been a very active developer.
A Yield compression has been evident across the augurs well for the future, and thank all UNITE total of 4,677 beds were completed for occupation majority of the portfolio and the average stabilised colleagues for responding so wholeheartedly to during 2005 at a total capital investment of yield at 31 December 2005 was 6.32% 2004: these initiatives.
Over half of these beds were delivered 6.56%.
Relative to the IPD All Property Index using the Groups modular construction technology, 5.10% initial yield at 31 December 2005 our which assisted us in maintaining development assets continue to offer secure income returns at margins in excess of 20% profit on cost.
deliveries also included 1,553 beds within our joint ventures and we are delighted with the success of these initiatives.
6, , 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:34 am Page 7 In meeting colleagues across the business I am profoundly impressed by the high level of commitment, excitement and enthusiasm, which has been the main component behind our recent success.
I would like to congratulate the management for this decisive achievement, which augurs well for the future, and thank all UNITE colleagues for responding so wholeheartedly to these, , initiatives.
Since the end of 2005, the Group has announced continue to manage its investment portfolio Looking forward its decision to appoint Mark Allan as Chief Executive proactively so as to ensure that shareholders The Groups fundraising in November has enabled it with effect from the end of 2006.
Mark, currently benefit from the buoyant property investment to capitalise on opportunities to strengthen its UNITEs Chief Financial Officer will replace Nick market and we continue to monitor developments development pipeline.
In the four months since the Porter who has decided to step down as Chief with regard to the introduction of REITs to the UK.
fund raising was completed, the Group has Executive and into the new role of non-executive The Group is in a particularly strong position: our successfully secured over 1,800 beds for delivery Deputy Chairman.
The recruitment process for a market opportunity remains compelling: we have a in 2007 and 2008 and gained three important CFO to replace Mark will now commence.
strong management team backed up by robust planning consents for projects comprising 1,160 In his role as non-executive Deputy Chairman, systems and unrivalled experience: and we have a beds, leaving us well placed to achieve our annual Nick will continue to provide valuable input to the flexible capital base allowing us to pursue development targets.
business with particular focus on targeted support appropriate opportunities.
2006 and beyond The Groups unique combination of skills in site for our development teams and through his promises to be a rewarding time for UNITE.
acquisition, planning and modular construction, extensive network of contacts in the Higher coupled with its unrivalled sector knowledge and Education sector.
market leading management business, makes for a In reaching its decision to appoint Nicks compelling opportunity to deliver strong growth in successor, the nominations committee of the the coming years.
With our market outlook Board, advised by external consultants, set out remaining positive from both demand and supply clear parameters for the Chief Executive role and perspectives, the opportunity to deliver strong like conducted a rigorous selection process.
The Board for like revenue growth in the future remains.
was unanimous in its decision to appoint Mark and Investor demand for student accommodation has UNITEs mission, strategic focus on customers, undoubtedly increased from a modest start in 2004 people and shareholders and the Groups and we expect this to reinforce asset valuations as embedded values will remain absolutely constant transactional activity increases.
The Group will under his leadership.
7, , 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 8 We give students a new choice of where to live and a home they can feel safe and secure in.
Going to university is a big step so having comfortable and relaxed environments can only make it easier to adapt to independent living.
Creating friendly and sociable environments
