8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 14 Strategic Focus Customers at the heart of Walk into any one of our 110 UNITE properties, student living Our business is simple and unique: we develop, located across the country from Aberdeen manage and rent student accommodation.
to Plymouth and youll find a smart, safe It sounds easy but we have over 850 UNITE employees across the country delivering an home from home designed just for students.
exceptional customer experience - whilst all the time evolving our product and growing the business.
Safety and security is our top priority and all our Developing our people Innovating student properties have 24 7 CCTV and swipe card security.
We also know that our customers don't accommodation We are led by our values of Caring, Taking the keep the same time as normal office hours as Lead and Working Together: where our customers The number of customers we service rose by 16% they're in lectures or studying, so our hospitality are our priority, but where the Group recognises in 2005 with the delivery of ten new properties in teams now provide a 24 hour service in all our the importance of its people by developing nine cities across the UK.
In all these, we aim to major cities.
challenging, meaningful and rewarding careers.
provide choice and flexibility and a first class customer experience.
Our accommodation varies, Students are amongst the most brand aware We expect all our employees to deliver a first class so our customers can book a premier room, a consumer group.
To ensure our marketing and customer experience, as well as bringing value double en-suite studio, through to a standard ensales messages are compelling we started to within their particular field.
This year in particular suite room in student apartments and villages.
introduce new visual and service brand we have seen external recognition of our consistency across the portfolio in 2005, led by commitment to people.
We were accredited by In 2005 we opened three new concept Village our customer experience team.
Aligned to this in Investors In People, nominated as one of Britains schemes in Birmingham, Sheffield and 2004, we announced the commencement of an top employers by The Guardian and our Nottingham.
These new developments are home initiative to improve our systems platform.
This Development division was awarded Client of the to around 1,000 students and along with UNITE's long term project continued apace in 2005 and will Year by Contract Journal.
core offering of common room, security, on-site improve our operational efficiency, scalability and hospitality teams and laundry rooms: our Improving shareholder value online customer interface in 2007. customers living within a Village scheme can also We deliver high quality schemes across the UK and enjoy facilities such as gyms, quiet rooms, larger This focus on our customers has already shown are committed to growing our portfolio in the right common rooms and social areas.
UNITE's first results and we are seeing continued improvement locations for our customers.
Village scheme was launched in Liverpool and in in our customer recommendation rates which are 2006 we will be opening one in Leeds.
In our We also focus entirely on our student market - now standing at 83% 2004: 81%.
largest market Bristol, we also opened our first developing authoritative insights into their current property offering premier apartments - we'five and future needs.
Our sixth Student Experience received great feedback from our customers and Report was launched in January 2006.
winning report has shown how students and the university experience has changed over time and indeed this research, together with our customer satisfaction measurement, has been indispensable for UNITE in evolving its product and service to reflect customers demands and aspirations.
By concentrating on delivering a first class customer experience, as well as investing in our people, we believe our shareholders will continually see improved financial returns.
14 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 15 Health and safety Commitment to social and environmental action Health and safety is of prime importance to UNITE.
We will continually seek to improve and build on UNITE - the heart of student living Well designed modern & safe student accommodation.
our health and safety initiatives.
A relaxed atmosphere and encouraging a community environment.
In 2005 our close working relationship with the An urban lifestyle with friendly management teams.
Fire Brigade saw the beginning of a new partnership between Avon Fire and Rescue Service UNITE - helping to regenerate cities Using brownfield sites, in city centre locations where and ourselves.
The new venture will see the Fire students want to live.
Brigade consulted on the building design process Kick-starting regeneration, where local investment of UNITEs new developments.
This partnership stimulates local economics.
represents our commitment to our customers in Local planning authorities support UNITEs participation providing safe and secure communities, as well as in this process.
helping to raise the standard of rented UNITE - part of the community Reducing student ghettoes and reducing traditional accommodation throughout the UK.
In 2005, there was a clear commitment to building Raising the standard of rented accommodation.
a strong relationship with The Royal Society for Involving the community in consultation.
the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA by undertaking UNITE - helping to improve Freeing up traditional housing stock for other uses, a baseline audit.
This will set us on a clear road to the countrys housing such as families.
achieving OHSAS 18001 Accreditation and Building new housing for the growing student delivering a world class safety management system.
UNITE - the story so far Establishing a new market sector for professional student accommodation.
