8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 18 the board of directors Geoffrey Maddrell Nicholas Porter Mark Allan Andrew Lee Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Human Resources Director Aged 69, Geoffrey has had a long Aged 36, Nicholas is the founder of Aged 33, Mark joined UNITE in 1999, Aged 37, Andrew has previously standing and successful involvement UNITE and has overall operational having previously qualified as a worked in Europe and the US with in the strategic direction and responsibility for the Group.
He is Chartered Accountant with KPMG.
Prior companies including Marks and expansion of businesses, with a Chairman of its Operations Board and to his appointment as Group Finance Spencer, Marriott, Mckinsey, particular interest in building related was instrumental in implementing its Director in November 2003, Mark held BAA, Whitbread and activities, initially on the Board of revised divisional structure.
Nicholas is various positions within the Group .
He holds a Bowater where he was responsible also responsible for the development including those of Corporate Finance number of post graduate for developing their building product of Group strategy, and, with his Director and Commercial Director.
Mark qualifications, including a doctorate in business.
He is Chairman of in-depth knowledge of the higher has overall responsibility for the Organisational Change.
Andrews BuildStore Limited, which serves the education sector, he continues to steer Group's finances, including portfolio focus continues to be on leadership self build market: in this sector he is the business development and and valuation strategies, as well as its and development for all UNITE also on the Board of Goldcrest communications of the Group.
employees, ensuring that our Homes plc.
Geoffrey is also Chairman spearheads key issues at Government Mark will be taking up the role of Chief objectives and measurements are of the Ivory ISIS UK Select Trust Plc level.
Nicholas will be stepping down Executive Officer at the end of 2006 clear and aligned for individuals, and Director of LDV Limited.
as Chief Executive Officer at the end and will continue to drive UNITEs teams, divisions and the Group and of 2006 into the new role of nonstrategy to be the first choice provider that all colleagues are provided with executive Deputy Chairman.
a challenging, meaningful and rewarding career.
18 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 19 Nigel Hall Stuart Beevor Richard Walker Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Chairman of Audit Committee Chairman of Remuneration Aged 39, Richard, who holds a law Committee Aged 50, Nigel, who qualified as a degree from Nottingham University, Chartered Accountant in 1980 with Aged 49, Stuart is Managing Director trained as an accountant with Price Waterhouse, was Group Finance of Grosvenor Fund Management Coopers and Lybrand.
He is also Chief Director of Arcadia Group plc formerly Limited and a member of the Board Operating Officer of Carphone The Burton Group plc until February of Grosvenor Group Limited, the Warehouse UK, with responsibility for 2003.
He joined the Burton Group in international property group, which he the Group's 650 UK stores, websites, 1984 and was appointed to its Board joined in 2002.
Prior to joining direct sales and insurance services.
in 1997, becoming Group Finance Grosvenor, he was Managing Director Richard was previously Managing Director in November of that year.
at Legal and General Property Director for Carphone Warehouses Nigel is also a Non-Executive Director Limited, having previously held a European retail business, operating in of Pinewood Shepperton plc, number of roles dealing with 14 countries, and UK Sales Director.
Countrywide Farmers plc and C&J development, investment, property With his considerable experience of Clark Limited.
With his considerable management and unitised funds at the retail industry, Richard brings experience of finance and operations, Norwich Union.
Stuart is a Fellow of valuable experience to the Board.
Nigel provides strong leadership of the The Royal Institution of Chartered Audit Committee.
Surveyors and a Trustee of the Investment Property Forum Educational Trust.
His knowledge of the property sector is invaluable to the Board.
