Our vision: operating on a world-wide scale 3is business is conducted through an international network of teams, spread across Europe, the US and Asia.
This global network provides market access and competitive advantage for each phase of the investment cycle.
3i in Europe 3is Buyout, Growth Capital and Venture Capital businesses invest across Europe.
This market, which is second only in size to the US, has progressed well over the past 12 months.
3is strategy in Europe is focused on harnessing our strong regional presence and relationships with specialised teams for each business line and sector in which we operate.
Our critical mass provides the market access and the capability to deliver.
3i in Asia The market in Asia continues to develop and we believe that there are excellent opportunities to capture growth.
The biggest opportunity for 3i in Asia is in Growth Capital.
The opportunities look particularly encouraging in China and India, where strong economic growth is complemented by highly skilled work forces, entrepreneurial management teams and innovation.
We also invest in established funds to build relationships and gain access to dealflow in specific markets in the region.
3i in the US The US is the largest and most developed private equity and venture capital market in the world.
To date, 3i has focused on the venture segment, investing in early and later stage situations where our international network can add value.
The good relationships we have built with the major US technology corporates, our growing reputation with top tier syndicate partners and the insights gained from our presence in the US are critical to building and realising value from our venture portfolio in the US, in Europe and in Asia.
3i Report and accounts 2005 08 Growth Capital Focus Media In November 2004, 3i invested US$8 million in a US$35 million funding round in Focus Media, the pioneer and market leader in digital outdoor media advertising in China.
Focus Media offers customers advertising opportunities through flat panel TV screens in over 15,000 prime commercial locations in mainland China.
Despite keen competition from other private equity houses, 3i was selected alongside Goldman Sachs due to our local presence, our track record in private equity and our reputation in the media sector.
3is significant sector expertise not only enabled us to recognise the high growth potential of this innovative medium, but also to add considerable value post investment.
This has included the introduction of Eric Rosenkranz, former Asia Pacific president of Grey Global Group and an established industry expert, as vice chairman.
The high growth of the business and its financial performance have put Focus Media in the position where it is now able to contemplate an IPO, possibly becoming the first media company in China to list on NASDAQ.
The power of our network Any business operating on a world-wide scale must have the systems, communications and culture in place to maximise the benefit of its resources.
In 3is case, this means ensuring that all of our staff world-wide understand our vision and strategy and have access to the resources of the Group as a whole.
The 3i portal provides instant access to our knowledge base and the regular gatherings of our teams by business line, sector and geography all ensure that 3i uses the power of its network.
Chris Rowlands Head of Group Markets 09 Our vision: producing consistent market-beating returns The ownership model within the private equity markets is capable of delivering returns well in excess of the averages for public markets.
Our investment teams are rewarded according to the realised returns they achieve.
Buyouts 3is mid-market Buyout business is organised on a pan-European basis.
At all stages of the process, from deal origination to exit, we assemble the best team for the job to create and help deliver the value creation plans we develop with management for every investment that we make.
The strength of our market access, execution skills and ability to add value post investment are all critical to success.
Jonathan Russell Head of Buyouts Growth Capital 3is Growth Capital business targets high quality private businesses.
Whether a business is growing organically or by acquisition, 3is brand, network, balance sheet and resources can be a compelling offering to the owners of these companies.
We have the ability to structure investments flexibly with private shareholders, aligning interests and supporting growth.
Michael Queen Head of Growth Capital Venture Capital 3is Venture Capital business is focused on turning high potential into high return through harnessing the strength of our international network and being active partners with the management teams we back.
To make the right investment judgments and to deliver our return goals, we have specialist venture investment and portfolio management teams with a deep understanding of our chosen sectors.
Jo Taylor Head of Venture Capital from July 2005 3i Report and accounts 2005 10 Growth Capital Pets at Home The 230 million sale of Pets at Home to private equity firm Bridgepoint in July 2004, delivered cash proceeds to 3i of 85 million, including a 12.5 million dividend on exit, a 3.5 times cash multiple on our investment.
3i supported Pets at Home, a specialist retailer for pets and pet products, over eight years.
When 3i first invested in 1996 to support organic growth and back the founder Anthony Preston, a 3i alumnus and proven entrepreneur, the company had 15 stores and employed 100 people.
In 1999, 3i invested again to fund the acquisition of the companys main competitor, Buyouts PetSmart from its US parent.
By 2004, Pets at Home had 150 out-of-town stores across Westminster Health Care the UK, employed 2,700 people and generated a turnover of 218 million in the 3is investment in Westminster Health Care year to March 2004.
WHC, delivered a money multiple of 4 Pets at Home is a good example times 3is original investment and an internal of 3i supporting organic growth, a rate of return of over 80% upon the sale of transformational acquisition, adding the company to Barchester Healthcare for considerable value through the introduction 525 million, in October 2004. of a non-executive director and helping to In 2002, 3i led the 267 million manage a successful exit process.
buyout of WHC, the third largest UK high quality care home operator with 5,680 beds in 88 care homes, backing Tony Heywood as chief executive and introducing Nick Irens as chairman.
3i was attracted by the experience and track record of the management team, the quality of WHCs estate and its strong brand and reputation.
Our in-depth understanding of the healthcare sector allowed us to add value by working in partnership with the management team to develop a number of successful specialist care operations.
These initiatives, together with organic growth, enabled WHC to outperform its buyout plan from the outset, with profits rising by over 60% during the two and a half years of 3is ownership.
Prior to exit, 3i positioned the business with key potential buyers, engineering a closely contested auction process won ultimately by Barchester Healthcare, creating one of the largest healthcare groups in the UK.
Financial management Our business lines are focused on delivering market-beating returns across their respective operations.
We can optimise both the level of these returns and the consistency of their delivery through leveraging the Groups financial resources and actively managing the risk profile across our portfolio.
By combining this with a strong focus on the size and shape of our cost base, we can deliver an enhanced return on equity to our shareholders.
Simon Ball Finance Director 11 Our vision: acknowledged for our partnership style We value our relationships as a source of long-term advantage.
Each of our business lines operates according to a partnership model and we manage and encourage partnership behaviours across all our business lines to support the firms long-term development.
Buyouts Yellow Brick Road In 1997, 3i backed Gary List to buy out the UKs number two directories business, Thomson Directories.
After exiting well, just two years later, 3i looked across Europe for similar opportunities.
The relationship between 3is Finnish venture business and telecommunications group, Sonera, enabled 3i and Veronis Suhler Stevenson VSS to buy out Soneras telephone directories business Fonecta, in 2002.
In 2003, 3i and VSS led the buyouts of KPNs directories businesses, fide Telefoongids in the Netherlands and Verizons directories businesses in Austria and central Europe.
This brought the combined investment by 3i and its buyout funds in these separate investments to 1140 million.
Venture Capital In 2004, together with advisers and Babelstore management from 17 different nationalities, the three businesses were merged to form In February 2005, 3i led the 17million Yellow Brick Road YBR, under the venture funding for Babelstore, which owns chairmanship of Gary List.
com, a leading French online A refinancing of the combined group e-tailer with 2.5 million members.
raised11 billion of new debt and delivered The PriceMinister website, launched cash returns for 3i and its co-investment in 2001, now processes more than 10,000 funds of 1224 million.
After this merger, sales per day from the 10 million items for 3i and funds retained 44% of YBR, a sale.
This has made it one of the top five business making over 1150 million EBITDA e-tailers in France.
and one of the fastest growing directory 3i first met the management team businesses in Europe.
in late 2002, and developed a strong relationship.
When Babelstore sought additional capital in 2004 to expand internationally, this relationship and 3is international network made 3i a natural choice.
3i is supporting the expansion of Babelstores operations in France, Italy and Spain as well as the development of new online product categories including cars.
3i has introduced a non-executive director with significant sector experience and is currently assisting the company in recruiting a chief financial officer.
3i Report and accounts 2005 12 Buyouts Travelex In February 2005, 3i and Lloyd Dorfman reached conditional agreement with Apax in a deal to purchase Travelex in a 1 billion transaction.
Completion of the deal is scheduled for the summer of 2005 and 3i is forecast to achieve a total money multiple of over 10 times its original investment.
3i will retain a 7% stake upon completion.
3i backed the buyout of Travelex in December 1998, having been introduced to Lloyd Dorfman, who founded the business in 1976, by the then Deputy Chairman of 3i.
Under Lloyd Dorfmans leadership, Travelex has become the worlds largest foreign exchange specialist employing around 6,000 staff in 35 countries, carrying out approximately 30 million transactions a year and serving 17,000 corporate and financial institution customers.
Following strong initial performance, 3i worked with the company to launch a high yield bond in August 2000, enabling early repayment of 23 million of loans to 3i and leaving 3i with a 33% shareholding for a cost of 200,000.
3i has supported Travelex through several key strategic moves, using its reputation in the City of London and financial expertise.
These key strategic events included the acquisitions of Transpay from Barclays and Thomas Cook Global & Financial Services, a business three times the size of Travelex.
People matter In our business, market-beating returns require market-leading people.
Our vision is dependent upon high calibre teams.
Teams working in a multinational and diverse environment, and people who command the respect of the entrepreneurs and business leaders that we work in partnership with across the world.
My job is to ensure that 3i wins in the market, both through our people and for our people.
This means attracting the best talent, investing in their development to meet the market challenges of both today and tomorrow, and creating the right spirit of partnership to harness their motivation.
Denise Collis Group Human Resources Director 13 Our vision: winning through our unparalleled resources 3is world-wide presence, our long track record, our balance sheet resources and our specialist sector teams are all sources of competitive advantage.
Buyouts Keolis In September 2004, 3i and Eurofund IV invested1100 million in the capital restructuring of Keolis, with 3is French team leading this 1540 million transaction, supported by 14 3i executives from five different countries.
3is local presence in countries where Keolis operates, our track record of success in the transport sector and our ability to source new management, including a new chairman, chief financial officer and non-executive director, were important to our partner, SNCF.
Keolis operates bus, tram and train networks on behalf of local authorities in eight countries, employing over 28,000 people.
It has grown revenue by around 15% per annum for the past four years to 12.2 billion in its 2004 financial year.
Keolis is the market leader in France and the number three player in Europe.
The investment strategy is to continue to grow Keolis international platform and to maintain its leadership in France by offering new innovative services and improving cost effectiveness for its clients.
3i Report and accounts 2005 14 Growth Capital Pearl 3i invested US$15 million in August 2004 to support the growth of Singapore-based Pearl Energy, an independent exploration and production business with a portfolio of oil and gas interests across South East Asia.
3is relationship with the management since 2000, combined with our sector credentials and ability to deliver an innovative, convertible investment structure within a tight timescale, secured the opportunity.
Our experience and knowledge of the sector, gained from over 30 years investing in oil and gas, enabled us to move more quickly than our competitors.
The ability of our oil and gas team, which has over 40 other investments in the sector, to add considerable value, was also a key reason to invest.
From our network, we were able to introduce an independent non-executive director, with extensive oil and gas experience, who subsequently joined the Pearl Energy board.
The management team was also looking for a partner with experience of Venture Capital helping companies prepare for a stock exchange listing.
Following 3is investment, Vette Corp our Singapore team worked closely with 3i made a US$8.75 million late stage venture Pearl and its advisers to prepare the investment in a US$15 million financing in company for an IPO.
Pearl Energy Vette Corp in October 2004.
The company, successfully gained a listing on the main based in New Hampshire, US, provides board of the Singapore Stock Exchange thermal management solutions for the in April 2005. computer and industrial electronics markets.
Vette Corps strategy is to combine a secure, low-cost manufacturing operation in China with a world-class global sales team in order to build a large, integrated thermal solutions business in this highly fragmented market.
Current suppliers of electronic thermal solutions are mostly small, heavily leveraged and burdened with high-cost manufacturing located outside of Asia.
The management team saw value in 3is global network, with its presence in Asia, the US and Europe and its ability to introduce potential sources of financing and customers world-wide through 3is corporate relationships.
The power of our resources Marketing, sector focus and access to the most talented individuals are key to winning in our market place.
The quality of our sector teams, the strength of our marketing and the reputation of our people programmes are all the result of continuous investment and innovation.
Our sector events for 3i backed chief executives and large corporates from around the world are an excellent demonstration of this.
As we extend our international reach, we are investing in building these capabilities.
