Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report and financial statements for the year to 30 September 2005.
Principal activity and business review The principal activity of the Group is the provision of asset management services.
Further details of the Groups performance during the year and up to the date of this report are given in the Chairmans Statement on page 2, the Chief Executives Review on page 5 and the Financial Review on page 14.
Financial The results for the year are shown in the profit and loss account on page 38.
An interim dividend of 2.2p net per share was paid on 15 June 2005 on the 236.2 million ordinary shares then in issue.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 1.584p net per share, payable on the 605.0 million shares in issue following the 3 for 2 rights issue completed in September.
The total distribution of ordinary dividends for the year to 30 September 2005 is 14.8 million.
Directors Details of the present Directors of the Company are given on pages 10 to 11.
Ms A M Frew was appointed on 1 October 2004.
Mr M E Haylon resigned on 19 November 2004, Mr R G Wilson resigned on 12 January 2005 and Mr J L Wybrew retired on 24 March 2005.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr M J Gilbert, Mr C L A Irby and Mr D H Waters retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Directors interests in the share and loan capital of the Company at the year end were as follows: Convertible Ordinary shares 5.875% Convertible Preference of 10p Options Bonds 2007 Share Units 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Beneficial M J Gilbert 7,168,850 3,927,998 1,478,000 1,478,000 100 W J Rattray 1,839,179 863,772 524,000 524,000 100 50 A A Laing 500,440 90,176 538,000 538,000 13 C L A Irby 112,500 45,000 31 31 C G H Weaver 70,000 10,000 6 6 2 A M Frew 37,500 D H Waters 25,000 1,000 R C Cornick 11,000 Sir Malcolm Rifkind 2,500 1,000 The total holdings for Messrs Gilbert, Rattray and Laing include shares awarded under the Groups LTIP and which remain subject to forfeiture pending achievement of the relevant performance criteria.
Full details are given in the Remuneration Report.
On 12 December 2005, Mr D H Waters purchased 125,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence.
There have been no other changes to the above holdings between 30 September 2005 and 12 December 2005.
20 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Substantial interests At 12 December 2005 the Company has been notified of the following interests, other than Directors, of 3% or more in the ordinary shares: Number % of class Lansdowne Partners Limited 61,512,717 10.2 Schroder Investment Management Limited 60,964,032 10.1 Goldman Sachs International 33,885,280 5.6 Legal and General Investment Management Limited 21,562,992 3.6 SKAGEN Fondene 20,117,000 3.3 Fixed intangible assets The costs of acquiring the management contracts of additional unit trusts are treated as intangible assets and are stated at the lower of cost and Directors valuation, and are subject to an annual impairment review.
The Directors are of the opinion that this treatment fairly represents the long-term nature of these assets.
No cost is attributed to management contracts resulting from the launch of new trusts by the Group.
The Directors are of the opinion that the value of these contracts is in excess of cost.
Corporate governance The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require all listed companies to report on how they apply the principles in the Combined Code.
The Group has complied with the Combined Code throughout the year to 30 September 2005, except where noted below.
Board responsibilities The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five Non Executive Directors, and three Executive Directors all of whom served throughout the period under review.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, clearly defined and have been approved by the Board.
Mr C L A Irby, the Chairman, is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board and for shareholder relations, whilst Mr M J Gilbert, the Chief Executive, is responsible for the day to day management of the Company.
The Board considers all of the Non Executive Directors to be independent and has appointed Mr D H Waters as the Senior Independent Director.
In considering director independence, the Board has taken into consideration the guidance provided by the Combined Code.
Mr C G H Weaver joined the Board following the acquisition of the Murray Johnstone Group MJ in November 2000.
Mr Weaver was formerly an executive director of MJ until December 1999, following which he became Chairman of MJ until the acquisition in November 2000.
In addition, Mr Weaver is a deferred member of the Murray Johnstone Limited Retirement Benefits Plan.
On a literal interpretation of the guidance in the Code, Mr Weaver was never an executive of Aberdeen nor of any subsidiary while it has been a member of the Aberdeen Group but, in seeking to apply the spirit as well as the letter of the Code, the Board chose not to regard Mr Weaver as independent until 2004.
A full five years having now passed since his appointment, and taking into consideration his independence of character and judgement, the Board reiterates its view that Mr Weaver is an independent Non Executive Director.
Biographical details of Directors can be found on pages 10 to 11.
The Board is scheduled to meet eight times each year to review financial performance and strategy and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes the setting of Company goals, objectives, budgets and other plans.
Board papers, comprising an agenda and formal reports and briefing papers, are sent to the Directors in advance of each meeting.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense, if required, as well as to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
New Directors appointed by the Board receive a full, formal, tailored induction which includes meetings with relevant senior management in order to help them gain a detailed understanding of the Group and its activities.
The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for facilitating the induction programme for new Directors as well as for ensuring good information flow between the Board, its committees and management and for assisting with the continuing professional development needs of the Directors.
Throughout their period in office the Directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, legal, corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and other relevant matters by written and verbal reports from senior executives, and external advisers.
In addition, during the year the Board undertook a visit to the Far East to receive reports from local management and to meet clients and representatives of local regulators.
Directors are also advised, at the time of their appointment, of their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of a listed company and are reminded of these on a regular basis.
All Directors have submitted themselves for re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
Directors appointed during the year are required to seek election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Board met eight times during the financial year and details of the attendance of individual Directors are shown in the table on page 23.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 21 Directors Report continued Board committees The Board has set up the following committees to assist in the execution of its duties.
All of these committees operate on written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and which are available on the Companys website, and the chairman of each committee reports to the Board.
Each of the committees is authorised, at the Companys expense, to obtain external legal or other professional advice to assist in carrying out its duties.
Only the members of the committees are entitled to attend the meetings, however others, such as senior management and external advisers, may be invited to attend as appropriate.
Current membership of the committees is shown in the Directors biographies on pages 10 to 11.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet four times each year and can meet more frequently where business needs require.
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control, risk management and the appointment and remuneration of independent auditors.
The Committees duties include keeping under review the scope and results of the audit work and its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
During the year the Committee discharged its responsibilities, under its terms of reference by: reviewing the Groups draft 2004 financial statements and 2005 interim results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: reviewing the continuing appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups 2005 accounts, which included key risks on the accounts, confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: reviewing an annual risk control report on the Groups system of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results of the review and receiving regular updates on key risk areas of financial control: reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and performance of significant acquisitions: reviewing the internal audit department terms of reference, its 2005 work programme and regular reports on its work during the year.
The Committee has approved a comprehensive policy to regulate the provision of non-audit services by the Groups external auditors, the overriding requirement being to ensure that the auditors are not engaged to perform work which, by its nature, may cause a conflict, either actual or perceived, with their independence and objectivity.
The policy, which has been prepared in accordance with ICAEW guidance, provides details of the types of services which are and are not permitted and those which require the explicit prior approval of the Committee.
Those services which are permitted include the provision of tax compliance services and the provision of certain recruitment services.
The Audit Committee has agreed that the provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction services and litigation services are permitted but only with the Committees prior approval.
The provision of reporting accountants services is permitted provided there is no element of valuation work involved but the provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any other activity that may give rise to any possibility of self-review are not permitted under any circumstance.
The Committee also has a responsibility for reviewing the Companys arrangements on whistleblowing, ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
The Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent Director, Mr D H Waters and is supported by two other independent Non Executive Directors, Ms A M Frew and Mr C G H Weaver.
Mr Irby also served on the Committee for part of the year but stepped down to enable the Committee to meet the requirements of the revised Combined Code.
The Committee receives regular reports from the Groups external and internal auditors and can, and does, request supplementary reports from management to meet its terms of reference.
The Committee met four times during the financial year, with representatives of senior management and KPMG Audit Plc in attendance at each meeting.
Details of the attendance of individual members of the Committee during the year are shown in the table on page 23.
Nominations Committee The Board as a whole is responsible for the appointment of new Directors and for nominating them for election by shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr C L A Irby, and is supported by two independent Non Executive Directors, Sir Malcolm Rifkind and Mr D H Waters.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and for recommending new members to the Board for appointment.
The Committee is also responsible for giving due consideration to succession planning for the Board of Directors and other senior executives and for making recommendations to the Board.
During the year the Committee received and recommended to the Board a paper on succession planning which identified appropriate successors for the Executive Directors and each member, at the time, of the Executive Committee.
Having previously appointed Hanson Green Grosvenor Limited, an external firm of recruitment consultants, to identify an additional independent non executive director having, inter alia, relevant experience in the asset management sector, Ms A M Frew was appointed to the Board on 22 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 1 October 2004.
The Nominations Committee met three times during the year and details of the attendance of individual members of the Committee are shown in the table below.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Malcolm Rifkind, and is supported by two other independent Non Executive Directors, Mr R C Cornick and Mr C G H Weaver.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to monitor, review and recommend the Groups remuneration policy, as set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 33, and to recommend to the Board the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other senior employees of the Group.
The Committee is also responsible for approving the design of all share incentive plans and for recommending their approval to the Board and shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee met eight times during the year and details of the attendance of individual members of the Committee are shown in the table below.
Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee C L A Irby 8 8 1 1 3 3 M J Gilbert 8 8 A A Laing 8 8 W J Rattray 8 8 D H Waters 8 8 4 4 3 3 R C Cornick 8 8 8 8 A M Frew 8 8 3 3 Sir Malcolm Rifkind 7 8 2 3 7 8 C G H Weaver 8 8 3 4 8 8 M E Haylon 1 1 R G Wilson 2 2 J L Wybrew 4 4 This table shows the number of meetings attended by each Director against the total number of meetings each Director was entitled to attend.
Executive Committee The operational management of the Group is controlled by an Executive Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and other senior colleagues.
Following the acquisition of certain asset management activites of Deutsche Asset Management and related companies, the membership of this Committee was expanded to reflect the increased activities of the Group and now comprises 14 senior executives.
The Committee is scheduled to meet three times each month and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The Committee receives reports from a number of subsidiary committees covering, inter alia, operational risk management, compliance and investment management and performance.
Performance evaluation The Board has established a formal process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees and each Director, to ensure that they continue to act effectively and efficiently and to fulfil the duties expected of them, and also to identify any additional training requirements.
A tailored questionnaire, which included specific references to the objectives of the Board and Committees, was completed by each Director.
The responses were analysed and the results were subsequently discussed at meetings of the Committees and the Board and in individual discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
In addition, the Non Executive Directors held a meeting without the Executive Directors present at which Executive Directors performance was discussed: and the Non Executive Directors met without the Chairman present to discuss the results of the evaluation of the Chairmans performance, having taken into consideration the views of the Executive Directors.
Relationships with shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with its investors and aims to keep shareholders informed by means of regular communication with institutional shareholders, analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
Annual and Interim Reports are widely distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Groups performance and these documents are also made available on the Companys website.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director make regular reports to the Board on investor relations and on specific discussions with major shareholders and the Board receives copies of all research published on the Company.
During the year, the Board received presentations from external advisers on topics including investor perception and shareholder issues.
Private investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which an opportunity is provided to ask questions.
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all Directors, and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are all available to Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 23 Directors Report continued answer questions during the meeting.
The Senior Independent Director, Mr D H Waters, is always available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Company continues to offer major shareholders the opportunity to meet new Directors.
The Group will continue its policy of announcing the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting and any other general meetings.
Internal control In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee, the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal controls are designed to cover all risks to achieving the Groups objectives including all business, operational, financial and compliance risks.
The internal controls are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to meet business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control is embedded within the day to day operations of the Group and a strong control culture is combined with clear management responsibility and accountabilities for individual controls.
The Group operates an automated risk management framework that requires management to record and regularly assess the risks and the effectiveness of internal controls and to report their findings to the Board.
The risk management framework, which covers all material parts of the Group, also provides a continuous improvement process for the Groups internal controls.
The Risk Management Committee monitors the effectiveness of the risk management framework and is scheduled to meet monthly and can meet more regularly where business needs require.
Membership of the Committee comprises the Executive Directors and their senior colleagues plus the heads of Legal, Compliance and Internal Audit, and it operates under terms of reference agreed by the Board.
The risk management framework is being extended to include the additional operations acquired from Deutsche Asset Management.
The Group has three separate functions which monitor the effectiveness of internal control independently.
The Performance Monitoring Department reports on the performance of funds managed by the Group to generally accepted industry standards and also monitors the investment risk profile of funds.
The Head of Performance Monitoring reports to the Chief Investment Officer and provides regular reports to the Board.
The Compliance Department reviews the effectiveness of controls that ensure compliance with regulatory requirements in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates.
The Head of Compliance reports to the Group Head of Risk who in turn reports to the Chief Executive who attends and reports at Board meetings.
The Internal Audit Department reviews the effectiveness of all controls, either by reviewing the methods and findings of the other independent monitoring functions, or by directly auditing the controls operated by management.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee and has unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A summary of significant risks, key internal controls and findings arising from the risk management framework and the work of the monitoring functions is reported by the Executive annually in a formal risk control report to the Board.
Identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks is an ongoing process which is regularly reviewed by the Board and has been in place throughout the year ended 30 September 2005 and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Post Balance Sheet events Details of the post balance sheet events are contained in Note 31.
Going concern After making enquiries and taking into account, inter alia, the working capital requirements of the Group and borrowing facilities available, the Board considers that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Employees The Group recognises that the involvement of its employees is key to the future success of the business, and has for many years adopted a practice of keeping employees fully informed on all matters affecting them.
The Group has consistently operated a remuneration strategy that recognises both corporate and individual performance.
The Group is also committed to best practice in employment matters, recognising the role this plays in attracting and retaining staff.
The Groups equal opportunities policy is available on the Companys website and this policy is supplemented by specific policies that reflect local employment legislation and expectations.
Employment and health and safety policies are maintained on the staff intranet site to which all staff have ready access.
Corporate social responsibility The Group recognises the importance of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR incorporating transparency, fairness, accountability and integrity and believes that these principles are fundamental to the Groups operations.
The Group continues to monitor developments in all relevant areas of CSR, including environment management, employees, health and safety, suppliers and the community to ensure that the Group meets best practices.
As part of the Groups environment management system a number of initiatives were introduced during 24 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC the year, full details of which are contained on the companys website.
The environmental management team intend to continue the progress made in 2005 and look to improve on past performance, where possible.
The environmental management team has continued to meet regularly during the year to monitor developments and to oversee the Groups initiatives.
With the focus of activities in 2005 on the major offices in the UK, coverage in 2006 will expand to include the non-UK offices and to this end, the environmental management team now includes representatives from the main overseas offices.
As part of its CSR responsibilities, the Board takes regular account of the social, environmental and ethical SEE issues that are of importance to the Company.
The Director with primary responsibility for these matters is the Chief Operating Officer, Mr A A Laing.
For the Group, the most relevant SEE issues concern staff and client retention and corporate reputation.
The most important development during the year, which had a direct bearing on these issues, was the purchase of certain parts of Deutsche Bank AG, which has brought a large number of new clients and employees to the Group.
Although this transaction was completed at the end of the financial year, the successful integration of the Deutsche business has required extensive planning, preparation and resource.
As mentioned above, the Board has ensured that the Company has in place effective systems for managing significant risks, including the SEE issues, and that these are monitored and regularly reported on.
Charitable contributions During the year, the Group made various charitable contributions totalling 50,000 2004 - 39,000.
It is the Groups policy not to make contributions for political purposes.
Policy on payment of creditors As required by the Financial Services Act, all unit trust repurchase settlements are paid within four working days of receipt of properly renounced certificates.
Unless otherwise agreed and although no formal code or standard is followed, payments to other creditors are made within thirty days.
At the year-end, the Group and Company had an average of 24 days purchases outstanding in respect of trade creditors and an average of 4 days outstanding in respect of approved unit trust repurchase settlements.
Auditors In accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions Contained within the Notice for the Annual General Meeting are the three standard resolutions relating to the Companys shares.
Firstly, a resolution will be proposed seeking to renew the Directors existing general power to allot securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 21,177,249 representing 33% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
Secondly, Resolution 10, which is a special resolution, will also propose to renew the Directors existing authority until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to make limited allotments of shares for cash other than according to the statutory pre-emption rights which require all shares issued for cash to be offered firstly to all existing shareholders.
Finally, Resolution 11, seeking to renew the existing authority to allow the Company to make market purchases of its own shares, if necessary, will also be proposed.
The maximum number of ordinary shares that can be purchased under this proposal will be 30,250,800 representing 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take or about the contents of this document, you should immediately consult an independent financial adviser, a stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
By order of the Board Scott E Massie Secretary 10 Queens Terrace Aberdeen AB10 1YG 12 December 2005 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 25
