Board of Directors Charles Irby Martin Gilbert Andrew Laing Bill Rattray Donald Waters 2 Aberdeen Asia-Paci c Income Fund, Charles Irby FCA Bill Rattray MA CA Inc, Aberdeen Asia-Paci c Income Chairman Finance Director Investment Company Limited, Mr Irby 60 was appointed to the Mr Rattray 47 joined the Group Aberdeen Development Capital PLC, Board on 1 August 1999 and became in 1985 as Company Secretary and Aberdeen Football Club plc, Aberdeen Chairman on 14 January 2000. subsequently became Group Financial Global Income Fund, Inc, Aberdeen Mr Irby is also a director of Great Controller.
He was appointed Finance Growth VCT 1 PLC, Aberdeen Growth Portland Estates plc, North Atlantic Director on 31 January 1991.
Prior Opportunities VCT PLC, Aberdeen Smaller Companies Investment Trust to joining the Group, he trained as a Growth Opportunities VCT 2 PLC, plc and QBE Insurance Group Limited chartered accountant with Ernst & ADC Zeros 2005 PLC, Primary Health and a Trustee and Governor of King Whinney in Aberdeen and quali ed Properties PLC and The Enhanced Zero Edward VIIs Hospital, Sister Agnes.
Mr Rattray is a director of a Trust plc.
chartered accountant, Mr Irby spent number of group subsidiaries.
27 years with ING Barings Limited, Andr Andr Andre e ew w w Laing Laing Laing MA MA LLB LLB specialising in corporate finance and 1, 2 Donald Waters OBE CA Chief Operating Officer is a former member of the Takeover Senior Independent Non Executive Mr Laing 53 joined the Group in Panel.
Mr Irby is Chairman of the Director 1986 with responsibility for the Groups Nominations Committee.
Mr Waters 67 was appointed to development capital division.
A Laing was subsequently appointed Martin Gilbert MA LLB LLD CA chartered accountant, Mr Waters was Chief Operating Of cer, originally Chief Executive formerly deputy chairman and chief joining the Board in 1997 and Mr Gilbert 50 is a founding director executive of Grampian Television plc.
then again on 23 January 2004. and shareholder of the company Mr Waters is deputy chairman of Mr Laing graduated from Aberdeen having been appointed a director on James Johnston & Co of Elgin Limited.
University with an MA in Politics 1 July 1983.
Mr Gilbert trained as Mr Waters is Chairman of the Groups and International Relations and a a chartered accountant in Aberdeen Audit Committee.
After a prior to moving into investment period of practising law, Mr Laing management with an Aberdeen rm entered venture capital in Edinburgh, of solicitors.
Mr Gilbert is chairman prior to joining Aberdeen.
Mr Laing of FirstGroup plc and Chaucer is currently managing director of Holdings PLC.
Mr Gilbert is also a the Groups property division and is director of Aberdeen Asian Smaller also a director of a number of group Companies Investment Trust PLC, subsidiaries.
10 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Roger Cornick Anita Frew Sir Malcolm Rifkind Giles Weaver 3 1, 3 Roger Cornick The Rt.
Sir Malcolm Giles Giles Giles W W Wea ea eav v ver er er FC FCA A 2, 3 Independent Non Executive Rifkind MP Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Mr Cornick 61 joined the Board on Director Mr Weaver 59 was appointed to 23 January 2004.
Mr Cornick was Sir Malcolm 59 joined the Board the Board on 1 December 2000.
A with Perpetual PLC for over 20 years, on 1 August 2000.
Sir Malcolm is chartered accountant, Mr Weaver serving latterly as deputy chairman.
Conservative Member of Parliament was formerly managing director and Mr Cornick has over 30 years for Kensington and Chelsea having chairman of the Murray Johnstone experience of sales and marketing previously served as UK Defence Group until its acquisition by in financial services.
Mr Cornick is Secretary and UK Foreign Secretary.
Mr Weaver is currently a trustee of the River and Sir Malcolm is non executive currently chairman of Charter PanRowing Museum.
chairman of ArmorGroup International European Trust PLC and Helical Bar plc and of Alliance Medical Holdings PLC.
Mr Weaver is also a director of Limited and is a consultant to BHP Anglo & Overseas PLC, Henderson Far 1 Anita Frew BA Hons MPhil Billiton Plc.
Sir Malcolm is Chairman East Income Trust plc, Investec High Independent Non Executive of the Groups Remuneration Income Trust PLC, ISIS Property Trust Director Committee.
Mr Weaver Ms Frew 48 was appointed on 1 is currently deputy chairman of the October 2004.
Ms Frew started her National Galleries of Scotland.
career at Royal Bank of Scotland before moving to Scottish Provident where she became head of UK 1 Member of the Audit Committee Investment.
Ms Frew then joined 2 Member of the Nominations WPP Group PLC as director of Committee corporate development and was 3 Member of the Remuneration latterly an executive director at Committee Abbot Mead Vickers Group Limited.
Ms Frew is also currently a director of Northumbrian Water Limited, Securities Trust of Scotland PLC and Victrex PLC.
