DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year to 31 December 2005.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND STATUS The Company is an investment company as dened in section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and has been approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment trust, under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, up to 31 December 2004.
It is the opinion of the Directors that the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to obtain such approval.
A review of the Company business during the year is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Report.
CONTINUATION OF THE COMPANY AND GOING CONCERN BASIS The Company has no xed duration.
However at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, shareholders overwhelmingly passed the resolution to continue the Company.
In accordance with the Articles of Association an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and at every third subsequent Annual General Meeting that the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust.
If such resolution is not passed, the Directors will prepare and submit to Shareholders for approval by special resolution proposals for the unitisation or other reconstruction of the Company.
In putting forward such proposals the Directors will seek, inter alia, to provide Shareholders with a means whereby they can defer any liability to capital gains tax on their investment at that time.
If these proposals are not approved, Shareholders will, within 180 days of the relevant Annual General Meeting, have the opportunity of passing an ordinary resolution requiring the Company to be wound up.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future notwithstanding the resolution on the Companys continuance, detailed above, would not be passed.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Your Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 7.85p, which produces total dividends for the year of 11.85p representing an increase of 7.7% on the total for the previous year.
Subject to Shareholders approval, the final dividend of 7.85p per share will be paid on 7 March 2006 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 February 2006.
000 000 Revenue for the year available for dividends 14,325 Dividends in respect of the revenue available: Interim dividend of 4.00p per Ordinary Share paid 2 September 2005 3,952 Proposed final dividend of 7.85p per Ordinary Share payable 7 March 2006 to Shareholders on the Register at close of business on 10 February 2006 7,757 11,709 2,616 DIRECTORS The Directors who held ofce at 31 December 2005 and their interests in the Shares of the Company as at that date and 1 January 2005 were as follows: Ordinary Shares Directors Nature of Interest 2005 2004 D R Shaw beneficial 20,000 10,000 H N Buchan beneficial 14,330 14,330 M L A Chiappelli beneficial 20,000 20,000 J E G Cran beneficial 26,659 26,000 Prof P R Marsh beneficial 10,000 10,000 Dr W S Nimmo beneficial 11,800 10,000 20 DIRECTORS REPORT There has been no change in the beneficial or non-beneficial holdings of the Directors between 31 December 2005 and 19 January 2006.
Mr Hughes retired as a Director on 23 February 2005.
As stated in the separate Corporate Governance Report, the Board wishes to go beyond the minimum requirements of the Companys Articles of Association, The Combined Code and the AITC by having all Directors seek re-election every year.
Therefore, all Directors retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 March 2006.
Messrs Shaw, Buchan, Chiappelli, Cran, Prof Marsh and Dr Nimmo offer themselves for re-election and election, and biographical details for each are shown on page 6.
ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING Your Board is again pleased to offer electronic proxy voting, including CREST voting capabilities, in connection with the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
You may therefore complete the enclosed form of proxy and return it to Capita Registrars, the Companys registrar, or alternatively, you may register your vote on-line by visiting the Capita Registrars website at www.
In order to register your vote on-line, you will need to enter your name, postal code and ICV code which is given on the form of proxy.
If you are a member of CREST, you may register the appointment of a proxy by using the CREST electronic appointment service.
For further details refer to the CREST manual.
Completion of a form of proxy or the appointment of a proxy electronically will not stop you attending the meeting and voting in person should you so wish.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING SPECIAL BUSINESS Purchase of Own Shares The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Shares of the Company expiresat the end of the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution11, as set out inthe ,  in 2007.
The price paid for shares will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per share nor more than 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
Any shares purchased under the authority will be automatically cancelled, rather than being held intreasury, therebyreducing the Companysissuedshare capital.
There are no outstanding options warrants to subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
Subject to the requirement that purchases by the Company of its own shares will only be made at a level which enhances NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase will be to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
Accordingly, it is the Boards intention to use the share purchase facility within the guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
Articles of Association An amendment to the Companys Articles of Association has been proposed as Resolution 12 in the light of recent changes to the law relating to a companys ability to indemnify its directors and ofcers.
The amendment would extend the indemnity permitted under the Articles of Association to cover a directors or ofcers liability to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
It would not permit the director or officer to be indemnified in respect of such liabilities to the Company itself or costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the officer is convicted or required to pay any regulatory or criminal fines.
The Directors consider the passing of Resolution 12 to be in the best interests of the Company and its Shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour of it.
Copies of the proposed revised Articles of Association will be available for inspection during normal business hours until the close of the Annual General Meeting at the registered ofce of the Company.
MANAGEMENT On 1 December 2005, the assets and business of Aberforth Partners transferred to Aberforth Partners LLP, a limited liability partnership.
As a consequence, the investment management, administration and company secretarial services previously provided by Aberforth Partners are now provided by Aberforth Partners LLP.
There was no change to any of the terms of these services as a result.
These services can be terminated by either party at any time by giving six months notice of termination.
Compensation fees would only be payable in respect to this six month period if termination were to occur sooner.
Aberforth 21 DIRECTORS REPORT Partners LLP receive a quarterly management fee, payable in advance, equal to one-fifth of one per cent.
ofthe value ofthe total assets less all liabilitiesofthe Company and aquarterly secretarialfee, payable in advance, of 14,538 excluding VAT per quarter during 2005.
The secretarial fee is adjusted annually in line with the Retail Prices Index.
Both these fees are subject to VAT which is currently irrecoverable by the Company.
The Board considers the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually by the Audit and Management Engagement Committee the Committee.
The Committee considers the following topics in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment policy and strategy: the continuity of personnel managing the assets and reporting to the Board: the level of service provided in terms of the accuracy and timeliness of reports to the Board: and, the frequency and quality of both verbal and written communications with Shareholders.
Following the most recent review the Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee, is of the opinion that the continued appointment of Aberforth Partners LLP as investment managers, on the terms agreed, is in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS IN SHARE CAPITAL The Board has been informed of the following substantial interests in the issued share capital of the Company as at 19 January 2006.
Percentage Interested person Held Newton Investment Management Limited 8.6 Barclays PLC including Gerrard Limited 6.4 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 3.8 Legal & General Investment Management 3.3 CREDITORS PAYMENT POLICY The Companys creditors payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio, cash balances, overdrafts, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments are disclosed in Note 17 to the accounts.
AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners LLP, Secretaries 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS 19 January 2006 22
