MANAGERS REPORT PERFORMANCE UK equities enjoyed another year of good performance.
The FTSE All-Share Index rose by a commendable 22.0% in total return terms, but was outstripped for a third consecutive year by small companies, with the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies up by 27.8%.
In this exuberant environment, ASCoT lagged its benchmark but produced a strong absolute total return of 24.9%.
The worlds major stockmarkets have recovered strongly over the past three years.
The total return from the S&P 500 Index over that period was 40% in sterling terms.
Meanwhile, in the UK, the FTSE All-Share Index returned 66%.
Small UK quoted companies performed particularly well, with a total return of 121% from the HGSC XIC.
In total return terms, both these UK indices have now eliminated the losses of the post TMT bear market and at the end of 2005 stood at record highs.
These remarkable returns have exceeded the long run average returns achieved by equities and indeed your Managers expectations.
INVESTMENT BACKGROUND Even with the challenge of a 50% rise in the oil price, the pattern of global economic growth saw little change in 2005 and familiar imbalances remained in place.
Despite still high levels of debt and the Feds continued monetary tightening, which saw interest rates increased eight times last year, US consumer demand remained robust and the savings ratio continued to erode.
The current account deficit expanded further, as the economies of the Far East supplied the goods demanded by the US and in turn recycled their savings into dollar assets.
Somewhat surprisingly, the dollar rallied.
Its strength was a llip to Europe and Japan, both of which, despite continuing to lag the US, saw growth pick up encouragingly through the year.
In contrast, the UKs economic fortunes have deteriorated following an unusually protracted period of buoyancy.
Towards the end of the year, the Chancellor conceded that GDP growth for 2005 would be roughly half the rate previously forecast.
The biggest slowdown has been evident in the consumer sector, where retail sales growth and the housing market have cooled appreciably.
This, though, should hardly surprise in view of prevailing monetary conditions: notwithstanding Augusts cut, 2004s interest rate rises have resulted in more restrictive monetary conditions in 2005.
However, higher interest rates have not yet resulted in a decline in the rate of ination.
Indeed, the rate of increase in the CPI was 2.1% in November against 1.6% a year earlier.
Higher raw materials and energy prices have made a not insignicant contribution to the increase in the rate of ination.
Though oil made the most notable move in 2005 peaking at $70 in September before falling back close to $60 at the end of the year producer input prices in general were up by over 12% in 2005.
At the same time, labour costs, as measured by average earnings data, increased at a steady rate of around 4%.
Despite mitigating factors such as productivity gains and geographical diversication, this combination of a lower rate of real growth in demand and a higher rate of ination in key input costs is negative for the UK corporate sector.
The tougher trading conditions implied by these trends were reected in a 30% rise in the number of profit warnings issued across the UK stockmarket in 2005.
Such an increase, while noteworthy, risks portraying too gloomy a picture, especially since profit warnings frequently say as much about the over-optimism of analysts and investors as about underlying trading conditions.
The UK corporate sector as a whole ended 2005 in pretty good shape.
Despite the cost pressures noted above, profits grew, albeit at a slower rate than previously.
With businesses still reluctant to increase capital expenditure, returns on capital moved to their highest rates for five years and there was a further reduction in aggregate debt levels.
Given the deceleration in profit growth and ongoing cost pressures, the strong stockmarket returns achieved by both large and small companies last year might be somewhat surprising.
However, enthusiasm for equities has been bolstered by the powerful force of fide-equitisation.
This term, coined by Citigroup, describes the replacement of equity with debt nancing and, more relevantly, the recent upsurge in such activity.
There are several manifestations of the trend: cash funded takeovers by other companies, take-privates by private equity houses, share buy-backs, tender offers and special dividends.
10 MANAGERS REPORT Citigroup calculate that across the UK stockmarket in 2004 fide-equitisation actually outweighed new issuance of equity, whether through IPOs or rights issues.
The stock of equity capital in the UK thus contracted, by c. 15bn, the equivalent of c. 1% of the FTSE All-Share Index.
In underlying terms, 2005 saw a continuation of this trend: stripping out the effect of Shell moving its listing fully to the UK, there was further shrinkage of c. 25bn.
Therefore, as the pool of equity diminishes, albeit slowly, fide-equitisation may be interpreted as supportive of equity valuations.
This is most obvious in the case of takeovers, of which there were 64 completed across the UK stockmarket last year.
There are several factors that explain the emergence of fide-equitisation.
These include institutions selling equities and reinvesting in bonds with the encouragement of regulators, a benign trading background supporting robust corporate cash ows, and the increasing signicance of private equity.
Probably the most important influence, however, is the historically low cost of debt both in absolute terms and relative to valuations of other asset classes.
For much of the current decade, monetary conditions across the developed world have been extremely accommodative in historical terms, with real interest rates running close to zero.
This environment of abundant liquidity has brought down the cost of borrowing and fostered an expansion in debt levels.
This is evident not only in US and UK consumer balance sheets, but also in the financial markets.
Debt-nanced investment strategies now abound and are evident in bull markets in many asset classes, including property, commodities, corporate debt and, of course, equities.
INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE ASCoTs benchmark achieved an outstanding 27.8% return in 2005, almost six percentage points ahead of larger companies.
This relative performance is all the more remarkable given the indices radically different sector proles: large companies benefited from a higher weighting in oil and mining stocks, and a lower exposure to cyclical industries such as retail and building, which might be more affected by a slowing domestic economy.
Once again, fide-equitisation is useful in rationalising these developments.
The aspect of fide-equitisation with the most immediate impact on share prices is outright takeover activity.
This was concentrated in the small cap world.
Last year, 64 companies were acquired across the fully listed UK stockmarket.
Of these, 54 were constituents of the HGSC XIC.
In value terms, using weights at the start of the year, roughly 2% of the fully listed stockmarket was subject to takeover in 2005, against roughly 10% of the HGSC XIC.
Other aspects of fide-equitisation are more difficult to quantify.
Though share buy-backs remain a more significant feature of the large company universe, they have become increasingly popular amongst small companies over ASCoTs life.
This may be interpreted in two ways.
Negatively, small companies may be struggling for profitable investment opportunities, which would be reected in lower growth rates in the future.
Positively, small company management teams may now be more focused on shareholder value and more aware of the risks inherent in the next acquisition or greeneld investment.
Historically, ASCoT has fared relatively well from fide-equitisation.
The following paragraphs give some feel for the important inuences, amongst them takeover activity, on last years 24.9% return.. To state the obvious and perpetuate a cliche, 2005 was a year of two halves.
In the first, ASCoT enjoyed strong absolute and relative gains: its total return of 10.5% was 2.1% points ahead of the HGSC XIC.
In the second half, ASCoTs 13.0% gain was even better in absolute terms and, in isolation, a decent return for a six month period.
The benchmark, however, performed extremely strongly, recording a 17.9% total return.. To split a period in this way is inevitably somewhat articial, but the exercise can yield useful insights into developments in both the portfolio and the wider market.
In the case of 2005, at the portfolio level, ASCoT endured more profit warnings and less takeover activity in the second half: both these factors are examined in greater detail below.
An additional exogenous influence may have been a change in the markets appetite for value.
Since the bursting of the TMT bubble almost five years ago, your Managers 11 MANAGERS REPORT value style of investment has enjoyed a strong tail wind.
Stylistic analysis of the stockmarket suggests that this remained the case in the first half of 2005.
However, such analysis also suggests that growth or momentum oriented investment styles would have yielded better results in the second half of the year.
Performance Attribution Analysis 12 Months to 31 December 2005 Basis Points Stock Selection 145 Sector Selection 53 Attributable to the portfolio of investments 92 Cash 79 Undistributed Revenue 59 Management Fee charged to Capital 59 Total Attribution 171 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the capital only performance of the net asset value and the Benchmark Index i. e. net asset value 22.67%: Benchmark Index 24.38%: difference is 1.71% being 171 basis points..
The table above splits ASCoTs relative performance, in capital only terms, between stock selection and sector selection.
Sector selection was positive, though the portfolio was appropriately aligned i. e. either a lower exposure than the benchmark in those sectors that performed poorly or a higher exposure in those that performed well in 15 of the 31 sectors that constitute the HGSC XIC.
However, Oil & Gas, in which ASCoT was over-weight for the majority of the year, made a large positive contribution.
Buoyed by the rise in the oil price over 2005, this sector jumped by 72%, substantially more than the HGSC XIC s return.
Other sectors did not individually make a noteworthy contribution.. Conversely, stock selection, which measures the performance of the portfolios investments in each sector against that sectors benchmark return, was negative, despite the portfolio out-performing in 14 of the 25 sectors in which it was invested.
Last years Managers Report tempted providence, making reference to benign trading conditions and a consequent paucity of profit warnings within the portfolio.
Partly as a result of the trickier trading environment described earlier in this report, the portfolio experienced rather more accidents in 2005.
As quantication, nine stocks within the portfolio reduced absolute performance by 20 basis points or more in 2005: in 2004, there were five such stocks..
Seven of the nine problem stocks issued profit warnings during the year.
Your Managers often use the occasion of a profit warning as an opportunity to add to a position at lower prices.
While such a practice runs the risks of catching a falling knife and is by no means always successful, it is in keeping with how your Managers have always run ASCoTs portfolio.
Indeed, this practice is consistent with their value investment philosophy with its hint of contrarianism: frequently, the stockmarkets estimation of a stock changes much more rapidly than does the substance of the underlying business.
However, in fund management, as in life, timing is everything: even if your Managers have correctly valued a business, it may take some time for their faith to be vindicated by a higher share price.
On the other hand, vindication can come quickly: takeover approaches towards the end of the year reversed the fortunes of the two stocks that had been the poorest performers over the ten months to the end of October.
In a departure from the tradition of these Managers Reports, this paragraph addresses the contribution made by an individual company.
Paladin Resources was a feature of ASCoTs portfolio since July 1998 and the largest holding from December 2002 to October 2005.
Over the period, the company made a substantial contribution to the performance of the portfolio, culminating in its takeover by Talisman Energy in October.
Credit is due to Paladins management team.
Eschewing the high impact drilling programmes that have characterised many small cap oil stocks in recent years, they combined operational acumen and an appreciation of value creation to the great benefit of shareholders..
Partly as a result of Paladins takeover, ASCoT was a beneciary of last years fide-equitisation activity.
By the end of 2005, nine companies in total had been acquired, while a further seven had received approaches.
Continuing the pattern of 2004, in the case of seven of the nine completed deals, the acquirers were other corporates.
This tends to be good for exit valuations since companies can usually justify higher prices with cost synergies.
However, the portfolios experience last year suggests that private equity houses can still compete for deals by virtue of the current low cost of debt.
fide-equitisation also benefited ASCoT through share buy-backs or tender offers by 18 portfolio companies, eight of which substantially renanced their balance sheets with a large return of capital to shareholders.. ASCoTs investments enjoyed a year of good dividend growth.
There were 117 companies in the portfolio at the end of 2005.
Of these, it was the policy of 18 not to pay a dividend.
A further ten had been listed for less than two years, rendering dividend growth calculations meaningless.
Of the remainder, eight cut their payouts, eight left them unchanged and 73 reported increases.
The median company within the 89 raised its dividend by 9%.
Coincidentally, this was a similar rate of increase from 2004s median company.
Although this median gure does not necessarily reect ASCoTs actual receipts, since the portfolio is actively managed and a specic rate of dividend growth is not targeted, the analysis does hint at the underlying health of many businesses within the small company universe.
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK Three remarkable years of performance have taken both the FTSE All-Share Index and the HGSC XIC to historical highs in total return terms.
In large part this has been justied by a robust recovery in corporate profits.
However, given the cost pressures described earlier in this report and the fact that profitability is running at cyclically high levels, it might be reasonable to expect a more modest rate of profit progression going forward.
Accordingly, on the fundamental level, it is difficult to envisage another year of stockmarket returns in excess of 20% and it might be prudent to adjust expectations closer to the long term average of 5-7% in real terms.
A wild card is the continuing influence of the current low cost of debt.
Interest rates in much of the developed world remain below the growth rate of nominal GDP, an indication of relatively accommodative monetary conditions.
Notwithstanding the likelihood of further modest tightening, this applies even to the US, where the present phase of interest rate rises commenced from a historically low base.
Thus, with liquidity still abundant, it is not difficult to imagine money continuing to ow into asset classes whose potential returns are perceived to exceed the cost of borrowing.
This environment would be conducive to further fide-equitisation and therefore could engender a further re-rating of equities, including small UK quoted companies.
Ultimately, however, fide-equitisation is an arbitrage between the cost of debt and the return perceived to be available from equities.
It is therefore bound by the laws of arithmetic and risks being undermined either by too large a rise in the interest rates payable by the acquirers of equities or by too extensive a revaluation of equities.
As the table below shows, the strong returns from the HGSC XIC in 2005 resulted in an expansion in its historic PE ratio.
Nevertheless, the spate of takeovers in the final months of 2005 suggests that the logic of fide-equitisation works at prevailing valuation levels.
13 MANAGERS REPORT 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Characteristics ASCoT Benchmark ASCoT Benchmark Number of Companies 117 583 116 662 Weighted Average Market Capitalisation 406m 486m 349m 374m Price Earnings Ratio Historic 16.2x 19.0x 14.5x 16.1x Net Dividend Yield Historic 2.3% 2.2% 2.7% 2.3% Dividend Cover Historic 2.7x 2.4x 2.5x 2.7x With the FTSE All-Share Index trading on a PE of 16.5x and a yield of 3.0%, small UK quoted companies ended the year more highly valued than their larger peers.
This reects both the superior performance achieved by the HGSC XIC and a higher rate of earnings growth in 2005 from larger companies, driven by a greater exposure to resources companies, which benefited from the rising price of oil and other commodities.
Your Managers are not, of course, condemned slavishly to follow the benchmark.
The HGSC XIC continues to represent a sizeable opportunity base, harbouring a diversity of businesses and valuations.
From this universe, it is possible to construct a portfolio with more attractive value characteristics: as an indication, ASCoT entered 2006 with both a higher yield and a lower PE than its benchmark.
Since your Managers remain committed to their value investment philosophy, there are inevitably periods when it is out of step with the general mood of the market.
This was the case in the second half of 2005.
However, it is your Managers contention that, over time, the valuation advantage inherent in ASCoTs portfolio might be expected to translate into superior performance.
Aberforth Partners LLP Managers 19 January 2006 14
