40 BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors Alastair Lyons CBE 52 Henry Engelhardt, 48 Chairman N Chief Executive Officer Alastair was appointed Chairman of the Henry is a founder Director of Admiral and was Company in July 2000.
He is also Executive recruited by the Brockbank Group in 1991 to set Chairman of Partners for Finance Limited, and up the Admiral business.
Non-executive Chairman of Buy-as-you-View He was part of the management team that led Holdings Limited, and of Higham Group plc.
Prior to joining Admiral, he was He has previously been Chief Executive of the Marketing and Sales Manager for Churchill National Provident Institution and the National & Insurance.
Provincial Building Society, Managing Director of the He has substantial experience in direct response Insurance Division of Abbey National plc, and financial services in the United Kingdom, United Director of Corporate Projects at National States and France.
Alastair has also been a Nonexecutive Director of the Department for Transport and of the Department for Work and Pensions.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, he was awarded the CBE in the 2001 Birthday Honours for services to social security.
Andrew Probert 53 David Stevens 44 Finance & IT Director Chief Operating Officer Andrew is responsible for finance, information David is a founder Director of Admiral.
Initially technology, facilities and commercial negotiations.
the Marketing Director, he was appointed He is a founder manager, joining Admiral in 1992, Director responsible for pricing in 1996 and being appointed a Director in 1995. claims and pricing in 1999.
He was appointed as Chief Operating Officer in 2004.
Prior to that, he was Chief Financial Officer of two life insurance companies and several Lloyds He joined Admiral in 1991 from McKinsey & Co. brokers.
He is a fellow of the Institute of where he worked in the Financial Interest Group, Chartered Accountants.
Prior to working for McKinsey & Co, he worked for Cadbury Schweppes in the United Kingdom and the United States.
David has an MBA from Insead.
ADMIRAL GROUP plc 41 Manfred Aldag 55 Martin Jackson 57 Keith James OBE 61 Non-executive Director N Non-executive Director A, R Non-executive Director A, N Manfred was appointed a Non-executive Director Martin was appointed Non-executive Director and Keith was appointed a Non-executive Director in of the Company in 2003 as a representative of Chairman of the Audit Committee in August 2004.
He is Chairman of the Munich Re.
He graduated from the University of Nominations Committee and is also the He was the Group Finance Director of Friends Essen and has a degree in Economics Business independent Chairman of Admiral Insurance Provident plc between 2001 and 2003 and Management Diplom-Kaufmann.
Friends Provident Life Office between 1999 and He has worked for Munich Re since September 2001.
Prior to that he was the Group Finance He is also a Non-executive Director of Julian 1981 and is currently the Senior Executive Director at London & Manchester Group plc Hodge Bank Limited, HTV Group Limited and Manager responsible for Northern Europe from 1992 to 1998, up to the date of its International Greetings plc and is Non-executive United Kingdom, Ireland, Netherlands and the acquisition by Friends Provident Life Office.
Chairman of Atlantic Venture Capital Limited.
Martin was appointed a Non-executive Director He is a solicitor and was the Chairman of of IG Holdings plc in April 2005.
Eversheds LLP from June 1995 to April 2004.
He He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered was a Non-executive Director of Bank of Wales Accountants.
plc between 1988 and 2001 and AXA Insurance Company Limited between 1992 and 2000.
Keith was awarded an OBE in 2005 for services to business and the community in Wales.
John Sussens 60 Gillian Wilmot 46 Non-executive Director R Non-executive Director A, R John was appointed the Senior Independent NonGillian was appointed to the Board in April 2005. executive Director in August 2004, and is Chairman Gillian has significant experience in consumerof the Remuneration Committee.
He is also a Nonfacing businesses at Marks and Spencer plc, executive Director of Cookson plc, Phoenix IT Boots plc, Next plc, Sears plc, Avon Cosmetics, Group Plc, and Anglo & Overseas Trust Plc.
Littlewoods plc and the Royal Mail.
He was the Group Managing Director of Misys She is currently Chief Executive of Buy-As-Youplc between 1998 and May 2004 having been on View Limited and Non-executive Director of the Board of the Company since 1989.
Prior to Land of Leather Plc.
KEY joining Misys, he was Manufacturing Director at A - Audit Committee member JC Bamford Excavators Limited.
He was a NonR - Remuneration Committee member executive Director at Chubb plc between 2001 N - Nominations Committee member and 2003.
