44 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and Directors and their interests the audited financial statements for the year The present Directors of the Company are ended 31 December 2005. shown on the inside cover of this report, whilst Directors interests in the share capital Principal activity, business review of the Company are set out in the and future developments remuneration report.
The Company is the holding Company for the Admiral Group of companies.
The Groups Charitable and political donations principal activity continues to be the selling During the year the Group donated 108,000 and administration of private motor insurance 2004: 75,000 to various local and national and related products.
The Group has never made political donations.
Refer to the corporate responsibility Detailed descriptions of the Groups activities, report for further detail.
results and prospects are contained in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives Employee policies statement and the financial review.
Detailed information on the Groups employment practices is set out in the Group results and dividends corporate responsibility report.
The profit for the year, after tax but before dividends, amounted to 84.7m 2004: 90.5m.
The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for all staff and Directors.
The Directors declared and paid dividends of 49.2m during 2005 2004: 52.0m - refer to Creditor payment policy note 14 for further details.
It is the policy of the Group to pay all purchase invoices by their due date, and appropriate The Directors are proposing a final dividend of quality measures are in place to monitor and 38.7m 14.9p per share, payable on 25 May 2006. encourage this.
At the end of the year outstanding invoices represented 30 days Share capital purchases 2004: 24.
Other than the holdings of the Directors as disclosed in the remuneration report, so far as Annual General Meeting the Directors are aware, or have been notified It is proposed that the next AGM be held at pursuant to section 198 of the Companies Act The Celtic Manor Resort, Coldra Woods, 1985, the following shareholders have interests Chepstow Road, Newport, Gwent NP18 1HQ in 3% or more of the ordinary share capital of on 18 May 2006, at 2.00pm, notice of which the Company at 28 February 2006: is set out at the back of the report and accounts.
Number of shares % Munich Re 37,479,400 14.42% Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Fidelity Investments 14,975,118 5.76% Annual Report and the Group and Parent Barclays Plc 12,717,131 4.89% Company financial statements, in accordance Jupiter Asset Management 12,361,774 4.76% with applicable law and regulations.
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 10,015,179 3.85% ADMIRAL GROUP plc 45 Company law requires the Directors to prepare them to ensure that its financial statements Group and Parent Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They for each financial year.
Under that law the have general responsibility for taking such steps Directors are required to prepare the Group as are reasonably open to them to safeguard financial statements in accordance with IFRS as the assets of the Group and to prevent and adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare detect fraud and other irregularities.
the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a The Group financial statements are required by Directors Report, Directors remuneration report law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present and corporate governance statement that fairly the financial position and performance of comply with that law and those regulations.
the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that The Directors are responsible for the references in the relevant part of that Act to maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial statements giving a true and fair view are financial information included on the references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of The Parent Company financial statements are financial statements may differ from legislation required by law to give a true and fair view of in other jurisdictions.
the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
Auditor In preparing each of the Group and Parent The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has Company financial statements, the Directors indicated willingness to continue in office and are required to: resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise the Directors to fix its remuneration will be select suitable accounting policies and then proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
apply them consistently By order of the Board make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent for the Group financial statements, state Stuart Clarke whether they have been prepared in Company Secretary accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU 3 March 2006 for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable
