BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Corporate governance Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary 46 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 1 Frank Chapman 52 Singapore and Malaysia.
He previously the legal affairs of the Group.
Prior to Chief Executive spent 17 years with the mining, steel and becoming General Counsel, he was Head 47 petroleum conglomerate BHP, where of the Legal Department at BG Group, a 2 William Friedrich 57 his roles included commercial, business role he has held since 2002.
Before joining Deputy Chief Executive development, corporate planning and BG, he was with the international law 3 Ashley Almanza 42 research & development.
He has lived firm, Herbert Smith, and worked in Chief Financial Officer and worked in Australia, Pakistan, India, London, the Middle East and Asia.
4 Charles Bland 56 12 Ben Mathews 39 Executive Vice President, Policy & 8 Martin Houston 48 Company Secretary Corporate Affairs Executive Vice President & Managing Ben Mathews joined BG Group plc in Charles Bland joined BG plc in 1999.
Director, North America, Caribbean and 2002 and is responsible for all matters He is responsible for government and Global LNG relating to the Board, its committees and public affairs, brand and marketing, Martin Houston joined British Gas in governance.
He was appointed Company 1983 and was appointed Executive Vice communications, Corporate Responsibility Secretary on 9 November 2004.
He policy and community affairs.
He was appointed previously worked for National Grid plc, to his current position in September 2003 appointed to his current position in 2002 British American Tobacco plc and having previously been President, and is based in Houston.
EVP appointment in 2000, he held a BG Kazakhstan, and Vice President, number of technical and commercial Government Affairs.
Before joining BG posts predominantly with an international he worked in UK Government, holding focus.
He played a leading role in the various posts in the Ministry of Defence.
development of the LNG industry in 5 Jrn Berget 53 Trinidad and Tobago and was Chairman of Executive Vice President & Managing Atlantic LNG from 1996 to 2000.
His most Director, BG Advance recent positions have included President Jrn Berget joined BG Group plc in and General Manager of BG Trinidad and November 2004 from Shell, where he was, Tobago, Director of LNG and Vice President most recently, production director for all of Strategy and Portfolio Development.
He E&P assets in the USA and South America, is a non-executive director of Severn Trent in addition to being a board member of Plc and a fellow of the Geological Society Enventure Technologies and Enterprise of London.
He has 29 years 9 Mark Carne 47 experience covering all aspects of the E&P Executive Vice President & Managing business, with assignments in Norway, Director, Europe and Central Asia Argentina, the Netherlands, Peru, Oman, Mark Carne joined BG Group plc in May Brunei, the UK and USA.
He is responsible 2005 from Shell, where he held a number of for providing BG Groups corporate senior positions, most recently managing technical assurance and services, director of Brunei Shell Petroleum and continuing development of strategic country chairman for Shell companies in technical and commercial capabilities.
Prior to this role, he was the asset 6 Peter Duffy 44 director responsible for Shells UK North Sea Executive Vice President, Human Resources oil production.
His international experience Peter Duffy joined BG Group plc in 2001, includes various general management roles Dave Roberts 45 was Executive Vice when he was appointed to his current President & Managing Director for Asia in the UK, the Netherlands and Oman and the Middle East during the year ended position with responsibility for all matters covering operations, engineering, 31 December 2005 and has since resigned commercial and business development.
relating to human resources strategy and from his current position.
He joined BG Group policy.
He has extensive international plc in January 2003 when he was appointed 10 Rick Waddell 46 to that position, with responsibility for the human resource management experience, Executive Vice President & Managing Groups activities in India, South East Asia, particularly in the area of organisation Director, South America the Middle East and Kazakhstan.
He was development, performance and change Rick Waddell joined BG Group plc in previously adviser to Chevron Texacos vice chairman and director of strategy management.
He previously worked for 2002 when he was appointed to his management for Texacos worldwide TRW Inc. LucasVarity plc, and British current position.
Based in So Paulo, upstream business.
He has extensive Aerospace plc.
he is responsible for all upstream and experience in surface and sub-surface downstream activities in South America, engineering and technical leadership, 7 Stuart Fysh 49 operations and general management.
including Comgas in So Paulo and Executive Vice President & Managing MetroGAS in Buenos Aires.
He is a former Director, Mediterranean Basin and Africa senior vice president of Enron Corporation Stuart Fysh joined BG plc in 1998 and was for Latin America and, prior to that, was appointed Executive Vice President in The Group Executive Committee will also regional logistics manager for South November 2003 with responsibility for include the Executive Vice President & America with Wal-Mart International.
Managing Director for the newly created Asia the Groups activities in Egypt, Tunisia, Pacific Region when an appointment is made.
Mauritania, Nigeria and Libya, and 11 Stefan Ricketts 38 General Counsel development activities elsewhere in the region.
He was appointed Vice President Stefan Ricketts joined BG plc in 1999 and See page 45 for biographical details.
was appointed General Counsel in BG Egypt in June 2001 and prior to that A description of the Group Executive Committee is given on page 42. he was Vice President BG Thailand, September 2005, with responsibility for Contents 49 Directors report 134 Three year financial summary 51 Remuneration report unaudited 62 Auditors report 136 Five year financial summary 63 Principal accounting policies unaudited 66 Consolidated income statement 138 Shareholder information 67 Consolidated statement of 139 Additional shareholder recognised income and expense information 68 Balance sheets 146 Notice of meeting 70 Cash flow statements 150 Cross-reference to Form 20-F 71 Notes to the accounts 151 Index 128 Supplementary information 152 Presentation of gas and oil unaudited non-GAAP measures 133 Historical production 153 Definitions
