BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and financial review Future prospects Future prospects 12 Building on the Groups distinctive asset base, with new significant projects and exploration acreage driving the earnings trajectory out to 2009 and beyond.
GROWTH FROM EXISTING ASSETS BG Groups asset base is distinctive Key plans and opportunities because of its low cost, long-life nature North Sea: Buzzard field and Brazil: Comgas network growth and and the potential it has for substantial UK production hubs improved margins embedded growth.
Assets that were onstream in 2003 are expected to produce Tunisia: Miskar and Hasdrubal fields Kazakhstan: Karachaganak field almost as much in 2012, highlighting the fide-bottlenecking, stabilisation and India: Panna Mukta and Tapti strength of the existing asset base.
gas development fields plus new Krishna Godavari Examples of such assets include UK North basin acreage Nigeria: OKLNG and upstream position Sea production hubs, Tunisia, Karachaganak and Trinidad and Tobago.
Trinidad and Tobago: uncontracted USA: increases in LNG regasification reserves and additional liquefaction capacity at Elba Island and Lake Charles In the LNG segment, BG Group has emerged as a leading LNG player in the Egypt: Egyptian LNG Train 3 and new Further long-term LNG supply Atlantic Basin.
Embedded within the exploration plays from Nigeria, Egypt and Trinidad existing business, the Group has options and Tobago to expand its regasification capacity to underpin new trains of liquefaction and Long-term growth exploration and appraisal wells planned in 2006 new LNG purchase agreements.
MAJOR NEW PROJECTS BG Group has a number of significant UK NORWAY projects and further opportunities.
These include Buzzard, further development of CANADA ITALY Karachaganak, Hasdrubal, Comgas growth and new LNG supplies from Nigeria, Trinidad and Tobago and Egypt.
As the majority of these opportunities are already within the Groups portfolio, the risk to delivery is significantly lower than if the Group was to rely solely on MAURITANIA accessing new exploration opportunities.
EXPLORATION SUCCESS BG Group has also made progress in securing new gross exploration acreage, 2 adding over 45 000 km in 2005.
This is expected to contribute towards sustaining the Groups growth well into the next BRAZIL EGYPT decade from existing areas such as Brazil, TRINIDAD Norway and Canada and new areas & TOBAGO TUNISIA INDIA including Alaska, Libya and Nigeria.
