BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and financial review Strategy review STRATEGY BG Group is an integrated gas company 8 that aims to achieve strong growth and competitive returns through a strategy focused on securing competitively priced gas and bringing that gas to high value markets.
BG Groups competitive advantage stems from a deep understanding of gas markets combined with industry-leading skills in finding and commercialising gas.
This capability allows BG Group to capture opportunities and develop projects that deliver value across the entire chain.
The strategy has remained fundamentally unchanged for some years because it continues to deliver value to shareholders and has proved robust in the face of developments in the business environment.
FUTURE GROWTH BG Groups ability to achieve strong growth is underpinned by existing assets that We are unique in our industry have a distinctive, low cost, long-life base with substantial growth potential.
because we specialise in gas and In addition, other drivers of long-term have the skills to compete right growth are: incremental investments around across the gas chain.
existing assets: the ability to connect assets to enhance value: and new opportunities, building on core William Friedrich Frank Chapman competencies.
Deputy Chief Executive Chief Executive BG Groups cost competitive, flexible LNG portfolio is of particular importance.
Core US market access positions at Lake Charles and Elba Island anchor value from the upstream business both from equity and contracted gas supplies.
Over the next two years an important transition will occur as Group-wide activities BG Group is a rapidly growing business with operations in over Integrated Gas Major 20 countries and across five continents.
BG Group is principally engaged in exploration and production and the development and supply of existing and emerging Connecting gas to Secure competitively gas markets around the world.
Gas high value markets priced resources discoveries often require complex build and access markets equity reserves chains of physical infrastructure and serve customers contracted resources commercial agreements to deliver the gas to markets and BG Group has proven skills and experience in creating value from these chains.
Skills to succeed across the gas chain BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 material long-term contracts come onstream to provide the major share of the Energy consumption % Positive outlook for gas 9 LNG supply portfolio.
It is anticipated that Compound annual growth rate 2000-2025 Gas is predicted to grow faster than spot and short-term supply opportunities 3.0 other competing fuels.
Two key factors will continue to be available to the Group.
of gas demand driving energy policies BG Group expects to capture further value 2.5 across the world are security of supply by taking arbitrage opportunities in 2.0 and climate change.
Gas is more response to short-term market conditions.
abundant than oil and has the lowest 1.5 In addition to supplying high value markets carbon dioxide emissions of all in the USA and Europe, BG Group is also hydrocarbon fuels.
Many countries 1.0 developing valuable positions in other are converting to gas-fired power markets including Brazil and India.
These 0.5 production to sustain growth and markets have material long-term growth meet Kyoto targets.
0.0 potential driven by underlying economic growth.
BG Group continues to grow its Natural gas businesses along the gas chain and to play Coal an active part in contributing to market Renewables development.
Oil Nuclear Exploration success will be an important Source: EIA July 2005 determinant of long-term growth.
At a time when accessing resources has become one of the central challenges for the industry, BG Group has substantially increased gross exploration acreage in the last year.
This is BG Group continues to make good expected to contribute to sustaining the progress in broadening and deepening Groups growth in the next decade.
its exploration portfolio to underpin long-term growth.
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT The advantages of natural gas relative CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY to other fossil fuels are well established.
BG Group recognises that activities Natural gas is relatively clean and can be surrounding the extraction and supply supplied at a competitive cost from a of fossil fuels can have economic, geographically diverse range of sources.
environmental and social impacts and works to ensure that neighbouring The energy industry continues to communities benefit from its presence experience significant change.
Oil and on a sustainable basis.
gas prices have risen over the year and continue to be at levels well above BG Group believes that it is good business historical averages.
The global gas business to operate responsibly and that successful has seen an increase in inter-regional gas relationships with host governments and trade, driven by fundamental changes to neighbouring communities contribute to supply and demand patterns.
This is driving good and sustainable returns for rapid growth in the LNG industry.
The BG Group Statement of Business Principles sets out beliefs Competition and security of supply have and behaviours which guide the way become increasingly important factors.
the Group and its employees conduct Sustained higher oil and gas prices and business.
The Business Principles apply heightened geopolitical tensions have to all Directors, officers and employees.
added to the concerns of major consumer countries, and raised doubts about the The Corporate Responsibility section reliability of hydrocarbon imports.
page 31 summarises BG Groups social and environmental performance.
The In the context of the more demanding 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report, business environment, BG Group is highly a separate publication, contains more competitive.
This is primarily due to detail on this area.
the following factors: BG Group has a distinctive, long-life, low cost asset base: as LNG markets grow rapidly, BG Group has already established a cost competitive, flexible portfolio in the Atlantic Basin and is building on this position: in the face of increasing competition, the Group continues to expand its portfolio of opportunities for continued growth: and 2.3 2.1 1.9 1.8 1.2 BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and financial review Strategy review continued 10 Strategy in action Creating value across the gas chain BG Groups strategy is to secure competitively BG Groups understanding of market priced resource oil and gas both equity trends and industry-leading skills across and contracted supply and bring that the gas chain have allowed the Group to resource to customers in high value markets.
Gas is often more difficult to commercialise than oil because, unlike oil, there is no Exploration and Production globally traded market for gas.
In addition, gas is more difficult to store and transport.
As a result, specialist skills are required to put together gas chains that link resources to markets.
BG Group maintains a deep understanding of current gas demand and market trends and has been successful in creating markets for its gas.
Securing competitive supplies is an essential part of BG Groups strategy, and cost leadership is a pre-requisite for long-term success.
Although industry costs have been rising, BG Group is maintaining its competitive advantage in key performance metrics.
The Groups supplies remain cost competitive against peer companies.
a E&P cost metrics Three year Finding and Development Annual unit operating cost costs $ boe $ boe Peer Group includes Super Majors, Peer Group includes Super Majors, US and European Integrated Majors US and European Integrated Majors CASE STUDY: UK Securing competitively priced supply for the UK In the UK, BG Group is working to maintain its supply position from a range of piped and LNG sources.
The Groups production $0 $2 $4 $6 $8 $10 $0 $2 $4 $6 $8 hubs and infrastructure in the b BG Group 2004 BG Group 2003-2005 UK North Sea are adding value to c BG Group 2003-2005 BG Group 2005 new prospects and exploration Peer 2002-2004 Peer 2004 acreage across the median line in Source: Evaluate Energy 2005, BG Group Source: Evaluate Energy 2005, BG Group Norway.
The Group is importing a See Definitions, page 153, for an explanation of how these ratios are calculated gas from Europe via its share in b Indicates position with underlying performance data, which is calculated at constant prices and excludes fuel gas the expanded Interconnector c Indicates position with SEC data pipeline and is developing a LNG import terminal in Wales.
com BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 11 Liquefied Natural Gas Power Transmission Distribution CASE STUDY: USA CASE STUDY: EGYPT LNG is key to accessing high value US market Building on success in Egypt In the USA, the market access Success in Egypt has been the afforded by the Groups result of first class project regasification capacity at Lake delivery combined with Charles and Elba Island is government alignment.
The adding value to the Groups business started by supplying reserves in Trinidad and the domestic market but has Tobago and Egypt and will rapidly developed into a LNG underpin the Groups export scheme to target higher continuing investment in priced international markets.
It also allows the There is the potential for Group to purchase third-party expansion at the liquefaction LNG from sources such as plant and through exploration Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea of the Groups new and and to take advantage of LNG existing acreage.
