Corporate Governance Board of Directors 24 6 1 35 7 1 Sir Derek Higgs Aged 61 2 Peter Barton Aged 68 4 Malcolm Aish Aged 60 6 Richard Banks Aged 54 Chairman Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Managing Director, Appointed to the Board in and Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board in May Wholesale Banking October 2005, Sir Derek Higgs Appointed to the Board in 1998, 2005, Malcolm Aishs career has Appointed to the Board in 1998, is a Chartered Accountant and Peter Barton is a solicitor, been with N M Rothschild & Sons Richard Banks has responsibility a former investment banker.
investment banker and a Deputy Limited, where he remains for Wholesale Banking, including His previous career included five Lieutenant of Greater London.
He is the Commercial Banking and years as a Director of Prudential His previous career in the a non-executive director Treasury businesses.
He was plc and Chairman of its fund financial services industry of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities previously Distribution Director, management business, and 24 included nine years with Lehman International plc, and a nonRetail Banking, having held a years with the Warburg Group, Brothers International and four executive director and Chairman number of senior positions in where he was Head of Global years with Robert Fleming & Co. of the Investment Committee Alliance & Leicester Commercial Corporate Finance and Chairman His other directorships include for Star Secondary Market Bank plc formerly Girobank plc of SG Warburg & Co Ltd.
He is F&C US Smaller Companies plc Infrastructure Fund Manager since he joined the Company also Chairman of Partnerships and the Guinness Trust Group, LLP.
UK plc and Bramdean Asset of which he is Vice Chairman.
representative to the FSA 7 Jane Barker Aged 56 Management LLP and Deputy He is also Chairman of Howard Advisory Group on the Non-Executive Director Chairman of The British Land fide Walden Estates Limited.
Appointed to the Board in 2004, Company plc and Business in 3 Richard Pym Aged 56 5 Michael Allen Aged 68 Jane Barker is a Chartered the Community.
His other Group Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Accountant and Finance Director appointments include a Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board of Equitas Limited, the company non-executive directorship 1993 as Group Finance Director, in 2000, Michael Allen was set up to reinsure and run off the at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. Richard Pym became Managing President, Laundry & Cleaning 1992 and prior years non-life He is also a Pro-Chancellor Director, Retail Banking in 2001 Products, Procter & Gamble liabilities of Lloyds of London of the University of Bristol.
and was appointed Group Chief Europe and Group Vice President Syndicates.
She was, until July Executive in 2002.
A Chartered of The Procter & Gamble 2005, a member of the Council Accountant, his previous career Company, having held a number of the Open University and Chair was with Thomson McLintock & of senior management positions of the Audit Committee of the Co, British Gas plc, BAT Industries in the Group.
He is Chairman Open University.
Her previous plc and The Burton Group plc.
of Fiske plc and, until March roles have included being He became senior independent 2004, was a non-executive Finance Director of the non-executive director of director of Safeway plc.
Halfords plc in 2004 and will become Chairman in April 2006.
He was a non-executive director of Selfridges plc from 1998 to 2003.
Richard is a Vice President of the British Bankers Association.
28 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005
