Business Overview Group Chief Executives Statement External evidence also supports the value and service 20% to 66bn, commercial lending balances increased we offer customers.
Research for Morgan Stanleys equity by 0.9bn to 5.5bn and new business banking accounts research team found that our customers are more likely were up 48%, with 24,300 new accounts opened.
to recommend us to their friends or their family than During 2005 we opened a further four business banking customers of any of the other main retail banks.
These have helped develop stronger customer In line with our strategy of being the UKs leading direct relationships, increasing both new account openings bank, we have continued to increase the proportion and lending balances in 2005. of our business sold and serviced directly.
More than The growth in our commercial lending business has been 30% of our Core 4 sales were generated via the internet achieved whilst maintaining very strong asset quality.
We now have over one million registered internet banking customers, with During 2005 we put plans in place to transform our around half of these using the service on a regular basis cash and money transmission business, where profitability to undertake their basic transactions.
has been declining in recent years due to changes in the market.
These include replacing out-dated, paper-based We are increasingly pricing our product portfolio to reflect processes with modern processes which will improve the cost of different distribution channels.
For example, customer service and efficiency.
We will continue our internet only Moneyback Bank loans are offered to implement these plans, ensuring that our money at a lower headline rate than is available over the transmission business meets future customer and telephone, and our Premier Direct account which can shareholder needs.
However, we anticipate that future only be serviced directly offers a higher rate of credit profit growth in Commercial Banking will be driven interest than our other current account products.
by growth in commercial lending and business banking.
Customers who are prepared to self-serve get a great price: customers who want a more personal service Our People get great value, but not necessarily our best price.
Alliance & Leicester employs great people who are Our branch network continues to be an important part ambitious for success.
Our people are adapting to of our distribution capability.
During the second half many changes as we continue to implement our strategy, of 2005 we launched a new design concept for our and the progress of the Group in 2005 is a tribute to branches and have now rolled out this new design in everybody who works at Alliance & Leicester.
I thank seven of our existing locations.
These feature a strong all of them for their efforts in the year and for their visual image to attract customers, more self service continuing commitment.
technology and an improved range of consultation Underlying Post-Tax areas.
Initial feedback from staff and customers has Return on Equity % The Board been positive, with customers appreciating the more We were delighted that Sir Derek Higgs joined us as informal environment.
Chairman at the end of October, and he has quickly and We are a responsible lender and our assets continue successfully established himself.
Together, we are leading to perform better than industry averages.
The proportion Alliance & Leicester through an exciting period of change.
of our mortgage accounts in arrears was 0.64% at I would like to pay tribute to John Windeler, who stepped 31 December 2005, lower than at the end of 2004 down as Chairman and left the Group in October, having and significantly below the Council of Mortgage Lending announced his decision at the Annual General Meeting average, which increased during the year to 0.93%.
John made an enormous contribution to Alliance Our unsecured lending arrears increased during 2005, & Leicester during his ten years with the Group and reflecting the modest deterioration in UK personal sector we wish him well for the future.
The proportion of our unsecured loan balances in arrears at the end of 2005 was 5.1% Outlook 2004: 4.2%, similar to the proportion in arrears The outlook for the UK economy is favourable, with GDP at the end of 2002 and over 30% below the average growth forecast to return to trend during 2006.
The UK for Finance and Leasing Association members.
housing market remains robust with gross lending forecast to be broadly similar to 2005 levels and house prices Wholesale Banking remaining in positive territory.
Whilst the secured lending Wholesale Banking delivered a strong performance sector is experiencing a soft landing, the personal in 2005, with core operating profit growing to 132m unsecured lending sector is showing increasing levels proforma 2004: 126m.
Commercial Banking core of personal insolvencies and arrears.
operating profit increased by 23% to 89m and our Treasury operation delivered core operating profit This outlook supports our plans to implement a number of 43m proforma 2004: 53m.
of new product developments targeted at the UK homeowner and corporate sectors, creating new revenue Commercial Banking delivered strong growth in business volumes in each core product.
Cash sales were up over streams and adding to the franchise growth we can achieve Cost Income Ratio % 6 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 57.4 2003 2003 22.1 2004 57.3 2004 22.5 2005 55.2 2005 21.5 in our existing markets.
In the personal unsecured sector reorganisation involves a voluntary redundancy we will maintain our high credit standards to ensure that programme in 2006. our asset quality remains strong.
The Future New Developments We anticipate that the new developments and efficiency In Retail Banking, January 2006 saw the launch of our improvements we have planned across the Group will lead new secured personal loan product, and we will also be to revenue growth and future cost savings, assisting in entering new sectors of the mortgage market later in the delivering our long term aim of reducing the Group year.
By working with partners both on the secured cost:income ratio to below 50% by 2010. loan product and in the new mortgage sectors we Whilst our plans for growth include entering a number aim to offer customers good value Alliance & Leicester of new lending segments, we will remain a responsible products, whilst maintaining our responsible approach lender, and aim for our asset quality to continue to be to lending and minimising any increased risk on our better than industry averages.
We submitted our Basel II own balance sheet.
application to the Financial Services Authority in December, In March 2006 we will launch a new design for our internet and we continue to believe that our good quality assets will banking service which includes a new security process, result in a lower risk asset weighting once the new Accord putting us ahead of many of our competitors.
be the first UK bank to introduce a new form of second We are proactively managing our capital base.
We plan factor authentication for all internet banking customers, to issue up to 300m of non-equity tier 1 capital during providing a simple and robust way for them to be even the first half of 2006 in the form of preference shares more confident that their data is safe.
subject to shareholder approval at our AGM in May Our branch network remains an important part and are planning a share buyback programme.
of our distribution capability, and during 2006 we This is an exciting time for Alliance & Leicester and will be continuing our programme of upgrading our I believe the bank has never been in better shape.
branches by rolling out the new branch concept, which We have a sustainable business model to deliver future we launched last year, in up to a further 50 branches.
revenue growth and efficiency improvements.
We have This new design increases sales capacity within the an unprecedented number of new developments planned branch, by positioning a greater proportion of staff and the pace of change is increasing as we become the on the customer side of the counter.
It also improves UKs leading direct bank.
efficiency, as the design includes automated cash and cheque deposit machines, helping customers to self-serve Richard Pym, for basic transactions with confidence.
Group Chief Executive Within Commercial Banking we have launched an upgraded internet banking service, offering the best online functionality available to business customers in the UK.
We continue to invest in our distribution network.
We plan to open more business banking centres in 2006, and we are trialling alternative ways for our cash customers to replace or supplement their use of the expensive Post Office network.
These trials involve the use of automated deposit machines situated in cash and carry stores, a new low cost security carrier collection service, and the acceptance of business deposits into a number of our retail branches.
We are developing a new pre-paid debit card product for commercial and public sector customers.
As well as providing an ideal electronic replacement for our paperbased cash cheque offering, it also provides us with the opportunity to grow a new business stream in a market which has seen strong growth in the US in recent years and which we expect will develop in the UK.
We are also reorganising our current account back office operations in both Retail and Commercial Banking, as part of our plan to reduce paper based processing.
The Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 7 Business Overview
