31 Independence of Directors Meetings The board has carefully considered the Combined Code guidance The directors meet formally on a regular basis at least ten times on independence of non-executive directors including the in the year.
Ad hoc meetings may also be convened, and the principle that independence is evidenced by an individual being committees of the board meet as required to discharge their independent of mind, character and judgement.
can be present regardless of any relationship or circumstance Any director, executive or non-executive, can raise issues for which may give rise to a presumption that it is absent, such as discussion at a board meeting.
At the direction of the length of service on the board for a longer period than is Chairman, the Company Secretary prepares an agenda for each currently recommended in the Code.
meeting with appropriate reports and background information.
The board considers that all of the non-executive directors, The board may, and in practice does if necessary, ask for further including William Berry who has been a director for more than information before making decisions.
Decisions are made nine years, are independent of mind, character and judgement collectively.
If there were an even division on a subject, the and satisfy the independence test.
Each non-executive director Chairman would have a casting vote.
is free of relationships and circumstances which might cause In addition to regular board meetings, the Chairman meets at him or her to be considered not independent.
William Berrys least once each year with the non-executive directors only, and training as a lawyer and experience as a director and trustee the non-executives, led by the Senior Independent Director, over time equip him to maintain his independence meet at least once a year without the Chairman present.
Ad hoc notwithstanding that his service has been a short period longer meetings among these groups also take place if required.
than the Combined Code recommendation.
By reason of his experience, William Berry was asked by the board to stay on Decision Making during the recent change of Chief Executive and Chairman.
He is Delegation to the executive is necessary for the efficient now 65 and will retire from the board at the end of the Annual running of the Group.
While the Chief Executive and his team General Meeting in April 2005. are responsible for operational matters generally, there are some On William Berrys retirement the board will comprise a nonissues which are specifically reserved for decision of the board executive Chairman, three independent non-executive directors as a whole.
This may be because of their strategic importance and four executive directors.
The board intends to restore the such as borrowings or commencing a new business, their balance of independent non-executive and executive directors significance such as changes in the Groups management by appointing a further non-executive director as soon as structure, or their reputational sensitivity such as litigation.
These issues may cover operational matters.
The board itself On William Berrys retirement, William Jack will assume the decides which matters are reserved to it.
responsibilities of Senior Independent Director.
Access to Advice Information and Professional Development The board has set out for all directors a process whereby, on All directors receive a formal induction to the affairs and reference to the Chairman or Chairman of the Audit Committee, business of the Group, which may include, where appropriate, each may individually access independent professional advice, meeting with both institutional and private stockholders.
at the Companys expense, if necessary.
Training and professional development courses are also made Each director has direct access to the Company Secretary to available as required.
obtain information and assistance as required.
The Company The Chairman ensures that all directors receive accurate, timely Secretary, through the Chairman, advises the board on and clear information for board meetings and, with the corporate governance matters.
Company Secretary, that good information flows are maintained between the management and the board and within the board and its committees.
Non-executive directors meet with senior managers and other staff.
All directors receive briefings and updates on the business and changes to the business, and on legislation and corporate governance.
