13 US Dollar, Sterling, Yen and Euro - Trade Weighted US 1 January 2004 to 28 February 2005 Looking forward, we expect US interest rates to move higher, 108 particularly if inflationary pressure builds.
So far, increases in Sterling 106 inflation have been closely related to the rise in the oil price, 104 but there are now some signs that this may broaden out as 102 companies win back pricing power.
Although this could boost 100 Yen business confidence and margins, policy makers will wish to 98 US Dollar prevent inflationary trends from intensifying.
96 Euro 94 Consumer spending remains resilient, now underpinned by 92 strength in the housing market which has compensated for the JF M A M J J A S O N D J F lack of any new stimulus from monetary or fiscal policy.
This Source: Thomson Financial Datastream has contributed to the further deterioration in the current account deficit, which reflects the fact that import growth consistently exceeds that of exports.
Although the US is Europe and UK attracting sufficient capital flows to finance this deficit, there In recent months, European companies have coped with the are growing fears that an imbalance of this scale cannot be rising oil price and appreciating euro.
This has threatened sustained, particularly when combined with a significant competitiveness and margins, and has forced a significant level government budget deficit.
Theory suggests that the necessary of cost cutting, with negative consequences for both correction can occur by slowing growth within the US, or by employment and domestic demand.
The prospect for allowing the dollar to fall, in an effort to boost demand from expansionary fiscal policy is limited by high budget deficits, at both Asia and Europe.
The long term downward trend in the US least until flexibility is increased within the Stability and dollar is expected to persist until the deficit problem is addressed.
Stimulus from monetary policy is also unlikely while asset prices show signs of accelerating growth and Asia inflation remains above the European Central Banks target US demand is a key determinant of growth in Asia, where level.
However, a fall in the oil price, combined with further economic activity is largely driven by exports.
Chinas fixed easing in the appreciation of the euro, could boost business exchange rate to the depreciating US dollar has boosted its confidence and eventually encourage sufficient growth, in both international competitiveness, allowing it to increase global investment and employment, to allow domestic demand to market share.
This has boosted production, employment and recover.
Sterling was underpinned by the prospect of rising income, encouraging strong growth in consumer spending.
The interest rates, making it increasingly difficult for UK exporters easing of restrictions on travel has also encouraged large numbers to compete in world markets.
However, recent signs of some of high spending Chinese tourists who have helped to boost cooling in both the manufacturing and consumer sectors now activity around the whole region, but particularly in Hong Kong.
suggest that interest rates may be close to their peak.
One key factor for the performance of the UK economy in the year ahead Chinas investment restrictions are expected to remain in place will be the housing market, the extent to which this slows and for some time, and interest rates may rise further, but the risk the impact which this has on consumer spending.
Prospects for of a hard landing in the economy appears to be low.
There is a mild downturn in the residential property market rely on speculation that China will move to a fully flexible exchange continued strength in the labour market.
rate, but this move is unlikely without some structural changes in Chinas financial system.
The move towards a flexible exchange Key Factors rate is likely to be gradual, perhaps commencing with the introduction of acceptable bands around the existing fixed rate.
Although our outlook for the global economy remains relatively favourable, there are some significant factors which could result Economic activity in the rest of Asia is largely influenced by in lower levels of growth.
These include another sharp rise in demand from the US and China.
Export activity drives economic the oil price, a hard landing in Chinas economy, a significant growth, boosting employment, incomes and consumer spending slowdown in the UK housing market and a sharp depreciation in towards levels which create sustainability in domestic demand.
We constantly monitor thousands of economic Stronger levels of domestic activity will be required in Japan statistics from all the major economies, and we will be paying before deflation there can be beaten.
If the US dollar continues particular attention to these variables in the months ahead.
to fall, however, upward pressure could build against the currencies of those countries who hold excess savings but currency appreciation in Asia could impede their export growth.
