19 US Small and Mid Cap Japan The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose by 7.5%, In Japan, strong profit growth helped to reduce valuations to outpacing the S&P 500s 4.4% return.
Small Caps have now international norms, a position not seen for many years.
beaten their larger peers in every year since 1999 as investors Companies are focussing more on improving corporate have sought less mature businesses with higher growth prospects.
governance and higher profitability and there has been an Anticipating that this trend would continue, we invested a net acceleration in the number of share buy backs and increasing 2m into our Small & Mid portfolio during the year.
commitments to raising dividend payout ratios.
Corporate activity is also increasing and although it remains dominated by The most successful holding was Pentair, whose shares nearly mergers and acquisitions, there are more incidences of hostile doubled.
The management has transformed the company by take-overs.
selling its struggling power tools division and making a major acquisition in water technologies.
Republic Services also We invested a net 15m during the year, concentrating performed well and we added to the holding.
This primarily on domestic sectors in anticipation of a spreading out environmental services firm has a number of good franchises of recovery.
In the banking sector we added to our holding in and exposure to the expanding sun-belt states.
Mitsubishi Tokyo and built positions in another major city bank, Mizuho.
We also purchased an interest in the leading regional With cash-rich larger companies regaining an appetite for operator, Chiba.
Both performed well after our purchase, acquisitions, some other sectors, such as energy, could see particularly Mizuho.
Here, we expect that increased investment in oil exploration and production should The telecommunications sector performed poorly.
We switched drive our new holding in oil services provider Weatherford the fixed line NTT holding into the mobile operator NTT Docomo International.
as we were encouraged by better free cash flow yields.
This, however, proved to be a poor decision as the company The mixed performance of our retail holdings reflected consumer struggled to cope with intense competition and was a caution.
PETsMART, the speciality pet products company, is a significant underperformer.
new holding that has already risen over 10%.
It benefits from the increased willingness of owners to spend on their pets.
In Another area of underperformance came in building materials.
contrast, competition in the home furnishings industry We used the proceeds from our Matsushita Electric Works intensified and we sold Pier 1 Imports.
holding following a tender from its parent company, to purchase JS Group, the sanitaryware and window sash company, but it As long-term investors, we need to be particularly aware of saw intense competition from imports and suffered as a result, demographic and migratory trends.
As the US population ages and and we moved quickly to cut the holding.
migrates south, some businesses are adapting to these trends faster than others.
Such concerns led us to exit, at a loss, the We continued to seek out niche companies and we built restaurant chain Bob Evans Farms, which is most exposed to the positions in Sato, the leading bar coding company, and slower-growing Midwest and has an ageing core customer base.
Sundrug, a drugstore chain which performed very well thereafter.
Although we added to our Toyota holding we cut Utilities performed well, helped by interest rates staying relatively back on exporters, particularly in the electrical and electronics low.
We sold our holding in WPS Resources, believing that this areas.
These comprised sales of Matsushita, the parts company trend would not continue, but have retained lower yielding Rohm and a reduction in Canon.
We also sold the air Constellation Energy, which performed very well during in the year conditioning manufacturer Daikin.
as the merchant energy division thrived under new management.
The relative performance from the Japanese portfolio was In the financial sector, we took profits in regional bank disappointing but we have realigned our positions to be better Comerica, concerned about deteriorating credit quality and that placed for the next step in Japans recovery.
We expect an its valuation had become stretched on take-over speculation.
improvement in the domestic economy to follow on from a We bought regional bank Marshall and Ilsley, which is dominant broadening of rising capital expenditures to the nonin Wisconsin and has a fast-growing data processing subsidiary.
manufacturing sectors which in turn should lead to a pick up in Internet security specialist Check Point Software and business consumer confidence.
analytics firm Hyperion performed well.
We maintained exposure to contract manufacturers Jabil Circuits and Flextronics despite a sharp share price fall during the year, since they are well placed to benefit from the longer-term trend of manufacturers outsourcing production.
