29 The Board The Alliance Trust has a board of executive and non-executive Non-executive Directors directors who are collectively responsible for the control of the Group.
The boards main duties are: Lesley Knox Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Nomination Committee To set the objective of the Group and to use its best endeavours to achieve that objective.
The objective is set William Berry Senior Independent Director out on page 3.
William Jack Chairman of the Audit Committee To formulate business strategy.
Gordon McQueen Chairman of the Risk Review Committee To provide leadership within a framework of prudent and Christopher Masters Chairman of the Remuneration Committee effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
To set the standards and values of the Group and ensure All the non-executive directors serve on one or more that we understand and meet our obligations to our committees of the board.
The committees are the Nomination stockholders and others.
Committee page 32, the Remuneration Committee page 32 and pages 38-40, the Audit Committee page 35 and the Risk To approve asset allocation and gearing strategy proposed Review Committee page 35. by management.
Executive Directors Alan Harden Chief Executive David Deards Finance Director Sheila Ruckley Director of Corporate Development Alan Young Investment Director Each of the executive directors served throughout the year.
The Chief Executive is responsible for delivering the strategic objectives agreed by the board and for the day-to-day running of the Group.
30 Corporate Governance Report Lesley Knox was appointed Chairman of the board by her fellow and satisfy themselves that financial controls and systems of risk management of the Group are robust and defensible.
Nondirectors with effect from 30 April 2004 when Bruce Johnston executive directors, through the Remuneration Committee, fix retired.
She has been a board member since June 2001 and, on the remuneration of the executive directors and, through the appointment, satisfied all of the tests of independence set by Nomination Committee, are primarily responsible for the Combined Code.
Mrs Knox has several directorships of public companies but, There is a division of responsibility between the Chairman, save for the Second Alliance, no other chairmanships.
The time whose duty is to run the board effectively, and the Chief commitment of the Chairmanship was fully considered by her and Executive, who is charged with running the business of the with the other members of the board before her appointment.
The Chairman has no executive responsibility.
Gordon McQueen was appointed a director on 2 June 2004 and The Chief Executive is accountable to the board for the financial appointed Chairman of the Risk Review Committee on its and operational performance of the Group.
This separation of formation in September 2004.
The other non-executive directors roles is documented in Lesley Knoxs letter of appointment and served throughout the year.
Alan Hardens job description, both of which have been agreed Including the Chairman, non-executive directors form a majority by the board as a whole.
on the board and, excluding the Chairman, there are four The Senior Independent Director is the director to whom independent non-executive directors and four executive stockholders should turn if they have issues which they directors.
As well as those collective duties which they have as consider are not being dealt with by the Chairman or the Chief members of the board, they scrutinise and constructively Executive or if contact with the Chairman or Chief Executive is challenge the performance of the executive, help develop inappropriate for any reason.
strategies, monitor the integrity of the financial information, Attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk Review at Meetings Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings in the year 12 6 6 1 1 Lesley Knox 12 2 2 1 1 1 1 Bruce Johnston 3 3 -- - - Alan Harden 12 - - 1 - William Berry 12 6 6 - - David Deards 12 - - - - William Jack 11 6 5 1 - Christopher Masters 10 5 6 1 1 Gordon McQueen 7 8 - 2 2 -1 Sheila Ruckley 12 - - - - Alan Young 12 - - - - The number of board and committee meetings attended by members during the year are set out in the table above.
Where a director joined the board during the year, or committee membership changed, the maximum number of meetings which that director could have attended is shown in brackets.
Not a member after appointment as Chairman 30 April 2004.
