12 This section summarises economic developments over the last year and describes our expectations for the year ahead.
Background Background Four key events have had a major impact on the global US economy: the rise in the oil price, the tightening of policy in China, the ongoing depreciation of the US dollar and the withdrawal of extreme levels of policy stimulus in some of the Asia worlds major economies.
A combination of strong demand and fears over supply pushed Europe and UK the oil price to a record high in October, squeezing profit margins and forcing many companies to postpone both Key Factors investment and hiring.
Much of the increase in demand for oil stemmed from China, where the authorities became concerned that economic growth had reached an unsustainable level and restricted investment in the fastest growing sectors, namely cement, steel and real estate.
This raised fears, as yet unfounded, of a hard landing in the Chinese economy, which would have negative implications for many other economies, particularly in Asia.
In October Chinese authorities further confirmed their tightening bias by raising interest rates for the first time in 9 years.
Another key factor was the depreciation of the US dollar, which fell a further 4% in trade weighted terms during our financial year.
This reflected concerns about the twin budget and trade deficits in the US and put pressure on exporters, from Europe in particular, threatening their competitiveness and forcing a considerable degree of cost cutting.
Finally, there was the decision by policy makers to withdraw policy stimulus in some of the worlds major economies.
Although UK interest rates have been rising since November 2003, the first upward move in the US did not materialise until June, since which time the Federal Reserve have increased rates steadily and gradually.
Oil price West Texas Intermediate $ per barrel 1 January 2004 to 28 February 2005 $ 60 55 50 45 40 35 30 J F MA MJ J A S O ND J F Source: Thomson Financial Datastream Economic outlook
