36 Corporate Governance Report Internal Control Investment Risk and Financial Instruments The board is responsible for the Companys system of internal Risk is inherent in all forms of investment which aim to give a control.
A robust system of internal control fits into the financial return.
We seek to manage this risk primarily through framework of risk management.
The board confirms that a judicious choice of investments diversified across different procedures which accord with the guidance published in 1999 business sectors and economies.
Notwithstanding the Turnbull guidance for compliance with principle D of the diversification, in the short term the aggregate valuation of Combined Code internal control have been in place for the these investments is subject to considerable fluctuation in year under review and continue to be in place.
response to changes in, for example, inflation, interest rates, currency exchange rates and market sentiment.
Cumulative These procedures include a review by the board, on at least an effects of dividend income and its reinvestment, along with annual basis, of the scope and effectiveness of the system for long term growth can compensate for short term fluctuations in internal control.
This includes the consideration of financial, capital value.
operational and compliance controls as well as of significant business risks and any changes in the nature and extent of The Company does not seek to enhance returns by engaging in those risks since the last review.
trading activity itself, although it invests in companies that trade.
The Company may borrow and may make use of financial No system of internal control can give an absolute assurance instruments and derivatives in order to enhance returns or to against misstatement or loss.
It should prevent or detect areas mitigate risks.
Borrowing, financial instruments and derivatives of shortcoming and minimise the risk of loss through carry their own risks, which must be managed effectively.
incompetence, neglect of duty, mistake or fraud.
During the last financial year, except for its long term The main control mechanisms in place include: debentures, the Company did not borrow or use any financial instruments or derivatives.
Separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive on the board By order of the Board Ian Goddard, Company Secretary Strong non-executive directors and robust Audit and Risk Review Committees Dundee, 21 March 2005 Clear departmental structures, backed up by interdepartmental support functions Clear authorisation limits Segregation of duties such that no one person can control or influence all aspects of one function or carry out and settle any individual transaction A rolling internal audit programme Compliance monitoring programme for ATS
