38 In this section, we report to you on the remuneration of the directors in the year to 31 January 2005.
At the AGM, the stockholders will be asked to approve this report.
The vote is advisory and will not affect the remuneration which has been paid, but the Senior Management Equity Incentive Plan referred to below Remuneration Policy cannot be implemented without stockholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Executive Directors For all directors, the Company's policy is that remuneration Performance Related should be set at a level to attract and retain individuals of high calibre, and that it should reflect their respective Remuneration responsibilities.
All directors are appointed on the basis that they are competent to do the job, have the potential to deliver Remuneration and the objectives of the Group and are motivated by the alignment of their own interest with that of the stockholders.
Pensions To understand the framework for paying directors, it is Annual Bonus important to look at the non-executive and executive directors separately since they have different roles on the board, as explained on page 29.
Senior Management Equity Incentive Plan Non-executive Directors Non-executive directors are not salaried employees and do not Company Performance have employment contracts.
They do, however, have written Graph terms of appointment which set out the expected term of office, the expected time commitment and responsibilities.
these terms are available for inspection at the Companys Audit Statement registered office and at the AGM.
They are initially appointed for a term of 3 years.
The maximum aggregate amount of fees which can be paid to the non-executives each year has to be approved by the stockholders at a general meeting, such as an AGM, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The current aggregate amount is 120,000.
Within this aggregate, the Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans fees and the board as a whole determines what the other non-executives should receive.
The fees, which are reviewed at 2 year intervals, are set to take into account the time and responsibilities of the roles.
No individual plays a part in the decision on his or her own remuneration.
Independent consultants advise on issues of comparability, taking into account the nature of the duties to be performed and the time commitment involved.
The fees paid to the individual non-executive directors are set out in the table on the next page.
