41 Company Performance Graph Annual Bonus 31 January 2000 to 31 January 2005 The Company has introduced a bonus opportunity for executive 120 directors and other senior managers with effect from 1 August 110 Total Return on Alliance Trust 2004, and the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to ordinary stock 100 repeat the opportunity in future years.
90 Under this bonus scheme, participants can earn a cash bonus at 80 the end of each financial year.
The grant of any award is Total Return on the 70 FTSE All-Share Index discretionary, and the amount of the award will be calculated in 60 part by reference to achievement against stretching performance 31 Jan 31 Jan 31 Jan 31 Jan 31 Jan 31 Jan targets that are approved and monitored by the Remuneration 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Committee, and in part by the Company's total stockholder Source: Thomson Financial Datastream return.
The maximum cash bonus payable to any participant in The total return on ordinary stock is the theoretical growth in value the annual bonus scheme will not exceed 50% of their salary.
over five years, assuming that gross dividends are fully reinvested, and ignoring re-investment charges.
The total return on the index is the Senior Management Equity Incentive Plan theoretical aggregate in value of the index constituents.
"At the Annual General Meeting of stockholders, the introduction of an Equity Incentive Plan the ""Plan"" for executive directors and senior managers will be proposed."
If the Plan is adopted, Company Performance Graph the Remuneration Committee will have the discretion to require that one half of any bonus paid under the annual scheme will We are required to show a graph of the performance of the be used to purchase stock in the Company that will be held by Company compared to a broad equity market index.
"The graph an Employee Benefit Trust ""EBT"" on the terms of the Plan."
above compares the total return on the Companys ordinary Participants will also be given the opportunity to apply some or stock to the FTSE All-Share Index.
all of their remaining bonus in purchasing further stock to be It should be noted that the Company does not seek to track the deposited with the EBT, again on the terms of the Plan.
It is not used as a benchmark.
It has Stock deposited with the EBT will be held by the EBT for a been chosen to comply with the requirement simply because it deferral period of three years, at the end of which an award of is an index which we consider to be well known to our additional matching stock units may be made.
The Companys assets will not necessarily perform matching stock units that are awarded to a participant will in line with the Index.
depend on both the number of stock units originally deposited The FTSE All-Share Index is a UK equity index, whereas a with the EBT and the extent to which further demanding substantial part of the Company's assets are invested overseas performance conditions have been satisfied over the duration of and may not be fully invested in equities.
In addition, the the three year deferral period.
The maximum matching award return on the Company's ordinary stock is partly determined by that can be made under the Plan will be two stock units for supply and demand for the stock on the stock market.
This every one stock unit originally deposited with the EBT.
return may not equate to the return achieved by the Company Where a participant leaves the Company during the three year on its assets.
deferral period, he or she will generally lose the opportunity to receive a matching award.
Audit statement It is intended that the matching shares should be financed by The tables on page 39 and 40, together with the footnotes the increased performance necessary to achieve the award.
The relating to them, have been audited by the Companys auditor awards of ordinary stock will more closely align the interests of whose report is on page 42. executive directors and senior managers with the interests By order of the Board of stockholders.
Ian Goddard, Company Secretary The introduction of the Plan is subject to stockholder approval, Dundee, 21 March 2005 and a more detailed explanation of how it will operate is set out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting which is sent to members with this report.
