20 Portfolio Review Asia Pacific Property The region witnessed strong economic growth during 2004, In a period of re-appraisal of relative values between asset primarily driven by American and Chinese demand.
The rapid classes, propertys healthy income flows is one of its rate of growth in China raised concerns about overheating, and attractions, while there is still room for further capital growth.
resulted in the Government introducing austerity measures and Looking ahead, the total return on property should move closer raising interest rates for the first time in nine years.
We became to its longer term performance trend of around 10% a year.
increasingly concerned about valuation levels in certain of our Yields have fallen as prices have risen.
This will moderate holdings exposed directly to excessive demand and we made market performance in 2006.
The outlook for the foreseeable profitable sales of Jiangxi Copper, Anhui Conch Cement and future is still positive: occupier markets are steady and rents Denway Motors.
These sales proved timely as these companies are expected to grow modestly.
Low interest rates and underperformed for the remainder of the year.
continuing capital inflows will underpin growth.
Income is Chinas surging growth helped push world prices for likely to form the largest component of performance next year.
commodities sharply higher and although this was negative for Our focus will be on seeking out investment opportunities the economy overall given the regions significant import where we can add value by active management or where we requirements, there are a number of companies that benefit believe that there will be longer-term rental and capital from a higher oil price environment.
To capture this we appreciation.
We will pursue investment opportunities either increased our position in PTT, the dominant integrated oil and directly or together with selected joint venture partners where gas company in Thailand, and Keppel Corp of Singapore, a appropriate.
beneficiary of increased oil exploration.
Both contributed positively to performance.
Our largest exposure to the resources Our longstanding oil and mineral rights in North America sector is the Australian company, BHP Billiton.
Through it, we continue to yield good income.
We intend to review these in are able to benefit from increased Chinese demand.
The the forthcoming year to see if there is a case for additional company has a strong management team and a willingness to allocation of capital in order to drive greater returns.
Private Equity Export strength seen across the region contributed positively to the growth in domestic consumption.
We invested a net 6m During the year, we realised a significant profit from SVG over the course of the year.
Capital after selling the proceeds of a conversion of a convertible note.
We made an initial investment into the We sold Unilever Indonesia due to increasing levels of technology specialist Herald Ventures Fund II where we have competition from multinational and domestic companies.
This committed 2m to be drawn down over its life.
had been a very successful holding for us and following our sale it underperformed materially.
The proceeds were profitably reOur two other fund holdings, Albany Ventures and Dunedin deployed into Caf fide Coral in Hong Kong, a restaurant chain Buyout, were active, returning a combined 0.7m to us as a operator and a direct beneficiary of the improving Hong Kong result of profitable realisations while also drawing down 1.3m economy.
Elsewhere, we increased our position in Hongkong for new investment.
Land, which is benefiting from improving rental yields in the For further exposure to private equity we also hold two quoted commercial property market in Hong Kong.
Both of these investment trusts, Candover and Standard Life European, which additions contributed positively to performance during the year.
both performed strongly over the year.
In contrast, the position established in Sun Hung Kai We continue to assess the sector for further investment Properties, a leading Hong Kong property developer, had a opportunities but we are conscious that a lot of capital is negative impact on performance despite an improvement in the currently being directed towards this area.
The risk that economic policies in the region might harm Fixed Income growth cannot be overestimated, particularly from China, but Fixed income holdings remained largely unchanged and were recent government actions provide encouragement.
Valuations mainly concentrated in UK financial preference stocks.
Lower are mostly favourable and the increasing returns to shareholders gilt yields and extremely tight corporate spreads increased their both through capital returns and dividend growth make capital value by 10%, providing a total return in excess of 16%.
investment in the region attractive.
Although rates of growth This compares with a total return of 8% on the MSCI Euro are likely to slow, from an export perspective, improvements in Sterling Corporate Index and a total return of 7% on the MSCI domestic consumption look set to continue through 2005, and UK Sovereign Debt Index.
we maintain a positive bias to the region.
