18 Portfolio Review Europe US Large Cap European equities performed well on the back of an upturn in the We were net sellers early in the year, worried about the impact US and Asian economies, combined with corporate restructuring.
of rising energy and commodity prices on economic growth, profit margins, and consumer confidence.
Indeed, the market However, rising raw material costs dampened corporate results was weak until summer, falling by 6%, and was not helped by and the strength of the euro affected key export sectors.
We the falling dollar and bond market.
maintained our interest in SKF and Sandvik since the pick up in their export markets outweighed the effect of higher costs.
We sold companies with a high exposure to the consumer, such These achieved strong growth and performed very well.
We as Kraft Foods and Colgate-Palmolive, both of which were purchased a new holding in the Swedish industrial tool and beginning to exhaust the benefits from restructuring.
We also mining engineer, Atlas Copco, which has also outperformed reduced our long-held investments in PepsiCo and Walmart.
reinvested part of the proceeds in CVS, a drugstore chain, which is less sensitive to discretionary spending and which Companies robust cash flows supported an increase in should benefit from the purchase and turnaround of its former dividends and share buybacks and this was particularly competitor Eckhard.
prevalent among the telecommunications companies.
We were underweight in this sector, although our holding in Telefonica In the energy sector, we bought new holdings in Suncor and has performed well.
Shell Canada, both of whom have large interests in the Athabasca Tar Sands, estimated to contain up to one-third of There were a number of corporate deals made in the pharmaceuticals sector, which directly affected our holdings.
Our biggest holding in the sector, Exxon These included the acquisition of Celltech by UCB and Sanofi's Mobil, also performed well over the year rising by 26% and is take-over of Aventis.
We cut back our sector exposure overall now the worlds largest company.
We started a new investment but made good returns from our interests in Roche and Novartis in Caterpillar, which we expect to be a beneficiary of increased of Switzerland.
High unemployment is still undermining domestic consumer Pharmaceuticals was the worst performing industry sector.
We confidence but in spite of this we added to our only European had already sold the bulk of our Merck holding when they retailer, Metro of Germany, because of its international announced the unexpected withdrawal of their main antiexpansion plans in Eastern and Southern Europe, and the inflammatory drug, Vioxx, due to increased risks of heart potential we see for a turnaround of its domestic business.
We also continued to reduce our investment in Johnson Metro outperformed its market comfortably in the last year.
& Johnson that, although performing well currently, is facing increased competition against its key drugs.
Abbott We bought French luxury goods company LVMH for its attractive Laboratories, our biggest US investment, continues to grow exposures to both the increasingly prosperous Asian consumer drug sales faster than the market and comfortably outperformed and to the continued improvement in international travel.
However, LVMH has disappointed as its sales have been lighter than had been hoped for.
During the year there was a rebound We sold our holdings in AT&T Wireless and SBC Communications in advertising spend and we maintained our interest in the on their merger and bought Sprint for greater wireless exposure.
media sector, attracted by the cyclical opportunities and the The banking sector is also consolidating and we benefited from prospect of advertising market deregulation in Southern Europe.
acquisition premiums when Bank of America bought Fleet We expanded our position in banks since this remains an Financial and JP Morgan purchased Bank One.
Elsewhere, Marsh attractive area of growth.
We increased our holding in UBS, and McLennan, our long established insurance holding, was which has a solid wealth management strategy and switched indicted for malpractice.
The shares fell heavily, but have out of Socit Gnrale into BNP Paribas, which is less geared recovered part of the fall as they address the offending to market volatility.
In Spain we sold BSCH and bought into practices.
We continue to monitor this situation closely.
BBVA on concerns that the former had riskier international One of the most encouraging features of the year was the expansion plans.
This proved to be the case when BSCH later strength of cash generation by companies and a willingness to acquired Abbey in the UK.
distribute part to shareholders through increased dividends, As the trends outlined above continue into the coming year, exemplified by Microsoft who paid a $3 per share special profits should continue to grow, although at a slower rate than dividend.
Improved corporate confidence should translate into we have previously seen.
increased capital spending, taking some of the burden for driving the economy away from the consumer.
Profits should rise further, although not at the pace of last year, and valuations are not excessive.
