39 Private health care which extends to any spouse and any Executive Directors unmarried children under 25.
Executive directors are salaried employees.
They do not receive Since August 2004, eligibility for a bonus of a maximum of any fees as directors.
The level of their salaries is not laid down 50% of salary depending on performance.
in the Articles of Association, but is determined by the After six months service, ordinary stock units in the Remuneration Committee of the board, which is composed Company awarded in terms of the performance-based entirely of the independent non-executive directors and is All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
The chaired by Christopher Masters.
No director is involved in maximum allocation is stock to the value of 3,000 in any deciding his or her own remuneration.
Performance targets are set annually.
The Remuneration Committee appoints and takes advice from independent consultants on the comparability of executive Performance Related Remuneration directors salaries.
This advice is set against the position of the Company compared to its peers and the general level of The Company's Remuneration Committee has conducted a review remuneration and pay awards in the Group.
Such advice may of the remuneration paid to executive directors and members of the senior management team, with particular emphasis on the include advice on pension and remuneration issues generally as question of whether some form of specific performance related they affect all staff of the Group.
In 2004 this advice was element should be introduced into their overall packages.
This provided by Ernst & Young LLP.
Ernst & Young LLP have no review was prompted by a number of factors including connection with the Company other than by providing the following: consultancy services.
The majority, if not all, of the organisations against whom the Each of the executive directors has a contract of employment.
Company is competing for key executive talent provide their These contracts are available for inspection at the Companys employees with at least some form of additional performance registered office and at the AGM.
linked remuneration over and above their basic salaries.
The Some features of the executives contracts are: absence of a comparable arrangement for the Company's senior They are terminable on one years notice by the Company management team has made the process of recruiting and and on six months notice by the director.
retaining such individuals more difficult.
Alan Hardens contract contains express mitigation provisions The Combined Code on Corporate Governance recommends that should his contract be terminated.
a significant proportion of executive directors' remuneration The other executive directors have acknowledged in writing should be structured so as to align rewards with corporate and that they have a duty to mitigate loss in the event of early individual performance.
The Company's historical practice of termination and the Remuneration Committee has a paying no bonuses to its executive directors and offering them responsibility to take into account this duty before no form of long term incentive plan has meant that, in the past deciding upon compensation.
including the year to 31 January 2005, the board has not All executive directors must retire at age 60. complied with this best practice recommendation.
The remuneration packages of the executive directors comprise: Against this background, the Remuneration Committee concluded Salary, which is set at a level to reflect individual that it would be in the best interests of the Company and its responsibility and performance and is reviewed annually.
stockholders to introduce a performance linked element of remuneration for executive directors and other senior managers.
Death in service insurance and disability insurance.
These The Remuneration Committee considers that the arrangements are insured benefits which have no value on leaving service.
summarised on page 41 best meet these interests.
Non-executive Directors Group Group Company Company Fees Paid 2005 2004 2005 2004 Lesley Knox appointed Chairman April 2004 31,500 18,000 31,500 18,000 Non-executive directors also receive fees from the Second Bruce Johnston retired as Chairman April 2004 9,000 36,000 9,000 36,000 Alliance Trust for services as William Berry 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000 directors of that company not William Jack 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000 shown here.
