14 This section describes how our investment outlook and asset allocation developed during the year under review and our current stance looking forward.
We began the year holding almost no cash, reflecting our most optimistic stance towards equities for some time.
Nevertheless, we retained a degree of caution in holding a modest amount of fixed income stocks both directly and through our subsidiaries.
Following a year of steep recovery in profits and markets, we expected equities to stabilise and consolidate gains.
We anticipated firm global economic growth but considered that equity prices had already moved higher in line with this outlook.
The style of stocks we held reflected this view and also our preference for good quality companies with characteristics such as free cash flow and steady growth.
We believed then, and still do, that economic policy makers are committed to keeping growth going, although sustaining a decent growth rate without some inflation will be a constant challenge and the rate of expansion may fluctuate.
There is still a wide range of potential threats to a benign environment, manageable one by one, but cumulatively they could restrict growth more severely.
In the middle part of the year several factors did come together which temporarily undermined confidence.
Chinas relentlessly growing demand for resources, along with a lack of new supply because of years of global under-investment in oil and mineral production, were already pushing oil prices higher.
With supply already strained, the deterioration of the Middle East situation in the summer triggered a jump in oil prices.
The risk that authorities might apply economic policies that hamper growth also increased.
Chinas announcement that it intended to restrict growth came at the same time as indications that the pace of US economic expansion was slowing.
These were two signs that cohesive management of the world economy was under pressure.
This prompted us to protect some of our capital, moving 5% from equities into cash.
Global Indices in Sterling Terms 30 January 2004 to 31 January 2005 112 FTSE All-World UK Index 110 108 106 FTSE All-World Index 104 102 100 FTSE All-World 98 North America Index 96 Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Source: Thomson Financial Datastream Investment Strategy 15 Fortunately an easing in the price of oil, just soon enough to We did not hold our liquidity in US dollars for much of the year, stop a cascade of pressures on companies' profit margins, and a wary of underlying weakness induced by the budget and trade pick up in US growth and employment renewed our optimism deficits.
Sterling was preferred until it weakened in turn, as the for equities.
The watershed came in the clear outcome of the US UK interest rate cycle neared its peak.
The UK's deficits are on a Presidential election and the return of a business-friendly worsening trend also, albeit less extreme than the US.
We moved most of the cash back into equities.
makes hedging the US dollar more difficult for us to call but we In volatile markets these decisions proved sound.
The tightness continue to keep it under close review.
in supply and demand in oil and other commodities, mentioned The board established procedures to enable borrowing to be earlier, is looking increasingly structural in nature.
Following implemented at short notice if required and bank facilities are initial sales in these sectors early in the year over concerns available.
We carried net cash during the year, however, mindful about the strength of economic growth, we reinvested in the of the risks in the investment background.
The capability to resource stocks establishing a position greater than that employ tactical gearing is helpful in itself but also to aid represented in the markets.
holding a fully invested position and accommodate the short In the end the year proved to be the best one in the last 25 for term effects of buying and selling within individual parts of the world economic growth.
What was more of a surprise was that portfolio.
It is also possible that borrowing could be used to profits, as a percentage of GDP, were around record levels.
help finance certain parts of the non-equity portfolio.
Companies' own caution about this past year generally drove them into further cost cutting and using labour more efficiently.
In Japan and parts of Europe, notably Germany, such long The Twenty awaited corporate re-structuring has held back growth in Largest Investments personal incomes short term, but could transform economic as at 31 January 2005 m prospects more profoundly in the future.
It is never easy to estimate the extent, far less the timing, of the pay-off for such BP 52.2 Shell Transport & Trading 51.6 moves.
We have committed more money to Japan and Europe GlaxoSmithKline 43.7 but for now the Japanese investment demands great patience.
Royal Bank of Scotland 43.5 It is likely that most major countries' official economic policies Vodafone 34.0 will remain supportive.
That leads us to remain positive about HBOS 26.8 growth orientated assets and careful stock selection where Barclays 25.6 HSBC 23.0 individual value is attractive.
This has proved particularly so in Rio Tinto 21.6 Small and Mid Cap UK companies, which have performed better Aviva 19.6 than their larger brethren.
Our own portfolio benefited from a Alliance Trust Finance 18.6 number of take-overs and offers, testimony to the value that BHP Billiton 16.9 can be found.
Lloyds TSB 15.5 Abbott Laboratories 14.9 During the year we began developing strategies for investing Persimmon 14.8 directly in commercial property.
We have reviewed a variety of Tesco 14.6 possible properties but made no purchases as yet.
We have, Exxon Mobil 13.8 however, earmarked up to 3% of net assets for allocation to Standard Chartered 13.7 direct UK commercial property at present should suitable National Grid Transco 13.6 opportunities arise.
Diageo 12.5 Our fixed income stocks offered defensive net yields approaching UK and Australian holdings aggregated.
7%, a return comparable with the ultra long-term return from equities.
Fixed income stocks performed well, highly unusual in a year of rising official short-term interest rates and concern about inflation.
The foreign central banks attempts to divert the effects of their own currencies' appreciation helped government bonds.
Credit spreads on company debt priced in relation to them have narrowed to probably unsustainable levels as investors hunted for high initial yields.
Our basic preference for assets which can grow their returns continues to reduce our likelihood of expanding investment in this fixed income asset class.
