10 This section describes our new approach to asset allocation and changes to the management of our equity assets.
Asset Allocation Asset Allocation Since the 1950s our investments have been predominantly in Asset, Liability and equities, which have provided superior returns.
In the 1980s and 1990s, returns from equities were well above their longIncome Committee term average.
However, during the first years of this decade, some other asset classes generated better returns.
Equity Portfolio We still expect our investments to be mainly in equities, as we Management believe in their long term attractions.
However, there are many risks that make equities vulnerable to lower average returns.
We are, therefore, broadening our expertise to cover other assets, including fixed income and property, to ensure that we deliver value at all times.
Fixed income stocks can offer some defence against equity fluctuations as well as a generally higher income return in the short run.
When returns in general are low, overall returns on fixed income securities, including gains on currencies, can be attractive, although the scope for capital growth is cyclical.
Direct investment in property can offer a higher initial yield than equities and can also offer opportunities for capital growth and protection against inflation.
It is also easier to enhance property returns by borrowing.
Asset, Liability and Income Committee In order to control the process of efficiently allocating capital across the various asset classes to produce the best possible returns, we established the Asset Liability & Income Committee ALICo in May 2004.
The committee meets monthly to manage the capital of the Company within the investment and asset allocation strategies agreed with the board and the risk parameters adopted by the Company.
It also considers the liability side of the balance sheet: for example, it judges the merits, timing and risks of gearing, or of hedging other exposures such as foreign currencies.
Alan Young, our Investment Director, chairs the committee.
The other committee members include the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Heads of Equities, Property and the other asset classes and our Head of Economics.
ALICo considers many factors such as political trends, operating environments and investment themes in order to construct a range of scenarios and review their financial implications.
From this, the committee agrees a central view of the most likely scenario over the short, medium and long term.
It also How the assets are managed
