11 examines the potential risks to the central view and forms a Secondly, we have set a target minimum level of investment in view on the best and worst cases to provide some fix on the each holding of 3m and a range of 250-300 stocks for the probabilities of possible but less likely scenarios which would portfolio as a whole.
During the uncertainty of the last three affect our investment strategy.
years it was appropriate to maintain a higher number of stocks to spread our risk.
Markets have since recovered and we believe The heads of the asset classes report on the expected returns in that a more concentrated portfolio will not only be simpler to their respective asset type given this central view and, against manage but will also position us better to benefit from the this framework, we weigh our options and make strategic projected growth in equities, as each investment will have to decisions on allocation.
meet more stringent selection criteria to merit inclusion in The board reviews investment strategy, including gearing, in the portfolio.
depth at least quarterly and monitors performance and Finally, we have implemented a performance-related reward necessary changes to investment strategy at each of its structure designed to align the interests of our investment staff scheduled meetings.
more closely with those of our stockholders.
We report on the strategic decisions taken during the year in We continue to invest in the processes and systems to support the sections of this report on Economic Outlook and our investment staff in running the portfolio.
Otherwise, our approach to equity investment remains as before, employing a blend of both top down and bottom Equity Portfolio Management up disciplines.
We continued the reorganisation of our investment operations Each month, we hold a series of internal equity strategy to focus on generating better returns for stockholders.
In the first of these, the Economics team provides We are fortunate to have a very skilled and experienced detailed background data on the main themes affecting the 26 investment team.
This is made up of seven managers, including countries in which we currently invest.
The investment the Head of Equities, and ten analysts, two of whom have managers then meet to formulate the asset allocation across special responsibility for covering industries such as resources the equity portfolio.
Each of the managers is able actively to and financials globally.
We plan to recruit a further two compete for capital in accordance with the projected returns experienced analysts to cover healthcare and pharmaceuticals and opportunities in each area.
This is where the bottom up and technology on a global basis.
approach of looking at companies in great detail can have a To get the best out of this team, we have made a number of profound impact on the final asset allocation decision.
The changes this year to the way we manage the assets.
managers are ably supported by the analysts, who brief them on each of the companies in their area and the immediate First, we have returned to managing the overall portfolio by environment in which the Company operates.
geography, while we have retained and will enhance experience gained at the global sector level by appointing dedicated global analysts.
The various segments, UK Large Cap, UK Small and Mid Cap, Europe, USA Large Cap, USA Small and Mid Cap, Japan, Asia Pacific and the Rest of the World, are divided across the seven investment managers.
This structure allows more efficient monitoring for the purposes of tracking performance and managing risk.
Investment Department US Small & Mid Cap Asia Japan UK Large Cap UK Small & Mid Cap Europe US Large Cap 7 Managers 8 Country Analysts 2 Global Analysts
