3 The Alliance Trust PLC is an investment company which seeks to achieve its objective by expert investment around the world in a range of assets.
Objective To be the core investment for those seeking a long term store of increasing value.
History Investment Policy The Alliance Trust PLC can trace its origins back to the 1870s To achieve the Companys objective, we seek long term when various land mortgage companies, including the Oregon growth in both capital and income by: and Washington Trust Investment Company, were established Investing in both quoted and unquoted equities across in Dundee.
In 1888, these companies came together as the the globe.
We are not wedded to any index nor to any Alliance Trust.
rigid geographical, sector or industry asset allocation.
From its start as a leading mortgage provider and land Investing internationally in preference shares and in debt developer in the United States, the Company began also securities including government and corporate bonds.
to invest in fixed interest securities.
Investing in other assets, including property, cash and By the mid 20th century the Company had divested other financial instruments and investment vehicles.
itself of its land mortgage business, retaining some land Retaining the ability to borrow, as we have done from and mineral rights in various areas of the United States.
time to time, and thereby to gear our portfolio.
By this time the Company was invested largely in equities, both quoted and unquoted, with some Investing in subsidiary and associated businesses which debt securities.
allow us to expand into other related activities with the objective of enhancing stockholder value.
Alliance Trust The Company continues to be predominantly an Savings is an example.
international equity investor, while retaining the power to invest in other asset classes in order to meet Risks its objective.
Investment in any asset has associated risk.
The Company The Company is an investment company with investment limits this through a wide spread of investments.
It employs its own staff to manage its our present low gearing limits our exposure to swings in the portfolio of assets.
It continues to develop and engages market.
We retain the ability to use gearing and derivative in a broader range of activities than most investment instruments to enhance and protect returns, but which we trust companies.
