37 Directors Lesley M S Knox MA Chairman 51 Joined the board 2001: appointed Chairman 2004: Chairman of the Nomination Committee Lesley Knox pictured centre qualified as a lawyer and worked in the UK and US advising companies on a range of commercial matters.
Subsequently she worked as a corporate finance adviser first with Kleinwort Benson where in 1996 she became a director, and then as a founder director of British Linen Advisers.
She was also Head of Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Investment Management which provided investment services to clients worldwide.
Other directorships include Hays PLC, HMV Group PLC and MFI Furniture Group PLC.
Non-Executive Directors From left to right Executive Directors From left to right William Berry MA LLB WS 65 Alan J Harden 47 Joined the board 1994: Senior Independent Director Joined the Company 2003: Chief Executive 2004 William Berry is the former chairman of Murray Beith Murray, an Edinburgh Alan Harden started his career in the investment industry in 1978 with law firm which has an important investment presence, managing and Abbey Life and JBI in the UK, Europe and Cyprus: before joining Wardley administering funds for many private clients.
He is Senior Governor of the part of HSBC in 1984, running the asset management department in University of St Andrews and was formerly chairman of Scottish Life Cyprus, before moving to Dubai UAE, and then to Hong Kong as senior Assurance Company.
In 1990 he joined Standard Chartered Bank as Managing Director of Scimitar Asset Management based in Singapore, Other directorships include JPMorgan Fleming Continental European responsible for activities and assets in South East Asia.
In 1994 he became Investment Trust plc and The Scottish American Investment Company PLC.
Global Head of Investment Services, leading Standard Chartered to become the largest fund distributor in Asia.
In 2000 he moved to Citigroup Asset William H Jack 60 Management, and from his base in Japan, was head of the asset Joined the board 2000: Chairman of the Audit Committee management business in the Asia Pacific region and a member of the William Jack joined the General Accident Fire & Life Assurance Company in Global Executive Committee.
He joined the Company in November 2003 and 1973, and was the Managing Director of GA Life subsequently CGU Life, was appointed to the board on 1 January 2004, the date on which he took with the responsibility for the UK life and unit trust business, from 1991 up the responsibilities of Chief Executive.
Alan Harden is also a director of the Scottish Community Foundation.
Other directorships include Skipton Company Holdings.
Alan M W Young MA LLB 58 Christopher Masters CBE FRSE BSc PhD AKC 57 Joined the Company 1986: appointed to the board 1992 Joined the board 2002: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Alan Young read law at Edinburgh and worked in London at Buckmaster & Christopher Masters took his doctorate in Chemistry at Leeds University Moore, stockbrokers, before joining the investment department at and worked for Shell Research BV in the Netherlands and then Shell Gartmore as an analyst and fund manager.
He became a director of Chemicals in the UK.
He joined Christian Salvesen as business development Gartmores pension and investment trust management arm in 1983.
On manager in 1979, becoming director of planning for its US operation and joining the Company he managed the UK and European portfolios before then Chief Executive from 1989 to 1997.
He was then appointed Executive becoming Investment Director.
Chairman of Aggreko PLC, a post he held until January 2002.
He is currently Chairman of SMG PLC and also chairs the Scottish Higher Sheila M Ruckley MA LLB DLP 55 Education Funding Council and the Festival City Theatres Trust.
Joined the Company 1988: appointed to the board 2000 Other directorships include British Assets Trust PLC and John Wood Sheila Ruckley studied in the UK and at Wellesley College and the Group PLC.
University of Pennsylvania before qualifying as a solicitor in Scots and English law.
She joined the Company in 1988, becoming Company Secretary W Gordon McQueen BSc CA FCIBS 58 in 1989, an office she held until 2000 when she was appointed a director.
Joined the board 2004: Chairman of the Risk Review Committee She had a close involvement with the development of ATS, initially on the Gordon McQueen graduated in Chemistry and trained as an equity portfolio compliance side and then taking responsibility for the introduction of ATS' fund manager before embarking on a banking career.
He is a former self-invested personal pension.
As a director she first developed the investor Chairman and Chief Executive of HBOS Treasury Services PLC.
He is a relations function within the organisation before taking responsibility for the former Finance Director of Bank of Scotland and served on the boards of establishment of the risk management framework.
This risk management HBOS plc and Halifax plc as an executive director following their merger role was handed over to the Finance Director in January 2005 and she is in 2001 until the end of 2003.
He has experience in many areas of the now looking at corporate development within the Group.
financial services business, particularly in international banking, corporate David A Deards BA ACA 45 and commercial banking, treasury and finance.
Other directorships include Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC where Joined the Company and the board 2003 he is a non-executive director and chairs the audit committee and David Deards read zoology at Oxford and qualified as a chartered JPMorgan Fleming Mid Cap Investment Trust plc.
accountant with Arthur Young now Ernst & Young before joining Ansbacher & Co, where he gained considerable experience in corporate finance and banking and investment product development, and became a Member of the Remuneration CommitteeMember of the Audit Committee director in 1995.
He joined the Company as Finance Director in 2003.
Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Risk Review Committee All are also Directors of The Second Alliance Trust PLC and Alliance Trust Savings Limited.
