32 Corporate Governance Report Committee dealing with the nomination of his or her successor, Evaluation of Directors performance nor does any director proposed to succeed to such office.
This year for the first time, as required by the Combined Code, a When a succession need is identified, the Nomination formal evaluation of the board has been carried out to Committee will consider what background skills and qualities determine how effectively the board as a whole, its individual would best suit the needs of the board and the Group and directors and its committees are functioning.
The board prepare a specification of the role and a candidate profile.
It approached this evaluation with the intention of focussing on invites directors to make any proposals, and appoints search the boards overall contribution and identifying areas for agents to seek out candidates matching the profile.
The directors made written comments Committee considers all candidates brought to its attention, on the performance of the board as a whole which were collated including those nominated by directors.
The Committee by the Company Secretary and discussed by the board.
The recommends the candidates it considers best fulfil the criteria Chairman discussed individual performance with each director to the full board, which decides on the appointment.
and the Senior Independent Director held discussions with directors about the Chairmans performance and discussed the Before the appointment of the standing Nomination Committee, results with the Chairman.
The chairman of each of the board the board as a whole considered succession issues and committees required by the Combined Code also received committees of the board were formed to identify and written comments on that Committees performance from its recommend candidates in respect of each appointment identified.
members and discussed these with the board as a whole.
Executive Committee Audit Committee An Executive Committee, appointed by the Chief Executive, Please refer to page 35. considers and assists in day-to-day matters concerning the running of the Group.
The Committee comprises all the Risk Review Committee executive directors and Gill Cattanach Head of Group Marketing Please refer to page 35.
Ian Goddard Company Secretary Grant Lindsay Head of Equities Remuneration Committee Rowland Strickland Chief Operating Officer and Director, ATS The Remuneration Committee fixes the remuneration of the Chairman and the Chief Executive and, after taking independent Material Interests advice and consulting with the Chief Executive, the remuneration of the other executive directors.
It also monitors and makes During the year, no director had any material interest in any recommendations on the remuneration policy for senior contract, being a contract of significance, with the Company or management.
The Committee members are Christopher Masters any subsidiary company or was connected to any adviser or Chairman, William Berry, William Jack and Gordon McQueen supplier who had such an interest.
who joined the Committee in July 2004.
Lesley Knox was a member until her appointment as Chairman of the board in Re-election of Directors April 2004.
All appointments to the board are subject to approval by the For more detail on the remuneration of directors and the role of stockholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM next the Remuneration Committee, please refer to the Directors following the appointment.
The Articles of Association require Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 41. that all directors are subject to re-election by the stockholders at least every three years.
Non-executive directors will normally Nomination Committee and Appointments retire from the board after nine years service.
The board appointed a standing Nomination Committee with Gordon McQueen joined the board in June 2004 and his effect from 1 February 2004.
Its members are Lesley Knox, appointment is subject to approval by stockholders.
At the AGM William Jack, Christopher Masters, Alan Harden and, since 16 on 29 April 2005, Lesley Knox and Alan Young will retire by July 2004, Gordon McQueen.
The Terms of Reference of the rotation and stand for re-election.
The board recommends the Committee include the responsibility to have regard to the re-election of Gordon McQueen and Alan Young by stockholders.
succession of the board and to identify and nominate Mrs Knox has been appraised by her fellow directors, all of candidates to fill vacancies.
It is the Companys policy that the whom recommend her re-election to the board and continuation Chairman of the Company does not serve on any Nomination in office as Chairman.
