17 UK Large Cap UK Small and Mid Cap We achieved a 14% total return over the year on our UK Large The FTSE All-World UK Small Cap Index again outperformed Cap investments, which compared favourably with the 10% larger listed companies, rising by 18.9% over the year.
Good return on the FTSE All-World UK Large Cap Index.
profits growth again led this strong performance on what were still reasonable valuations.
The sector was not as materially Mining and oil companies benefited directly from Chinas high affected by the weakening US dollar as the larger companies.
Shell, however, lagged its peers for Corporate activity was a notable feature in this area and, much of the year because of its disappointing operational among our holdings, Kidde, the fire safety company, Aggregate performance.
It announced a restructuring programme in Industries, the building materials company, Celltech, the October, which we believe should produce a more agile and pharmaceutical company, and the retailer, New Look, were all focussed structure and so we retain our exposure to this the target of bids.
Our stake in Forth Ports rose strongly due to company.
Our mining holdings performed well and we added to bid activity elsewhere in the ports sector.
Rio Tinto in August when its valuation looked attractive.
During the year we realigned the portfolio and took profit in a For much of the year retail banks and, to a lesser extent, number of companies including those subject to bids.
This housebuilders underperformed because investors were concerned activity resulted in net sales of 7.7m.
Three holdings that successive interest rate rises would cut profitability.
dominated the sales: Celltech, New Look and John Wood Group.
December trading updates confirmed that these concerns were We realised 6.4m from Celltech at a substantial profit when we overdone and our holdings in RBS, HBOS and Persimmon all accepted a cash offer for the company.
New Look was taken performed strongly.
We sold 4m of our holding in John Insurers are experiencing greater demand and have improved Wood Group, the Aberdeen based oil company, after a series of their financial position.
They have raised capital to meet profit warnings.
We still retain a substantial holding in John regulatory requirements and the improvement in stockmarkets Wood Group and it is encouraging to note that the company is has also helped.
We retained our positions in Legal and General, beginning to recover.
Aviva and Prudential as valuations look attractive despite the We purchased new holdings in Capital Radio, Dignity and fact that share prices have been firm.
Capital Radio is benefiting from reduced spending on Pharmaceutical stocks have had a difficult period.
Dignity is a funeral services business, recently added to the large holding in GlaxoSmithKline as its which we think is strongly placed to benefit in a consolidating new drug pipeline should soon start to generate better returns.
Halfords new store formats are underpinning growth.
All of these holdings, in total 9m at cost, are The utility companies have been subject to a regulatory review performing well since we bought stock.
process that we believe will result in a challenging but potentially rewarding five-year period ahead.
Our key holdings of Scottish Looking forward we believe that the Small and Mid Cap segments & Southern Energy and Kelda performed very well.
We increased of the market will offer very exciting stock specific opportunities.
Scottish & Southern Energy as a switch from Scottish Power but This confidence stems from current undemanding valuation reduced Kelda recently as its yield attraction decreased.
We also levels, expectations of further dividend increases and the built up our holding in National Grid Transco, which offers good underlying confidence among the smaller companies themselves, dividend growth potential.
as shown in their order books and recent outlook statements.
Our large position in EMAP produced a poor return.
We anticipated the impact of the competitive difficulties that the company faced and so reduced our holding ahead of the companys own announcement on this.
We still retain stock in this company as other areas of the business are performing well and we were encouraged by the outcome of meetings with the EMAP senior management.
We sold or reduced J Sainsbury, Scottish and Newcastle, Unilever, Whitbread, Compass Group, Marks and Spencer and Electrocomponents since we expect lacklustre returns from these over the medium term.
We also sold Yell believing that the share price had peaked following its strong performance.
