Board of Directors Don Argus Charles Goodyear John Buchanan Michael Chaney Carlos Cordeiro David Crawford Lord Renwick of Clifton David Jenkins Miklos Salamon John Schubert David Brink Karen Wood, Company Secretary 30 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Corporate Governance Statement continued Group through its Committees.
Reports from each of the judgement to bear on matters being considered.
The Board Committees are set out on pages 39 to 43. believes that constructive differences of opinion lead to more robust evaluation of the issues and, ultimately, better outcomes.
The CEO is required to report systematically in a spirit of openness and trust on the progress being made by the Groups 4.
Board of Directors composition, structure and process businesses.
The Board and its Committees determine the This section outlines how the Board has structured itself to best information required from the CEO, any employee of the fulfil its role.
Group or any external party including the auditor.
Dialogue between individual members of the Board and the CEO and 4.1 Membership senior executives is encouraged to enable Directors to gain a The Board currently comprises nine non-executive Directors and better understanding of the Groups businesses.
Directors are two executive Directors.
The names and biographical details of encouraged to participate in debate and to bring independent the Directors are set out below: and a strong management background.
He has Director of Australian Foundation Investment Don Argus AO, FAIB, FCPA, FAICD, 67 more than 40 years experience in the banking Company Ltd since May 1999 Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since industry and is a former Managing Director and Former Director of Southcorp Limited from November 1996 and Chairman since April 1999.
CEO of the National Australia Bank Limited.
May 1999 until August 2003 Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Member of the International Advisory Council Other directorships and offices Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Mr Argus was last of Allianz Aktiengesellschaft since April 2000 current and recent : re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or standing Chairman of Brambles Industries Ltd since Board Committee membership: for re-election in 2005.
September 1999 and a director since May Chairman of the Nomination Committee Independent: Yes 1999 Skills and experience: Don Argus has Chairman of Brambles Industries Plc and a considerable experience in international business director since August 2001 Charles Goodyear BSc, MBA, FCPA, 47 Skills and experience: Charles Goodyear has Other directorships and offices extensive experience in finance, corporate current and recent : Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited restructuring and mergers and acquisitions.
Member of the International Council of and BHP Billiton Plc since November 2001.
He joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer Mining and Metals Appointed CEO in January 2003.
He was previously President of Member of the United States National was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring Goodyear Capital Corporation and Executive Vice Petroleum Council or standing for re-election in 2005.
President and CFO of Freeport-McMoRan Inc. Board Committee membership: Nil Independent: No the mining industry, in particular shaft sinking, Director of Sanlam Limited since January David Brink MSc Eng Mining, D Com hc, 66 tunnelling and exploration contracting, followed 1994 Term of office: Director of Billiton Plc since June by 12 years as the CEO of a major listed Director of Sappi Limited since March 1994 1997.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP construction, engineering and manufacturing Former Director of Murray & Roberts Holdings Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Mr Brink was last conglomerate.
Ltd from July 1984 until December 2003 re-elected in 2003 and is not retiring or standing Vice President of the South African Institute Other directorships and offices for re-election in 2005. of Directors current and recent : Independent: Yes Chairman of Unitrans Limited since Board Committee membership: Skills and experience: David Brink brings November 1997 Chairman of the Sustainability Committee considerable mining and finance experience to Deputy Chairman of ABSA Bank Limited and Member of the Risk and Audit Committee the Group.
He has over 20 years experience in ABSA Group Limited since April 1992 and international investor community.
He has Director of AstraZeneca Plc since April 2002 John Buchanan BSc, MSc Hons 1, PhD, 62 held various leadership roles in strategic, Director of Vodafone Group Plc since April Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited financial, operational and marketing positions, 2003 and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2003.
Mr including executive experience in different Former Director of Boots Plc from December Buchanan was last re-elected by shareholders countries.
He is a former executive Director and 1997 until July 2003 in 2003 and is not retiring or standing for Group CFO of BP, Treasurer and Chief Executive Former executive Director of BP Plc from 1996 re-election in 2005. of BP Finance, and Chief Operating Officer of until November 2002 Independent: Yes BP Chemicals.
Board Committee membership: Skills and experience: John Buchanan has had Other directorships and offices Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a wide international business career gained in current and recent : Member of the Nomination Committee large and complex international businesses.
Deputy Chairman of Smith & Nephew Plc He has substantial experience in the petroleum since February 2005 industry and knowledge of the United Kingdom over 13 years as the CEO and Managing Director Director of the Centre for Independent Studies Michael Chaney AO, BSc, MBA, Hon.
LLD W. Aust, of Wesfarmers Limited.
Limited since October 2000 FAIM, FAICD, 55 Chairman of the Australian Research Alliance for Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since Other directorships and offices Children and Youth Limited since July 2002 current and recent : May 1995 and a Director of BHP Billiton Limited Member of the JPMorgan International Council and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Mr Chaney Director of National Australia Bank Limited since October 2003 since December 2004 was last re-elected in 2003 and is retiring in Member of the Council of the National Gallery 2005 and not seeking re-election.
Chairman of Gresham Partners Holdings Limited of Australia since December 2000 since November 1985 Independent: Yes Former Managing Director of Wesfarmers Vice President of the Business Council of Limited from July 1988 until July 2005 Skills and experience: Michael Chaney brings Australia since November 2003 commercial expertise to the Board, developed Board Committee membership: Nil BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 31 Corporate Governance Statement continued Carlos Cordeiro AB, MBA, 49 unpublished, price sensitive information relating previously Partner and Managing Director of to the acquisition by BHP Billiton of WMC Goldman Sachs Group Inc, and was the senior Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited Resources Ltd for the whole of the period that banker to the World Bank.
and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2005. was available to him to comply.
Mr Cordeiro is Other directorships and offices Mr Cordeiro vacated his office on 3 April and seeking election in 2005. current and recent : was re-appointed by the Board on 26 August.
Independent: Yes Advisory Director of The Goldman Sachs This unusual situation arose because Mr Group Inc since December 2001 Cordeiro was not able to satisfy the minimum Skills and experience: Carlos Cordeiro brings Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia shareholding requirement of Directors as to the Board more than 20 years experience since June 2000 provided for in the Articles of Association of in providing strategic and financial advice BHP Billiton Plc and the Constitution of BHP to corporations, financial institutions and Board Committee membership: Nil Billiton Limited because, like all other Directors governments around the world.
He was and senior executives, he was in possession of David Crawford B Comm, LLB, FCA, FCPA, Skills and experience: David Crawford has Director of Fosters Group Limited since extensive experience in risk management and August 2001 FAICD, 61 business reorganisation.
He has acted as a Director of Westpac Banking Corporation Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since consultant, scheme manager, receiver and since May 2002 May 1994.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and manager and liquidator to very large and Former Chairman of National Foods Limited BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Mr Crawford complex groups of companies.
He was previously from November 2001 until June 2005 was last re-elected in 2004 and in accordance Australian National Chairman of KPMG, Board Committee membership: with the Companys policy described under Chartered Accountants.
Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee Tenure in section 4.3.
2 below is retiring and Other directorships and offices standing for re-election in 2005. current and recent : Independent: Yes Chairman of Lend Lease Corporation Limited since May 2003, Director since July 2001 Gail fide Planque AB Mathematics MS Physics a physicist, adviser and regulator in the field of nuclear energy.
She also has significant PhD Env Health Sciences, 60 experience as a non-executive director of global On 8 September 2005 Directors agreed to energy companies.
Dr fide Planques biography is appoint The Hon Gail fide Planque a Director of included in the notice of annual general meeting.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with such appointment to become effective on 19 October 2005.
Dr fide Planque is standing for election at the 2005 annual general meeting.
Gail fide Planque is an expert in nuclear technology and has over 30 years experience as David Jenkins BA, PhD Geology, 66 Technology Advisor to BP Plc.
He was also a Board Committee membership: member of the Technology Advisory Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since of the Halliburton Company and the Advisory Member of the Risk and Audit Committee March 2000.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited Council of Consort Resources and Chairman of and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Mr Jenkins the Energy Advisory Panel of Science was last re-elected in 2002 and is retiring and Applications International Corporation.
Other directorships and offices Independent: Yes current and recent : Skills and experience: David Jenkins executive Director of Chartwood Resources Ltd career at BP makes him a recognised authority since November 1998 on oil and gas technology.
He was previously Director of Orion Energy Associates Limited Chief Geologist, Director Technology and Chief since March 2005 from 1991 to 1995.
He is currently Vice Chairman Director of Fleming Family & Partners Limited Lord Renwick of Clifton KCMG, MA, 67 of Investment Banking at JPMorgan.
since November 2000 Term of office: Director of Billiton Plc since Former Director of British Airways Plc from June 1997.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and Other directorships and offices March 1996 until July 2005 current and recent : BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Lord Renwick Former Director of Harmony Gold Mining was last re-elected in 2003 and is retiring in Director of Fluor Corporation Inc and Chairman Company Limited from October 1999 until of Fluor Limited since July 1997 2005 and not seeking re-election.
October 2004 Director of Compagnie Financiere Richemont Independent: Yes AG since December 1995 Board Committee membership: Skills and experience: Lord Renwick has wide Director of SABMiller Plc since February 1999 Member of the Nomination Committee international and financial expertise.
He served Vice Chairman of Investment Banking at Member of the Remuneration Committee as British Ambassador to South Africa from 1987 JPMorgan since January 2001 to 1991 and as British Ambassador to the US 2001 he was an executive Director of Billiton Plc Chairman of Samancor Limited Miklos Mike Salamon BSc Mining Eng, MBA, 50 with responsibilities for nickel, chrome, since October 1993 Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited manganese, stainless steel and titanium.
Director of Richards Bay Iron and Titanium and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2003.
Mr He was appointed Group President Non-Ferrous Pty Ltd since July 1997 Salamon was last elected by shareholders in Materials in March 2004, with responsibility for Director of Cerro Matoso SA since March 1996 2003 and is standing for re-election in 2005. the Aluminium, Base Metals and Stainless Steel Director of Minera Escondida Ltda since Independent: No Materials Customer Sector Groups.
November 2001 Skills and experience: Mike Salamon has Other directorships and offices Board Committee membership: Nil extensive knowledge of the mining industry and current and recent : of BHP Billitons operations.
He was previously Chairman of WMC Resources Ltd Executive Chairman of Samancor, Managing a wholly-owned subsidiary of BHP Billiton Director of Trans-Natal Coal Corporation and since June 2005 Chairman of Columbus.
From July 1997 to June 32 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 and was CEO of Pioneer International Limited Director of Qantas Airways Limited since John Schubert BC Eng, PhD Chem Eng, FIEAust, FTSE, 62 for six years where he operated in the building October 2000 materials industry in 16 countries.
He has Chairman of G2 Therapies Limited since Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since experience in mergers, acquisitions and November 2000 June 2000 and a Director of BHP Billiton Limited divestments, project analysis and management.
Former Director of Hanson Plc from May 2000 and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Dr Schubert He was previously Chairman and Managing until May 2003 was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or Director of Esso Australia Limited and President Former Chairman and Director of Worley standing for re-election in 2005. of the Business Council of Australia.
Parsons Limited from November 2002 until Independent: Yes February 2005 Other directorships and offices Skills and experience: John Schubert has current and recent : Board Committee membership: considerable experience in the international Chairman of Commonwealth Bank of Australia Member of the Nomination Committee oil industry including at CEO level.
He has had since November 2004, Director since October Member of the Remuneration Committee executive mining and financial responsibilities 1991 Company Secretary Skills and experience: Karen Wood is a member Law Council of Australia and the Law Institute of of the Takeovers Panel Australia, the Business Victoria.
She chairs the Disclosure Committee of Karen Wood BEd, LLB Hons, FCIS, 49 Regulatory Advisory Group Australia and the BHP Billiton.
Before joining BHP Billiton, she was Term of office: Appointed Company Secretary JD Juris Doctor Advisory Board of the University General Counsel and Company Secretary for of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc in of Melbourne.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Bonlac Foods Limited.
Chartered Secretaries and a member of the 4.2 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of Directors The Independence Policy provides that to be independent a The Board considers that the executive and non-executive Director must be: Directors together have the range of skills, knowledge and independent of management and any business or other experience necessary to govern the Group.
The non-executive relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise Directors contribute international and operational experience: of objective, unfettered or independent judgement by the understanding of the economics of the sectors in which the Director or the Directors ability to act in the best interests Group operates: knowledge of world capital markets: and an of the BHP Billiton Group.
understanding of the health, safety, environmental and In assessing relationships that might compromise a Directors community challenges that the Group faces.
Executive Directors independence, the Board considers criteria set out in the bring additional perspectives to the Boards work through a deep Independence Policy.
Those criteria include relationships with understanding of the Groups business.
management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated Directors must demonstrate unquestioned honesty and integrity: companies, other directors, other companies or bodies with a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: and a whom BHP Billiton transacts business, the Groups auditors and willingness to understand and commit to the highest standards professional advisers, and the Groups suppliers and customers.
Each Director must ensure that no decision or Other factors that are considered include the Directors character, action is taken that places his or her interests in front of the the period the Director has served on the Board, the number of interests of the Group.
shares in the Group held by the Director, how the Director is Directors commit to the collective decision-making processes remunerated and other benefits the Director receives from the of the Board.
Individual Directors are required to debate issues Group.
openly and constructively and be free to question or challenge The Independence Policy contains materiality thresholds that the opinions of others.
the Board uses to measure the impact of these factors on a The Nomination Committee assists the Board in ensuring that Directors independence.
Each criterion is considered individually the Board is comprised of high calibre individuals whose to determine whether it is material.
background, skills, experience and personal characteristics The Board conducted an assessment in August 2005 and will augment the present Board and meet its future needs.
determined that all of the non-executive Directors were 4.3 Independence independent.
Where a Director is considered by the Board to be The Board considers that an appropriate balance between independent but the Board forms a view that circumstances exist executive and non-executive Directors is necessary to promote that may give rise to a perception that the Director is not shareholder interests and to govern the Group effectively.
It is independent, the Board has undertaken to explain the reasons committed to ensuring a majority of Directors are independent.
why it reached its conclusion.
A summary of the factors that Independent Directors bring clear judgement because they do may be perceived to impact the independence of Directors of not have relationships with the Group or others that create, or BHP Billiton is set out below.
could be perceived by shareholders to create, conflicting 4.3.
2 Factors that may be perceived to affect independence interests.
The Board considers the balance of non-executive and Tenure executive Directors when recommending individuals for election The Board has a Policy requiring non-executive Directors who or re-election as Directors.
have served on the Board for more than nine years to stand for 4.3.
1 Process to determine independence annual re-election.
All Directors seeking re-election must The Board has developed a Policy that it uses to determine the undergo a formal performance assessment, irrespective of the independence of its Directors.
This determination is carried out period they have served on the Board.
For further information annually or at any other time where the circumstances of a on the re-election and review process refer to section 5 of this Director change such as to warrant reconsideration.
A copy of the Policy is available at Independence Policy is available at: www.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 33 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board does not believe that any Director has served on the entered into in the usual course of BHP Billitons business and Board for a period which could materially interfere with the were within the scope of managements authority under the Directors ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
In terms of the Board Governance Document.
Accordingly, the reaching this conclusion, the Board specifically noted that in Board was not required to consider, or approve, any of these September 2005 Mr David Crawford and Mr Michael Chaney will transactions.
If Board approval was required for a transaction have served on the Board for 11 years and ten years respectively.
between BHP Billiton and any company with which a Director Mr Chaney has indicated to the Board that he will not be seeking has an association, then BHP Billitons protocols would apply and re-election at the 2005 annual general meetings.
Mr Crawford the Director concerned would excuse himself or herself from has offered himself for re-election in accordance with BHP participating in the decision.
The Board has concluded that, The only transactions during the year which amounted to notwithstanding Mr Crawfords period of service, he has retained related-party transactions with Director-related entities under independence of character and judgement.
The Board believes Australian and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, that Mr Crawford makes an outstanding contribution to the are the transactions between BHP Billiton and the Wesfarmers work of the Board.
He brings his unique skills to the Board and Group of which Mr Michael Chaney was the Managing Director participates in robust and constructive debate.
Details are set out in note 30 to the financial formed associations with management or others that might be statements.
said to compromise his ability to effectively monitor the The Board has assessed all of the relationships between performance of the Group.
BHP Billiton and the non-executive Directors and in all cases Retirement plan concluded that the relationships do not interfere with the The former Directors of BHP Limited Mr Don Argus, Mr Michael Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent Chaney, Mr David Crawford, Dr David Jenkins and Dr John judgement or the Directors ability to act in the best interests Schubert participated in a retirement plan approved by of the BHP Billiton Group.
Under that plan they were entitled to receive Executive Directors a payment on retirement calculated by reference to years of The two executive Directors, Mr Charles Goodyear and Mr Miklos service.
The plan was closed on 24 October 2003 and benefits Mike Salamon, are not considered independent because of accrued to that date are held by the Company and will be paid their executive responsibilities.
Neither of the executive Directors on retirement.
The Board approved the application of an earnings hold directorships in any other company included in the ASX 100 rate to those benefits fixed at the five-year Australian Government or FTSE 100.
The Board does not believe that the independence of any participating Director is compromised.
4.4 Terms of appointment The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that Relationships and associations contains the terms on which non-executive Directors will Mr David Crawford was the National Chairman of KPMG in be appointed, including the basis upon which they will be Australia.
He retired in June 2001 and has no ongoing indemnified.
A copy of the letter is available at relationship with KPMG.
KPMG Audit Plc was the joint auditor www.
with  of Billiton Plc prior to the merger with BHP Limited and of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc 4.5 Induction and training for the 2002 and 2003 financial years.
KPMG was the sole Each new non-executive Director undertakes an induction auditor of BHP Billiton for the 2004 and 2005 financial years.
programme specifically tailored to their needs.
These The Board has considered this matter annually since the time of programmes include meetings with major shareholders, one-onthe merger, and again revisited it prior to the publication of this one meetings with members of management and visits to Statement and does not consider Mr Crawfords independence to key assets.
A copy of the induction programme is available at be compromised.
The Board considers Mr Crawfords financial www.
acumen to be important to the discharge of the Boards Non-executive Directors agree to participate in continuous responsibilities.
Accordingly, his membership of the Board and improvement programmes throughout their tenure.
Chairmanship of the Risk and Audit Committee are considered 4.6 Independent advice by the Board to be appropriate and desirable.
The Board and its Committees may seek advice from Some of the Directors hold or previously held positions in independent experts whenever it is considered appropriate.
companies with which BHP Billiton has commercial relationships.
Individual Directors, with the consent of the Chairman, may Those positions and companies are set out on pages 31 to 33 seek independent professional advice on any matter connected of this Annual Report, and include JPMorgan Plc, of which Lord with the discharge of their responsibilities, at the Groups Renwick is Vice Chairman Investment Banking, and The Goldman expense.
No Director availed himself of this right during the Sachs Group Inc, of which Mr Carlos Cordeiro is an Advisory course of the year.
Director and Vice Chairman Goldman Sachs Asia.
Neither Lord Renwick or Mr Cordeiro participated in any way in transactions 4.7 Remuneration between their firms and BHP Billiton.
All transactions between Details of the remuneration policies and practices of the Group each of these companies and BHP Billiton, including the and the remuneration paid to the Directors executive and transactions entered into with JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs non-executive are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages have been assessed in accordance with the Independence Policy 44 to 58.
Shareholders will be invited to consider and to approve and are not material.
All transactions between BHP Billiton and the Remuneration Report at the 2005 annual general meetings.
the companies with which the Directors are associated were 34 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 4.8 Share ownership and dealing 4.11 Company Secretary Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent The Company Secretary is Ms Karen Wood.
She is responsible for developing and maintaining the information systems and of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton Shares processes that enable the Board to fulfil its role.
The Company in either Shares or American Depositary Receipts of BHP Billiton Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring that Limited or BHP Billiton Plc until they achieve a shareholding Board procedures are complied with.
She advises the Board on equivalent in value to one-years remuneration.
All Directors have access to her advice and must maintain at least that level of shareholding throughout services, and she retains independent advisory services at the their tenure.
request of the Board or a Board Committee.
The Board appoints Details of the Shares held by Directors are set out on page 65 of and removes the Company Secretary.
As at the date of this Report all of the Directors had 4.12 Meetings met this requirement.
The Board met nine times during the year.
Generally, meetings BHP Billiton has a Securities Dealing Code that covers dealings run for two days.
Six of those meetings were held in Australia, in securities by Directors and senior managers.
Under the Code, two in the United Kingdom and one in China.
Directors are required to obtain the Chairmans consent before Attendance by Directors at Board and Board Committee dealing in Shares or other securities of BHP Billiton.
The meetings is set out in the table on page 36.
The Chairman sets Chairman needs to get approval from the Senior Independent the agenda for each meeting in consultation with the CEO and Director to deal.
Directors and senior managers must not deal the Company Secretary.
Any Director may have any matter added in Shares or other securities of BHP Billiton during designated to the agenda.
Directors are provided with comprehensive prohibited periods and at any time at which the individual papers on matters to be considered by the Board.
possesses unpublished price sensitive information.
The non-executive Directors met three times during the year in All BHP Billiton Share or securities dealings by Directors are the absence of executive Directors and other executives except the Company Secretary.
reported to the Board and to the Australian and London Stock Exchanges and all secondary exchanges on which BHP Billiton Members of the Office of the Chief Executive and other members is listed.
of senior management attend meetings of the Board by invitation.
A copy of the Securities Dealing Code can be viewed at 5.
Board of Directors review, re-election and renewal www.
5.1 Review 4.9 Chairman The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board The Chairman, Mr Don Argus, is considered by the Board to be membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
He was appointed Chairman of BHP Limited in Contemporary performance measures are considered an 1999 and has been Chairman of the Group since 2001. important part of this process.
The Chairman leads the Board and facilitates its work.
He is The Board regularly evaluates the performance of the Board as responsible for ensuring that the principles and processes of a whole, its Committees, the Chairman, individual Directors and the Board are maintained, including the provision of accurate, the governance processes which support Board work.
He encourages debate and The performance of the Board is reviewed each year.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the focuses on individual Directors and the Board as a whole in CEO and Company Secretary, sets agendas for meetings of the alternate years.
A review of the performance of each of the Board that focus on the strategic direction and performance Board Committees is underway.
Reviews of the Sustainability of the Group.
He commits to and leads Board and individual and Risk and Audit Committees were completed in June 2005.
The Chairman has authority to speak and act for the Board and to represent the Board Reviews of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees will to shareholders.
He also presents shareholders views to the be completed by the end of calendar year 2005.
Going forward Board and facilitates the relationship between the Board and the Board will assess the performance of its Committees each the CEO.
Mr Argus is Chairman of Brambles Industries, a company listed Performance of individual Directors is assessed against a range on the Australian and London Stock Exchanges.
The Board of dimensions including: the ability of the Director to consistently considers that neither his Chairmanship of Brambles, nor any take the perspective of creating shareholder value: to contribute of his other commitments set out on page 31 of this Report, to the development of strategy and identification of risks: to interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to BHP Billiton.
provide clear direction to management: to be a source of wise The Board is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to counsel for the CEO: to bring a broad perspective to discussions serve BHP Billiton effectively.
and an understanding of key issues: to commit the time required to fulfil the role: and to listen to and respect the ideas of fellow The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman but has identified Directors and members of management.
Dr John Schubert to act as Chairman should the need arise at short notice.
The process is managed by the Chairman, but feedback on the Chairmans performance is provided to him by Dr Schubert.
4.10 Senior Independent Director The Board has appointed Dr John Buchanan as the Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
Dr Buchanan is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 35 Corporate Governance Statement continued Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2005 Other Board Committee Board Risk and Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Meetings A B A B A B A B A B A B Don Argus 9 9 5520 20 David Brink 9899 4 444 John Buchanan 9 9 5 5 7777 Michael Chaney 9 8 77 # Carlos Cordeiro 55 33 David Crawford 9 9 991818 Charles Goodyear 9 9 4 4 18 18 David Jenkins 9999 77 66 Lord Renwick of Clifton 97 5476 11 Mike Salamon 9 7 4366 John Schubert 9 9 5476 99 Column A indicates the number of meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
Column B indicates the number of meetings attended during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
Includes two meetings held by telephone.
Mr Cordeiro vacated his office on 3 April and was re-appointed by the Board on 26 August.
This unusual situation arose because Mr Cordeiro was not able to satisfy the minimum shareholding requirement of Directors as provided for in the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc and the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited because, like all other Directors and senior executives, he was in possession of unpublished, price sensitive information relating to the acquisition by BHP Billiton of WMC Resources Ltd for the whole of the period that was available to him to comply.
During the period for which Mr Cordeiro did not hold office as a Director he attended meetings by invitation.
A conflict of interest for one telephone meeting, therefore did not attend by agreement.
The other members of this Committee are external experts in the fields of health, safety or the environment.
They are Professor Jim Galvin, Professor Jimmy Perkins, Dr David Slater and Mr Ed Spence.
In addition, Mr Anthony Lennox, Group Vice President Health, Safety and Environment, is a member of this Committee.
5.2 Re-election 5.3 Renewal The Board has determined that non-executive Directors who The Board plans for its own succession with the assistance of have served on the Board for more than nine years from the date the Nomination Committee.
In so doing, the Board: of their first election must stand for annual re-election from the considers the skill, knowledge and experience necessary to first annual general meeting after the expiration of their current allow it to meet the strategic vision for the Group term.
At least one-third of the remaining Directors retire at each assesses the skill, knowledge and experience currently annual general meeting.
Directors are not appointed for a fixed represented term but must submit themselves to shareholders for re-election identifies any skills, knowledge and experience not adequately after three years.
The period that Directors have served on the represented and agrees the process necessary to ensure a Board and the years in which they were first appointed and last candidate is selected that brings those traits, and elected are set out in section 4.1. reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, both Re-appointment is not automatic.
Retiring Directors who are at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
seeking re-election are subject to a performance appraisal When considering new appointments to the Board, the overseen by the Nomination Committee.
Following that Nomination Committee oversees the preparation of a position appraisal, the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination specification that is provided to an independent recruitment Committee, makes a determination as to whether it will endorse organisation retained to conduct a global search.
In addition to a retiring Director for re-election.
The Board will not endorse the specific skills, knowledge and experience deemed necessary, a Director for re-election if his or her performance is not the specification contains criteria such as a proven track record considered satisfactory.
The Board will advise shareholders in of creating shareholder value: unquestioned integrity: a the notice of meeting whether or not re-election is supported.
commitment to the highest standards of governance: having the Directors cannot be re-appointed if they have reached the age of required time available to devote to the job: a clear grasp of 70 years, unless that appointment is approved by shareholders in strategic thinking: an awareness of market leadership: the form of a special resolution.
A Director so appointed must outstanding monitoring skills: a preparedness to question, retire at the next annual general meeting.
challenge and critique: and an independent point of view.
Newly appointed Directors must submit themselves to shareholders for election at the first annual general meeting following their appointment.
36 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 6.
Management Mr Ian Fraser, former Group Vice President Human Resources, retired from BHP Billiton on 4 September 2005.
The CEO draws The CEO holds delegated authority from the Board to achieve on the work of other Committees including the Executive the Corporate Objective, save for those matters the Board has Committee, Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC and retained for its own decision-making set out in section 3 above.
the Investment Risk Committee IRC.
The Executive Committee In devolving that authority the CEO has developed an Approvals has a communications and influencing role across the Group.
Framework that delegates authority to committees and The FRMC monitors the Groups financial risk management individual members of management.
Notwithstanding those policies and exposures and approves financial transactions further delegations the CEO remains accountable to the Board within the scope of its authority.
The IRC oversees the for the authority delegated to him.
management approval processes for major investments, which The Chief Executive has established the Office of the Chief are designed to ensure that: investments are aligned to the Executive OCE to assist him in exercising his authority.
The role Groups agreed strategies and values: risks are identified and of the OCE is to provide advice to the CEO and to make evaluated: investments are fully optimised to produce the determinations on matters defined in its Charter.
The members maximum shareholder value within an acceptable risk of the Committee are: framework: and appropriate risk management strategies Charles Goodyear, CEO and Executive Director are pursued.
Philip Aiken, Group President Energy The names and biographical details of members of the John Fast, Chief Legal Counsel and Head of External Affairs Executive Committee are set out below.
Robert Kirkby, Group President Carbon Steel Materials Marius Kloppers, Chief Commercial Officer Chris Lynch, CFO Marcus Randolph, Chief Human Capital and Excellence Officer Mike Salamon, Group President Non-Ferrous Materials and Executive Director Charles Goodyear BSc, MBA, FCPA, 47 Miklos Mike Salamon BSc Mining Engineering, Philip Aiken BE Chemical Engineering, Harvard MBA, 50 Business School Advanced Management Program, 56 Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Group President Non-Ferrous Materials and Group President Energy Chairman of the Office of the Chief Executive Executive Director and Executive Committee and a member of Member of the Office of the Chief Executive and the Financial Risk Management Committee.
Member of the Office of the Chief Executive and Executive Committee.
Executive Committee, and Chairman of the Charles Goodyear joined the Group as Chief Joined the Group in 1997 as President and Operating Committee.
He was appointed Chief Executive Officer Petroleum and appointed to the Boards of BHP Billiton Limited and Appointed an Executive Director in February Group President Energy consisting of Energy BHP Billiton Plc in November 2001 and as Chief 2003 and Group President Non-Ferrous Materials Coal and Petroleum in March 2004.
He is a Executive Officer in January 2003.
He previously consisting of Aluminium, Base Metals and former Director of BTR Plc and former Managing held positions of Chief Development Officer Stainless Steel Materials in March 2004 and Director of BTR Nylex, following a long career and of Chief Financial Officer.
He is a former Chairman of WMC Resources Ltd in June 2005. at BOC Plc where his last role was Managing President of Goodyear Capital Corporation and He is Chairman of Samancor and a Director of Director Gases Europe.
He is a Director of Robert former Executive Vice President and Chief Richards Bay Minerals, Cerro Matoso and Walters Plc and was previously Chairman of the Financial Officer of Freeport-McMoRan Inc, and Escondida.
From July 1997 to June 2001 he was Sydney 2004 World Energy Congress Organising has extensive financial, corporate restructuring an executive Director of Billiton Plc with Committee.
and merger and acquisition experience.
responsibilities for nickel, chrome, manganese, stainless steel and titanium.
Former Executive Chairman of Samancor, Managing Director of Trans-Natal Coal Corporation and Chairman of Columbus.
John Fast BEc Hons, LLB Hons, ASIA, 55 Diego Hernandez Civil Mining Engineer, Ecole Graeme Hunt B Met, MBA, FAusIMM, London Nationale Suprieure des Mines fide Paris, 56 Business School Senior Executive Programme, 48 Chief Legal Counsel and Head of External Affairs President Base Metals President Iron Ore Member of the Office of the Chief Executive, Executive Committee, Investment Risk Member of the Executive Committee and Member of the Executive Committee and Committee, Disclosure Committee and Chairman Operating Committee.
of the Global Ethics Panel.
Joined the Group as President Base Metals in Joined the Group in 1975 and appointed Joined the Group as Vice President and Chief April 2004.
He was previously Executive Director, President Iron Ore in January 2004.
He was Legal Counsel in December 1999, and was CVRD Non Ferrous Division and has extensive previously President Western Australia Iron Ore, appointed Head of Asset Protection in July 2001 experience in the resources sector in South Vice President Portfolio Restructuring Strategy and Head of External Affairs Government and America.
His previous positions include President BHP Corporate, Group General Manager Community Relations in January 2003.
He is a and Chief Executive Officer Compaa Minera BHP Manganese, General Manager Port Kembla Director of the Medical Research Foundation for Collahuasi, Chief Executive Officer Minera Coal Terminal Ltd, NSW Ports Manager Women and Babies Australia, Chairman of the Mantos Blancos, Chief Executive Officer BHP Transport Ltd and has held various other Rotary Indigenous Australian Tertiary Scholarship Compaa Minera Tres Cruces, Technical Director positions in BHP Steel.
He is Vice President of Advisory Board, a member of the Takeovers Panel Rio Tinto Brazil, and Assistant General Manager the Australian Mines & Metals Association, Australia, a member of the Strategic Advisory Empresa.
and Vice President and Director of the Minerals Board to The University of Melbourne Law Council of Australia.
Schools Graduate Program, an Associate of the Securities Institute of Australia, a member of the Law Institute of Victoria, a member of the General Counsel 100 UK, and a member of the Corporate Counsel Advisory Committee of the Metropolitan Corporate Counsel USA.
Before joining BHP Billiton, he was the Senior Commercial Partner at the law firm Arnold Bloch Leibler.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 37 Corporate Governance Statement continued Robert Kirkby BE Civil Hons, Harvard Business Marius Kloppers BE Chem, MBA, PhD Chris Lynch BComm, MBA, FCPA, 51 School Advanced Management Program, 58 Materials Science, 43 Chief Financial Officer Group President Carbon Steel Materials Chief Commercial Officer Member of the Office of the Chief Executive, Member of the Office of the Chief Executive, Member of the Office of the Chief Executive, Executive Committee, Operating Committee, Executive Committee, Operating Committee and Executive Committee, Operating Committee, Disclosure Committee and Chairman of the Forum for Corporate Responsibility.
Financial Risk Management Committee and Investment Risk Committee and Financial Risk Investment Risk Committee.
Joined the Group in 1978 and appointed Group President Carbon Steel Materials in March 2004, Joined the Group in 1993 and appointed Joined the Group in 2000 as Chief Financial after being President Carbon Steel Materials Chief Commercial Officer in December 2003.
Officer of the Minerals Group and appointed from 2001.
He has been Chairman of Samarco He was previously Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Financial Officer in September 2001.
Mineracao SA, BHP Mitsui Coal and BHP Billiton Group Executive of Billiton Plc, Chief Executive He was Vice President and Chief Information Mitsubishi Alliance and a Director of Samancor.
of Samancor Manganese, and held various Officer for Alcoa Inc based in Pittsburgh, US, and Previously he was Chief Operating Officer positions at Billiton Aluminium, amongst them Chief Financial Officer, Alcoa Europe located in BHP Minerals, President BHP Steelmaking and Chief Operating Officer and General Manager Lausanne, Switzerland.
He was also Managing Energy, Group General Manager and Chief of Hillside Aluminium.
Director KAAL Australia Ltd, a joint venture Executive Officer BHP Coal, Group General company formed by Alcoa Inc and Kobe Steel, Manager and Chief Operating Officer of various Manager Financial Risk and Treasury Operations divisions in BHP Steel, and General Manager for Alcoa Inc in Pittsburgh, US, and Corporate Newman-BHP Minerals.
Accounting Manager at Alcoa of Australia Ltd. Rebecca McDonald BSc, 53 David Dave Murray BSc Civil Engineering : Chris Pointon BSc Chemistry & Earth Sciences, Post Grad Dip Mining : Advanced Executive Program PhD Geology, 57 President Gas and Power UNISA, 50 President Stainless Steel Materials Member of the Executive Committee.
President Metallurgical Coal Member of the Executive Committee and Joined the Group as President Gas and Power in Member of the Executive Committee and Operating Committee.
She was previously President of the Operating Committee Houston Museum of Natural Science, Chairman Appointed President Stainless Steel Materials in and Chief Executive Officer of Enron Global From 1978 until 1999 David worked for the June 2001.
He was previously Chief Executive Assets after a long career at Amoco, where her Trans-Natal Coal Corporation Ingwe Coal Officer, Nickel and Chrome for Billiton Plc and last role was President and Chief Executive Corporation, progressing through various Managing Director of QNI Ltd.
He has over 20 Officer of Amoco Energy Development Company.
operational, project and managerial positions.
years of global experience as a mining executive She is an independent director of Granite In 1993 he was appointed Managing Director and has led the Groups nickel business since its Construction and BOC Group.
Trans-Natal Coal Corporation then appointed formation in 1996.
Chief Executive of Billiton Coal in 1999.
He moved to Australia in 2001 as CEO of the newly formed BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance.
In 2005 David moved into his current role as President Metallurgical Coal within Carbon Steel Materials.
Marcus Randolph BSc, MBA Harvard Business Greg Robinson BSc Hons, MBA, 43 Mahomed Seedat BEc Electrical, MDP Harvard, School, 49 PMD UNISA, 49 Project Director Business Excellence Project, Chief Human Capital and Excellence Officer Corporation Alignment President Energy Coal Member of the Executive Committee and Member of the Executive Committee.
Member of the Executive Committee and Operating Committee.
Joined the Group in February 2001 and in Joined BHP Minerals in 1999 as Chief August 2005 was appointed to lead the Groups Appointed President Energy Coal in January Development Officer and held the role of Business Excellence Project, Corporation 2005.
He previously held the positions of President, Diamonds and Specialty Products Alignment to improve the alignment, quality and President and Chief Operating Officer Ingwe from August 2002 until September 2005.
In efficiency of the Groups planning, forecasting, Collieries, President and Chief Operating Officer September 2005 he was appointed Chief Human measurement, reporting and appraisal Aluminium Southern Africa with responsibility Capital and Excellence Officer with responsibility processes.
He previously held the positions of for the operations at the Hillside and Bayside for Human Resources, Business Excellence and Chief Financial Officer Petroleum and Chief Aluminium Smelters in Richards Bay, South Africa Information Technology.
His earlier career was Finance Officer and Chief Development Officer and the Mozal Aluminium Smelter in Maputo, as Chief Executive Officer of a Singapore-based Energy.
He was formerly Director Investment Mozambique.
His former roles in the Aluminium gold and petroleum company.
He also held Banking Group, Merrill Lynch & Co, and Customer Sector Group include Engineering senior positions with Rio Tinto and Asarco.
Resources Research Analyst, McCaughan Manager, Maintenance Manager and General Dyson Limited.
Manager of the Hillside Aluminium Smelter in Richards Bay.
His previous career was in the coal industry with Amcoal, where he held various positions at its collieries.
Alex Vanselow BComm, Wharton AMP, 43 President Aluminium Member of the Executive Committee and Operating Committee.
Joined the Group in 1989 and appointed President Aluminium in March 2004.
He was previously Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Aluminium, Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer for Orinoco Iron, Manager Accounting and Control and Manager Finance and Administration Rails and Ports for BHP Iron Ore and Senior Auditor BHP Minerals.
He is Chairman of Mozal and Worsley and Vice Chairman of the International Aluminium Institute.
38 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 7. Business conduct 8.1 Risk and Audit Committee report The BHP Billiton Group has published a Guide to Business The Risk and Audit Committee RAC met nine times during Conduct which is available in eight languages.
Its members are Mr D A Crawford Chairman, reflects the Charter values of integrity, respect, trust and Dr D C Brink and Dr D A L Jenkins.
It provides clear direction and advice on conducting business internationally: interacting with communities, Role and focus governments and business partners: and general workplace The role of the RAC is to assist the Board in gaining assurance behaviour.
It states BHP Billitons position on a wide range of as to the integrity of the financial statements and the ethical and legal issues including conflicts of interest, financial effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk inducements, bribery, trading in securities and political management.
Its focus is: the integrity of the financial contributions.
The Guide applies to Directors and to all statements: the appointment, remuneration, qualifications, employees, regardless of their position or location.
Consultants, performance and independence of the external auditor, and contractors and business partners are also expected to act in the integrity of the audit process as a whole: the accordance with the Guide.
The Guide can be found at the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk Groups website at www.
management: the performance and leadership of the role of the Vice President Risk Management and Assurance and of BHP Billiton has established regional helplines so that employees the internal audit function: and compliance by management can seek guidance or express concerns on Company related with constraints imposed by the Board.
Reports can be made anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
A fraud hotline facility is available for reporting cases A summary of its work appears below.
of suspected misappropriations, fraud, bribery or corruption.
Arrangements are in place to investigate such matters.
Where Integrity of financial statements appropriate, investigations are conducted independently.
Further BHP Billiton prepares combined financial statements according information on the Business Conduct Helpline and fraud hotline to Australian and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles can be found in the BHP Billiton Guide to Business Conduct.
GAAP and reconciles the UK financial statements to US GAAP.
These statements meet Australian, UK and US regulatory The BHP Billiton Group maintains a position of impartiality with requirements.
The combined financial statements reflect the fact respect to party politics.
Accordingly, it does not contribute that the Group operates as a single economic entity.
funds to any political party, politician or candidate for public office.
It does, however, contribute to the public debate of policy The Directors are committed to providing financial statements issues that may affect it in the countries in which it operates.
that present a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
Board Committees in the Chairmans Review, the CEOs Report, the Company The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising Overview, the Review of Operations, the Customer Sector Group its authority, including in monitoring the performance of the Highlights and financial statements contained in this Report.
Group to gain assurance that progress is being made towards The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of the the Corporate Objective within the limits imposed by the Board.
The RAC evaluates and makes The permanent Committees of the Board are the Risk and Audit recommendations to the Board about the appropriateness of, Committee, the Sustainability Committee, the Nomination and changes to, accounting policies and practices, areas of Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Ad hoc judgement, compliance with Accounting Standards, stock Committees are formed from time to time to deal with specific exchange and legal requirements and the results of the external matters.
It reviews the half-yearly and annual financial statements Each of the permanent Committees has terms of reference and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions under which authority is delegated from the Board.
The terms including formal adoption of the financial statements and of reference for each Committee can be found at reports the Board should consider in order to maintain the www.
integrity of the financial statements.
From time to time the Board may delegate authority to the RAC to approve the release The office of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services of the statements to the stock exchanges, shareholders and the for each of the Committees.
Committee meeting agendas, papers financial community.
and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding scrutiny of the The CEO and CFO certify that the financial statements present a Board, Committee Chairmen are free to use whatever resources true and fair view, in all material respects, of the Companys they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
financial condition and operating results and are in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
Each Committee is composed of the people the Board considers best suited to fulfil the role of the Committee.
Managing the relationship with the External Auditor The RAC manages the relationship between the Group and Reports from each of the Committees appear below.
the External Auditor on behalf of the Board.
It recommends to the Board potential auditors for appointment and the terms of engagement, including remuneration.
In December 2003, the Board, on the recommendation of the RAC, approved the appointment of KPMG.
Shareholders are asked to approve re-appointment of the auditors each year in the UK.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 39 Accountability Delegation Corporate Governance Statement continued The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor The Group has a Policy governing the conduct of non-audit work during its term of appointment against specified criteria by the auditors.
Under that Policy the External Auditor cannot provide services where the External Auditor: including delivering value to shareholders and the Group, cost-effectiveness and maintaining the highest levels of may be required to audit its own work professional integrity, objectivity and independence.
participates in activities that would normally be undertaken by management BHP Billiton is committed to auditor independence and the RAC reviews the independence and objectivity of the External is remunerated through a success fee structure, or Auditor.
This review includes: acts in an advocacy role for BHP Billiton.
confirming that the External Auditor is, in its professional This Policy can be viewed at www.
com aboutus judgement, independent of the Group governance.
obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all Fees paid to the External Auditor during the year for audit and relationships between the External Auditor and the Group other services were US$12.84 million of which 79 per cent monitoring the number of former employees of the External comprised audit fees, 9 per cent audit related fees and 12 per Auditor currently employed in senior positions in the Group cent taxation and other services.
Details of the fees paid are set and assessing whether those appointments impair, or appear note 7 to the financial statements.
out in to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that considering whether the various relationships between the the External Auditor is independent.
Group and the External Auditor collectively impair, or appear to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence Effectiveness of systems of internal control and determining whether the compensation of individuals risk management employed by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is In delegating authority to the CEO to make the decisions tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, consider necessary to run the business, the Board established limits on whether this impairs, or appears to impair, the External the manner in which that authority can be exercised.
One of the Auditors judgement or independence, and limits is to ensure that there is a system of control for identifying reviewing the economic importance of the Group to the and managing risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, review the External Auditor and assessing whether that importance systems that have been established for this purpose and impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors regularly review their effectiveness.
The principal aim of the system of internal control is to The Group audit engagement partner will rotate every five years.
manage business risks, with a view to enhancing the value of Governance assurance This diagram illustrates the key policies, processes and independent controls put in place by management to provide assurance to the Board as to the integrity of the Groups reporting and effectiveness of its systems of internal control and risk management.
Board Board Governance Document Sustainability Nomination Remuneration Board Risk and Audit Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee RAC Chief Executive Officer External Auditors Management Governance and Assurance Group Audit Services Key Processes Key Policies Charter Office of the Chief Executive Financial Risk Management Committee Guide to Business Conduct HSEC Anti Trust Protocols CSG Appraisals Audits CSG RACs Approvals Framework Contracts and Commitments Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Stewardship Reviews Peer Reviews Risk Management Major Projects Sustainable Development Management Representation Letters Market Risk Management Committee Portfolio Risk Management Governance Framework Disclosure Committee Ore Oil Gas Investment Risk Committee Securities Dealing Code Reserves Review Market Disclosure and Communications Investment Evaluation Standard Financial and Management Reporting Non-Audit Services Tax HSEC Management Standards Information Management Financial Accounting 40 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Independent Assurance shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
Although provided to the Board.
The Investment Risk Committee IRC no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance provides oversight for investment processes across the Group that the business risks will be fully mitigated, the internal control and coordinates the investment toll-gating process for major systems are designed to meet the Groups specific needs and the investments.
Reports are made to the Board on findings by the risks to which it is exposed.
IRC in relation to major capital projects.
The RAC is responsible for reviewing the internal controls and The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the financial risk management systems, including: statements are founded on a sound system of risk management and internal compliance, and that the system is operating the procedure for identifying business risks and controlling efficiently and effectively in all material respects.
their financial impact on the Group and the operational effectiveness of the policies and procedures related to risk Business risk and control The Group operates an Enterprise-Wide Risk Management the budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting System, which continues to be enhanced at all operations.
This systems and controls System forms the cornerstone of the Groups risk management policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, activities.
Its aim is to meet the obligations of the CEO in reporting and preventing fraud, serious breaches of business ensuring a system is in place for identifying and managing risk.
conduct and whistleblowing procedures Its existence provides the RAC with the assurance that the major risks facing the Group have been identified and assessed, and the policies for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory that there are controls either in place or planned to address and legal requirements these risks.
Independent validation is undertaken by Internal arrangements for protecting the Groups ownership of Audit.
The Groups Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Policy can intellectual property and other non-physical assets be found at www.
the operational effectiveness of the Customer Sector Groups CSG RAC structures Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes in the Groups business environment are regularly reviewed by the the application of the principles of the Turnbull Guidance Office of the Chief Executive and discussed by the Board.
within the Group, including the adequacy of the internal Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, control systems and allocation of responsibilities for the Sustainability Committee, the Remuneration Committee and monitoring internal financial controls, and Internal Audit.
policies, information systems and procedures for preparation and dissemination of information to shareholders, stock The scope of BHP Billitons operations, and the range of exchanges and the financial community.
industries in which the Group is engaged, mean that a range of factors may impact Group results.
Material risks that could To assist management in providing the information necessary to negatively affect the Groups results and performance include: allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, separate Risk and fluctuations in commodity prices and currency exchange rates Audit Committees have been established for each of the CSGs and key functional areas.
These Committees have been failure to discover new reserves or enhance existing reserves established and operate as Committees of management but are fewer mineral oil or gas reserves than our estimates indicate chaired by members of the Boards RAC or by other external compliance with health, safety and environment regulations appointees with appropriate skills and experience.
They perform may impose burdensome costs an important monitoring function in the overall governance of land tenure disputes the Group.
actions by governments in the countries in which we operate Minutes and reports of meetings are prepared and are provided risks associated with emerging markets to the Board RAC.
In addition, Committee Chairs provide verbal inability to successfully integrate our acquired businesses or reports of the meetings to the Board RAC.
recover our investments in exploration and new mining and Each half year, the President and CFOs of each CSG and each of oil and gas projects the Marketing, Shared Services Centres and Treasury functions increased reliance upon the Chinese market in the event of a must review internal controls and provide formal representations slowdown in consumption to the Vice President Group Accounting and Controller, which are shortages of skilled labour could negatively impact our noted by the applicable CSG RAC, assuring compliance with operations and expansion plans, and Group policies and procedures and confirming that internal costs may increase due to inflationary pressures.
These representations are Internal audit summarised and provided to the Boards RAC.
BHP Billiton has an internal audit function known as Group Audit The Sustainability Committee of the Board reviews the Services GAS which assists with the identification and effectiveness of the internal controls covering health, safety, controlling of Group business risks.
The Boards RAC reviews environment and community risks.
the mission and charter of GAS, ensures that it is adequately Management committees also perform roles in relation to risk staffed and that its scope of work is appropriate in light of the and control.
The Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC key risks facing the Group and the other monitoring functions in reviews the effectiveness of internal controls relating to place.
It also reviews and approves an annual internal audit commodity price risk, counter-party credit risk, currency risk, plan.
financing risk and interest rate risk.
Minutes of the FRMC are BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 41 Corporate Governance Statement continued The role of the Vice President Risk Management and Assurance 8.3 Sustainability Committee report includes: The Sustainability Committee previously called the Health, achievement of GAS objectives which are: Safety and Environment Committee met four times during assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of the year.
During the year the members of the Committee were controls governing key operational processes and business Dr D C Brink Chairman, Mr C W Goodyear, Mr M Salamon, risks Mr A T Lennox, Prof J Galvin, Prof J Perkins, Dr D Slater and provision of an assessment, independent of management, Mr E Spence.
Following a review of the Committee which as to the adequacy of the Groups internal operating and was conducted during the year the Board has restructured financial controls, systems and practices the Committee and will be increasing the number of nonassisting the Board in meeting its corporate governance and executive Director members.
Executive members and external regulatory responsibilities advisors will no longer sit as members of the Committee but provision of advisory services to management to enhance may participate in Committee work at the discretion of the the control environment and improve business performance non-executive Director members.
At the time of printing of enterprise wide risk management this Report the new members of the Committee had not been risk management information systems, and appointed.
Role and focus The RAC approves the appointment and dismissal of the Vice Following the review of the Committee referred to above, President Risk Management and Assurance and assesses his or the role of the Sustainability Committee is now to assist the her independence and objectivity.
The Vice President Risk Board in gaining assurance that the appropriate systems are Management and Assurance has unfettered access to in place to deal with the health, safety, environmental and management and the Boards RAC.
community risks faced by the Group.
In so doing, the Committee focuses on: Review of effectiveness evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups policies and During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the systems for identifying and managing the health, safety, effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the environment and community risks that are material to the financial year and up to the date of this Report in accordance achievement of the Corporate Objective with the Turnbull Guidance and the Principles of Good Corporate Governance published by the Australian Stock Exchange assessing the policies and systems within the Group for ensuring compliance with health, safety, environment and Corporate Governance Council.
These reviews which were overseen by the Board RAC covered financial, operational and community regulatory requirements compliance controls and risk assessment.
Findings and assessing the performance of the Group having regard to recommendations were reported to the Board.
the impact of health, safety, environment and community decisions and actions on employees, communities and third In addition to considering the key risks facing the Group, the parties and on the reputation of BHP Billiton, and Board reviewed an assessment of the effectiveness of internal evaluation and oversight on behalf of the Board of the controls over the key risks identified through the work of the quality and integrity of sustainability reporting to external Board Committees and management Committees described stakeholders.
A Sustainability Report formerly the Health, Safety, 8.2 Remuneration Committee report Environment and Community Report is published each year.
The Remuneration Committee met seven times during The Report identifies BHP Billitons targets for health, safety, the year.
Its members are Dr J G Buchanan Chairman, environment and community and measures its performance Dr D A L Jenkins, Lord Renwick of Clifton and Dr J M Schubert.
The Report is published at the same Role and focus time as the Annual Report and can be found at The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in setting http: sustainability.
the Remuneration Policy for the Group.
In doing its work the For an overview of BHP Billitons approach to sustainable Committee focuses on: development refer to page 18 of this Report.
determining remuneration policy and its application to the executive Directors and executives who report to the CEO adopting the annual and long-term incentive plans providing guidance to the Chairman on the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO determining the levels of reward to the CEO and approval of rewards to those who report to the CEO, and communicating to shareholders on remuneration policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board.
Full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 58.
42 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 BHP Billiton has complied with the Best Practice 8.4 Nomination Committee report Recommendations throughout the financial period and has continued to comply up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Nomination Committee met five times during the year.
The members of the Committee are Mr D R Argus Chairman, In June 2004, the Australian Parliament enacted the Corporate Dr J G Buchanan, Lord Renwick of Clifton and Dr J M Schubert.
Law Economic Reform Program Audit Reform and Corporate Disclosure Act 2004 CLERP9 that applies for financial years Role and focus beginning on or after 1 July 2004.
BHP Billiton complies with The role of the Committee is to assist in ensuring that the those requirements.
Board is comprised of individuals who are best able to discharge the responsibilities of a Director, having regard A checklist summarising BHP Billitons compliance with the to the highest standards of governance.
It does so by UK Combined Code, the Best Practice Recommendations focusing on: published by the ASX Corporate Governance Council, and the CLERP9 requirements has been posted to the website at reviewing the skills represented on the Board and identifying skills that might be required www.
retaining the services of independent search firms and BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants of the identifying suitable candidates for the Board refer to Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
Both companies sections 4.2 and 5.3 of this Statement are classified as foreign private issuers and both have American overseeing the review of the assessment of the Depositary Receipts listed on the New York Stock Exchange performance of individual Directors and making NYSE.
recommendations to the Board on the endorsement of BHP Billiton has reviewed the governance requirements currently retiring Directors seeking re-election refer to section 5 applicable to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley of this Statement, and Act US including the rules promulgated by the Securities and communication to shareholders on the work of the Exchange Commission and the rules of the NYSE and is satisfied Committee on behalf of the Board.
that it complies with those requirements.
Under the NYSE listing rules companies that have American During the year the Committee recommended the appointment Depositary Receipts listed on the NYSE are required to disclose and election of Carlos Cordeiro.
Since the end of the year the any significant ways in which their corporate governance practices Committee recommended the appointment and election of the differ from the NYSE corporate governance rules.
We have Hon Gail fide Planque.
Details of the skills and experience compared our corporate governance practices to the NYSE Mr Cordeiro and Dr fide Planque bring to the Board are set out on corporate governance rules and note the following differences: page 32.
The Committee retained the services of Messrs Heidrick Our Nomination Committees Charter does not include the and Struggles and Egon Zehnder to identify candidates.
purpose of developing and recommending to the Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the 9.
Conformance with corporate governance standards corporation.
At BHP Billiton we believe that this task is BHP Billitons compliance with the governance standards in each integral to the governance of the Group and is therefore best of the jurisdictions in which it operates is reported in this dealt with by the Board as a whole.
Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires the Directors Report and the financial statements.
NYSE listed companies to ensure that their audit committees The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require UK-listed are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, companies to report on the extent to which they comply with the retention and oversight of the work of the external auditors Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, which unless the companys governing law or documents or other are contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code and explain the home country legal requirements require or permit reasons for any non-compliance.
shareholders to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
While BHP Billitons Risk and Audit Committee RAC is The Listing Rules of the Australian Stock Exchange require directly responsible for remuneration and oversight of external Australian-listed companies to report on the extent to which auditors, the ultimate responsibility for appointment and they meet the Best Practice Recommendations published by the retention of external auditors rests with the Companys Australian Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Council as part of its Principles of Good Corporate Governance and explain the shareholders, in accordance with Australian and United Kingdom law and BHP Billitons constitutional documents.
The RAC does, however, make recommendations to the Board Both the Combined Code including the revised version and the on these matters, which are in turn reported to shareholders.
Best Practice Recommendations require the Board to consider the While the Board of BHP Billiton is satisfied with its level of application of the relevant corporate governance principles, while compliance with the governance requirements in Australia, the recognising that departures from those principles are appropriate UK and the US, it recognises that practices and procedures can in some circumstances.
BHP Billiton has complied with the always be improved, and that there is merit in continuously provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that reviewing its own standards against those in a variety of evaluations of the performance of Board Committees, while conducted, have not been conducted on an annual basis.
The Board has operated under a programme of review that will continue throughout the year ahead.
Committees have been evaluated during the 2005 calendar year and annual evaluations will be conducted going forward.
Board evaluations have been and will continue to be conducted annually.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 43
