Company Overview Our people performing safely and excellently At every operational site, office and Our Business Excellence programme development project, we need to have the combines several years of asset-based Operating Excellence performance improvement projects best possible people managing our assets.
BHP Billitons journey to Operating It is our people who, over time, identify implemented under the banner of Excellence began in 2000 and over the Operating Excellence, with a new resource deposits and turn these into last five years hundreds of projects using programme of Organisational Excellence, world-class operating and financial assets.
teams from all parts of the business have designed to ensure we have in place the We rely on our people to share information been undertaken.
Using Six Sigma and best possible corporate structures, and knowledge between businesses and other business improvement methodologies, processes and systems.
functions, using formal networks and projects in safety, maintenance, mine programmes to improve efficiency and operations, supply, mine planning and Attracting and retaining the best people performance in all areas.
We also rely processing have unified our activities and is an increasing challenge for our industry, on our people, from senior management our people.
Knowledge sharing networks particularly at this time of substantial down, to ensure that safe working connect our people and encourage a culture growth in demand for our products.
We practices are always put before of innovation and teamwork.
The benefits have committed to several programmes performance.
Our experience shows that are delivered in projects that are improving designed to ensure that BHP Billiton can efficiency and reliability and achieving high levels of performance are sustained compete effectively for those employees, only when safety is our first priority.
from graduates through to executives.
Win-win relationships In late July 2005, we signed a Technical Collaboration Agreement with Shanghais Baosteel Group for joint technical work on optimising the use of raw materials in the production of carbon steel and stainless steel.
Cooperative work had begun well before the Agreement was signed, with Baosteel and BHP Billiton benefiting from technical work, which improved productivity in Baosteels ironmaking process using optimised blends of BHP Billiton iron ore, coking coal and manganese.
We were delighted to sign an agreement that formalises this win-win initiative.
Baosteels consumption of BHP Billiton products is set to rise strongly in the future and the relationship between Baosteels technical and commercial management and BHP Billitons Carbon Steel Materials CSM marketing and technical people in China is providing a platform for a discussion regarding even broader commercial cooperation that will ensure BHP Billiton is one of Baosteels key raw materials suppliers for decades to come.
Safety is Worsley Aluminas job at hand Statistics Operating Excellence at Worsley Alumina has been tackling the problem of hand and finger injuries using the Six Sigma business improvement methodology.
The Safe Hands Project identified the causes 36000 employees of the injuries with team members from Worsleys operations, maintenance and major contractors.
100 operations From the beginning, communication played an important role in building awareness of the project and keeping everyone informed of suggestions on ways to reduce the number of injuries.
In the 25 countries spirit of sharing knowledge, suggestions came from BHP Billiton operations in Mozambique and across Australia.
They included a Safe Hands video, a weekly newsletter, stickers, posters and a 30 languages suggestion box.
12 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Our customers and the markets we supply Tailor-made products The development of a specialty cobalt product derived by way of a value-added process at BHP Billitons Yabulu Refinery has been an exciting initiative which has taken an intermediate product of the nickel refining process to a specialty material of choice for the electronic battery industry.
By working with manufacturers in this fast-growing market we tailored our product to meet their specific chemical requirements.
As a result of this research and development in an essentially niche market, there is a reasonable chance that your laptop computer battery contains BHP Billiton cobalt.
Traditional resources companies put their an individual customer requires, being iron regions like Asia.
This year China became efforts into extracting commodities and ore, coking metallurgical coal and our largest single country market, selling them to available markets.
representing nearly 13 per cent of our total At BHP Billiton we have taken a new sales.
The pie chart shows a breakdown of These relationships with customers not approach by first identifying our our sales across countries and regions this only equip us to better meet their needs customers needs, then working with them year.
We expect the size of the China and but give us valuable feedback on likely to determine and help meet their Other Asia slices to keep growing into the trends in customer demand, helping us requirements.
This year we also started looking plan for future production.
Our marketing more seriously at other parts of the world To assist this approach, we structured our hubs in Singapore and The Hague cothat might follow the China growth story: various businesses into seven Customer ordinate all our customer relationships countries such as India, Russia and Brazil Sector Groups CSGs, each of which has a across our major markets of north and where rapidly growing middle classes are dedicated, customer-oriented marketing east Asia, Europe and North America.
demanding the computers, air conditioners team.
A good example of how this works is While Europe remains our largest overall and office complexes, together with the our CSM CSG, whose marketing team, market, the size and strength of our energy that fuels them, that other parts of based in Singapore, works directly with markets are changing, reflecting the pace the world take for granted and that require individual steelmakers to determine how of economic development in particular the raw products we provide.
best we can provide the raw products that Innovations in marketing Sales by market percentage Our Energy Coal CSG continued to provide innovative solutions to Europe customers.
In the most complex of these Energy Coal supplied coal, 32 Japan 12 emissions allowances, freight and foreign exchange hedging in China 13 exchange for power that was then sold into the liquid power market in Other Asia 13 the UK.
Energy Coal's ability to successfully structure these and other North America 13 customer-focused solutions is underpinned by a strong team 9 8 Australia comprising commercial structurers, modellers, middle-office risk Rest of world management personnel and individual commodity experts.
Data for the year ended 30 June 2005 Branding diamonds After EKATI was brought into production as Canadas first diamond mine, it became apparent that Canadian consumers liked buying diamonds from a local mine.
BHP Billiton developed a diamond brand for retailers to supply directly to consumers, which is now marketed as the Aurias brand.
Following the launch of this programme, market research indicated that a diamond of Canadian origin would have appeal in other countries.
This, combined with issues affecting consumer confidence such as conflict diamonds, synthetic diamonds, money laundering and child labour, focused attention on developing a programme where the integrity of the diamond could be assured.
CanadaMark diamonds are being sold through high-end retail jewellery stores in Canada, the US, Australia, Europe and Japan.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 13 Company Overview continued World-class assets across the globe Escondida Escondida is the worlds largest copper mine, located in northern Chiles Atacama Desert.
BHP Billiton owns 57.5 per cent of Escondida, and is the operator and product sales agent.
Escondidas strong profitability is derived from the quality of its ore reserves and from economies of scale.
The mine accounts for approximately 8 per cent of world primary copper production.
Escondidas proved and probable reserves are currently 3.9 billion tonnes, including the addition of 1.2 billion tonnes from the Escondida Norte project.
Current mine operations are projected for 34 years.
Our mantra of low-cost, long-life, high-quality assets continues to underpin An expanded nickel business Going deep in the Gulf of Mexico our strategy and provide the foundation The addition of WMC Resources Ltds The US Gulf of Mexico is emerging as a for our business.
These assets are not extensive Western Australia nickel third core business for our Petroleum restricted to particular commodities or assets to our portfolio has created the CSG.
In January, the Mad Dog oil and gas businesses or to geographic regions.
worlds third largest nickel business, field, in which we have a 23.9 per cent We invest in assets that, over the providing BHP Billiton with highworking interest, came into production, long-term, generate consistent, robust quality operating assets maximising with a design daily capacity of 100 000 cash flow, throughout the commodity demand growth from stainless steel barrels of oil gross and 60 million cycle.
standard cubic feet of gas.
We have a Some of the great natural resources in 44 per cent interest in the massive the world today, for example: Chiles Assets in easily accessible, lower-risk parts Atlantis development, which is expected copper: Australias Bowen Basin coking of the world, which are already producing to start producing next year.
In June, we coal and Pilbara iron ore: and the Gulf of long-term and stable cash flows and have gave the go-ahead to the Neptune oil Mexicos oil and gas fields, offer long-term development options for the future, appear and gas development, which will be the development options within our asset on our horizon rarely.
During the year we first deepwater standalone facility that portfolio.
successfully bid for and acquired WMC we operate in the Gulf.
Neptune is As the availability of new resources and Resources Ltd, a company defined by its expected to start producing by the end assets in the traditional regions of the long-life, high-quality assets, particularly of 2007.
With Mad Dog, Atlantis and world depletes, we look increasingly to the Olympic Dam copper, uranium and gold Neptune, BHP Billitons net production more remote and complex regions to mine in South Australia and its set of nickel from the Gulf of Mexico is expected to identify assets that meet our requirements.
The exceed 100 000 barrels of oil equivalent North and central Africa, Russia and addition of these assets to our portfolio boe per day by the end of 2007 a fourcentral Europe, India, China and other positions us even more strongly to meet fold increase in production in just over Asian regions may each produce the next the requirements of our markets over two years.
assets of significance over the coming coming decades and provide strong future century.
Long-life, world-class assets North West Shelf Bass Strait Pilbara Iron Ore Queensland Coal Ingwe Coal Escondida Worsley Hillside Mozal EBIT from the above assets represented 62 per cent of EBIT in FY 2005.
14 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 2005 2024 Growth using our cash flow to meet future demand and create options Expansions in iron ore BHP Billitons Western Australian iron ore business has been in a constant state of growth for the past five years.
The business is based on a world-class resource, efficient and continuously expanding infrastructure, a well-established marketing network and close proximity to the industry growth centres of Asia.
A leader in the global seaborne iron ore business for the past 40 years, we have shipped more than two billion tonnes of iron ore to steelmakers all over the world.
Extensive iron ore resources support many more decades of iron ore production and we expect our resource base to increase as our exploration programmes continue.
Today, we have six open-cut mining operations, including one of the worlds largest at Mt Whaleback.
The next stage of development is a plan to increase annual capacity to around 150 million tonnes double our production of only two years ago.
EKATI goes underground Diamonds are formed deep in the earths crust and carried to the surface in kimberlite pipes.
These pipes are generally small in diameter 300 metres across is a good-sized pipe and are nearly vertical structures extending deep into the earth.
Like most diamond mines, mining at EKATI started at the surface as an open pit.
As pits are deepened, they start to look like a funnel, with more and more waste rock having to be mined to allow access to deeper ore. At some point, it becomes more economical to mine by underground means.
The Panda pipe was the original mine at EKATI.
Panda was the best combination of size, grade and diamond quality at the site.
Two years ago, Panda reached the economic limit of open pit mining.
A US$182 million US$146 million BHP Billiton share project was approved in 2004 to recover additional Panda diamonds by underground mining.
This project is on schedule to reach full production early in calendar 2006 and is expected to be completed for slightly less than the original budget.
Making good profits today from our and, again, cover a range of commodities.
An important element of our growth excellent asset base is not enough.
To Behind this pipeline sits a much larger strategy is to have a broad range of ensure we are able to meet the growing group of projects that are still progressing options, so that we can bring on line demands of the developing economies of through our very rigorous assessment low-cost, high-quality production to meet the world, we need to reinvest continually process, towards their feasibility stage.
market demand at the right time.
As a in projects that will enhance our long-life, result we will look to enter non-traditional How do we decide which projects to high-quality assets on which we base markets in the search for new resources.
All of our projects are assessed our business.
against a range of long-term price In the past four years we have developed forecasts and other variables and will 24 growth projects that are now producing only be progressed if they can be shown significant additional volumes of a spread to be economically viable even when of commodities including petroleum, prices are low.
aluminium, iron ore and copper.
These When we announced our intention to projects represent a total investment of develop Mozal, the state-of-the-art around US$5.7 billion.
In addition, we aluminium smelter in Mozambique, at a spent US$7.2 billion on acquiring WMC time when the aluminium price was low, Resources Ltd, adding incremental reflecting an oversupply in the world copper and nickel to our portfolio and market, and when Mozambique had only allowing us to enter a new commodity recently emerged from a devastating uranium.
17 years of civil war, it was because the Our growth pipeline currently shows fundamentals of the project were right.
26 growth projects that are either in the Today, Mozal is a high-performing feasibility stage or are under development operation and a model, both from a and are expected to come on line over the financial and social perspective, for the next few years.
They represent a total worlds aluminium industry.
investment of more than US$11 billion BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 15 Growth in coking coal BHP Billiton is the worlds largest producer of seaborne metallurgical coal from operations in Australias eastern states.
Together, BHP Billiton and its partners plan to increase annual production towards 100 million tonnes by 2010.
Additional production will come primarily from mines held in partnership with Mitsubishi and Mitsui in Queenslands Bowen Basin.
These mines will increase production capacity to 59 million tonnes per annum Mtpa by 2006, and we are reviewing options to boost production to 80 Mtpa by 2010 from greenfield and brownfield expansion projects.
This growth phase is supported by upgrades at Hay Point coal terminal, together with recent expansions in coal processing and handling infrastructure.
Production from the niche Illawarra operations and potential new developments such as the Maruwai project in Indonesia will ensure BHP Billiton remains the worlds premier supplier of metallurgical coal to the international steel industry.
16 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Sound financial management Our diversified model by commodity, geographic location of assets and the markets we sell to has proven its ability to generate relatively stable cash flow regardless of external factors.
It provides the business with a set of natural hedges, ensuring that any one variable, high commodity prices for example, is usually offset by others, such as increased cost pressures in strong producer currencies.
Our ability to use this cash flow and invest in growth projects through the commodity cycle has resulted in new production coming on line into a particularly strong demand and price environment, so providing even greater returns.
Our margins and return on capital have improved steadily during the past three years.
Once we have invested in growth and are confident of a solid balance sheet, we aim to return capital to our shareholders.
During the year we returned US$3.2 billion to shareholders through an off-market share buy-back programme, through rebasing the underlying level of our dividend and through the dividend payments.
Financial flexibility Capital management 40 BHP Billiton is committed to closely managing its capital.
The priorities for application of the Groups cash are clear.
First, we aim to reinvest in projects with attractive rates of return.
Then we look to return capital to shareholders through the 30 continuation of our progressive dividend policy and through other forms of capital return, such as share buy-backs.
During the year, the Group returned US$2.0 billion to shareholders via a US$1.78 billion off-market buy-back of BHP Billiton Limited 20 shares at a 12 per cent discount to the prevailing market price.
The remaining US$220 million were distributed to shareholders as part of the interim dividend, at 13.5 US cents per share.
This was an increase of 69 per cent over last years interim 10 dividend and a 42 per cent increase from the dividend declared in August 2004.
This rebased dividend level will be the starting reference point for future periods, a sign of the confidence we have in the medium term outlook and our ability to 0 consistently deliver earnings and cash flow to support this higher level of dividend payment.
Gearing % EBITDA interest cover times Managing debt Consistent with the Groups priorities for its cash flow, the share buy-back and increased dividend were preceded by a considerable reduction in net debt over the past two years.
Underlying these increased returns to shareholders is a confidence in the financial strength of the Group, which is also shared by the financial markets.
This was best demonstrated by the reaction to the increase in debt associated with the US$7.2 billion acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd.
While the acquisition was entirely debt-funded, the international credit rating agencies did not change the Groups credit ratings and the cost of the Groups debt in the debt markets also remained essentially unchanged.
In March, when we announced the WMC acquisition, we indicated that this would increase our net gearing to around 42 per cent by 30 June 2005.
In fact, our net gearing is a full 6 per cent lower at 35.7 per cent as a result of the strength of our cash flow during the period.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 17 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Company Overview continued Sustainable development The Companys commitment to sustainable development has evolved over our long history of operational experience and through lessons learned along the way.
Working through complex issues associated with our operations has highlighted environmental and social performance as a critical success factor for the Company.
We are well aware of the costs of getting it wrong but, more importantly, we recognise the value that can be created by getting it right.
Consequently, we adopt a holistic approach to business strategy, seeking to realise value for all our stakeholders through a sustainable business philosophy.
Mozal a model for integrating sustainability into resource projects BHP Billiton is committed to sustainable development, as articulated in our Charter, Sustainable Development Policy and HSEC Management Standards.
Social and environmental performance is a critical factor in business success.
Our aim, while creating value for all our stakeholders, is to enhance the societal benefit of our Black Economic Empowerment Procurement Policy implemented across operations and to reduce their our sites in southern Africa environmental impact.
Black Economic Empowerment BEE legislation has been introduced in South We recognise that the journey towards Africa to address inequalities created by past history, particularly the exclusion sustainable development is about engaging of black people from participating in the countrys economy.
The Company has and partnering with our stakeholders to been responding to the legislation through the implementation of our BEE address the challenges associated with Procurement Policy, which was introduced in 2003, and the establishment of a establishing resource projects and to jointly central BEE Supply Unit.
The Policy attempts to address the socio-economic share the benefits of success.
imbalance by increasing the participation of previously disadvantaged groups.
Our Mozal aluminium smelter project It has been rolled out throughout the country.
in Mozambique stands as a model for The objectives of the Supply Unit are to provide access by black suppliers to the realising a sustainable long-term Companys procurement activities, and to ensure that all buying organisations investment based on sound business within the Group have the support to successfully achieve legislated procurement principles that encompass the recognition targets.
and effective management of social and environmental responsibilities.
The benefits of these objectives are being realised through increased understanding of the issues surrounding encouragement of BEE involvement, For further information, refer to our and closer monitoring and reporting of the engagement of BEE suppliers.
Sustainability Report at http: sustainability.
BHP Billiton wins prestigious UK award Reclamation success in the US for Corporate Social Responsibility The Best of the Best Reclamation Award by the Office of Surface Mining of the US Department of the Interior was presented to BHP Billitons San Juan Coal In July 2005, BHP Billiton was awarded Company in September 2004 at the MINExpo in Las Vegas.
This is the most the title Company of the Year at prestigious mine reclamation award in the United States.
The award was given for Londons Business in the Community the innovative development and implementation of fluvial geomorphic principles Awards.
BHP Billiton is the first to re-establish drainage in reclaimed land.
Natural meandering stream beds, which company in the extractive industries to resist erosion and allow for the natural re-establishment of vegetation in the receive the award and we are the first stream channels, are established, while dozers equipped with GPS-based systems recipient recognised for our global activities.
create the fluvial geomorphic terrain.
The result is land that will support wildlife.
18 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Exploration Technical innovation through FALCON Our FALCON technology gives us a unique competitive advantage in the search for mineral deposits and hydrocarbon reserves.
FALCON is an airborne gravity gradiometer that measures minute changes in the Earths gravity.
This technology provides BHP Billiton with a unique advantage in the search for mineral and hydrocarbon deposits and has helped in the resource evaluation of some major operations, such as the EKATI diamond mine in Northwest Territories, Canada, and the Cannington silver and lead mine in Queensland, Australia.
BHP Billiton currently has four operational systems dedicated to minerals exploration across the globe.
This provides us with innovative commercial strategies involving partnerships and alliances through increased exposure to a disproportionate number of potential new discoveries.
BHP Billiton has also developed its own FALCON data processing software to further enhance this competitive advantage.
In this way BHP Billiton continues to gain exposure to a large proportion of high-quality opportunities and has a cost-effective means of screening them, thereby significantly increasing its overall probability of success.
Our exploration programme is integral to arrangements with junior explorers.
our growth strategy and is focused on We are currently using FALCON for identifying and capturing new world-class diamond exploration in Canada, Australia projects for future development, thereby and southern Africa, and geoferret for securing options for long-term value nickel exploration in Western Australia.
We are also pursuing an increasing Globally, the rate of discovery of new number of opportunities in highly mineral resources is declining, in large prospective developing countries.
For part driven by increasing maturity of example, while we continue to pursue established mining areas.
Our approach copper exploration activities in Chile and to reverse this trend is to explore Peru, we are also exploring opportunities established areas with new technologies in the Democratic Republic of Congo and techniques, and to increasingly DRC, Mongolia and Pakistan.
Likewise, explore new ground in emerging countries.
in diamonds we have an extensive programme in Canada and in Angola, With this in mind we developed and Exploration statistics in 2005 the Democratic Republic of the Congo operate the FALCON airborne gravity DRC and Botswana.
In nickel we have a gradiometer, the first truly new exploration 57 joint ventures programme in Western Australia and we technology for about 15 years, and the US$82.7m expenditure are also exploring in the Philippines, geoferret EM system, which enables us to Africa and Brazil.
In the bulk commodities, detect mineralisation deeper than was Exploration centres activities are focused on a small number previously possible.
Both techniques from Australia to Asia of world-class terrains in Australia, Brazil, provide competitive advantage in India and west Africa.
In total, we to Africa to North and established areas and have opened up discovered 50 new mineralised prospects new exploration opportunities for us, South America both on our own and through in 2005.
Frontier exploration Our primary exploration focus for petroleum products is on the US Gulf of Mexico.
Using leading-edge technology and drilling in water depths of up to 10 000 feet to locate resources 25 000 feet beneath the ocean floor, we have had positive results at several wells.
Industry reports show BHP Billiton to have been the single most active driller at one stage of the year, participating in up to nine exploration, appraisal and development wells.
Importantly, this drilling and appraisal programme has been conducted with an excellent safety record.
We have also been active with our drilling programme at the Stybarrow, Pyrenees and Scarborough fields off the coast of Western Australia.
During the year our position was strengthened by the acquisition of additional exploration acreage in Algeria, Pakistan and the Gulf of Mexico.
BHP Billiton now holds working interests in around 400 leases in the Gulf of Mexico, including 378 exploration blocks and 19 blocks held by production.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 19
