Directors Report The information presented by the Directors in this Report relates On 24 August 2005, BHP Billiton permanently closed the hot to BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
briquetted iron facilities at the Boodarie Iron plant in Western Australia at a charge of US$266 million, primarily relating to Principal activities, state of affairs and business review settlement of existing contractual arrangements, plant decommissioning, redundancy and other associated costs.
A review of the operations of the Group during the financial The Boodarie Iron plant had been placed on care and year, and the expected results of those operations in future maintenance in November 2004. financial years, is set out in the Chairmans Review, Chief Executive Officers Report, the Company Overview, the Review of In July 2005, BHP Billiton approved the development of the Operations, the Customer Sector Group Highlights, Corporate Neptune oil and gas field in the Gulf of Mexico, in which it has Governance Statement and other material in this Annual Report.
BHP Billitons share of the gross cost of Information on the development of the Group and likely the development is estimated at approximately US$300 developments in future years also appears in those sections of million.
Neptune will be BHP Billitons first operated, this Report.
The Directors believe that to include further deepwater standalone facility in the Gulf of Mexico.
The information on those matters in this Annual Report would be Neptune facility will have a design capacity to produce up to likely to result in unreasonable prejudice to the Group.
50 000 barrels of oil and 50 million cubic feet of gas per day 100 per cent terms and is expected to commence production The principal activities of the Group during the 2005 financial by the end of financial year 2007. year were minerals exploration, development, production and processing in particular, alumina, aluminium, copper, iron ore, In June 2005, BHP Billiton approved a fifth train expansion of metallurgical coal, energy coal, nickel, manganese ores and the liquefied natural gas LNG processing facilities at the alloys, diamonds and titanium minerals, and oil and gas North West Shelf Project in Western Australia.
The expansion exploration, development and production.
will provide an additional 4.2 million tonnes per annum mtpa 100 per cent terms of processing capacity.
In August 2005 BHP Billiton Limited acquired control of BHP Billiton has a 16.7 per cent share in the North West Shelf 100 per cent of the issued shares of WMC Resources Ltd. As a Project and its share of the costs of the expansion is estimated result of this acquisition, the principal activities of the Group at US$250 million.
Construction on the fifth train will now also include development, production and processing of commence later this year and first production is expected in uranium and production of fertiliser.
Significant changes in the state of affairs of the Group which In October 2004, BHP Billiton approved the Rapid Growth occurred during the 2005 financial year and significant post Project 2, which will expand the capacity at BHP Billitons balance date events were: Western Australian iron ore operations from 110 mtpa to On 3 June, BHP Billiton Limited obtained control of WMC 118 mtpa 100 per cent terms.
BHP Billitons 85 per cent share Resources Ltd and on 17 June after acquiring over 90 per cent of the capital expenditure is US$489 million and increased of the issued shares commenced action to compulsorily production is expected in the second half of calendar year acquire the remaining shares.
On 2 August 2005 BHP Billiton 2006. acquired 100 per cent of the issued shares in WMC Resources BHP Billiton reached agreement with four Chinese steel mills Ltd at a total cost of US$7.2 billion.
The acquisition is to enter into a joint venture and sales contract for the supply regarded by BHP Billiton as a further step in its strategy of of approximately 12 mtpa of iron ore over 25 years.
The formal developing, operating and maximising the performance of Wheelara Joint Venture agreement was signed in September large, long-life, low-cost assets.
It builds on the existing nickel 2004.
At this time, BHP Billiton also secured further long-term and copper businesses of BHP Billiton, as well as introducing sales commitments for its iron ore products with the Chinese uranium into the suite of energy products.
The combined steel mills for a further 12 mtpa over the next ten years.
business has operations, products and technologies which provide a range of options for further growth.
In August 2005, BHP Billiton entered into the JFE Western 4 Joint Venture with JFE Steel and BHP Billitons existing Yandi BHP Billiton completed a US$2 billion capital management joint venture partners, ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of Australia programme during financial year 2005.
As detailed below, and Mitsui Iron Ore Corporation.
The JFE Western 4 Joint US$1.78 billion was returned to shareholders via an off-market Venture involves a sub-lease over the Western 4 deposit buy-back of BHP Billiton Limited shares at a discount to the within BHP Billitons Yandi mine in Western Australia, and market rate.
The remaining US$220 million 3.6 US cents secures long-term sales contracts of approximately 16 mtpa per share was used to rebase the interim dividend declared of iron ore over 11 years.
in February 2005, increasing that dividend to 13.5 US cents per share.
In October 2004, BHP Billiton approved the development of a 100 per cent owned greenfield Spence copper project In June 2005, BHP Billiton disposed of its economic interests in Chile.
Spence is expected to produce 200 000 tonnes of in the majority of its South African chrome business to the copper cathode per annum, with first production scheduled Kermas Group.
Total proceeds of the sale were US$421 million for late 2006.
The estimated cost of the development is 100 per cent.
BHP Billiton owned a 60 per cent share in the US$990 million.
chrome business with the balance held by Anglo American Plc.
60 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Eight major growth projects were commissioned across the Directors Group during the 2005 financial year.
Total capital expenditure Details of the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton throughout the development phase of these projects was Plc are set out on pages 31 to 33.
These details include the approximately US$1786 million.
period for which each Director held office up to the date of this Report, their qualifications, experience and particular No other matter or circumstance has arisen since the end of responsibilities, the directorships held in other listed companies the 2005 financial year which has significantly affected or may since 1 July 2002, and the period for which each directorship significantly affect the operations, the results of operations or has been held.
state of affairs of the Group in future years.
Mr Carlos Cordeiro was appointed as a non-executive Director Share capital and buy-back programmes of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc in February 2005.
As part of its capital management programme, BHP Billiton Mr Cordeiro vacated his office in April 2005 and was reappointed completed an off-market buy-back of US$1.78 billion of a non-executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Limited shares during the 2005 financial year.
This situation arose because Mr Cordeiro BHP Billiton Limited repurchased 180.72 million shares, did not meet, within the two month time period required, the representing 2.9 per cent of the issued share capital of the minimum shareholding requirements for Directors under the BHP Billiton Group.
These shares were acquired at a price of Articles of Association and Constitution of BHP Billiton.
A$12.57 per share, which represented a discount of 12 per cent Mr Cordeiro, like all other Directors, possessed unpublished to the volume weighted average price of BHP Billiton Limited price sensitive information in relation to the proposed shares over the five days up to and including the closing date of acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd for the whole period that was the buy-back being 19 November 2004.
The shares purchased available to him to comply with the minimum shareholding were cancelled.
Therefore, Mr Cordeiro did not purchase any shares In addition, BHP Billiton Limited has in place an on-market share in BHP Billiton and he did not meet the minimum shareholding buy-back programme, under which up to 358 million shares of qualification.
BHP Billiton Limited can be purchased on-market and cancelled, Prior to the release of BHP Billitons results for financial year which represents less than 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Limiteds 2005, Mr Cordeiro was unable to purchase shares.
Mr Cordeiro issued share capital.
purchased the required number of shares immediately after the At the annual general meetings held during 2004, shareholders release of BHP Billitons results for financial year 2005. authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up Lord Renwick and Mr Michael Chaney both retire by rotation to 246 814 700 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately and have indicated their intention not to seek re-election this 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
On 8 September 2005 the Directors agreed to appoint the Shareholders will be asked at the 2005 annual general meetings Hon.
Gail fide Planque a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and to renew this authority.
BHP Billiton Plc with such appointment to become effective on During the 2005 financial year, no shares were purchased by 19 October 2005.
BHP Billiton Plc, and BHP Billiton Limited did not make any The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees on-market share purchases.
held during the year and each Directors attendance at those The number of shares purchased under both programmes will meetings is set out on page 36 of this Annual Report.
remain subject to prevailing market conditions and alternative capital investment opportunities available to the Group.
Remuneration and share interests Some executives of BHP Billiton are entitled to options as part of Remuneration The policy for determining the nature and amount of their remuneration arrangements which can be satisfied either by the acquisition of shares on-market or by the issue of new shares emoluments of Directors and senior executives of the Group, and the relationship between that policy and the Groups that have been granted during, or since the end of, the financial year.
The tables on pages 49 to 54 of this Annual Report list those performance, appears in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 48 and 55. entitlements.
The tables on pages 49, 51, 53 and 55 set out the emoluments of Results and financial information each Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, and Information about the financial position of the Group is included each of the five specified executives having the greatest in the financial report of this Annual Report.
The consolidated authority for managing the BHP Billiton Group who are also the profit and loss account set out on pages 78 and 79 show an five officers of the Group receiving the highest emoluments attributable profit of US$6398 million compared to US$3379 Specified Executives.
Disclosure in relation to financial instruments is set out in the Financial Review and note 29 to the financial statements.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 61 Directors Report continued Directors To meet this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton The table on page 65 sets out the relevant interests in shares in Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access and Insurance BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited of the Directors Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective Directors.
who held office at 30 June 2005, at the beginning and end of Following changes to the law in the United Kingdom during the the financial year, and at the date of this Report.
No rights or 2005 financial year in respect of directors indemnities, BHP options over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have reviewed and amended are held by any of the non-executive Directors.
The rights or the terms of the Deeds of Indemnity with their Directors.
options held by executive Directors over shares in BHP Billiton The terms of the BHP Billiton Plc Deeds of Indemnity have Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are set out in the tables on pages been broadened to reflect the changes in the law in the United 49 to 51 and page 65 of this Annual Report.
As a result of these amendments, the terms of the The Group has not made available to any Director any interest in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Deeds of Indemnity are a registered scheme.
now substantially the same as each other.
The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement At the 2005 annual general meetings, shareholders will be asked plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on to consider and approve proposed amendments to the BHP retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of was closed on 24 October 2003 and benefits accrued to that Association.
These include proposed amendments to the date are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on indemnity provisions contained in Article 146 of the BHP Billiton retirement.
Further information about this plan and its closure Plc Articles of Association, which reflect the changes in the law are set out on page 56 of this Report.
in the United Kingdom and the new Deeds of Indemnity.
Specified Executives The Group has a policy that it will, as a general rule, support and hold harmless an employee who, while acting in good faith, The table on page 65 sets out the relevant interests held by the Specified Executives in shares of BHP Billiton Limited and incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for the Group.
In addition, the Group has in place the following policies BHP Billiton Plc at the beginning and end of the financial year, and at the date of this Report.
Interests held by the Specified that have been approved by the Board: Executives under share and option plans are set out in note 31 where a person chairs a Customer Sector Group Risk and to the financial statements.
Audit Committee and that person is not already indemnified as an employee or a Director of BHP Billiton, a policy to Secretaries indemnify that Chairperson in the same manner as employees Details of the qualifications and experience of Karen Wood, the of BHP Billiton are indemnified, and Company Secretary, are set out on page 33.
The following people a policy to indemnify employees who work in certain high-risk also act as the company secretaries of either BHP Billiton Limited countries against the risk that their life insurance may be or BHP Billiton Plc, and report to Karen Wood in this capacity: invalid or the terms of cover varied, due to the high-risk Sam Butcher, BEc LLB Hons FCIS and Ross Mallett JD BBus FCIS nature of the location in which they work.
This policy is being FCPA, Joint Deputy Company Secretaries BHP Billiton Limited: phased out on a case-by-case basis in favour of a policy that Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons ACIS, Deputy Company Secretary does not involve employee indemnification.
BHP Billiton Plc: Ines Watson, ACIS, Assistant Company Secretary From time to time the Group engages its External Auditor, BHP Billiton Plc: and Bill Smith, BComm LLB Hons, Assistant KPMG, to conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other Company Secretary BHP Billiton Plc.
Each such individual has services in accordance with the Groups policy on the Provision experience in a company secretariat role or as a legal advisor to of Other Services by the External Auditor.
The terms of the Group arising from time spent in such roles within BHP engagement include an indemnity in favour of KPMG: Billiton or other large listed companies.
against all losses, claims, costs, demands, actions, damages, liabilities or any proceedings liabilities incurred by KPMG in Indemnities and insurance respect of third party claims arising from a breach by the Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 Group under the engagement terms, and of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each for all liabilities KPMG has to the Group or any third party as a Company to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, each result of reliance on information provided by the Group which Director, secretary or executive officer of BHP Billiton Limited and is false, misleading or incomplete.
BHP Billiton Plc respectively against liability incurred in, or arising out of, the conduct of the business of the Company or The Group has insured against amounts that it may be liable to the discharge of the duties of the Director, secretary or executive pay to Directors, company secretaries or certain employees officer.
The Directors named on pages 31 to 33, executive officers pursuant to Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the company secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP and Article 146 of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc, Billiton Plc have the benefit of this requirement, as do individuals or that it otherwise agrees to pay by way of indemnity.
The who formerly held one of those positions.
insurance policy also insures Directors, company secretaries and some Group employees against certain liabilities including legal costs they may incur in carrying out their duties for the Group.
62 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 The Group has paid premiums for this Directors and Officers Environmental performance insurance of approximately US$2.9 million during the year ended Particulars in relation to environmental performance are referred 30 June 2005.
Some Directors, secretaries and employees to on page 65 and in the Sustainability Report available at contribute to the premium for this insurance.
Employee policies and involvement Dividends The Groups policy is to encourage and maintain effective Final dividends of 14.5 US cents per share will be paid on communication and consultation between employees and 28 September 2005.
Details of the dividends paid and the management.
To facilitate the Groups global communications dividend policy are set out on page 71 of this Annual Report.
policy, BHP Billiton has a dedicated internal communications No dividends or distributions were recommended or declared for division, which manages the release of information to employees payment to shareholders but not paid during financial year 2005. across the world.
In addition to the regular production and communication of operational and global newsletters, bulletins As a result of a technical issue that arose in respect of the and staff news releases employees are also regularly invited to payment of its final dividend for the 2004 financial year, briefings by senior management on important issues such as the BHP Billiton Plc convened an Extraordinary General Meeting Groups strategy and results and health, safety and on 13 June 2005. environmental matters.
Under the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985, distributions BHP Billiton also provides information about issues of made by a public company generally must not exceed the importance to employees via its intranet and email facilities.
amount of the distributable profits that are reported in the last These are important tools for inviting employee feedback and financial statements laid before the company in general meeting.
increasing awareness of corporate and financial performance.
A change in the timing of dividend payments during financial year 2004 resulted in the declaration in 2004 of three rather than In addition, all BHP Billiton employees can access the Groups two dividends as had originally been envisaged.
Consequently, Annual Reports and other key publications via the intranet.
the total amount of dividends declared during 2004 exceeded, by All businesses have in place a range of newsletters and other US$38 million, the distributable profits reported in the 2003 communications activities to ensure that information is shared financial statements the most recent financial statements laid with employees and feedback is obtained.
In addition, some before the Company at a general meeting.
businesses have dedicated intranet sites accessible by the The audited financial statements for the year ended 30 June employees working at that business.
These intranet sites contain 2004 indicated that the Company earned sufficient distributable information specific to the business.
Staff briefings are profits to cover all dividends during 2004.
However, by exceeding conducted regularly.
Other consultative mechanisms are also in the distributable profits in the 2003 accounts the September place to address issues impacting employees, and in addition 2004 dividend exceeded the amount which BHP Billiton Plc could grievance or disputes procedures apply in all businesses.
technically pay and therefore the payment by BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton aims to align the interests of employees with those of the September 2004 dividend, prior to the annual general of shareholders.
To achieve this alignment nominated employees meeting in November 2004, was a technical infringement of the are invited to participate in employee share schemes.
In Act, despite there being sufficient profit at the time shown by addition, incentive and bonus schemes operate throughout the the latest available information.
Employee share schemes are described in the As a result of the technical infringement of the Act, BHP Billiton Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 48 and 56 to 57.
Plc may have had claims against present and past shareholders The means by which the Group communicates with shareholders who received the dividends and also against the Directors who is described in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 29 approved the payment of the September 2004 dividend.
It was of this Annual Report.
not the intention of BHP Billiton Plc to make such claims and consequently the Extraordinary General Meeting was convened BHP Billiton has published its commitment to equality in to: employment in the Equality in Employment Policy and the Guide to Business Conduct.
The Group gives full and fair consideration sanction the appropriation of profits to the final dividend to applications for employment made by all people.
Decisions payment in 2004 are based on aptitudes and abilities and not on attributes waive any rights which BHP Billiton Plc may have had against unrelated to job performance including disability.
Should shareholders and Directors employees become disabled during employment, they will be approve BHP Billiton Plc entering into deeds of release in considered for available work within their capabilities and, favour of such shareholders and Directors, and where necessary, retraining.
For the purpose of training, career cancel the amount standing to the credit of BHP Billiton Plcs development and promotion, disabled employees are treated in share premium account and credit the reserve created to the the same way as other employees although reasonable distributable profit account.
This would provide headroom modifications will be made to the physical work environment for BHP Billiton Plc to pay future dividends to shareholders.
and other arrangements made as appropriate to meet particular As at the date of this Report the share premium account had needs arising from a disability.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 63 Directors Report continued Auditors Creditor payment policy A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the auditor of When BHP Billiton enters into a contract with a supplier, BHP Billiton Plc will be proposed at the 2005 annual general payment terms will be agreed when the contract begins and the meetings in accordance with section 385 of the United Kingdom supplier will be made aware of these terms.
BHP Billiton does Companies Act 1985. not have a specific policy towards its suppliers and does not follow any code or standard practice.
However, BHP Billiton No person who was an officer of BHP Billiton during the financial settles terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing overall year was a director or partner of the Groups External Auditor at terms of business and seeks to abide by the terms of the a time when the Groups External Auditors conducted an audit of contracts to which it is bound.
As at 30 June 2005, BHP Billiton the Group.
Plc the unconsolidated parent entity had no trade creditors Each person who held the office of Director at the date the outstanding and therefore had zero days purchases outstanding Board resolved to approve this Directors Report makes the in respect of costs, based on the total invoiced to suppliers following statements: during the financial year.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant information of which the Groups External Auditor has not been made Class Order aware, and BHP Billiton Limited is a company of a kind referred to in the Director has taken all steps necessary as a Director to Australian Securities and Investments Commission Class Order make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to No 98 100, dated 10 July 1998.
Amounts in this Directors Report, establish that the External Auditor has been made aware of except estimates of future expenditure or where otherwise that information.
indicated, have been rounded to the nearest million dollars in accordance with that Class Order.
Non-audit services Proceedings on behalf of BHP Billiton Limited Details of the non-audit services undertaken by the Groups External Auditors, including the amounts paid for non-audit No proceedings have been brought on behalf of BHP Billiton services, are set out in note 7 of the financial statements.
Limited, nor any application made under section 237 of the The Directors are satisfied that the provision of non-audit Australian Corporations Act 2001. services is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors, and that the immaterial nature of Annual general meeting non-audit services means that auditor independence was not The 2005 annual general meeting for BHP Billiton Plc will compromised.
Further information about BHP Billitons policy in be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor are Sanctuary, Westminster, London on Thursday, 20 October 2005 set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 40 of commencing at 10.30 am.
The 2005 annual general meeting this Annual Report.
for BHP Billiton Limited will be held at the Convention Centre, Perth, Western Australia on Friday, 25 November 2005 Value of land commencing at 10.30 am.
The notices convening the meetings Much of the Groups interest in land consists of leases and other have been sent to shareholders separately with this Annual rights which permit the working of such land and the erection of Report, together with an explanation of the items of special buildings and equipment thereon for the purpose of extracting business to be considered at the meetings.
Such land is mainly carried in the accounts The Directors Report is made in accordance with a resolution at cost and it is not possible to estimate the market value as this of the Board.
depends on product prices over the long term, which will vary with market conditions.
Political and charitable donations No political contributions or donations for political purposes D R Argus were made during the 2005 financial year.
The Group made Chairman charitable donations in the United Kingdom of US$1 050 280 cash 2004: US$555 242 and worldwide including in-kind support and administrative cost totalling US$57 383 466 2004: US$46 517 924.
Of this worldwide amount, US$1 468 600 was committed to disaster relief following the tsunami in Asia in December 2004.
C W Goodyear Chief Executive Officer Exploration, research and development Dated: 8 September 2005 Companies within the Group carry out exploration and research and development necessary to support their activities.
64 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Directors share holdings Performance in relation to environmental regulation Shares held by Directors in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton The Groups performance in relation to environmental regulation Plc as at 30 June 2005 are set out in the table below: is measured by: the number of prosecutions against, and the quantum of BHP Billiton As at date As at As at fines incurred by, the Groups global operations during the 1 shares of Report 30 June 2005 30 June 2004 financial year, and 2 Don Argus 223 495 203 495 203 495 the number of environmentally significant incidents including 2 3 non-compliances that occurred in the Groups global Charles Goodyear 954 254 746 007 638 807 4 2 000 2 000 2 000 operations.
David Brink 39 377 39 377 39 377 Environmentally significant incidents An environmentally significant incident is one with a severity John Buchanan 10 000 4 000 1 000 rating of 3 or above based on the Groups internal severity rating 2 scale tiered from 1 to 5 by increasing severity.
The following Michael Chaney 12 338 12 338 12 338 three significant incidents occurred during the reporting period: 5 Carlos Cordeiro 6 550 BHP Billiton Severity 2 David Crawford 29 127 29 127 29 127 business Description of incident rating David Jenkins 2 066 2 066 2 066 Energy Coal In September 2004, excess poor 3 10 000 10 000 10 000 Middelburg Mine quality water was decanted from the E6 decant control dam Lord Renwick 2 066 2 066 2 066 into the Spookspruit river on of Clifton 12 385 12 385 12 385 the north section of the mine.
2 Miklos Salamon 1 248 861 1 082 324 977 282 Energy Coal The Optimum Colliery Eikeboom 3 Optimum Mine Section released poor quality John Schubert 23 675 23 675 23 675 water into the Coetzerspruit 1 Shares in BHP Billiton Limited shown in italics.
river from a control dam after 2 Includes shares held in the name of spouse and or nominee.
3 82 604 are held in the form of 41 302 American Depositary Shares.
4 Held in the form of 1000 American Depositary Shares.
Energy Coal In June 2005 saline water was 3 5 Held in the form of 3275 American Depositary Shares.
Optimum Mine found to be decanting from the Coastal Coal underground Specified Executives share holdings section and the rehabilitated Zevenfontein section into the BHP Billiton As at date As at As at Zevenfonteinspuit river.
1 shares of Report 30 June 2005 30 June 2004 2 Philip Aiken 544 907 475 092 356 422 Fines and prosecutions 2 3 The following fine was imposed during financial year 2005: John Fast 3 459 3 459 175 459 2 BHP Billiton Robert Kirkby 640 740 640 740 634 589 business Description of fine or prosecution Marius Kloppers 250 627 75 764 Carbon Steel In August 2004, the NSW Australia 2 Materials Environment Protection Authority issued a Chris Lynch 80 679 80 679 80 679 Appin Colliery Penalty Infringement Notice in relation to 1 Shares in BHP Billiton Limited shown in italics.
dust that was emitted to atmosphere by a 2 Includes shares held in the name of spouse and or nominee.
street sweeper while it was operating at 3 Includes 929 shares held by nominee in the form of endowment warrants.
The amount of the fine was A$1500.
Directors and Specified Executives vested Performance and Deferred Shares and Options Further information about the Groups performance in relation to environmental regulation can be found in the Sustainability The table below shows GIS Performance Shares, Deferred Shares Report which can be viewed on the Groups website at and Options held by Directors and Specified Executives that have http: sustainability.
vested since the end of the financial year but have not been exercised.
Performance Deferred Options Shares Shares Charles Goodyear 180 154 28 093 320 725 Philip Aiken John Fast 115 921 54 782 Robert Kirkby 110 391 58 031 Marius Kloppers Chris Lynch 117 117 61 010 Miklos Salamon BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 65
