Operating and Financial Review Infrastructure enhancing infrastructure and delivery A critical theme this year has been the emphasis Robust UK infrastructure through technology Average turnaround of claims in 2005 on business continuity both in terms of the service Initiatives for 2006 Monthly Cumulative we provide to our client base but also that same During 2006 we will continue to work on IP VPN 100mb Average turnaround time days Volume processed commitment to our people.
During 2005 we had improving our systems and processes to Introduction 35 our Business Continuity plans independently of Workflow support the achievement of the Companys 30 8 4,000 audited and achieved a PAS 56 standard as Vision.
In particular, we have the following 25 7 3,500 recognised by the Business Continuity Institute.
objectives: Lloyds 6 3,000 15 We place great importance on this process 5 Lloyds 2,500 Market 10 4 2,000 because it not only helps us to respond to any Enhance our systems for the control of 3 1,500 5 distruptive events that may strike our business, aggregate exposures 2 1,000 0 but it also commits the Group to strive for ever Drive benefits from our investment in our Westferry Disaster Mitcheldean 1 500 O ND J F M A M J J A S O N D Recovery more resilience in our processes and procedures 0 0 data warehouse, especially in terms of Month Services Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec across every business.
Our plans were tested underwriting, reinsurance and Head Office in 2005 in dealing with the terrorist atrocities management information using Source: Amlin Internet in London in July and also the Buncefield narrowcast technology Fuel Depot fire in December which affected During 2005 we have also introduced a new We were disappointed with the failure by Lloyds Support the Companys goals for a key supplier.
system for our service companies, Amlin Transit, to deliver the Kinnect system to enable the improving policy issuance service Haven Knox-Johnston and Amlin Plus.
This transfer of structured data between market standards and contract certainty, MPLS Core IP VPN Improved reliability replaced outdated technology with a new and participants within a reasonable timeframe and at including enhanced process Lloyds Cable & Wireless Disaster A key element of our infrastructure approach has more robust system which will provide the reasonable cost.
Recognising that technology reporting tools Recovery been enhancing and improving our IT systems.
framework for any additional service company was overtaking Kinnects proposition we have Delivery of our electronic trading During 2005 we implemented a Virtual Private requirements and which is scalable.
championed the adoption of an alternative capability whereby we will receive risk Network VPN which allows our people to approach which Lloyds has now recognised as data on-line from brokers work in any location in the UK with the same Over the past two years, our UK commercial the most appropriate way forward.
Completion of Gen-us, the new system Basingstoke Chelmsford West Malling system functionality as they enjoy in their main division has developed a flexible web-based for our UK commercial business office base.
We invested in replicating critical system Gen-us, designed to be the interface One particular market success has been the Supporting the continued development applications and databases for disaster recovery for a variety of insurance products and to implementation and dramatic improvement in of Amlins claims strategy with use and we renewed the back up and model improve the collection and provision of risk usage of the new LMP slip in 2005.
We also interoperability between our claims office infrastructure.
Effective project management The introduction of workflow to claims is having information.
The Commercial Motor account will anticipate that the market wide claims file workflow and market claims repositories During 2005 we have enhanced our overall a positive effect on service levels.
The 2005 be the first area of the business to be migrated repository which is scheduled for testing in midwhich are expected to be introduced In 2005 we also implemented new switching governance methodology for major projects.
average turnaround of claims before its to Gen-us, and we expect that Gen-us will be 2006 will mark another significant milestone in in 2006 technology MPLS to provide guaranteed We have developed a programme office with introduction was 4.3 days and afterwards was interfacing with external systems using modern process change.
This development ties in with Roll out of a new purchasing and network availability in the event of a primary robust measurement and control techniques 3.5 days, despite a 15% increase in volume messaging standards in mid 2006. our own workflow solution for claims.
expense workflow system systems failure.
Such a failure did subsequently underlying all project work.
Key to this change arising largely from the hurricanes.
Design of a treasury and investments occur and could previously have caused half a and our overall success with project implementation Much of our overall improvement programme workflow system days interruption during the busy renewal has been an emphasis on quality control and We have committed to handling all new claims has been aimed around the underwriting and period, but our network remained fully effective resource management.
This helps electronically where our brokers would like us to.
claims areas but in 2005 we have also designed operational.
ensure that we fully realise the benefits of our Using a combination of market infrastructure, a new expense and purchasing workflow to Operational infrastructure investments in technology and process change.
the electronic claims file repository and our own improve audit trails and pre authorisation of At the same time we have significantly enhanced internal workflow systems, we expect to reduce expense, which is planned for rollout into the our remote working solutions including the use We have maintained and improved upon our cost and turn around times as well as to business in the first half of 2006. of handheld and laptop devices.
This allows our scorecards and believe we have the right measures enhance our reputation as a leader of process underwriting and claims teams to be contactable in place to track operational improvement.
To this end we have been Supporting market developments wherever they are in the world.
significant change management areas are in negotiations with other companies, brokers We have continued to contribute to Lloyds controlled by the Operational Management Group, and suppliers to ensure consistent and common initiatives throughout 2005 with representation INSURANCE CONTRACT Our approach has been to work in long term comprising senior managers from across the standards are used in the transfer of data and on the Lloyds Market Associations Market PAPER DOCUMENTS partnership with key suppliers to develop an Group.
OMG is supported by steering groups in messages between repositories.
Process Committee as well as the Claims UNDERWRITING & CLAIMS ANALYSIS & WORKFLOW infrastructure that is solid, reliable, consistent the following areas: IT, data warehouse, service Service Review Board and the Electronic Claims EXCEPTION REPORTING and scaleable.
This has been of particular company systems, claims, underwriting process, Underwriting systems File steering group.
We have a general strategy relevance as we designed the system strategy finance process and contract certainty.
Each During 2005 we incorporated a new release of to support market initiatives with time and E-MAIL for our new Bermuda business.
Within eight steering group has clear terms of reference and our main London market underwriting system direction, while recognising that the London UNDERWRITERS LAPTOP Worldwide Access to Systems weeks we were able to replicate the Londonobjectives to drive through the required which added functionality whilst improving cycle market needs firms such as Amlin to take a lead based systems for Amlin Bermuda, such that improvements to our overall service.
Our enhanced systems and data and implement some of the strategic initiatives.
identical functionality to that available in London warehouse is delivering increasing volumes of Where these tie in with our own strategy we will Dynamic & Static reports, plus ACORD was available for our team in Bermuda.
Amlin Developing workflow improved information on a timely basis to our be at the forefront of delivery.
However we exceptions and alerts pushed to MESSAGES desktop by Narrowcast staff worked closely with three key suppliers and Modernisation of our London market processes underwriting and claims teams.
For example, accept that not all market solutions can be this build was a significant demonstration of our continues apace.
In 2004 we introduced our using a push technology called narrowcast, driven through to finality so, where appropriate, teamwork approach.
underwriting workflow and this year, we have which means that data is driven to the end user we will work with individual brokers to achieve RISK AND EXPOSURE MODELLING introduced workflow for claims.
Workflow simply rather than being requested, underwriters and sustainable momentum in process change.
EDI MESSAGES Whilst we currently have internet-based link means pushing the right information to the right claims technicians are automatically sent with Amlin Bermuda it is intended to integrate person at the right time and with the right priority, exception reports rather than needing to request the business into our core VPN during the year.
while maintaining transparency around the them.
Our data warehouse remains a key whole process.
This project took eight months strategic development for Amlin.
Both BACK OFFICE RECORDS DATA WAREHOUSE from inception to release and will enable us to technology and build have proven scaleable as meet the high standards we have set ourselves the system was implemented at Amlin Bermuda in terms of exceeding client expectations on late in 2005. claims delivery.
28 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 29 Turnaround Days Volume Processed m
