Accounting policies Risk disclosures Leases Other income and charges a.
Non-marine risks Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Agency fees are recognised on an accrual basis.
Profit commission Introduction 1. i Non-marine property risks transfer substantially all the risks and rewards to the Group.
All other leases receivable is accrued in direct relation to underwriting income earned and is The Group accepts insurance risk in a range of classes of business through Non-marine property are classified as operating leases.
subject to the normal terms of the managing agent.
Lloyds Syndicate 2001s four separate underwriting businesses and Amlin Gross premium by territory Bermuda.
The bias of the portfolio is towards short-tail property and Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase transactions are Taxation accident risk but liability coverage is also underwritten.
A B C capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over their useful lives.
The Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and D E initial capital value is the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the deferred tax.
In the underwriting of insurance or reinsurance policies the Groups present value of the minimum lease payments.
Payments under finance underwriters use their skill, knowledge and data on past claims experience F leases are apportioned between finance charges and the reduction of the The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable to evaluate the likely claims cost and therefore the premium which should G H lease obligation so as to achieve a consistent rate of interest on the profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it be sufficient across a portfolio of risks to cover claims costs, expenses and remaining balance of the lease liability.
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other to produce a profit.
However due to the nature of insurance risk there is no K I years or that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current guarantee that the premiums charged will be sufficient to cover claims Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income in the period tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively costs.
This shortfall may be caused by insufficient premium being charged J in which they become payable in accordance with the terms of the lease.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
or result from an unexpectedly high level of claims.
Employee benefits Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of A number of controls are deployed to limit the amount of insurance A Central & Eastern Europe 2% i.
Pension obligations assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax exposure underwritten.
Each year a business plan is prepared and agreed B Middle East 1% The Group participates in a number of pension schemes, including two bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using which limits the amount of premium income to be written in total and for C Canada 3% D Oceania 4% defined benefit schemes, defined contribution schemes and personal the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally each class of business.
Progress to this plan is carefully monitored during E UK 6% pension schemes.
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are the year.
The Group also operates under a line guide which determines the F Western Europe excl UK 6% G Worldwide Other 1% recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be maximum liability per policy which can be written for each class and for H Africa 1% I Asia 9% One of the defined benefit schemes is a multi-employer scheme.
However, available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Apart from UK motor liability, which has unlimited liability, J Caribbean, Central & South America 6% there is insufficient information available to the Company to account for this Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference all policies have a per loss limit which caps the size of any individual claims.
K USA 61% as a defined benefit scheme, as explained in note 26, and therefore in arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business For larger sum insured risks reinsurance coverage may be purchased.
The accordance with IAS 19 it is accounted for as a defined contribution combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects Group is also exposed to catastrophe losses which may impact many risks Non-marine property classes scheme.
neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
in a single event and again reinsurance is purchased to limit the impact of 2005 Current 2005 such events.
These reinsurance arrangements are described on page 83.
Gross maximum Average The liability in respect of the other defined benefit scheme is calculated as Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences premium line size line size the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint The insurance liabilities underwritten by the Group are carefully reviewed m m m minus the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the on an individual risk basis and through review of portfolio performance.
Catastrophe reinsurance calculated annually by independent actuaries using the attained age temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not All claims arising are reserved upon notification.
Each quarter the entire per programme 176 57 3.8 actuarial method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is reverse in the foreseeable future.
business is subject to a reserving process whereby levels of paid and Per risk property reinsurance determined by the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of outstanding advised but not paid claims are reviewed.
Potential future per programme 52 20 1.9 government securities which have terms to maturity approximating the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance claims are assessed with a provision for incurred but not reported IBNR Proportional reinsurance 30 5 0.9 terms of the related liability.
The resulting pension scheme surplus or deficit sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that claims being made.
This provision is subject to careful review by senior Direct and facultative property 68 20 4.8 appears as an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet.
Actuarial sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be executives and an independent internal actuarial assessment is carried out Binding authorities 18 2 0.2 gains and losses arising from revaluations are recognised in full in the recovered, or to the extent that it has been utilised.
by the in-house actuarial team to determine the adequacy of the provision.
Notes: income statement, as they arise.
Whilst a detailed and disciplined exercise is carried out to provide for claims Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the advised, it is possible that these could exceed the reserves carried.
1 Limits are set in US dollars and therefore currency rate of exchange changes may Pension contributions to schemes that are accounted for as defined period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is In particular there is increased uncertainty in establishing an accurate increase or reduce the sterling limits.
contribution plans are charged to the profit and loss account when due.
charged or credited to profit or loss, except when it relates to items charged provision for claims which have been incurred but not reported and there 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional After payment of the contributions for the defined contribution scheme, the or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with is a possibility that claims may arise which in aggregate exceed the reserve treaties to Amlin Bermuda Ltd. Group has no further payment obligations under these schemes.
The review of claims arising may result in 3 Premiums are stated net of acquisition costs.
underwriters adjusting pricing levels to cater for an unexpectedly higher ii.
Equity compensation plans Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally trend of claims.
However, this may not be possible in a competitive market Direct and facultative property insurance is written for the full value of the The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and business may be lost.
Also, there is a portfolio of risk already risk, or on a primary or excess of loss basis, through individual placements, Options issued after 7 November 2002 are accounted for using the fair value and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority underwritten which cannot be re-priced until renewal at the end of the or by way of delegated underwriting facilities given to coverholders Binding method where the cost for providing equity compensation is based on the and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net policy period.
The maximum value insured is currently limited to $30 million at fair value of the share option or award at the date of the grant.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
Cover is provided to large commercial enterprises with calculated using an option pricing model and the corresponding expense is Sections 1 to 4 below describe the business and the risks of Amlins high value locations and or many locations and also for small commercial recognised in the income statement over the vesting period.
The accrual for syndicate operations.
Amlin Bermuda is described in section 5. property.
The perils covered include fire, flood, wind and earthquake this charge is recognised in equity shareholders funds.
When the options are damage.
Business interruption cover is also provided to connected exercised, the proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to enterprises.
Terrorism cover is given on a limited basis particularly where share capital for the par value and the surplus to share premium.
required by local regulation, but nuclear and bio-chemical coverage is excluded in most territories.
Other benefits Other employee incentive schemes and long-term service awards, Property reinsurance is written on an individual risk basis and through including sabbatical leave, are recognised when they accrue to employees.
reinsurance treaty arrangements on a proportional, individual risk excess A provision is made for the estimated liability for long-service leave as a of loss or catastrophe excess of loss basis.
The catastrophe reinsurance result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date.
portfolio is a key aspect of the insurance risk written by the Group.
Exposures to each programme are currently limited to $30 million per risk and $75 million any one catastrophe programme, but territorial exposures, from a number of programmes, are much higher.
Catastrophe event exposures per territory are carefully recorded and analysed through loss 78 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 79 Risk disclosures simulations or realistic disaster scenarios.
The Group is exposed to the 1. iii Other non-marine classes The special risks account includes small premium classes such as nuclear, Claims frequency has improved in recent years due to car and road safety impact of large catastrophe events such as windstorms, earthquakes or The Group also writes other non-marine classes which contribute contingency business and terrorism reinsurance which is written in all parts measures but can fluctuate due to factors such as weather conditions.
Exposure to such events is controlled and measured diversified exposure to the portfolio.
The main classes with the maximum of the world.
inflation is the key factor in determining the size of motor claims.
Car values through loss modelling but the accuracy of this exposure analysis is limited sum insured lines together with the geographical spread are shown below: affect the size of theft claims and for metal damage claims size is linked to by the quality of data and the effectiveness of the modelling.
The Groups 1. iv Non US liability risks repair costs.
Courts award inflation within the UK and Irish legal systems broad risk appetite guidelines are set out on page 83.
It is possible that a Non-marine miscellaneous Liability classes impact liability claim values.
Government intervention such as liability award 2005 Current 2005 catastrophe event exceeds the maximum expected event loss.
This is Gross premium by territory limit changes or expense recoveries for government bodies such as the Gross maximum Average particularly the case for the direct property proportion of the loss exposure NHS will also impact claim size.
Severe bodily injury and catastrophe premium line size line size A B C where models are used to calculate a damage factor representing the damage claims e. g. UK flood are limited through the purchase of a D m m m amount of damage expected to exposed aggregate insured values.
Errors reinsurance programme, the highest layer of which is unlimited.
or incorrect assumptions in the damage factor calculation can result in an Employers liability 26 27 9.0 K E incurred catastrophe event higher than predicted.
Professional indemnity 9 7 1.4 Motor insurance is a highly competitive area of insurance and pricing levels Public products liability 13 12 4.0 fluctuate.
Whilst underwriters accept business subject to sufficient rates per The property portfolio is also exposed to an above average frequency of UK commercial package 12 27 0.9 vehicle, in a year where there is an unexpectedly high level of claims the total individual fire, explosion or weather related claims.
The premium charged Bankers blanket bond and premium may not be sufficient to cover all the claims.
for the coverage given may not be sufficient to cover all claims made in any professional indemnity 4 6 1.2 J year, particularly in a year in which there is an abnormal frequency of claims.
Marine risks F H The Group writes three classes of non US liability.
85% of the business G Marine 1. ii US casualty risk emanates from the UK with the balance mainly from Eire and Canada.
Gross premium by territory The US casualty business is protection given to cover individuals or A Central & Eastern Europe 1% companies to indemnify against legal liability arising from their activities, Employers liability protecting employers against accident or injury to B Middle East 1% A C Canada 3% B C actions or for incidents occurring on their property.
The account is currently employees.
This is written on a losses occurring basis currently for limits up D Oceania 3% D K written on an insurance and reinsurance basis to a maximum liability of E UK 27% to 27 million per employer.
F Western Europe excl UK 10% $4 million any one claim but average lines are $0.4 million any one claim.
G Worldwide Other 10% E H Africa 5% Public liability this coverage, often written in conjunction with employers J I Asia 4% The portfolio is made up of specialist general casualty, professional liability covers accident or injury occurring to clients, customers or another J Caribbean, Central & South America 4% indemnity, medical malpractice and errors and omissions cover.
The K USA 32% third party as a result of contact with the insureds personnel, property or I syndicate is a recognised leading market for nursing home cover and products.
This is written on a losses occurring basis currently for limits up H contractors general liability.
Small amounts of directors and officers liability to 12 million per assured.
Non-marine class and auto liability are also written.
The class is written on a claims notified G 2005 Current 2005 F basis responding to all claims made during a defined period except for Professional indemnity This covers liability which may arise from services Gross maximum Average 8.2 million of the contractors general liability business which is written provided by the assured, for example as a result of negligence, which may premium line size line size on a losses occurring basis the policy responds to losses which occur lead to financial loss.
This includes but is not limited to services from m m m A Central & Eastern Europe 2% B Middle East 2% during the period even if reported after the policy has expired.
architects, engineers, surveyors, advertising firms, medical professionals Accident & health 14 2 1.3 C Canada 4% and financial advisors.
D Oceania 3% Credit insurance 10 8 7.5 E 22% UK Claims from this class emanate from professional error, negligence or an Auto 32 4 0.2 F Western Europe excl UK 18% accident which causes injury, damage or financial loss.
The account is The Group also writes UK commercial package policies which combine G Worldwide Other 15% Aviation reinsurance per programme 17 27 8.2 H Africa 3% vulnerable to a high frequency of claims but not individual large losses as the one or more of the liability coverage with motor and or property damage Marine reinsurance per programme 4 67 1.6 I Asia 7% cost to Amlin of any individual claim is small.
Claims frequency may be protection.
J 4% Caribbean, Central & South America Special risks 15 17 5.1 K USA 20% impacted by a generic claim which impacts many individuals such as poor housing design or bad medical practice.
The size of individual claims is The Group also writes a small account of financial institutions policies Notes: subject to the decisions arising from the US court system which can be covering fidelity, professional indemnity and directors and officers liability The Group writes a broad account of marine risks with maximum lines as 1 Limits are set in US dollars and therefore currency rate of exchange changes may higher than anticipated.
There is also the potential for US courts to impose for companies providing financial services.
The current maximum line is follows: increase or reduce the sterling limits.
a bad faith judgement on insurers if the insurer has acted improperly in 6 million.
Approximately 54% of the income is from Western Europe 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional Marine Class trying to avoid contractual obligations.
Such awards can, in exceptional financial institutions with the balance spread broadly by territory.
Very little treaties to Amlin Bermuda Ltd. 2005 Current 2005 circumstances, be much higher than the value of the insurance claim.
US domicile liability risk is now written in the financial institutions portfolio.
Gross maximum Average 3 Premiums are stated net of acquisition costs.
premium line size line size The auto class covers property damage only fire, theft and collision mainly The expected claims costs from these lines of business may be impacted m m m in the US but there is some property damage and third party motor liability by larger than anticipated damage awards to injured parties as well as due Hull 16 10 1.1 combined cover provided in other international territories.
This class is to an unforeseen increase in generic claims such as industrial disease or Cargo 16 17 2.3 subject to unexpected claim frequency or a multi vehicle event such as a other health hazards.
It is also possible that many claims could arise under Energy 27 20 3.1 severe flood and also to large bodily injury award claims emanating from many policies from a common cause such as financial advice or generic War and terrorism 19 17 5.5 an accident.
The financial institutions account could be affected by Specie 9 34 7.9 a major fraud or a series of related liability claims arising from banking, Credit insurance is written for UK and Irish companies only and the Bloodstock 13 4 0.6 investment company, stockbroking or other practices.
coverage is provided to protect against insolvency of debtors in the normal Yacht hull and liability 20 4 0.8 course of trading.
The principal risk is for a very large corporate collapse Liability 17 57 3.6 2.
UK motor risks which may impact many of our assureds or a serious economic downturn Notes: The Groups motor insurance risk written in the UK commercial division is which impacts many sectors and companies.
in the UK and Eire which covers fire, theft, collision and third party property 1 Limits are set in US dollars and therefore currency rate of exchange changes may The accident and health class is written through medical expense schemes and bodily injury liability.
99% of this portfolio is UK business.
Under the increase or reduce the sterling limits.
in the US and provides direct personal accident cover or personal accident requirements of UK law third party liability coverage is unlimited, but 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional reinsurance worldwide.
Medical expense cover is subject to a high matching reinsurance is purchased.
The account is biased towards treaties to Amlin Bermuda Ltd. frequency of claim and significant medical cost inflation.
Personal accident commercial clients such as coach operators, haulage companies, 3 Premiums are stated net of acquisition costs.
insurance and reinsurance could be impacted by a single or series of commercial vehicle fleets and company executive fleets.
There is also accidents to high value insured individuals or from a multiple death and a UK agriculture and a specialist private car account written.
injury event such as an air crash or natural catastrophe.
80 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 81 Risk disclosures The hull and cargo account is worldwide.
Aviation risks more than $200 million before reinsurance if, for example, two major airlines reinsurance portfolio against such losses.
To maximise use of capital this predominantly UK and Europe.
The Group underwrites a direct and facultative reinsurance account from were to collide.
Space losses are generally one off large amounts caused by cover may be provided by Amlin Bermuda.
The Syndicate may also most parts of the world.
The portfolio is made up of the following classes launch failure or operational failure in orbit.
purchase multi-class umbrella protection which responds to a catastrophe The hull and cargo account covers property damage to ships and loss or with maximum lines.
loss which may exceed any of the specific programmes bought for aviation, damage to a large variety of cargo or goods in transit.
Amlin Bermuda property or XL reinsurance losses.
impacted by attritional claims of a small size as well as a single individual Amlin Bermuda was formed in November 2005 to write a short tail portfolio Aviation large claim.
These lines could also be involved in a major natural of predominantly reinsurance business.
Very little business was written in There is no guarantee that reinsurance coverage will be available to meet all Gross premium by territory catastrophe loss.
2005 but the plan is for the account to be made up of the following mix of potential loss circumstances as, for very severe catastrophe losses, it is business and line size limits.
possible that the full extent of the cover bought is not sufficient.
Any loss A B C The energy portfolio is mainly offshore rig and construction policies which amount which exceeds the programme would be retained by the Syndicate.
D Class Estimated Current maximum may be impacted by large individual claims but also is exposed to severe It is also possible that a dispute could arise with a reinsurer which reduces premium split % line m K catastrophe losses in the North Sea and Gulf of Mexico.
Accident & health 11 Catastrophe reinsurance 37 44 War business includes aviation, marine and on land terrorism coverage Many parts of the programme also have limited reinstatements and Direct and facultative property 4 5 and is therefore exposed to single incidents or a series of losses arising from therefore the number of claims which may be recovered from second or Proportional reinsurance 3 5 concerted action.
A small amount of political risk and confiscation risk is subsequent major losses is limited.
It is possible for the programme to be F Per risk property reinsurance 6 7.5 written.
exhausted by a series of losses in one annual period and it may not be Other reinsurance 3 12 H possible to purchase additional reinsurance at an acceptable price.
This J Marine, energy and aviation 8 6 I Specie business consists of the insurance of fine art, exhibitions, vaults and would result in the Group bearing higher losses from further events Space 1 9 high value goods including jewellers block and cash in transit.
It should also be noted that the renewal date of the reinsurance War and terrorism 3 9 A Central & Eastern Europe 3% subject to a frequency of small claims and also large individual losses.
programmes does not necessarily correspond to that of the business B Middle East 3% Syndicate 2001 quota share 31 Some areas such as the USA are potential catastrophe zones.
Where business is not protected by risk attaching reinsurance, C Canada 6% Syndicate 2001 catastrophe reinsurance 3 D Oceania 1% which provides coverage for the duration of the policies written, this E UK 13% per programme The Bloodstock account is mainly UK but business from the USA, reinsurance protection could expire resulting in an increase in possible loss F Western Europe excl UK 15% G Worldwide Other 0% Australia and South Africa is also written.
The average value insured is Note: retained by the Syndicate if renewal of the programme is not achieved.
There is the potential for an aggregate loss such as I Asia 11% 1 Limits are set in US dollars and therefore currency rate of exchange changes may J Caribbean, Central & South America 4% a stable fire which could cause multiple claims.
Amlin Bermuda is presently not protected by any reinsurance programme.
increase or reduce the sterling limits.
K USA 41% Yacht business is generally for smaller value yachts and there is an Amlin Bermudas business will have strong similarities to the portfolio written Realistic Disaster Scenario RDS analysis Aviation Class expectation of a large number of small claims.
Third party liability yacht in Syndicate 2001.
This is because much of it will emanate from London The Group has a defined event risk appetite which determines the 2005 Current 2005 account claims arise from injury or damage caused by one of our market brokers and will consist of business also written by the syndicate.
maximum net loss that the Group intends to retain for major catastrophe Gross maximum Average policyholders.
There is also the potential for a large catastrophe loss such Furthermore Amlin Bermuda has written a quota share of Syndicate 2001s scenarios.
Currently these are a maximum of 200 million for Syndicate premium line size line size as a UK windstorm where there are large aggregate sums insured in coastal whole account and provides catastrophe reinsurance protection to 2001 and 145 million any one zone or 175 million for a multi-zonal loss m m m regions such as southern England.
Syndicate 2001. for Amlin Bermuda Ltd.
Airline 26 84 25.0 General aviation 16 50 16.0 The marine liability portfolio is written to protect ship-owners, harbours, The Bermuda subsidiary will initially write risks without the protection of The above losses are extreme events with an occurrence probability in Airports liability 16 57 22.3 charterers and energy companies against damage or injury to third parties.
a reinsurance programme and therefore will have higher net retained excess of 1 in 100 years estimated for the natural peril or elemental losses.
Products liability 11 50 16.7 This includes the potential for pollution claims.
The account could suffer exposures to individual risk losses than the Syndicate currently bears.
The Group also adopts risk appetite maximum net limits for a number of Space hull & liability 6 40 10.5 a large catastrophe incident from a collision causing death of crew and For catastrophe losses Amlin Bermuda will operate with maximum event other scenarios including aviation collision 120 million, marine collision passengers or an oil or chemical spill which could require large clean up limits of US$250 million or 145 million any one zone and US$300 million 125 million and North Sea rig loss 75 million.
or 175 million for losses affecting more than one zone.
1 Limits are set in US dollars and therefore currency rate of exchange changes may The risk appetite policy recognises that there may be circumstances in increase or reduce the sterling limits.
Reinsurance arrangements which the net event limit could be exceeded.
Such circumstances include 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional The Syndicate purchases proportional reinsurance to supplement line size non renewal or delay in renewal of reinsurance protection, reinsurance treaties to Amlin Bermuda Ltd. and facilitate cover to reduce exposure on individual risks.
Amlin also security failure, or regulatory and legal requirements.
3 Premiums are stated net of acquisition costs.
purchases a number of excess of loss reinsurances to protect itself from severe frequency or size of losses.
The structure of the programme and A detailed analysis of catastrophe exposures is carried out every quarter The airline account is exposed to large claims arising from property type of protection bought will vary from year to year depending on the and measured against the risk appetite.
The following assumptions and damage, death or injury arising from aircraft accident.
The domicile of the availability and price of cover.
procedures are used in the process: airline and passengers has a notable influence on the cost of claims as US court awards are generally higher.
The general aviation book covers smaller The data used reflects the information supplied to the Group by insureds Specific risk excess of loss reinsurance is purchased for each class of aircraft or cargo and covers owner or operators against loss or damage and and ceding companies.
This may prove to be inaccurate or could develop business.
The amount of cover bought depends upon the line size written third party injury.
Airport liability insurance covers airport operators, during the policy period: for each class.
For instance, unlimited cover is bought for our UK motor refuellers and air traffic controllers against losses arising from injury caused portfolio where unlimited third party cover is given on original policies.
The exposures are modelled using a mixture of stochastic models and by their activities, or occurring on the premises of, the assured.
Product The deductibles or amounts borne prior to recovery vary from class to underwriter input to arrive at damage factors these factors are then liability is to cover manufacturers against accidents arising from faulty parts class as do the amounts of co-reinsurance or unplaced protection.
applied to the assumed aggregate exposure to produce gross loss or equipment, or poor servicing of aircraft.
Space insurance covers property Specific programmes are purchased to deal with large individual risk estimates.
The damage factors may prove to be inadequate.
and liability during launch and the operation of satellites whilst in orbit for a losses such as fire or large energy loss and these programmes may limited period.
The reinsurance programme as purchased is applied a provision for be combined at a higher level into a general programme for reinsurer counterparty failure is included but may prove to be inadequate.
The aviation account is subject to both small and large claims.
Claims Reinstatement premiums both payable and receivable are included.
involving loss of life or serious injury to high earning passengers or third The combined claims for the Syndicate from several risks which aggregate parties are subject to the ongoing inflation of court awards particularly in the in a single catastrophe event are protected by catastrophe cover.
Large accidents involving the potential death of 500 or so A separate XL on XL programme may be purchased to protect the XL passengers are feasible and could result in a gross claim to the division of 82 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 83 Risk disclosures Claims development Whilst the losses arising from the Atlantic hurricanes in 2004 and 2005 To assist with the process of determining the reserves, triangulation The table below illustrates the development of the estimate of cumulative claims for Syndicate 2001 after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating broadly support the RDS analysis there is no guarantee that the statistics for each class are produced which show the historical how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimate made.
assumptions and techniques deployed in calculating these figures are development of premium, as well as paid and incurred losses, for each accurate.
Furthermore there could also be an unmodelled loss which underwriting year, from inception to the date of review.
Each class Gross basis 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 exceeds these figures.
The likelihood of such a catastrophe is considered triangulation is also independently analysed by the internal actuarial team Underwriting Year m m m m m to be remote but the most severe scenarios modelled are simulated events using actuarial software as appropriate.
The aim of the actuarial exercise is Estimate of cumulative claims: and these simulations could prove to be unreliable.
to produce best estimate ultimate premium and claims amounts which At end of underwriting year 667.9 495.5 554.5 675.2 931.2 can be compared to the figures proposed by divisional management.
One year later 605.9 399.1 441.1 665.7 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Meetings are held in which executive management, actuarial staff and Two years later 600.1 354.9 375.1 Calculation of IBNR and claims development business management discuss claims issues and analyse the proposed Three years later 603.8 343.1 Amlin adopts a consistent process in the calculation of an adequate and independently generated reserves to conclude the provision to be Four years later 605.7 provision for insurance claim liabilities.
The overriding aim is to establish carried.
These provisions are also reviewed annually by external actuaries reserves which are expected to be at least adequate and that there is who examine the work carried out and opine on the sufficiency of reserves.
Cumulative payments 477.3 254.8 237.0 335.4 153.5 consistency from year to year.
Therefore the level of reserves are set at Estimated balance to pay 128.4 88.3 138.1 330.3 777.7 a level above the actuarialbest estimate position.
However, there is a risk Areas of uncertainty that, due to unforeseen circumstances, the reserves carried are not The reserves established can be more or less than adequate to meet Net basis 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 sufficient to meet insurance claim liabilities reported in future years on policy eventual claims arising.
The level of uncertainty varies significantly from Underwriting Year m m m m m periods which have expired.
class to class but can arise from inadequate case reserves for known large Estimate of cumulative claims: losses and catastrophes or from inadequate provision for IBNR.
The impact At end of underwriting year 411.0 445.1 489.9 542.6 575.3 Process and methodology on profit before tax of a 1% variation in the total net claims reserves would One year later 398.3 369.2 388.9 493.4 The reserving process commences with the proper recording and reporting be 11.0 million 2004: 7.9 million.
Two years later 388.3 324.5 331.8 of claims information which is made up of paid and notified or outstanding Three years later 381.9 311.4 claims.
For our London Market business information is received through Large loss case reserves are determined through careful analysis of the Four years later 380.9 Xchanging the London Market bureau and, in the case of our UK individual claim, often with the advice of legal advisers.
Liability claims commercial business and service companies, directly from policyholders.
arising from events such as the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks in the Cumulative payments 275.4 208.3 195.0 226.9 90.4 Claims records are maintained for each class by the underwriting year to United States is an example of a case where there continues to be some Estimated balance to pay 105.5 103.1 136.8 266.5 484.9 which the policy incepts.
For notified or outstanding claims a case reserve uncertainty over the eventual value of claims.
is established based on the views of underwriting management and claims managers, using external legal or expert advice where appropriate.
This Property catastrophe claims such as earthquake or hurricane losses can reserve is expected to be sufficient to meet the claim payment when it is take several months or years to develop as adjusters visit damaged finally determined.
For some classes of business, particularly liability property and agree claim valuations.
Until all the claims are settled it requires business, settlement may be several years after the initial notification of the an analysis of the area damaged, contracts exposed and the use of models claim, as it may be subject to complexities or Court action.
Underwriters to simulate the loss against the portfolio of exposure in order to arrive at an and claims staff are responsible for setting case reserves for outstanding estimate of ultimate loss to the Company.
There is uncertainty over the claims.
For claims received from Xchanging, the market reserve is generally adequacy of information and modelling of major losses for a period of set by the leading underwriter but there are circumstances on larger claims several months after a catastrophe loss.
Account should also be taken of where Amlin will post higher or lower case reserves than those notified.
factors which may influence the size of claims such as increased inflation These cases are explained and discussed in reserving review.
To establish a provision for incurred but not reported IBNR claims, the The long tail liability classes for which a large IBNR has to be established businesses underwriting and claims teams use their experience and represent the most difficult classes to reserve because claims are notified knowledge of the class of business to estimate the potential future and settled several years after the expiry of the policy concerned.
This is development of each class for every year of account.
The development particularly the case for US liability written on a losses occurring basis.
period varies by class, by method of acceptance and is also determined by The use of historical development data adjusted for known changes to the deductible of each policy written.
For casualty business the policy form wordings or the claims environment is fundamental to reserving these will determine whether claims can be made on a claims made as advised classes.
It is used in conjunction with the advice of lawyers and third party or as a losses occurring determined by date of loss basis.
This has a claims adjusters on material single claims.
significant impact on the reporting period in which claims can be notified.
In setting the IBNR provision estimates are made for the ultimate premium and In the course of reserving the businesses provide a reserve for future ultimate gross claims value for each underwriting year.
Allowance is then events occurring to the existing portfolio.
These provisions are removed in made for anticipated reinsurance recoveries to reach a net claim position.
order to reflect GAAP accounting practice.
84 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 85 Risk disclosures b.
Financial investment risk disclosures Risk tolerance A breakdown of the asset classes is given below.
The following describes Amlins investment risk management from a Risk tolerance is driven by the underwriting cycle.
In hard underwriting 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 quantitative and qualitative perspective.
market conditions the preservation of capital is paramount in order to Syndicate Corporate Total Syndicate Corporate Total support the insurance business and, therefore, investment risk tolerance m m m m m m The Group has two main categories of investments.
The first category is the is low for corporate assets.
Conversely, the risk tolerance for the premium Global equities 116.2 116.2 90.1 90.1 premiums held in order to meet future claims insurance.
The other funds under these circumstances will be relatively high due to strong cash category is the Groups capital.
This supports the Groups underwriting but flows.
In a soft underwriting market the opposite applies.
Bonds otherwise it does not have specific attaching liabilities.
Government securities 736.7 14.5 751.2 329.1 8.4 337.5 Strategic benchmarks Government index-linked securities 5.5 5.5 11.1 11.1 Risk management The strategic benchmark for capital assets is set by using a Value at Risk Government agencies 13.9 13.9 17.6 17.6 Investment frameworks VaR model, to determine the optimum asset allocation for the current risk Supranational 10.5 10.5 Amlin manages its investment funds in accordance with investment tolerance and to ensure that appropriate solvency levels are maintained.
Asset backed securities 23.6 23.6 15.1 15.1 frameworks that are set by the Boards of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries.
The strategic benchmark for insurance funds is set by the duration of the Mortgage backed securities 73.4 73.4 29.4 29.4 These frameworks determine investment policy and the management of liabilities in each currency.
In both cases the investment frameworks provide Corporate bonds 184.9 89.6 274.5 222.1 65.1 287.2 investment risk and are reviewed on a regular basis.
tactical ranges around the benchmarks to provide sufficient flexibility to 1,038.0 104.1 1,142.1 624.4 84.0 708.4 ensure that the appropriate risk reward balance is maintained in changing Other liquid investments The Investment Management Executive comprises the Chief Executive, investment markets.
Investment policy takes account of the need to have Money market instrument CDs 52.9 61.2 114.1 38.9 58.6 97.5 Finance Director, Underwriting Director and Chief Investment Officer.
funds available to meet payments as they become due.
Cash and cash equivalents 52.4 13.2 65.6 17.2 30.4 47.6 They meet monthly to determine investment tactics to ensure that asset Money market funds 66.6 639.2 705.8 328.3 78.2 406.5 allocation is appropriate for current market conditions and is in accordance Asset allocation 171.9 713.6 885.5 384.4 167.2 551.6 with the investment frameworks.
The Investment Management Executive Assets are allocated to each asset class by moving funds to or from the 1,209.9 933.9 2,143.8 1,008.8 341.3 1,350.1 appoints and monitors the external managers for different asset classes relevant specialist fund managers.
who manage the investments on a day-to-day basis.
The asset allocation at the year-end is shown below.
The global equity fund at 31 December 2005 can be broken down by industry sector and geographical area as follows: The Investment Advisory Panel, which consists of external investment professionals as well as members of Amlins Investment Management Industry m Region m Executive, meets quarterly.
The Panel has delegated responsibility to Cyclical consumer services 26.7 United Kingdom 37.2 monitor and critique investment strategy and tactics.
Group Audit and Financials 23.2 USA and Canada 12.8 Compliance provide additional advice on investment regulation.
Industrials 4.6 Europe ex UK 38.3 Non-cyclical consumer services 30.2 Far East 20.9 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 Resources 16.3 Emerging markets 7.0 Syndicate Corporate Total Syndicate Corporate Total Technology 3.5 m m m m m m Utilities 3.5 Equities 116.2 116.2 90.1 90.1 Other 8.2 Bonds 1,038.0 104.1 1,142.1 624.4 84.0 708.4 116.2 116.2 Other liquid investments 171.9 713.6 885.5 384.4 167.2 551.6 Total 1,209.9 933.9 2,143.8 1,008.8 341.3 1,350.1 %% % %% % Investment management Equities 12 5 26 7 The investment portfolios are managed by external investment professionals under the direction of Amlins Investment Management Executive.
Specialist Bonds 86 12 53 62 25 52 managers are appointed for the different asset classes.
The managers are monitored on an ongoing basis and are reviewed periodically using specialist Other liquid investments 14 76 42 38 49 41 investment consultants, currently Watson Wyatt Worldwide.
Selection is based on a range of criteria that leads to the expectation that the managers will Total 100 100 100 100 100 100 add value to the funds, whilst keeping within the strict guidelines.
The managers have discretion to manage the funds on a day-to-day basis but must operate, and are monitored to ensure adherence under the investment guidelines to ensure compliance with the regulations and Amlins investment frameworks.
In particular, the guidelines provide rules governing such factors The corporate assets are currently invested in a mixture of equities and Additionally overseas deposits have to be held for regulatory purposes in as: eligible assets, minimum holdings in cash and government bonds and maximum exposures to non-government assets, single issuers, and credit.
The liquid funds such as short dated bonds of less than one year.
Of the assets overseas jurisdictions to permit the Group to underwrite.
They are invested bond managers are also given tactical duration ranges, within which they can position the funds compared to the benchmarks depending on the outlook for above 583 million 2004: nil is supporting Amlin Bermuda and 277 million in bonds and cash.
The main components of these are the Australian, markets.
2004: 252 million are charged as Funds at Lloyds to support the Japanese and South African Trust Funds, plus additional US deposits which Syndicates underwriting which places certain restrictions on the way such for 2005 predominately relate to Lloyds related underwriting.
In the future it The managers at 31 December 2005 were: assets can be invested.
The restrictions on Funds at Lloyds define is expected that overseas deposits will be required for the Amlin Bermuda acceptable asset categories and asset concentration limits for charged operation.
All of the current Lloyds deposits are managed by the Manager Mandates assets.
Corporation of Lloyds Treasury Services in accordance with applicable Aim Global Euro and US dollar liquid funds regulations.
Personal reserve funds PRF are also managed by the Alliance Capital Sterling bonds and sterling liquid funds Premium funds need to be sufficiently liquid to ensure settlement of claims Corporation of Lloyds on behalf of the corporate members of the Group.
Barclays Global Investors Sterling, Euro and US dollar liquid funds and are typically invested in tradable bonds or cash.
The assets held by the Citibank US dollar liquid funds syndicate are held in trust funds and as such have to be managed in Goldman Sachs Asset Management Sterling, Euro and US dollar liquid funds accordance with the various trust deeds.
Certain amounts have to be kept HSBC Asset Management Sterling, Euro and US dollar liquid funds in regulated funds with adjustments made periodically.
This limits the Insight Investment Management Sterling bonds and sterling liquid funds freedom to move funds between portfolios and between cash and Taube Hodson Stonex Partners Global equities other assets.
Weiss Peck & Greer Investments US and Canadian dollar bonds Western Asset Management US dollar and Euro bonds Union Bank of Switzerland Canadian and US dollar liquid funds 86 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 87 Risk disclosures The total syndicate 100% and corporate funds under management with each manager as at 31 December 2005 can be analysed as follows: An indication of the potential impact on the value of these funds of changes in the yield curve due to unexpected changes in underlying interest rates is given below: Goldman Taube Barclays Sachs HSBC Union Hodson Weiss Western Bonds 31 December 2005 Syndicate Corporate Net Aim Alliance Global Asset Asset Bank of Stonex Peck & Asset reduction Global Capital Investors Citibank Management Management Insight Switzerland Partners Greer Management increase in m m m m m m m m m m m Shift in yield Sterling US$ CAN$ Euro Sterling US$ value Syndicate basis points % % %%%% m Sterling 0.1 136.0 4.8 497.0 100 2.4 2.8 2.1 2.2 0.5 0.1 28 Euros 0.1 1.3 71.1 75 1.7 2.0 1.6 1.7 0.4 0.1 20 US dollars 0.1 5.3 5.7 375.0 126.1 50 1.2 1.4 1.1 1.2 0.2 0.1 13 Canadian dollars 4.6 33.0 25 0.6 0.7 0.5 0.6 0.1 7 Corporate 25 0.6 0.7 0.5 0.6 0.1 7 Sterling 165.9 34.2 0.7 20.0 125.6 50 1.2 1.4 1.1 1.3 0.2 0.1 14 US dollars 0.6 366.4 216.3 75 1.8 2.1 1.6 2.0 0.4 0.1 21 Total 0.2 301.9 41.0 5.3 367.1 216.3 517.0 10.3 125.6 408.0 197.2 100 2.4 2.8 2.1 2.7 0.5 0.1 28 Bonds 31 December 2004 Syndicate Corporate % 14% 2% 16% 10% 23% 6% 19% 10% Net reduction Average for year or period of investment if less than one year increase in 31.2 306.9 183.3 10.4 367.1 216.3 283.7 8.6 110.8 342.2 200.8 Shift in yield Sterling US$ CAN$ Euro Sterling value 31 December 2004 20.6 353.9 298.3 13.0 152.5 6.7 100.5 374.6 90.2 basis points %% %%% m includes 9.4 million of cash and cash equivalents 100 0.8 2.7 3.1 2.5 0.2 20 Fair value 75 0.6 2.0 2.4 1.9 0.2 15 Interest rates 50 0.4 1.4 1.6 1.3 0.1 10 All Amlins investments are marked to market.
The prices are obtained by The value of Amlins bond holdings is subject to fluctuations in investors 1 25 0.2 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.1 5 the fund managers and custodians using recognised market sources.
interest rate expectations due to the impact on bond yields.
The sensitivity 2 25 0.2 0.7 0.8 0.4 0.1 5 In the case of equities this will be from the appropriate stock exchange.
In of the price of a bond is indicated by its duration.
The greater the duration 50 0.4 1.4 1.6 1.3 0.1 10 the case of bonds this will be from a recognised price provider.
Prices are of a security, the greater its percentage price volatility.
75 0.7 2.0 2.4 2.0 0.2 16 checked by Amlin for reasonableness by using Bloomberg data feeds.
100 0.9 2.7 3.1 2.6 0.2 21 Amlin manages the interest rate risk of its premium assets by setting the Valuation risk duration ranges of its portfolios with reference to the duration of the Amlins earnings are directly affected by changes in the valuations of the liabilities.
Due to the short tail nature of much of Amlins underwriting The maturity dates of the Groups bond holdings at 31 December 2005 can Foreign exchange investments held in the portfolios.
These valuations vary according to the portfolio this means that the duration of the assets is at the shorter end of be analysed as follows: Regulations require that local currency assets be held for any currency that movements in the underlying markets.
Factors affecting markets include the yield curve.
Cash is raised, or the duration of the portfolio reduced, if it makes up 5% or more of Amlins total premium income.
Syndicate Corporate Total changes in the economic and political environment, risk appetite, interest is believed that yields may rise, and therefore capital values fall.
The capital m m m rates and exchange rates.
assets currently hold short dated bonds, as they are being managed Local currency assets are held for the sterling, euro, US dollar and Canadian Less than 1 year 112.1 104.1 216.2 against a cash benchmark.
The duration of the bond and cash portfolios as dollar liabilities.
As Amlin presents its financial statements in sterling it is 12 years 225.2 225.2 These factors have an impact on all Amlins investments and are taken into at 31 December 2005 was as follows: subject to currency risk until the overseas profits are converted into sterling 23 years 147.4 147.4 consideration when setting strategic benchmarks and tactical asset for subsequent distribution.
Further currency exposure arises when 34 years 143.2 143.2 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 allocaion.
The impact of interest rates and exchange rates are discussed in business is written in non-accounting currencies.
These transactions are Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 45 years 290.6 290.6 more detail below.
converted into sterling at the prevailing spot rate once the premium is Years Years Years Years Over 5 years 119.5 119.5 received, so there is exposure to currency movements between the Corporate 0.2 0.3 1,038.0 104.1 1,142.1 History has shown that whilst equity investments offer higher returns than exposure being written and the premium being converted into sterling.
Syndicate bonds over the long-term, their prices are also more volatile.
The historic Payments in non-accounting currencies are converted at the time a claim Sterling 2.2 2.5 2.6 2.3 Liquidity volatility and correlations of the asset classes in which Amlin is invested is to be settled: therefore Amlin is exposed to exchange rate risk until the US dollars 2.8 3.1 2.6 3.0 It is important to ensure that there are sufficient funds to meet claims as they are used in our value at risk VaR model when determining strategic asset settlement is paid.
This is managed on a daily basis to make sure that adequate liquid allocation for the corporate assets.
VaR is a statistical measure, which Canadian dollars 2.1 3.2 2.5 3.0 funds are available to meet expected settlements due.
Cash buffers are held calculates the possible loss over a year, in normal market conditions.
It is Group policy to mitigate foreign exchange risk by systematically in excess of these requirements.
In addition, the syndicate guidelines require As VaR estimates are based on historical market data this should not be converting profits earned overseas into sterling.
Given the inherent volatility at least 25% of the funds to be held in government bonds and or cash viewed as an absolute gauge of the level of risk to the funds.
in some of our business a cautious approach is adopted on the speed and equivalents.
If a major insurance event occurs the investment strategy is level of sales, but we seek to extinguish all currency risk on earned profit reviewed to ensure that sufficient liquidity is available in the corporate funds.
The price of holdings can also vary due to specific risks, such as corporate during the second year after the commencement of any underwriting year.
strategy and balance sheet structure, which may impact individual equity as Liquidity in the event of a major disaster is tested regularly using internal well as corporate bond holdings.
This is mitigated by holding diversified The intention is to time the currency transactions in order to optimise the cash flow forecasts and realistic disaster scenarios.
portfolios, as specified in the investment guidelines given to the fund conversion rates with the intention of achieving the average exchange rate managers.
These limit the exposure to any one company.
In addition the or better for the year.
This approach is part of Amlins risk management Cash flow equity mandate limits the exposure to any one geographic region or strategy as it avoids the inherent dangers of lumpier sales.
It is not the industrial sector.
The policy of limiting the extent that the duration of assets can differ from intention to take speculative currency positions in order to make currency the liabilities helps to reduce the risk that there is a cash flow mismatch.
Cumulative sales to 31 December 2005 were as follows: If the value of Amlins equity portfolio was to fall by 10% the impact on the As discussed above, the corporate assets are not matched to liabilities.
overall assets as at 31 December 2005, pre-tax, would be a decline of 11.6 million.
1 The yield is the rate of return paid if a security is held to its workout date.
The calculation is based on the coupon rate, length of time to maturity and the market price.
It assumes coupon interest paid over the life of the security is reinvested at the same rate.
2 This is the weighted average maturity of the securitys cash flows, where the present values of the cash flows serve as the weights.
88 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 89
