Aviva plc 2005 Overview 10 Business segment: General insurance and health Raising the bar on customer service Customer service is vital to the success of our business.
In 2005, 92% of UK customers were satisfied with the sales service they received, and 83% with the handling of their claim.
While these scores represent a significant achievement, were aiming higher in 2006 and are looking to set industry-leading standards.
To achieve this we are implementing initiatives to understand, direct from customers, what they see as key elements of good service.
We are a leading Cracking down on online insurer insurance fraud Customer call centre image to come Norwich Union Direct celebrated its 10th anniversary We believe that people should be less tolerant as one of the UKs leading direct insurers, with almost of fraud.
Although it is sometimes described as a four million policies now in force.
The business victimless crime, insurance fraud costs the UK continues to grow, particularly online, where the economy an estimated 14 billion 20 billion success of the Quote Me Happy advertising each year, and the costs have to be recouped from campaign has contributed to a rapid expansion customers.
Norwich Union continues to lobby actively in sales.
This performance is reinforced by our on this subject.
In November 2005, we published our recent launch of RAC Direct Insurance.
Fraud Report, highlighting the impact of insurance crime and making proposals for dealing with it, including: establishing a UK commission on fraud: publishing national fraud statistics and trends: and adopting interim fraud targets for the police and Crown Prosecution Service.
95% 5% 200% Combined operating ratio Growth in net written premiums Growth in online sales in the UK General insurance and health Operating profit Our worldwide general insurance and health business reported an operating profit of 1,551 million 2004: 1,259 million, an increase of 22%, reecting our sustained underwriting discipline, cost-cutting initiatives and innovative use of technology.
New distribution channels In the UK, we have signed a deal with Barclays to become its sole provider of homeowner, motor and travel insurance and extended our existing deal to be Asdas sole provider of general insurance.
Our online sales have increased by over 200%, making Norwich Union Direct one of the UKs largest online insurance brands.
In Canada, we extended our deal with Loblaws, the countrys largest supermarket chain, with product launches in Quebec and Alberta.
In Ireland, our corporate partnership with Tesco moved from pilot stage into full roll-out.
Restated for changes to IFRS and discretionary changes to longer-term investment return methodology.
Aviva plc 2005 Overview 11 Offering a complete motoring solution The acquisition of RAC is transforming our UK business, making us a leading provider of insurance and motoring services.
Weve already launched new motor and travel insurance products under the RAC Direct Insurance brand and will shortly be launching a homeowner product.
In acquiring a group that provides roadside assistance, windscreen repair, vehicle inspection and driver training, were now able to offer a complete motoring solution for our customers.
Developing our Autograph proposition Aviva Canada is rolling out Autograph, an innovative motor product that allows customers to take more control of the premiums they pay.
Autograph was developed last year and is now offered through a select team of 12 brokers in Ontario.
Its technology allows drivers to track their driving patterns and, if they choose, submit the data to Aviva for a discount on their premiums.
Autograph offers customised insurance for the individual and we are confident that there will be a person in every household who can benefit from this unique programme.
For example, mothers who are driving a second car with low mileage, or who have younger drivers living at home on their policy, are ideal candidates.
The Ontario test will provide us with the information and feedback we need to develop a national rollout plan.
268m 2.8 million Savings from purchasing power Roadside callouts attended 1,551m 10.3bn 2001 946 2001 7.9 2002 942 2002 7.8 2003 972 2003 8.5 2004 9.8 2004 1,259 RAC integration cost savings We expect to achieve annualised cost savings of 100 million in 2006, exceeding the 80 million per annum cost savings target announced when RAC was acquired.
We are making substantial progress on delivering revenue benets, and expect to generate annualised operating profit of 250 million on a like-for-like basis from RAC by 2008, including an additional 1.4 million customers.
Expanding on our insurance proposition Our ownership of HPI vehicle information check specialists and Solus Accident Repair Centre enables us to provide a more complete range of motoring services to our customers, while gaining revenue and cost-saving benets.
Leveraging group knowledge Knowledge gained from HPI, digital ood mapping and our Pay As You Drive scheme has allowed us to improve our pricing decisions.
Our Canadian business is now serviced by more than 150 staff in India, benefiting from cost and service advantages already seen in the UK.
