Aviva plc 2005 Overview 8 Business segment: Long-term savings and fund management Expanding into new regions and markets We continue to explore new opportunities to expand our business in less developed markets.
With businesses already established in several Eastern European states, we have opened a representative ofce in Moscow to evaluate the potential that might exist for us in the Russian long-term savings market.
In India, since launching in 2002, we have expanded rapidly to become the leader in the bancassurance market, ranking seventh amongst private insurers.
We have won approval to sell life insurance products in a total of 9 Chinese cities.
Aviva-COFCO is the first international insurer to open an ofce in some Generating growth Supporting sport in Asia of these cities.
China is an important long-term market for Aviva, and we are pleased to be able to continue in Ireland and Australia our expansion.
We have created a new bancassurance joint venture The Aviva brand is being promoted to a wider in Ireland between Hibernian and Allied Irish Banks.
Tennis fans around the This partnership will bring further opportunities for world saw the Aviva logo on the uniforms of more growth in the Irish life and pensions market, where than 300 ballkids at the Australian Open tournament we have an ambition to be the leading player by 2010. in Melbourne, and we have extended this highly The agreement creates a new channel for business successful sponsorship deal for another four years.
that is complementary to Hibernians highly successful We shall also be reaching millions of homes across intermediary distribution network.
It will provide Asia as we have agreed to sponsor three major exclusive access to Irelands largest retail bank, with badminton events the China, Singapore and more than 280 retail outlets and 1.6 million customers.
Hong Kong Opens through to 2007.
24.6bn 1 0% Present value of new Growth in PVNBP business premiums PVNBP Long-term savings and fund management Operating profit Our worldwide long-term savings and fund management business reported an operating profit of 1,865 million 2004: 1,631 million, an increase of 13%, reecting strong sales growth, particularly in our continental European business and bancassurance channel.
A balanced portfolio in mature markets Our businesses in the mature markets of the UK, France and the Netherlands benefit from balanced product offerings and distribution channels.
This benefit has been demonstrated by our robust performance in 2005.
Increasing our presence in high-growth markets We now have 18 bancassurance partnerships in India and have extended our agreement with American Express for 10 years and have partnerships with ABN AMRO, Canara Bank and Centurion Bank of Punjab.
In China, Aviva-COFCO is now licensed in four cities and has sales ofces in five further cities.
Aviva plc 2005 Overview 9 Enhancing our New property funds Morley Fund Management has bolstered its focus UK distribution on Europe with a commitment to growing and We have continued to develop our strong expanding its European property portfolio and multi-distribution framework in the UK, where expertise.
Morleys property team manages in excess the majority of our business comes from independent of 22 billion of UK and European property assets, financial advisers.
During 2005, we signed a five-year making us one of the largest property fund managers deal with Sesame, the UKs largest IFA network.
We have been at the forefront of innovation We are also building our corporate partnerships and in property fund management.
We also teamed up reached major distribution agreements with Barclays with Barclays Capital, the investment banking arm of and Co-Operative Insurance Society.
Additionally, Barclays, to create the Woolwich Global Distribution our existing bancassurance partnership with The Royal Bond.
The bond uses derivatives to generate higher Bank of Scotland has grown strongly during the year.
income for customers than could normally be expected from a standard investment portfolio.
Poland: life company of the decade We received a golden parasol award from Home & Market magazine for being Polands life insurance company of the decade.
The magazine praised us for our persistence, quality of service, recognisability and our long-term well-established position in the Polish life insurance market.
30 11 Bancassurance partnerships Awards in fund management worldwide 1,814m 19.5bn 2001 1,665 2001 15.0 2002 1,524 2002 14.6 2003 1,496 2003 14.9 2004 1,611 2004 17.2 Forming partnerships We recently announced a bancassurance joint venture in Ireland with AIB that will create a leading force in the Irish life and pensions market.
Sales through our joint venture with Crdit du Nord in France, which commenced in October 2004, were 728 million in 2005.
We extended our deal with Banche Popolari Unite in Italy to distribute through an additional 380 branches.
Recognition for our fund management businesses We launched new institutional and retail funds during the year, particularly in property-related investments where Morley was named property manager of the year at the UK Pensions Awards 2005.
Our French business won a number of awards, including being named best insurer in the 2005 Le Revenu fund management awards.
The present value of new premiums PVNBP is equal to total single premium sales received in the year plus the discounted value of annual premiums expected to be received over the term of new contracts, and is expressed at the point of sale.
On an achieved profits basis.
On a European Embedded Value EEV basis.
Single premiums, regular premiums and investment sales.
