The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 5 Managers Review Alex Crooke Taking the risk of repeating myself from the last year, it is worth reminding shareholders of our overall investment style which is based around pragmatic value investing.
We aim to identify companies with attractive long term businesses that generate cash and often pay higher dividends.
We aim to invest in these companies when their shares trade at low valuations often because trading is temporarily poor or assets and earnings potential are under appreciated.
intentions to hire more staff, increase orders and capital Our value style is most evident in the UK, Japan, Asian and expenditure.
Other indicators like wage inflation, house prices Emerging Markets.
Our performance in these latter two regions and employment are all increasing and our optimism remains has been better than their local indices, as we have favoured positive toward this market.
However in the very short term, undervalued assets property and infrastructure and commodity valuations appear overly optimistic and after the recent run we stocks that are not available in Western markets.
One of the great have taken some profits and look for a setback as an opportunity benefits of being global is the ability to seek out cheaper assets to return.
beyond the UK, such as oil companies in Brazil or mining stocks in South Africa.
Looking forward, Asia in particular is an exciting Europe continues to suffer a bad press from all angles and the region as domestic consumption expands and economies become recent interest rate rise, the first since 2000, is truly mystifying as less dependent on exports.
To capture this changing dynamic over economic growth shows little sign of a sustained pickup.
the next few years will require a greater level of resource for this However, what most strategists miss is the pace of corporate region and we hope to have this in place to develop a greater reform, especially in Germany, which has if anything picked up depth of coverage and identify more investment opportunities.
We are increasingly impressed by the European companies we meet and share prices recorded very good growth Asset allocation across markets has not changed materially over in 2005.
After this move valuations are more demanding than in the year but our comments last year regarding a greater recent memory but forecasts are undemanding and we would investment in Japan and a positive outlook have finally been not be surprised to see upgrades next year.
rewarded with the strong performance of this market.
Every year some commentators predict a recovery in Japanese fortunes, only Exchange rates have again been volatile, as illustrated by the to be proved wrong however recent business surveys such as the graph showing the US dollar sterling exchange rate over the Tankan report point to many positives regarding corporate last year.
While it is not usual that we would hedge exchange rate risk directly, we do look to manage our multi currency loan facilities and often a currency outlook might affect our enthusiasm for a particular market.
With interest rates falling in US Dollar-Sterling Exchange Rate 2.00 the UK as opposed to rising in the US, we felt that sterling would be weaker and therefore it seemed sensible earlier in the year to 1.95 switch the US dollar borrowings into sterling and Swiss francs.
1.90 Despite the higher interest costs, this has proved a positive move 1.85 as the US dollar subsequently strengthened from 1.94 to a low of 1.80 1.74 against sterling.
Our outlook is to expect further sterling 1.75 weakness and as such we expect to maintain the sterling 1.70 borrowings and may well reduce exposure to UK shares in favour 1.65 of a greater allocation overseas.
1.60 Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Alex Crooke 04 05
