The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 19 Directors Richard Brewster Richard Killingbeck James Morley Michael Moule Francis Sumner David Thomas Richard Brewster FCA Chairman Age 60 was appointed as a Michael Moule Age 59 was the manager of Bankers from 1977 to director in 1991 and became Chairman in 2005.
Having qualified as a June 2003 and joined the Board in 1982.
He has worked in the chartered accountant he has spent the last 30 years in industry.
From investment world since 1963 and has been involved with investment 1983 he was CEO of D. S. Smith plc until 1991 when he became CEO of trusts since 1967 when he was a trainee analyst with the Standard Jarvis Porter plc until 1998.
Since then he has extended his interests in Trust.
From 1970 to 1993 he worked for Touche Remnant, a leading private equity investment and was until November 2005 CEO of manager of investment trusts.
He was the manager of The City of Interbrandpro Holding GmbH, an international promotional print and London Investment Trust plc from 1982 to 1991 and a director from speciality board business.
His other non-executive interests are as a 1987 to 1991.
For the past ten years until his retirement he has been consultant to Pridie Brewster Corporate Finance and as Chairman of a director of investment trusts at Henderson Global Investors and served Merrill Lynch British Smaller Companies Trust plc.
on the board of Henderson plc from 1996 to 1998.
He was also responsible for managing the investment portfolio of Law Debenture Richard Killingbeck Director Age 43 was appointed as a director from 1987 to 2003.
He is currently a director of Foreign & Colonial in 2003.
He has been involved in the financial services industry for 20 Eurotrust plc, Lowland Investment Company plc, Old Mutual South years, primarily as a fund manager.
The early part of his career was spent Africa Trust plc and Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Trust plc.
with Cazenove & Co on the North American desk.
He subsequently moved to Morgan Grenfell Asset Management and was seconded for Francis Sumner Senior Independent Director Age 63 was most of this period to Morgan Grenfell Capital Management in New appointed as a director in 1997.
He spent most of his working life as a York.
Upon his return to the United Kingdom he joined River & City solicitor specialising in corporate finance.
He was for many years a Mercantile Investment Management as a director with responsibility for partner in Norton Rose, Bankers having been one of his plc clients.
He is the management of the North American Investment Trust.
In 1994 he currently the Deputy Chairman of the Crown Agents, Vice Chairman joined Singer & Friedlander Investment Management.
In 2001 he was and a council and executive committee member of the City and Guilds appointed as Chief Executive of the investment management company.
of London Institute and a council member of the Assessment and In 2005 he was appointed Managing Director of Reabourne Investment Qualifications Alliance.
Management a wholly owned subsidiary of Close Brothers Group plc.
David Thomas FIA Age 61 was appointed as a director in 2000.
James Morley FCA Age 56 was appointed as a director in 1994.
He was Director and General Manager of Investments of The Equitable After qualifying as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen, he has Life Assurance Society until April 2001.
For two years from August 1996 spent most of the last 28 years in the travel and financial services he was Chairman of the Investment Committee of the Association of industries, firstly with Avis Europe and then with Guardian Royal British Insurers and at that time was also a member of the Hampel Exchange, the international composite insurance company.
In both cases Committee on Corporate Governance.
In addition he sat on the as Group Finance Director.
Following the acquisition of GRE by AXA in Institutional Investors Advisory Group of The Stock Exchange for several 2000, Mr Morley left to become Group Finance Director of Arjo Wiggins years and was a member of the Lord Chancellors Honorary Investment Appleton.
In June 2002 he was appointed Group Finance Director of Cox Advisory Committee which assisted the Public Trustee.
Currently, he is Insurance Holdings.
Mr Morley left Cox in June 2005 following its a trustee of the pension fund for the staff of Westminster Abbey and is acquisition by the Fieldstreet Group.
Mr Morley is also a non-executive Chairman of the Abbeys Investment Committee, as well as being an director of W S Atkins plc, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
investment adviser to the Staffordshire County Council Pension Fund.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Management Alex Crooke Manager Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Deputy Manager Michael Wood-Martin Wendy King The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment trust management.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Wendy King acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
