Financial review Overview Introduction Goals Barclays is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail and Barclays primary focus is to deliver superior value to its shareholders.
commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management To achieve this we use an operating philosophy, the principles of value and investment management services.
We are one of the largest financial based management VBM, to develop strategy, allocate resources and services companies in the world by market capitalisation.
Operating in over manage performance.
60 countries and employing 113,300 people, we move, lend, invest and In applying VBM principles, Barclays has developed a disciplined fact-based protect money for over 25 million customers and clients worldwide.
approach to strategy development and business planning, which aims to Our business was affected by global economic conditions generally and build sustainable competitive advantage.
Individual businesses generate particularly by conditions in the UK.
The UK economy was weaker in 2005 alternative business strategies to facilitate the selection of the most than 2004, with the economy growing at 1.8%.
The US economy sustained appropriate value-maximising option, in order to achieve profitable growth strong growth in 2005, although slightly lower than in 2004, whilst the in all our businesses.
Eurozone economy growth remained broadly steady from the level of 2004.
We use performance goals as an integral part of our VBM disciplines.
The South African economy maintained its strong economic growth.
These are designed to stretch the thinking and ambition of our businesses.
As a financial services group domiciled in the UK, the majority of our Goals have been set for four-year periods to align with the planning earnings currently arise from the UK.
Nonetheless, with our global processes described above.
businesses and our international activities, we believe that our diverse The primary goal remains to achieve top quartile total shareholder return portfolio provides a broad spread of earnings capabilities and offers greater TSR relative to a peer group of 11 other UK and international financial resilience against systematic events in any single business or geography.
TSR is defined as the value created for shareholders Currently about 40% of Barclays profits come from outside the UK against through share price appreciation, plus reinvested dividend payments.
2004, we announced a new performance cycle TSR goal for the 2004 to The profitability of Barclays businesses could be adversely affected by a 2007 period.
worsening of general economic conditions in the UK or abroad.
Factors The TSR peer group is reviewed annually to ensure it aligns with our such as the liquidity of the global financial markets, the level and volatility business mix and the direction and scale of our ambition.
The peer group of equity prices and interest rates, investor sentiment, inflation, and the for 2005 was: ABN Amro, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, availability and cost of credit, could significantly affect the activity level of HBOS, HSBC, JP Morgan Chase, Lloyds TSB, Royal Bank of Scotland and customers.
A continued market downturn would likely lead to a decline UBS.
For 2006 the peer group is unchanged.
in the volume of transactions that Barclays executes for its customers and, therefore, lead to a decline in the income it receives from fees and For the first two years of the new goal period, from 31st December 2003 commissions.
In addition, changes in interest rate levels, yields curves and to 31st December 2005, Barclays was positioned fifth within its peer group, spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised on lending and on which is second quartile TSR performance.
In addition, economic profit EP is used to support the pursuit of the top Continuous focus on improvements in productivity provides the ability to quartile TSR goal.
The strategies we follow and the actions we take are respond flexibly to any pressure on income growth and helps offset its aligned to value creation for all stakeholders.
Since the introduction of impact on overall profitability.
VBM, Barclays has used EP as its key internal financial measure, to support the achievement of our primary top quartile TSR goal.
Barclays Key drivers underpinning the financial performance are detailed in the uses EP, a non-IFRS measure, as a key indicator of performance because subsequent pages of the Financial review section.
These include, for it believes that it provides important discipline in decision-making.
net interest income, the volume and rate of growth of asset and liability Barclays believes that EP encourages both profitable growth and the balances, together with the margin on these balances.
Non-interest efficient use of capital.
More information on the reconciliation of EP to income is driven primarily by net fees and commissions, although it also profit before tax can be found on page 302. includes principal transactions and other operating income.
We believe that, given current and expected market conditions, a Net premiums from insurance contracts and claims and benefits paid on compound annual growth rate in EP in the range of 10% to 13% p. a. insurance contracts are shown separately in the Income Statement.
which would translate into cumulative EP generation of 6.5bn to 7.0bn, The principal drivers of operating expenses are staffing levels and their will be required to deliver top quartile TSR over the 2004 to 2007 goal associated costs, including performance related expenditure, and the level period.
Economic profit for 2005 was 1.75bn, which, added to the of strategic investment spend.
1.57bn generated in 2004, delivered a cumulative total of 3.32bn for 3.3 the goal period to date.
This equates to compound annual growth in Impairment charges and other credit provisions are largely driven by the economic profit of 18% per annum for the goal period to date.
quantity and quality of lending and reflect the condition of the credit environment.
We will continue to report progress against goals on a regular basis.
a In addition to the risk factors outlined on pages 47 to 49, other potential Financial Performance 2005 impacts on Barclays profitability are the consequences of potential Barclays applied International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with regulation or legislation.
effect from 1st January 2004, with the exception of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, which were applied from 1st January 2005.
The effect of these changes is pervasive throughout these results.
Total income net of insurance claims increased 23% Note 3,225m to 17,333m 2004: 14,108m whilst operating expenses a Restated for IFRS.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 103 Financial review Overview excluding amortisation of intangible assets rose 23% 1,934m to new assets and a continuing improvement in operating margins.
Amortisation of intangible assets was 79m growth of 48% was driven by significant increases in management fees, 2004: 22m.
Impairment charges and other credit provisions rose 44% incentive fees, and securities lending revenues.
40%, reflecting higher performance-based compensation and significant investment in the platform and in innovative new products.
Barclays Global Earnings per share rose 7% to 54.4p 2004: 51.0p, diluted earnings per share Investors was one of the leaders in its product markets through operational rose 6% to 52.6p 2004: 49.8p.
Dividends per share rose 11% to 26.6p excellence and a one firm approach to meeting client needs.
Return on average shareholders funds was 21% 2004: 22%.
Economic profit was up 12%, in line with our expectations and a reflection of Profit before tax in Wealth Management rose by 56% to 172m 2004: tight capital management as well as a good business performance.
110m a very strong performance driven by broad-based income growth of 11% and improved cost efficiency.
Operating expenses grew by only 3% Non-performing loans increased 1,095m 27% to 5,210m.
Potential as efficiency savings funded significant cost restructuring and investment problem loans increased 131m to 929m.
Our stated goal is to position our Wealth Management loans was broadly steady at 66.2% 2004: 66.9% while the coverage of business as a leading European wealth manager.
During 2005 the potential credit risk loans also remained stable at 56.2% 2004: 56.0%.
transformation of the business for future growth began to deliver results.
Our capital position remained healthy.
Shareholders equity excluding Barclaycard profit before tax fell 19% to 687m 2004: 843m, driven minority interests increased 1,556m 10% to 17.4bn, primarily due to by higher levels of impairment in the UK and continued investment in profit retention.
Income growth of 15% reflected good risk assets increased 50bn 23% to 269bn.
The tier 1 capital ratio performances by the UK cards and loans businesses and very strong decreased to 7% 2004: 7.6% and the risk asset ratio decreased to 11.3% international growth.
Operating expenses rose 21%, reflecting continued 2004 11.5%.
heavy investment in the business, particularly internationally.
Barclaycard Business Performance US, previously Juniper, grew strongly in line with plan, and cards in Spain There was good growth in profit before tax for the Group as a whole with and Germany performed strongly.
We now have over 4.3 million momentum in the core UK businesses and strong growth in our global international cards in issue.
Our Group as a whole, and the businesses within it, International Retail and Commercial Banking was transformed by the are gaining momentum both in terms of balance sheet and assets under acquisition of Absa.
International Retail and Commercial Bank excluding management.
Overall, our performance in 2005 reflects consistent execution Absa increased profit before tax 21% to 355m 2004: 293m.
Income of our strategy, and has strengthened our position for future growth.
growth of 20% reflected strong balance sheet growth in Europe and UK Banking produced good profit growth, up 8%, to 2,455m 2004: Africa.
Operating expenses grew in line with income as we accelerated the 2,265m and outperformed its productivity target for 2005 with the integration of Banco Zaragozano.
Excluding integration costs of 57m, cost:income ratio improving by three percentage points.
In UK Banking Barclays Spain increased profit before tax 25% to 156m 2004: 125m.
our ambition is to build the best bank in the UK and we are making We completed the acquisition of a majority stake in Absa Group Limited good progress.
For the five-month period of Barclays ownership, Absa UK Retail Banking achieved solid income growth of 4% in 2005.
Operating contributed 335m to profit before tax.
The performance of Absa is ahead expenses decreased 3% through strong cost control whilst continuing of the business plan that underpinned the acquisition.
targeted reinvestment to improve customer service and the branch network.
Head office functions and other operations loss before tax increased to Profit before tax grew 7% to 1,027m 2004: 963m.
This was driven by accounting adjustments to 42m on the sale of our stake in Edotech in 2004, underlying profit before eliminate inter-segment transactions of 204m 2004: 69m and nontax increased 12%.
UK Retail Banking continued to make good progress on recurring costs of 165m 2004: 32m including the costs of Head office its transformation programme, including launching a new general insurance relocation and a write-off of capitalised IT-related assets.
proposition with Aviva, a new initiative in current accounts and making ongoing investments in branding, branches and customer service.
Across our portfolio, a continuing focus throughout 2005 was on exploiting opportunities for the business in our portfolio to work together.
Synergies UK Business Banking profit before tax increased 10% to 1,428m realised during the year included product offerings from Barclays Global 2004: 1,302m, driven by strong income and balance sheet growth.
Investors and Barclaycard through our retail businesses in Spain whilst Operating expenses grew slower than income leading to an improved Barclays Capital is now one of the leading debt issuers in Iberia.
UK Business Banking put in another strong portfolio enables us to continually provide more sophisticated financing and performance based on its business model of relationship management risk management solutions to our larger clients from UK Business Banking and industry specialisation.
We are also beginning to apply our skills to Absas Barclays Capital continued its very strong growth of recent years, with portfolio, particularly in wholesale markets and credit card services.
Income Capital Strength growth of 27% was broadly-based across products and geographies.
Our capital position and strong credit rating are sources of competitive The year also saw continued investment in building Barclays Capitals scale advantage.
At the end of 2005, our risk asset ratio was 11.3%, and our Tier 1 and diversity in terms of geography, products and people.
As a result of capital ratio was 7.0%.
This strong capital position enhances our ability to investment and the profit performance, operating expenses grew 28%.
pay dividends and invest confidently in business growth.
When we look at Market risk was well controlled with DVaR falling 6% to 32m as a result the balance sheet, we focus capital management on five areas: maintaining of increased diversification.
The rate of growth of earnings once again our double A credit rating: generating sufficient capital to support weighted exceeded the rate of growth of capital consumption.
risk asset growth in the business: financing corporate activity, delivering Barclays Global Investors achieved outstanding results, with profit before dividend growth: and using share buy-backs to manage any excess capital.
tax rising 61% to 542m 2004: 336m, reflecting strong growth in net Barclays PLC 104 Annual Report 2005
