Corporate governance Accountability and audit Accountability and Audit The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 134 Going Concern to 283, and the additional information contained on pages 284 to 313, The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
concern basis for preparing the accounts.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and Internal Control the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and maintain an effective system of internal control and for reviewing which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than Companies Act 1985. eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year ended 31st December prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
2005, and to date, the Group has operated a system of internal control which provides reasonable assurance of effective and efficient Disclosure Controls and Procedures operations covering all controls, including financial and operational The Group Chief Executive, John Varley, and the Group Finance controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
Processes are in Director, Naguib Kheraj, conducted with Group Management an place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the facing the Group in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2005, Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute which are defined as those controls and procedures designed to ensure of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Board regularly that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted reviews these processes through the Board Committees.
under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within specified time periods.
As of the The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal date of the evaluation, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance control semi-annually.
An internal control compliance certification Director concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure 2.5 process is conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
controls and procedures were effective.
The Group Chief Executive and The effectiveness of controls is periodically reviewed within the Group Finance Director also concluded that no significant changes business areas.
Quarterly risk reports are made to the Board covering were made in our internal controls or in other factors that could risks of Group significance including credit risk, market risk and significantly affect these controls subsequent to their evaluation.
operational risk, including legal and compliance risk.
Regular reports are made to the Board Audit Committee by management, Internal Signed on behalf of the Board Audit and the Compliance and Legal functions covering particularly financial controls, compliance and operational controls.
Reports covering risk measurement standards and risk appetite are made to the Board Risk Committee.
The key document for the Groups internal control processes is the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF, which Matthew W Barrett describes the Groups approach to internal control and details Group 9th March 2006 policies and processes.
The GICAF is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Group Chief Executive by the Group Governance and Control Committee.
Further details of risk management procedures are given in the Risk management section on pages 47 to 94.
The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Further information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided under Supervision and Regulation on page 101.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities for Accounts The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report set out on page 132, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
