Risk management Disclosures about certain trading activities including non-exchange traded contracts The Group delivers a fully integrated service to clients for base metals, Where a valuation model is used, the fair value is determined based precious metals, oil and oil related products, power, natural gas and on the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract, other related commodities.
discounted back to present value.
The expected cash flows for each contract are either determined using market parameters such as The Groups commodity business continues to expand, as market commodity price curves, commodity volatilities, commodity conditions allow, through the addition of new products and markets, correlations, interest rate yield curves and foreign exchange rates, with the 2005 expansion of business being driven both by organic or other market prices.
growth and acquisitions of portfolios.
Where possible, fair values generated by models are independently The Group offers both over the counter OTC and exchange traded validated with reference to market price quotes or price sharing with derivatives in these commodities.
The Groups base metals business other institutions.
Where all significant model inputs can be validated also enters into outright metal purchases and sale transactions, to observable market data at the inception of the contract the while the power and gas business trades both physical forwards and valuation of the contract is based on the model value output.
The Group continues to develop and offer a range of commodity related structured products.
However, where no observable market parameter is available then the contract is valued at transaction price at inception.
Following initial The Groups principal commodity related derivative contracts are recognition, the process of calculating fair value from a valuation swaps, options, forwards and futures, which are all similar in nature model may require estimation of certain pricing parameters, to such non-commodity related contracts.
Commodity derivative assumptions or model characteristics.
These estimates are calibrated contracts include commodity specification and delivery location as against industry standards, economic models and observed transaction well as forward date and notional value.
The valuation model used for a particular instrument, the The fair values of commodity physical and derivative positions are quality and liquidity of market data used for pricing, other fair value determined through a combination of recognised market observable adjustments not specifically captured by the model, market data and prices, exchange prices, and established inter-commodity relationships.
assumptions or estimates in these are all subject to internal review The fair value of OTC commodity derivative contracts is determined and approval procedures and consistent application between primarily by using valuation models which are based on assumptions accounting periods.
supported by prices from observable market transactions in the same The tables on page 76 analyse the overall fair value of the commodity instrument or are based on available observable market data.
derivative contracts by movement over time and source of fair value.
Additionally, the positive fair value of such contracts is analysed by counterparty credit risk rating.
2.8 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 75 Risk management Disclosures about certain trading activities including non-exchange traded contracts The following tables analyse the overall fair value of the commodity derivative contracts by movement over time and source of fair value.
As at 31st December 2005 this reflected a gross positive fair value of 21,744m 2004: 4,955m and a gross negative value of 21,217m 2004: 4,780m.
Realised and unrealised profits relating to physical commodity and commodity derivative activities are included within dealing profits.
Physical commodity positions are held at fair value and reported under Trading Portfolio Assets in Note 13 to the accounts.
Total Total a 2005 2004 m m Fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the period 175 106 Contracts realised or otherwise settled during the period 137 171 Fair value of new contracts entered into during the period 156 313 Other changes in fair values 333 203 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period 527 175 Movement in fair value of commodity derivative positions Fair value source and maturity analysis Fair value of contracts at 31st December 2005 Maturity Maturity Maturity in Total less than one to excess of fair one year five years five years value Source of fair value m m m m Valuation models supported by observable market data 33 182 326 541 Valuation models not supported by observable market data 32 18 14 Total 33 150 344 527 The following table analyses the positive fair value arising on commodity derivative contracts.
As at 31st December 2005, this reflects a gross positive fair value of 21,744m.
The comparative figure for 2004 of 1,757m reflected the Groups ability under UK GAAP to net amounts due to the same counterparties.
Analysis of positive commodity derivative fair values included in the balance sheet by counterparty credit risk rating Total Total value value a 2005 2004 m m Ato AAA 12,234 1,004 BBBto BBB 8,726 538 BB and below 784 215 Total 21,744 1,757 All credit risk exposures are actively managed by the Group.
Refer to page 57 for more information on the Groups approach to credit risk management.
In particular, at 31st December 2005, 89% of all commodities credit exposure was to counterparties with cross-asset class netting agreements which allow exposure on commodities products to be reduced by amounts owed to the same counterparties in other asset classes.
This percentage is consistent across the credit ratings applying to BBB and below as well as higher rated counterparties.
Additionally, collateral agreements are held with a majority of these same counterparties that allow collateral to be called against commodity exposures.
All non-collateralised exposures are subject to credit limits, and impairment allowances are created against these exposures if appropriate.
Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Further explanation is provided on page 134.
