Directors report Directors Report Fulvio Conti will join the Board as a non-executive Director with effect Profit Attributable from 1st April 2006.
The profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent for the year Retirement and Re-election of Directors amounted to 3,447m, compared with 3,254m in 2004.
In accordance with its Articles of Association, one-third rounded Dividends down of the Directors of Barclays PLC are required to retire by rotation The final dividends for the year ended 31st December 2005 of 17.4p at each Annual General Meeting AGM, together with Directors per ordinary share of 25p each and 10p per staff share of 1 each have appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
The retiring Directors are been recommended by the Directors.
The final dividends will be paid eligible to stand for re-election.
In addition, under the UK Combined on 28th April 2006 in respect of the ordinary shares registered at the Code on Corporate Governance, every Director should seek re-election close of business on 3rd March 2006 and in respect of the staff shares by shareholders at least every three years.
With the interim dividends of The Directors retiring by rotation at the 2006 AGM and offering 9.2p per ordinary share and of 10p per staff share that were paid on themselves for re-election are Professor Dame Sandra Dawson, 3rd October 2005, the total distribution for 2005 is 26.6p 2004: 24p Sir Richard Broadbent, Gary Hoffman and Naguib Kheraj.
2.2 per ordinary share and 20p 2004: 20p per staff share.
The dividends Sir Nigel Rudd retires annually in accordance with the Combined Code for the year absorb a total of 1,687m 2004: 1,529m.
and is offering himself for re-election.
In addition, Robert E Diamond Jr, Dividend Reinvestment Plan Robert Steel, John Sunderland and Dr Danie Cronj, who were Ordinary shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in Barclays appointed as Directors since the last AGM, will be offering themselves PLC ordinary shares by participating in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
for re-election at the 2006 AGM.
Fulvio Conti, who will join the Board The plan is available to all ordinary shareholders provided that they do on 1st April 2006, will also offer himself for re-election.
not live in, or are subject to the jurisdiction of, any country where their Sir David Arculus is retiring at the AGM and is not offering himself for participation in the plan would require Barclays or The Plan Administrator re-election.
to take action to comply with local government or regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
Any shareholder wishing to Directors Interests obtain details of the plan and a mandate form should contact The Plan Directors interests in the shares of the Group on 31st December 2005, Administrator to Barclays at The Causeway, Worthing, BN99 6DA.
according to the register maintained under the Companies Act 1985, Those wishing to participate for the first time in the plan should send are shown on page 44.
The register is available for inspection during their completed mandate form to The Plan Administrator so as to be business hours at the Groups head office and will be available for received by 7th April 2006 for it to be applicable to the payment of the inspection at the 2006 AGM.
Existing participants should take no Directors Emoluments action unless they wish to alter their current mandate instructions, in Information on emoluments of Directors of Barclays PLC, in which case they should contact The Plan Administrator.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules of the Share Capital United Kingdom Listing Authority, is given in the Barclays report on The Company did not repurchase any shares during the year.
As at remuneration on pages 34 to 44 and in Note 48 to the accounts.
28th February 2006 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this Directors Indemnities report, the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase shares The Companys Articles of Association entitle every Director of the up to a maximum of 968.6 million ordinary shares.
Company to be indemnified by the Company against any liability, loss The issued ordinary share capital was increased by 35.9 million or expenditure incurred in connection with their duties, powers or ordinary shares during the year as a result of the exercise of office, to the extent permitted by statute.
The scope of the Directors options under the Sharesave and Executive Share Option Schemes.
ability to be indemnified was widened, with effect from 6th April 2005, At 31st December 2005 the issued ordinary share capital totalled by the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise 6,489.5 million shares.
Act 2004, which permits indemnities to extend, amongst other things, to the payment of a Directors defence costs, subject to the repayment Substantial Shareholdings of such costs in certain circumstances.
The Board believes that it is in As at 28th February 2006, the Company had been notified under the best interests of the Group to attract and retain the services of the sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 of the following most able and experienced Directors by offering competitive terms of notifiable interest in its shares: engagement, including the granting of indemnities on terms consistent Legal & General Group plc 3.59%.
with the amended statutory provisions.
The Company therefore wrote to each of the Directors to confirm, for the avoidance of doubt, that Board Membership each of them has the benefit of and is able to rely upon the indemnity The membership of the Boards of Directors of Barclays PLC and in the Companys Articles of Association and that the terms of the Barclays Bank PLC is identical and biographical details of the members indemnity are expressly incorporated into their terms of employment are set out on pages 18 and 19.
Robert E Diamond Jr was appointed as or appointment, as appropriate.
Qualifying third-party indemnity an executive Director with effect from 1st June 2005.
Robert Steel and provisions as defined by section 309B of the Companies Act 1985 John Sunderland were appointed as non-executive Directors with effect were accordingly in force during the course of the financial year ended from 1st June 2005 and Dr Danie Cronj was appointed as a non- 31st December 2005 for the benefit of the then Directors and, at the executive Director with effect from 1st September 2005.
Dr Jrgen date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in Zech retired from the Board on 28th April 2005 and Roger Davis left relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or have the Board on 8th December 2005. incurred in connection with their duties, powers or office.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 21 Directors report Activities Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety Barclays PLC Group is a major global financial services provider of ways, including the corporate news magazine, the intranet, briefings engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment and mobile phone SMS messaging.
banking, wealth management and investment management services.
Barclays is also committed to providing employees with opportunities to The Group operates through branches, offices and subsidiaries in the share their views and provide feedback on issues that are important to UK and overseas.
The activities of the Group are described on pages them.
An annual Employee Opinion Survey is undertaken with results 100 to 102 and developments in the Groups business during the year being reported to the Board HR and Remuneration Committee and all and an indication of likely future developments are analysed in the employees.
Roadshows and employee forums also take place.
Financial review on pages 103 and 104, with additional information on potential risk factors discussed on pages 47 to 49.
In addition, Barclays undertakes regular and formal Group, business unit and project specific consultations with Amicus, our recognised union.
Community Involvement The total commitment for 2005 was 39.1m 2004: 32m.
Equality and Diversity Barclays is committed to giving full and fair consideration to Barclays committed 35.3m in support of the community in the UK applications for employment from people with disabilities and to 2004: 29.5m and 3.8m was committed in international support continuing the employment of staff who become disabled and 2004: 2.5m.
UK commitment includes 16.7m of charitable arranging any appropriate training to achieve this.
Barclays respects and values people from all backgrounds and is Barclays is a member of the PerCent Club a group of companies that committed to becoming a more inclusive organisation with a have undertaken to ensure that donations to the community over time workforce that reflects the markets we serve.
amount to at least 1% of their UK pre-tax profit.
The Equality and Diversity programme covers employee, customer, Barclays has an extensive community programme covering many supplier and community activities, wherever appropriate.
The Group provides funding and support to over 7,500 charities and voluntary organisations, ranging from small, Health and Safety local charities like the Whitechapel Mission in East London UK, to Barclays is committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of its international organisations like the Red Cross.
We also have a very employees and, as far as is reasonably practicable, to providing and successful employee programme, which in 2005 saw more than maintaining safe working conditions.
This commitment goes beyond just 26,000 employees and pensioners worldwide taking part in Barclays fulfilling its statutory legal obligations: the Group has a wish to be proactive supported volunteering and fundraising activities.
Further information in its management of health and safety in the workplace, and recognises on our community involvement is given on pages 14 to 16. that this will strengthen both its physical and human resources.
Political Donations It is also recognised that, in addition to its employees, Barclays has The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the United responsibilities towards all persons on its premises, such as customers, Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political organisations or contractors, visitors and members of the public, and will ensure, as far incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
Absa Group Limited, as is reasonably practicable, that they are not exposed to risks to their in which the Group acquired a majority stake in 2005, made donations health and safety.
totalling 224,400 in 2005 in accordance with its policy of making Barclays monitors its health and safety performance using a variety political donations to the major South African political parties to of metrics on a monthly basis and the Board HR and Remuneration support the development of democracy in South Africa.
The Group Committee receives regular reports on health and safety from the made no other political donations in 2005.
At the AGM in 2002, shareholders gave a four-year authority for Creditors Payment Policy Barclays Bank PLC and a number of other subsidiaries to make political Barclays policy follows the UK DTIs Better Payment Practice Code, donations and incur political expenditure, within an agreed limit, as a copies of which can be obtained from the Better Payment Practice precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in The Political Groups website at www.
The Code states that a Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
These authorities, company should have a clear, consistent policy, adhered to by the which have not been used, expire on 26th April 2006.
The risk of finance and purchasing departments, that payment terms are agreed inadvertently breaching The Political Parties, Elections and at the outset and payment procedures explained to suppliers, that bills Referendums Act 2000 remains and the Directors consider it prudent are settled in accordance with payment terms agreed with suppliers, to seek a renewal of the authorities given by shareholders.
Resolutions that complaints are dealt with quickly and that suppliers are advised of to authorise the Company and Barclays Bank PLC to make political disputes.
Barclays values its suppliers and acknowledges the importance donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate of paying invoices, especially those of small businesses, promptly.
sum of 250,000 are therefore being proposed at the Barclays PLC Normal policy is to pay all small business purchases within 30 days.
Paragraph 12 3 of Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 requires Employee Involvement disclosure of trade creditor payment days.
Disclosure is required by Barclays is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success the Company, rather than the Group.
The Groups principal trading of the Company.
Staff are encouraged to participate in share option subsidiary in the UK is Barclays Bank PLC, the accounts for which are and share purchase schemes and have a substantial sum invested in prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Barclays PLC 22 Annual Report 2005 The components for the trade creditor calculation are not easily identified.
However, by identifying as closely as possible the components that would be required if Schedule 4 of the Companies Act applied, the trade creditor payment days for Barclays Bank PLC for 2005 were 35 days 2004: 34 days.
This is an arithmetical calculation and does not necessarily reflect our practice, which is described above, nor the experience of any individual creditor.
Financial Instruments Barclays financial risk management objectives and policies, including the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which hedge accounting is used, and the exposure to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are set out in pages 50 to 77 under the headings, Risk Management and Control Overview, Credit Risk 2.2 Management, Market Risk Management, Capital and Liquidity Risk Management and Derivatives and in Note 15 and Notes 54 to 60 to the accounts.
Events after the Balance Sheet Date On 1st January 2006, Barclays completed the sale to Absa Group Limited of the Barclays South African branch business.
This business consists of the Barclays Capital South African operations and Corporate and Business Banking activities carried out by International Retail and Commercial Banking South African branch, together with the associated assets and liabilities.
The Auditors The Board Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group, including monitoring the Groups use of the auditors for non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
More details on this can be found on pages 27 and 28 and Note 8 to the accounts.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors,  LLP, be reappointed.
 LLP have signified their willingness to continue in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2006 AGM.
The Annual General Meeting The Barclays PLC AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre on Thursday 27th April 2006.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate document sent to shareholders with this report.
By order of the Board Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary 9th March 2006 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 23
