Our businesses UK Banking Barclays Capital Barclays Global Investors 11.1m $329.2bn US$1.5tn Current accounts 183,000 Business Banking Value of debt Assets under customers issued globally management UK Banking delivers banking Barclays Capital is a leading Barclays Global Investors BGI solutions to retail and business global investment bank which is one of the worlds largest banking customers in the United provides large corporate, asset managers and a leading Kingdom, through a variety of institutional and government global provider of investment channels comprising the branch clients with solutions to their management products and network, cash machines, financing and risk management services.
BGI offers structured investment strategies banking and relationship such as indexing, global asset allocation and Barclays Capital services a wide variety managers.
It is managed through risk-controlled active products including of client needs, from capital raising and two business areas, UK Retail hedge funds: provides related investment managing foreign exchange, interest rate, Banking and UK Business services such as securities lending, cash equity and commodity risks, through to management and portfolio transition Banking.
providing technical advice and expertise.
In addition, BGI is the global leader Activities are organised into three principal in assets and products in the exchange UK Retail Banking aims to build broader and areas: Rates, which includes fixed income, traded funds business, with over 140 funds deeper relationships with both existing and foreign exchange, commodities, emerging for institutions and individuals trading in new customers.
It provides a wide range of markets, money markets sales, trading eleven markets globally.
BGIs investment products and services to retail customers, and research, prime services and equity philosophy is founded on managing all including current accounts, savings, products: Credit, which includes primary dimensions of performance: a consistent mortgages, and general insurance: banking and secondary activities for loans and focus on controlling risk, return and cost.
services for small businesses and banking, bonds for investment grade, high yield and investment products and advice to affluent emerging market credits, as well as hybrid customers.
capital products, asset based finance, commercial mortgage backed securities, UK Business Banking provides relationship credit derivatives, structured capital markets banking to larger and medium business and large asset leasing: and Private Equity.
customers in the United Kingdom via a network of relationship and industry sector specialist managers: offers access to the products and expertise of other businesses in the Group, particularly Barclays Capital: and provides asset financing and leasing solutions through a specialist business.
Barclays PLC 4 Annual Report 2005 1.1 Wealth Management Barclaycard International Retail and Commercial Banking 78.3bn 11.2m 1,516 UK customers 4.3m International cards International branches Total customer funds in issue including Absa Wealth Management serves Barclaycard is a multi-brand International Retail and affluent, high net worth and international credit card and Commercial Banking IRCB corporate clients, providing consumer lending business: it provides Barclays international private banking, offshore banking, is one of the leading credit card personal and corporate stockbroking, asset management, businesses in Europe.
financial planning services and It includes the Absa Group in In the UK, Barclaycard manages the manages the closed life fund.
South Africa in which Barclays Barclaycard branded credit cards and other acquired a majority stake on non-Barclaycard branded card portfolios Private banking offers bespoke banking and 27th July 2005. including Monument, SkyCard and Solution investment solutions to high net worth Personal Finance.
In consumer lending, individuals in the UK and abroad, including IRCB provides a range of banking services, Barclaycard manages both secured and investment and wealth structuring advice including current accounts, savings, unsecured loan portfolios, through Barclays and banking services.
Offshore banking investments, mortgages and loans to branded loans, mostly Barclayloan, and also serves the corporate banking needs of personal and corporate customers across through the FirstPlus and Clydesdale clients in the offshore islands and overseas Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, the Caribbean, Financial Services businesses.
together with wealth management and Africa and the Middle East.
banking services for expatriates and non-UK Outside the UK, Barclaycard provides credit nationals living in the UK & overseas.
It works closely with other parts of the cards in the United States through Stockbroking offers execution only Group, including Barclaycard, UK Banking, Barclaycard US previously Juniper, stockbroking services.
Asset management Barclays Capital and Barclays Global Germany, Spain, Greece, Italy, Portugal provides bespoke advisory and discretionary Investors, to leverage synergies from product and a number of other countries.
In the investment advice and multi-manager and service propositions.
Nordic region, Barclaycard operates investment services to mass affluent clients through Entercard, a joint venture with as well as some high net worth individuals.
Absa Group Limited is one of South Africas FreningsSparbanken Swedbank.
Financial Planning provides tailored and largest financial services organisations impartial financial advice on life, pensions, serving personal, commercial and corporate Barclaycard Business processes card investments and inheritance planning customers predominantly in South Africa.
payments for retailers and issues purchasing including estates & trusts services to both Absa serves retail customers through a and credit cards to business customers and personal and business customers.
variety of distribution channels and offers to the UK Government.
a full range of banking services, including basic bank accounts, mortgages, instalment Barclaycard works closely with other parts finance, credit cards, bancassurance products of the Group, including UK Retail Banking, and wealth management services: for UK Business Banking and International Retail commercial and large corporate customers and Commercial Banking, to leverage their Absa offers customised business solutions.
As at 31st December 2005, Barclays owned Comprises customers deposits and assets under management.
56.6% of Absa Group Limiteds ordinary shares and has voting control.
