Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC a Matthew W Barrett Fulvio Conti age 58 will join the Board as a Chairman age 61 was appointed as non-executive Director on 1st April 2006.
He had is Chief Executive Officer and General Manager been Group Chief Executive since October of Enel SpA, the Italian energy group, a position 1999, when he joined the Board.
He joined he has held since May 2005.
He became Chief Barclays from Bank of Montreal where he Financial Officer of Enel SpA in 1999.
Fulvio was was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
formerly General Manager and Chief Financial He joined the Bank of Montreal in 1962.
Officer of Telecom Italia and between 1996 and Matthew W Barrett Sir David Arculus In 1994, he became an Officer of the Order 1998 was General Manager and Chief Financial of Canada, the countrys highest civilian Officer of Ferrovie dello Stato, the Italian national honour, and in 1995, he was awarded the title railway.
Fulvio began his career in 1969 with of Canadas Outstanding CEO of the Year.
the Mobil Group, where he held a number of He is a Member of the International Advisory executive positions in Italy and abroad, including Board of British American Business Inc. a period as Chief Financial Officer for Europe.
the Federal Reserve Bank of New Yorks a International Advisory Committee, Institut Dr Danie Cronj age 59 joined the Board International DEtudes Bancaires, the on 1st September 2005 following the Chartered Management Institute and the acquisition by Barclays of a majority stake in European Financial Services Round Table.
Absa, where he is Chairman.
Danie joined Absa He chairs the Board Corporate Governance in 1987 and was formerly Deputy Chief and Nominations Committee.
Executive and Group Chief Executive until Sir Richard Broadbent Leigh Clifford 1997.
He joined Volkskas in 1975 and held a Sir David Arculus age 59 joined the Board various positions in Volkskas Merchant Bank in February 1997.
He has recently joined the and Volkskas Group.
Danie is also a director Board of Telefnica, following the takeover of of Idion Technology Holdings Limited.
He is O2 plc, where he was Chairman.
He is also a a member of the Board Risk Committee.
non-executive Director of Pearson Plc.
a Until the end of 2005 Sir David was Chairman Professor Dame Sandra Dawson age 59 of the UK Governments Better Regulation joined the Board in March 2003.
He is a member of the Finance currently KPMG Professor of Management Committee of Oxford University Press and Studies at the University of Cambridge and has is Deputy President of the CBI.
Sir Davids been Director of Judge Business School at previous positions include Chairman of Severn Cambridge since 1995 and Master of Sidney Fulvio Conti Dr Danie Cronj Trent plc, Earls Court and Olympia Group Sussex College, Cambridge since 1999.
Limited and IPC Group Limited and Group Professor Dawson is a member of the UKManaging Director of EMAP plc.
He is a Indian Round Table and has held a range of member of the Board HR and Remuneration non-executive posts in other organisations Committee and the Board Corporate including Rand Europe UK, the Society for Governance and Nominations Committee.
the Advancement of Management Studies, JP Morgan Fleming Claverhouse Investment a Sir Richard Broadbent Trust and Riverside Mental Health Trust.
She Senior Independent Director age 52 is a member of the Board Audit Committee.
joined the Board in September 2003.
He was a appointed Senior Independent Director on Sir Andrew Likierman age 62 joined 1st September 2004.
He is Chairman of the Board on 1st September 2004.
He was Arriva plc and was previously the Executive previously Managing Director, Financial Professor Dame Sandra Sir Andrew Likierman Chairman of HM Customs and Excise from Management, Reporting and Audit and Head Dawson 2000 to 2003.
He was formerly a member of of the Government Accountancy Service at the Group Executive Committee of Schroders HM Treasury.
He is Professor of Management plc and a non-executive Director of the Practice in Accounting at the London Business Securities Institute.
He is a member of the School and a non-executive Director of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee Bank of England.
Sir Andrew was formerly a and the Board Corporate Governance and non-executive Director and Chairman of MORI Nominations Committee and, from 1st January Group Limited.
He is a member of the Board 2006, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
Audit and Board Risk Committees.
a a Leigh Clifford age 58 joined the Board on Sir Nigel Rudd, DL 1st October 2004.
He is Chief Executive of Deputy Chairman age 59 joined the Board in Rio Tinto, having worked for the Rio Tinto February 1996 and was appointed Deputy Sir Nigel Rudd Stephen Russell Group since 1970.
He has extensive experience Chairman on 1st September 2004.
He is of managing a business that operates in a currently non-executive Chairman of Pilkington number of global regions.
He was previously PLC, Pendragon PLC and Boots Group PLC.
Chairman of the Coal Industry Advisory Board He is Chairman of the Board HR and of the International Energy Agency and until Remuneration Committee and a member of May 2004, a Director of Freeport-McMoran the Board Corporate Governance and Copper & Gold Inc.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Sir Nigel is also Board HR and Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Groups Brand and Reputation Committee.
Barclays PLC 18 Annual Report 2005 a b c Stephen Russell age 60 joined the Board in Gary Hoffman October 2000 on completion of the acquisition Chairman, UK Banking and Chairman, of Woolwich plc.
He joined Woolwich plcs Barclaycard age 45 was appointed as Chief Board as a non-executive Director in 1998.
Executive of Barclaycard in September 2001 He was Chief Executive of Boots Group PLC and joined the Board on 1st January 2004. from 2000 until 2003, having worked for Boots He was appointed Chairman of UK Banking since 1967.
He is Chairman of the Board Audit and Chairman of Barclaycard in December Committee and is a member of the Board 2005.
Gary joined the Group in 1982 and has Robert Steel John Sunderland Risk and Board Corporate Governance and held a variety of management positions, as Nominations Committees.
Stephen is also a well as sitting on the Executive Committee of trustee of St Johns Ambulance and Tommys Retail Financial Services and being a member the Baby Charity and is on the Council of of the Group Operating Committee.
the Group Executive Committee in 2001.
Gary is also a non-executive Director of a Robert Steel age 54 joined the Board on Trinity Mirror PLC.
He retired from Goldman Sachs c in January 2004 after more than 25 years with Paul Idzik the firm.
At the time of his retirement he was Chief Operating Officer age 45 joined a Vice-Chairman of the firm.
Bob is also a the Executive Committee and became Chief Senior Fellow at the Center for Business and Operating Officer in November 2004.
He is also Government, John F. Kennedy School of Chairman of the Group Operating Committee.
John Varley Robert E Diamond Jr Government, Harvard University and Chairman Paul was formerly Chief Operating Officer of of the Board of Trustees of Duke University.
He joined Barclays Capital in He is also a Member of the New York Stock August 1999 following a career with Booz Exchange NYSE Inc. and a former Director of Allen & Hamilton, where he was a partner and the Securities Industry Association USA.
He is senior member of the Financial Institutions a member of the Board Audit Committee.
a b c John Sunderland age 60 joined the Board Naguib Kheraj on 1st June 2005.
He has been Chairman of Group Finance Director age 41 was Cadbury Schweppes PLC since May 2003. appointed as Group Finance Director and John joined Cadbury Schweppes in 1968 and joined the Board on 1st January 2004.
He had was appointed Chief Executive in September previously held the positions of Chief Executive 1996.
He is also Senior Independent nonof Barclays Private Clients, Deputy Chairman Gary Hoffman Paul Idzik executive Director of The Rank Group Plc.
of Barclays Global Investors, Global Head of John is President of the CBI and former Investment Banking and Global Chief President of both ISBA, the Incorporated Operating Officer at Barclays Capital.
Society of British Advertisers and the Food He joined the Group Executive Committee in and Drink Federation.
John is a Director of the March 2003.
Before joining Barclays, he was Financial Reporting Council, an Advisory a Managing Director and held the post of Board Member of CVC Capital Partners and Chief Financial Officer for Europe at Salomon of Ian Jones & Partners, a Leadership Council Brothers.
Naguib is also a non-executive Member of Young Enterprise.
He is a member Director of Absa Group Limited.
of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee.
b c David Roberts b c John Varley Chief Executive, International Retail and Naguib Kheraj David Roberts Group Chief Executive age 49 was Commercial Banking age 43 was appointed appointed as Group Chief Executive on as Chief Executive, International Retail and 1st September 2004, prior to which he had Commercial Banking on 1st January 2005. been Group Deputy Chief Executive from David was formerly Chief Executive of Private 1st January 2004.
He held the position of Clients & International from 1st January 2004 Group Finance Director from 2000 until the and joined the Board on the same date.
He joined the Group Executive He joined the Group in 1983 and has held Committee in September 1996 and was various management positions, including appointed to the Board in June 1998.
He was Chief Executive of Personal Financial Services Chief Executive of Retail Financial Services and Chief Executive of Business Banking.
from 1998 to 2000 and Chairman of the Asset He joined the Group Executive Committee in Management Division from 1995 to 1998.
David is also a non-executive Director of Absa Group Limited and, on 1st March 2006, b c Robert E Diamond Jr became a non-executive Director of BAA plc.
President, Barclays PLC and CEO, Investment Banking and Investment Management age 54 was appointed President of Barclays PLC and became an executive Director on 1st June 2005.
He is responsible for the investment banking, investment management and wealth management businesses for the Group.
He has been a member of the Group Executive Committee since September 1997. a Independent non-executive Director He joined Barclays in July 1996 from CSFB b Executive Director where he was Vice-Chairman and Head of Global Fixed Income and Foreign Exchange.
c Group Executive Committee member Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 19
