Financial review Critical accounting estimates Critical Accounting Estimates The fair value of financial instruments is provided in Note 57 to The Groups accounting policies are set out on pages 134 to 145. the accounts.
Certain of these policies, as well as estimates made by management, are Allowances for Loan Impairment considered to be important to an understanding of the Groups financial Allowances for loan impairment represent managements estimate of condition since they require management to make difficult, complex or the losses incurred in the loan portfolios as at the balance sheet date.
subjective judgements and estimates, some of which may relate to Changes to the allowances for loan impairment and changes to the matters that are inherently uncertain.
The following accounting policies provisions for undrawn contractually committed facilities and include estimates which are particularly sensitive in terms of judgements guarantees provided are reported in the consolidated income statement and the extent to which estimates are used.
Other accounting policies, as part of the impairment charge and other credit risk provisions.
such as the determination of the cost of share-based payments also involve significant amounts of judgements and estimates, but the total Within the retail and small businesses portfolios which comprise large amounts involved are not significant to the financial statements.
numbers of small homogeneous assets with similar risk characteristics Management has discussed the accounting policies and critical where credit scoring techniques are generally used, statistical accounting estimates with the Board Accounts Committee.
techniques are used to calculate impairment allowances on a portfolio basis, based on historical recovery rates and assumed emergence Fair Value of Financial Instruments periods.
These statistical analyses use as primary inputs the extent to Some of the Banks financial instruments are carried at fair value which accounts in the portfolio are in arrears and historical information through profit or loss, including derivatives held for trading or risk on the eventual losses encountered from such delinquent portfolios.
There are many such models in use, each tailored to a product, line of The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the business or customer category.
The models are updated from time to instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between time.
However, experience suggests that the models are reliable and willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
stable, stemming from the very large numbers of accounts from which the model building information is drawn.
These models do not contain Financial instruments entered into as trading transactions, together judgemental inputs, but judgement and knowledge is needed in with any associated hedging, are measured at fair value and the selecting the statistical methods to use when the models are resultant profits and losses are included in net trading income, along developed or revised.
The impairment allowance reflected in the with interest and dividends arising from long and short positions and financial statements for these portfolios is therefore considered to be funding costs relating to trading activities.
Assets and liabilities reasonable and supportable.
resulting from gains and losses on financial instruments held for trading are reported gross in trading portfolio assets and liabilities or The impairment charge reflected in the income statement for these derivative financial instruments, reduced by the effects of qualifying portfolios is 1,254m and amounts to 80% of the total impairment netting agreements with counterparties.
Financial instruments are charge in 2005. either priced with reference to a quoted market price for that For larger accounts impairment allowances are calculated on an instrument or by using a valuation model.
Where the fair value is individual basis and all relevant considerations that have a bearing on calculated using financial markets pricing models, the methodology is the expected future cash flows are taken into account, for example, the to calculate the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific business prospects for the customer, the realisable value of collateral, contract and then discount these values back to a present value.
These the Groups position relative to other claimants, the reliability of models use as their basis independently sourced market parameters customer information and the likely cost and duration of the work-out including, for example, interest rate yield curves, equities and process.
The level of the impairment allowance is the difference commodities prices, option volatilities and currency rates.
Most market between the value of the discounted expected future cash flows parameters are either directly observable or are implied from discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, and its carrying instrument prices.
However, profits or losses are recognised upon initial amount.
Subjective judgements are made in this process.
Furthermore, recognition only when such profits can be measured solely by judgements change with time as new information becomes available or reference to observable current market transactions or valuation as work-out strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the techniques based solely on observable market inputs.
impairment allowance as individual decisions are taken, case by case.
The calculation of fair value for any financial instrument may also Changes in these estimates would result in a change in the allowances require adjustment of the quoted price or model value to reflect the and have a direct impact on the impairment charge.
However, the cost of credit risk where not embedded in underlying models or prices impairment charge reflected in the financial statements in relation used, or to reflect hedging costs not captured in pricing models to to larger accounts is 320m or 20% of the total impairment charge the extent they would be taken into account by a market participant in 3.3 in 2005. determining a price.
The process of calculating fair value on illiquid instruments or from a valuation model may require estimation of Further information on impairment allowances is set out on pages 64 certain pricing parameters, assumptions or model characteristics.
These estimates are calibrated against industry standards, economic Goodwill models and observed transaction prices.
The effect of changing these Management have to consider at least annually whether the current assumptions for those financial instruments for which the fair values carrying value of goodwill is impaired.
The first step of the impairment were measured using valuation techniques that are determined in full review process requires the identification of independent operating or in part on assumptions that are not supported by observable market units, by dividing the Group business into as many largely independent prices to a range of reasonably possible alternative assumptions, would income streams as is reasonably practicable.
The goodwill is then be to provide a range of 87m lower to 121m higher than the fair allocated to these independent operating units.
The first element of this values recognised in the financial statements.
allocation is based on the areas of the business expected to benefit from the synergies derived from the acquisition.
The second element Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 105 Financial review Critical accounting estimates reflects the allocation of the net assets acquired and the difference Retirement Benefit Obligations between the consideration paid for those net assets and their fair value.
The Group provides pension plans for employees in most parts of the This allocation is reviewed following business reorganisation.
Arrangements for staff retirement benefits vary from country to carrying value of the operating unit, including the allocated goodwill, country and are made in accordance with local regulations and is compared to its fair value to determine whether any impairment customs.
For defined contribution schemes, the pension cost exists.
Detailed calculations may need to be carried out taking into recognised in the profit and loss account represents the contributions consideration changes in the market in which a business operates payable to the scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, actuarial valuation e. g. competitive activity, regulatory change.
In the absence of readily of each of the schemes obligations using the projected unit credit available market price data this calculation is usually based upon method and the fair valuation of each of the schemes assets are discounting expected pre-tax cash flows at the Groups cost of equity, performed annually in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19. the determination of both of which requires the exercise of judgement.
The actuarial valuation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, The goodwill impairment testing in 2005 indicated that none of the the key ones being mortality, morbidity, investment returns and goodwill was impaired.
The most significant amounts of goodwill relate expense inflation assumptions.
Mortality estimates are based on to the Absa and Woolwich acquisitions.
standard industry and national mortality tables, adjusted where Intangible Assets appropriate to reflect the Groups own experience.
The returns on Intangible assets that derive their value from contractual customer fixed interest investments are set to market yields at the valuation relationships or that can be separated and sold and have a finite useful date less an allowance for risk to ensure consistency with the asset life are amortised over their estimated useful life.
The returns on UK and overseas equities are set relative to fixed interest returns by considering the long-term expected equity Determining the estimated useful life of these finite life intangible assets risk premium.
The expense inflation assumption reflects long-term requires an analysis of circumstances, and judgement by the Banks expectations of both earnings and retail price inflation.
At each balance sheet date, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances dictate, intangible assets are The difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the assessed for indications of impairment.
If indications are present, these present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet assets are subject to an impairment review.
The impairment review date, adjusted for any historic unrecognised actuarial gains or losses comprises a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset with its and past service cost, is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet.
recoverable amount: the higher of the assets or the cash-generating An asset, arising for example, as a result of past over-funding or the units net selling price and its value in use.
Net selling price is calculated performance of the plan investments, is recognised to the extent that by reference to the amount at which the asset could be disposed of in a it does not exceed the present value of future contribution holidays or binding sale agreement in an arms-length transaction evidenced by an refunds of contributions.
To the extent that any unrecognised gains or active market or recent transactions for similar assets.
Value in use is losses at the start of the measurement year in relation to any individual calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows obtainable as defined benefit scheme exceed 10% of the greater of the fair value of a result of the assets continued use, including those resulting from its the scheme assets and the defined benefit obligation for that scheme, ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
a proportion of the excess is recognised in the income statement.
On the acquisition of Absa, the value of intangible assets such as The Groups IAS 19 pension deficit across all pension and postbrands, core deposit intangibles and customer lists was determined retirement schemes as at 31st December 2005 was 2,879m using income approach methodologies, such as the discounted cash 2004: 2,464m.
This comprises net recognised liabilities of 1,737m flow method and the relief from royalty method that estimate net cash 2004: 1,786m and unrecognised actuarial losses of 1,142m flows attributable to an asset over its economic life and discount to 2004: 678m.
The net recognised liabilities comprises retirement present value using an appropriate rate of return.
These approaches benefit liabilities of 1,823m 2004: 1,865m relating to schemes assume that the income derived from the asset will, to a large extent, that are in deficit, and assets of 86m 2004: 79m relating to control its value.
The discount rate used in the valuations was based on schemes that are in surplus.
the cost of equity adjusted for risk and ranges from 13.7% to 16.1%.
The Groups IAS 19 pension deficit in respect of the main UK scheme as In the case of brands, the pre-tax royalty rates were estimated to be at 31st December 2005 was 2,535m 2004: 2,220m.
The estimated 1.5% based on similar financial services transactions, information actuarial funding position of the main UK pension scheme as at about marketing expenditure on the brands and consideration of the 31st December 2005, estimated from the triennial valuation in 2004, unique factors relating to the brand that third parties would consider.
was a surplus of 900m 2004: deficit of 50m.
Cash flows for customer lists were based on historic revenues and customer numbers adjusted for expected attrition and taking account Cash contributions to the Groups schemes totalled 373m in of applicable costs to determine expected margins.
These margins 2005 2004: 279m, including 354m to the main UK scheme varied, depending on the nature of the customer relationships.
approach was applied to core deposit intangibles with cash flows being Further information on retirement benefit obligations is set out in calculated by charging an appropriate cost to the identified spread, on a Note 38 to the accounts.
In all the calculations, the rate of tax was estimated to be 31.6% of operating profit.
Further information on intangible assets is set out in Note 28 to the accounts.
