Risk management Derivatives The use of derivatives and their sale to customers as risk Interest Rate Derivatives management products is an integral part of the Groups trading The Groups principal interest rate related contracts are interest rate activities.
These instruments are also used to manage the Groups swaps, forward rate agreements, basis swaps, caps, floors and own exposure to fluctuations in interest, exchange rates and swaptions.
Included in this product category are transactions that commodity and equity prices as part of its asset and liability include combinations of these features.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to Barclays Capital manages the trading derivatives book as part of the exchange fixed rate and floating rate interest by means of periodic market risk book.
This includes foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, payments based upon a notional principal amount and the interest commodity and credit derivatives.
The policies regarding market risk rates defined in the contract.
Certain agreements combine interest rate management are outlined in the market risk management section on and foreign currency swap transactions, which may or may not include pages 67 to 71. the exchange of principal amounts.
A basis swap is a form of interest rate swap, in which both parties exchange interest payments based on The policies for derivatives that are used to manage the Groups own floating rates, where the floating rates are based upon different exposure to interest and exchange rate fluctuations are outlined in the underlying reference indices.
In a forward rate agreement, two parties asset and liability market risk section on page 70. agree a future settlement of the difference between an agreed rate and Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one a future interest rate, applied to a notional principal amount.
The or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the settlement, which generally occurs at the start of the contract period, contract.
They include swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, is the discounted present value of the payment that would otherwise options and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect be made at the end of that period.
the Groups net interest income, dealing profits, commissions received Credit Derivatives and other assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts of the contracts are The Groups principal credit derivative related contracts include not recorded on the balance sheet.
credit default swaps and total return swaps.
A credit derivative is an A description of the impact of first time adoption of International arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset Financial Reporting Standards IFRS is provided in Note 62. is transferred from the buyer to the seller of protection.
The Group participates both in exchange traded and OTC derivatives A credit default swap is a contract where the protection seller receives markets.
premium or interest related payments in return for contracting to make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event.
Credit Exchange Traded Derivatives events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
cleared on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and options on futures.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide A total return swap is an instrument whereby the seller of protection margin daily with cash or other security at the exchange, to which the receives the full return of the asset, including both the income and holders look for ultimate settlement.
change in the capital value of the asset.
The buyer in return receives a predetermined amount.
Over the Counter Traded Derivatives OTC The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded A description of how credit derivatives are used within the Group is 2.8 over the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange.
These instruments range from commoditised transactions in derivative Equity Derivatives markets, to trades where the specific terms are tailored to the The Groups principal equity related contracts are equity and stock requirements of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry index swaps and options including warrants, which are equity options standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of a listed on an exchange.
An equity swap is an agreement between two master agreement, with individual transaction confirmations.
The parties to exchange periodic payments, based upon a notional principal existence of a signed master agreement is intended to give the Group amount, with one side paying fixed or floating interest and the other protection in situations where a counterparty is in default.
side paying based on the actual return of the stock or stock index.
An equity option provides the buyer with the right, but not the Foreign Exchange Derivatives obligation, either to purchase or sell a specified stock, basket of stocks The Groups principal exchange rate related contracts are forward foreign or stock index at a specified price or level on or before a specified date.
exchange contracts, currency swaps and currency options.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell a specified Commodity Derivatives quantity of foreign currency, usually on a specified future date at an The Groups principal commodity related derivative contracts are agreed rate.
A currency swap generally involves the exchange, or swaps, options, forwards and futures.
The main commodities notional exchange, of equivalent amounts of two currencies and a transacted are base metals, precious metals, oil and oil related commitment to exchange interest periodically until the principal products, power and natural gas.
amounts are re-exchanged on a future date.
A description of commodity derivatives is provided on page 75.
Currency options provide the buyer with the right, but not the obligation, either to purchase or sell a fixed amount of a currency at a specified exchange rate on or before a future date.
As compensation for assuming the option risk, the option writer generally receives a premium at the start of the option period.
