Business description UK Banking Wealth Management UK Banking delivers banking solutions to Barclays UK retail and Wealth Management serves affluent, high net worth and corporate business banking customers.
It offers a range of integrated products clients, providing private banking, offshore banking, stockbroking, asset and services and access to the expertise of other Group businesses.
management and financial planning services.
Customers are served through a variety of channels comprising the Wealth Management closed life assurance activities branch network, automated teller machines, telephone banking, online Wealth Management closed life assurance activities comprise the banking and relationship managers.
UK Banking is managed through closed life assurance businesses of Barclays and Woolwich in the UK.
two business areas, UK Retail Banking and UK Business Banking.
Barclaycard UK Retail Banking Barclaycard is a multi-brand international credit card and consumer UK Retail Banking comprises Personal Customers, Mortgages, Small lending business: it is one of the leading credit card businesses in Business and UK Premier.
This cluster of businesses aims to build Europe.
broader and deeper relationships with both existing and new customers.
Personal Customers and Mortgages provide a wide range In the UK, Barclaycard manages the Barclaycard branded credit cards of products and services to retail customers, including current and other non-Barclaycard branded card portfolios including accounts, savings, mortgages, and general insurance.
Small Business Monument, SkyCard and Solution Personal Finance.
In consumer provides banking services to small businesses.
UK Premier provides lending, Barclaycard manages both secured and unsecured loan banking, investment products and advice to affluent customers.
portfolios, through Barclays branded loans, being mostly Barclayloan, and also through the FirstPlus and Clydesdale Financial Services UK Business Banking businesses.
UK Business Banking provides relationship banking to Barclays larger and medium business customers in the United Kingdom.
Customers Outside the UK, Barclaycard provides credit cards in the United States are served by a network of relationship and industry sector specialist through Barclaycard US previously Juniper, Germany, Spain, Greece, managers who provide local access to an extensive range of products Italy, Portugal and a number of other countries.
In the Nordic region, and services, as well as offering business information and support.
Barclaycard operates through Entercard, a joint venture with Customers are also offered access to the products and expertise of FreningsSparbanken Swedbank.
other businesses in the Group, particularly Barclays Capital.
UK Barclaycard Business processes card payments for retailers and Business Banking provides asset financing and leasing solutions issues purchasing and credit cards to business customers and to the through a specialist business.
Barclays Capital Barclaycard works closely with other parts of the Group, including Barclays Capital is a leading global investment bank which provides UK Retail Banking, UK Business Banking and International Retail and large corporate, institutional and government clients with solutions to Commercial Banking, to leverage their distribution capabilities.
their financing and risk management needs.
International Retail and Commercial Banking Barclays Capital services a wide variety of client needs, from capital International Retail and Commercial Banking provides Barclays raising and managing foreign exchange, interest rate, equity and international personal and corporate customers with banking services.
commodity risks, through to providing technical advice and expertise.
The products and services offered to customers are tailored to meet Activities are organised into three principal areas: Rates, which includes the regulatory and commercial environments within each country.
fixed income, foreign exchange, commodities, emerging markets, For reporting purposes in 2005, the operations have been grouped money markets sales, trading and research, prime services and equity into two components: International Retail and Commercial Banking products: Credit, which includes primary and secondary activities for excluding Absa encompasses Barclays operations in continental loans and bonds for investment grade, high yield and emerging market Europe, Africa and the Middle East and the Caribbean joint venture: credits, as well as hybrid capital products, asset-based finance, and International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa represents commercial mortgage backed securities, credit derivatives, structured the total business of Absa Group Limited in which Barclays acquired capital markets and large asset leasing: and Private Equity.
Barclays Global Investors International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa Barclays Global Investors BGI is one of the worlds largest asset International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa provides managers and a leading global provider of investment management a range of banking services, including current accounts, savings, products and services.
investments, mortgages and loans to personal and corporate BGI offers structured investment strategies such as indexing, global customers across Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, the Caribbean, Africa asset allocation and risk-controlled active products, including hedge and the Middle East.
BGI also provides related investment services such as securities International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa works lending, cash management and portfolio transition services.
In closely with other parts of the Group, including Barclaycard, UK addition, BGI is the global leader in assets and products in the Banking, Barclays Capital and Barclays Global Investors, to leverage exchange traded funds business, with over 140 funds for institutions synergies from product and service propositions.
and individuals trading in 11 markets globally.
BGIs investment philosophy is founded on managing all dimensions of performance: a consistent focus on controlling risk, return and cost.
Barclays PLC 100 Annual Report 2005 International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa Barclays Bank PLC is authorised by the FSA to carry on a range of Absa Group Limited is one of South Africas largest financial services regulated activities within the UK and is subject to consolidated organisations serving personal, commercial and corporate customers supervision.
In its role as supervisor, the FSA is seeking to ensure the safety predominantly in South Africa.
Absa serves retail customers through a and soundness of financial institutions with the aim of strengthening, but variety of distribution channels and offers a full range of banking not guaranteeing, the protection of customers.
The FSAs continuing services, including basic bank accounts, mortgages, instalment finance, supervision of financial institutions authorised by it is conducted through a credit cards, bancassurance products and wealth management services: variety of regulatory tools, including the collection of information from for commercial and large corporate customers Absa offers customised statistical and prudential returns, reports obtained from skilled persons, business solutions.
As at 31st December 2005, Barclays owned 56.6% visits to firms and regular meetings with management to discuss issues of Absa Group Limiteds ordinary shares and has voting control.
such as performance, risk management and strategy.
Head office functions and other operations Under the FSAs risk-based approach to supervision, the starting point Head office functions and other operations comprise: for the FSAs supervision of all financial institutions is based on a systematic analysis of the risk profile for each authorised firm.
The FSA Head office and central support functions has adopted a homogeneous risk, processes and resourcing model in discontinued businesses in transition its approach to its supervisory responsibilities known as the ARROW consolidation adjustments model and the results of the risk assessment are used by the FSA to Head office and central support functions comprise the following develop a risk mitigation programme for a firm.
The FSA also areas: Executive Management, Finance, Treasury, Corporate Affairs, promulgates requirements that banks and other financial institutions Human Resources, Strategy and Planning, Internal Audit, Legal, are required to meet on matters such as capital adequacy see Capital Corporate Secretariat, Property, Tax, Compliance and Risk.
Costs ratios on page 126, limits on large exposures to individual entities and incurred wholly on behalf of the businesses are recharged to them.
groups of closely connected entities, and liquidity.
Discontinued businesses in transition principally relate to Middle Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the UK Eastern corporate banking businesses and airline leasing activities.
are subject to a single financial services compensation scheme the These businesses are centrally managed with the objective of Financial Services Compensation Scheme where an authorised firm is maximising recovery from the assets.
unable or is likely to be unable to meet claims made against it due to its financial circumstances.
Different levels of compensation are Consolidation adjustments largely reflect the elimination of inter available to eligible claimants depending upon whether the protected segment transactions.
claim is in relation to a deposit, a contract of insurance or protected Competition and Outlook investment business.
The manager of the Scheme is able to make an The Barclays Group operates in a number of highly competitive offer of compensation or, in respect of insurance contracts, offer to business environments and competes with a wide range of financial continue cover or provide assistance to an insurance undertaking to services companies, from banks to leasing companies.
allow it to continue insurance business in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
Most deposits made with branches of Barclays Bank PLC In all business areas, competition from both incumbent players and within the European Economic Area EEA which are denominated in new market entrants continues to increase, and the landscape will Sterling or other EEA currencies including the euro are covered by the remain highly competitive.
Across businesses and geographies, the Scheme.
Most claims made in respect of designated investment pace of consolidation in the financial services industry has also business will also be protected claims if the business was carried on increased in recent years, and this is likely to continue to accelerate.
from the UK or from a branch of the bank or investment firm in This consolidation could result in even more intense competition, as another EEA member state.
The Scheme establishes the maximum larger, better-capitalised firms, with stronger local presence in specific amounts of compensation payable in respect of protected claims: for geographies, emerge.
eligible protected deposit claims, this is 31,700 100% of the first Present in more than 60 countries, the Barclays Group also operates in 2,000 and 90% of the next 33,000 and for protected investment a number of highly competitive geographic environments, including business, this is 48,000 100% of the first 30,000 and 90% of the 3.2 the UK, Continental Europe, the US, sub-Saharan Africa and the Asianext 20,000.
There is no maximum limit for protected insurance Pacific region.
The first 2,000 of a valid claim is paid in full together with 90% of the remaining loss.
Supervision and Regulation Barclays is an international financial services group involved primarily Outside the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators in Banking, Investment Banking and Asset Management, and has located in continental Europe, in particular France, Germany, operations in some 60 countries.
The Groups operations, including its Spain, Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory overseas offices, subsidiaries and associates, are subject to rules and authorities : Asia Pacific various regulatory authorities including the regulations, including reserve and reporting requirements and conduct Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Japanese FSA and the Monetary of business requirements imposed by the relevant central banks and Authority of Singapore : Africa, where the Groups operations are regulatory authorities.
headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa The South African Reserve Bank and the Financial Services Board FSB and the United In the UK, the Financial Services Authority FSA is the independent States of America the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve body responsible for the regulation of deposit taking, life insurance, System FRB and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
home mortgages, general insurance and investment business.
The FSA was established by the Government and it exercises statutory powers under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 101 Business description In Europe, the UK regulatory agenda is considerably shaped and The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the European influenced by the directives emanating from the European Union.
Commission have also issued a revised framework for the allocation of Barclays has implemented the various requirements imposed by the regulatory capital for credit risk and introduced a capital adequacy directives on such matters as the carrying on the business of credit requirement for operational risk.
These bodies recognise that a more institutions and investment firms, capital adequacy, own funds and sophisticated approach is required to address both financial innovation large exposures across all its European operations.
A number of other and the increasingly complex risks faced by financial institutions.
European Community Directives are being introduced, for example The revised Basel Capital Accord and the EU Capital Requirements the Capital Requirements Directive and the Markets in Financial Directive will be phased in from the end of 2006.
These form part of the European Single Market Recent developments programme, an important feature of which is the framework for the On 1st January 2006 Barclays completed the sale to Absa Group regulation of authorised firms.
This framework is designed to enable a Limited of the Barclays South African branch business.
This business credit institution or investment firm authorised in one European Union consists of the Barclays Capital South African operations and Corporate member state to conduct banking or investment business through the and Business Banking activities carried out by International Retail and establishment of branches or by the provision of services on a crossCommercial Banking South African branch, together with the border basis in other member states without the need for local associated assets and liabilities.
Barclays operations in Europe are authorised and regulated by a combination of both home the FSA and host regulators.
Barclays operations in South Africa, including Absa Group Limited, are supervised and regulated by the South Africa Reserve Bank SARB and the Financial Services Board FSB.
SARB oversees the banking industry and follows a risk-based approach to supervision whilst the FSB oversees the non-banking financial services industry and focuses on enhancing consumer protection and regulating market conduct.
In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and certain US subsidiaries, and branches of the Bank are subject to a comprehensive regulatory structure, involving numerous statutes, rules and regulations, including the International Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, the Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act of 1991 and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001.
Such laws and regulations impose limitations on the types of businesses, and the ways in which they may be conducted, in the United States and on the location and expansion of banking business there.
The Banks branch operations are subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation by the FRB, the New York State Banking Department and the Florida Office of Financial Regulation: the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC in the case of Barclays Global Investors, NA : and the Delaware State Banking Commissioner and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the case of Juniper Bank.
The Investment Banking and Asset Management operations are subject to ongoing supervision and regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC as well as a comprehensive scheme of regulation under the US federal securities laws, as enforced by, for example, the National Association of Securities Dealers NASD and the OCC.
