18 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK BOARD OF DIRECTORS AS AT 15 FEBRUARY 2006 01 Rod Kent 03 Ian Cheshire JIB Group, MAI and Charterhouse Japhet.
He is Chairman Non-executive Director Chairman of Kiln plc and a Non-executive Rod age 58 joined the Board in September Ian age 46 joined the Board in August 2003.
Director of ICAP plc, Computacenter plc and 2002 and became Chairman in November He is Chief Executive of B&Q, part of the Hornby plc.
He is a member of the Audit 2002.
He was Managing Director of Close Kingsher plc group.
He has been an Executive Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Brothers for 28 years, during which time he Director of Kingsher plc since June 2000 and led the management buy-out in 1979 and took prior to his appointment at B&Q was Chief 05 George Cox the company public in 1984: he remains a Executive, International and Development.
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director of Close Brothers Since joining Kingsher in 1998, he has been George age 65 joined the Board of Bradford & Group plc.
He is also Chairman of Grosvenor Group Director of Strategy & Development and Bingley Building Society in March 2000 and the Limited, a Non-executive Director of from May 2000 Chief Executive of e-Kingsher.
He is Chairman of the Grosvenor Group Limited and Whitbread Before joining Kingsher he worked for Boston Design Council, a member of the Supervisory Group plc and a Trustee of The Esmee Consulting Group, Guinness and a number of Board of Euronext, a Director of Short Brothers Fairbairn Foundation.
He is Chairman of the retail businesses including Sears.
He was plc and Enterprise Insight Ltd. Former Nominations Committee.
previously a Non-executive Director of Hit appointments include Director General of the Entertainment.
He is a member of the Audit Institute of Directors, Chairman and Managing 02 Steven Crawshaw Committee, the Remuneration Committee and Director of Unisys, Chief Executive of P-E Group Chief Executive the Nominations Committee.
International, Non-executive Director of the Steven age 44 joined Bradford & Bingley from London International Financial Futures Exchange Lloyds TSB in 1999 as Flotation Director before 04 Nicholas Cosh LIFFE and Managing Director of Butler Cox.
he was appointed to the Board in January 2002 Non-executive Director He received a knighthood in the Queens taking responsibility for Group Strategy, HR & Nicholas age 59 joined the Board of Bradford birthday honours list in June 2005.
He became Managing Director, Lending in & Bingley Building Society in July 1999 and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, a January 2003.
He was appointed Group Chief plc Board in April 2000.
He is a chartered member of the Nominations Committee and Executive in March 2004.
He is a member of accountant and was formerly Group Finance the recognised Senior Independent Director.
Director of a number of companies including 04 09 05 06 10 WWW.
CO. UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 19 06 Robert Dickie 08 Louise Patten 09 Stephen Webster Group Operations Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Robert age 46 joined Bradford & Bingley in Louise age 52 joined the Board in December Stephen age 53 joined the Board in May January 2003 and was appointed to the Board 2003.
She is currently Non-executive Chairman 2003.
He is Group Finance Director of in August 2003.
He joined from Zurich of Brixton plc and a Non-executive Director Wolseley plc, the building materials distribution Financial Services Group UK Ltd where he of Marks and Spencer Group plc as well as company.
He is a chartered accountant and was Managing Director, UK Enterprise.
Prior senior adviser to Bain & Co. She began her was formerly a Partner at Price Waterhouse.
to this, Robert held a variety of senior career at Citibank and remained in financial He is a member of the Hundred Group positions at National Australia Bank which he services until 1993, when she joined the Financial Reporting Committee.
He is joined from Clydesdale Bank.
He is responsible management consultancy, Bain & Co, Chairman of the Audit Committee and a for the information technology, human as a Partner.
Her previous experience as member of the Nominations Committee.
resources, property and procurement, lending a Non-executive Director includes the Hilton operations, retail operations and customer Group, GUS and Somereld.
She is a 10 Chris Willford relations functions.
member of the Remuneration Committee Group Finance Director and Nominations Committee.
Chris age 43 was appointed to the Board as 07 Chris Gillespie Group Finance Director in October 2005.
He Group Lending Director previously held senior finance roles at Abbey, Chris age 42 joined Bradford & Bingley in Barclays and British Airways.
He is responsible March 2005 and was appointed to the Board for the finance, compliance, risk, audit, legal in September 2005 to take responsibility for and company secretarial functions.
the lending activities in the residential and commercial property sectors and the treasury function.
He previously held senior positions at Barclays and HFC.
