2 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK BUSINESS OVERVIEW We have a clear strategy and an appropriate structure to drive the business forward in our two main business segments, Lending and Retail.
Lending Bradford & Bingleys Lending business develops and manufactures a range of specialist lending products secured on UK residential property.
The Group also provides loans secured on commercial property and makes loans to housing associations.
We do not participate in the unsecured consumer lending markets.
MORTGAGE EXPRESS SELF-CERT COMMERCIAL PROPERTY FINANCE ESTABLISHED 1986 TOTAL BALANCES 4.7bn TOTAL BALANCES 2.7bn Bradford & Bingleys specialist mortgage These loans are for individuals who have This division predominantly provides loans to products are sold under the Mortgage Express complex income streams such as the selfinvestors in income producing commercial real brand, mostly through third party intermediaries.
employed and those with multiple jobs.
Bradford estate in the UK.
These loans are, for the most These products cover niche areas of the & Bingley is a major player in this market.
We use part, secured on retail, ofce or industrial mortgage market which are attractive because credit scoring techniques and manually property.
The division also has a small business higher returns are available when compared to underwrite loans to minimise credit risk.
making loans to developers of pre-sold or prethose in the mainstream market.
In order to let commercial property, and residential generate these returns, Bradford & Bingley has LIFETIME development schemes.
developed a deep understanding of those niche POSITION IN MARKET 3rd lending markets and strong specialist skills in HOUSING ASSOCIATION LENDING Lifetime loans enable customers over 60 years product development, underwriting, operations, TOTAL BALANCES 2.3bn old to gradually release the equity they have arrears and collections.
built up in their main residence as an income Bradford & Bingley provides funding to housing stream.
Bradford & Bingley has been one of associations throughout the UK.
Housing BUY-TO-LET the pioneers of this product in the last two associations are non-profit organisations that MARKET SHARE 20% years and is one of the top three lenders in provide affordable rented homes for people Mortgage Express was a pioneer of buy-to-let this fast-growing segment of the market.
unable to satisfy their housing needs in the products in the mid 1990s.
Funding for development of new provides loans to landlords and residential STANDARD MORTGAGES stock or refurbishment of existing properties is property investors using our extensive TOTAL BALANCES 5.8bn partially funded by a grant payment from the underwriting experience in this specialist market.
Housing Corporation but housing associations Bradford & Bingley has a portfolio of We are currently one of the leading buy-to-let must raise the remainder from private sources.
traditional residential mortgages, mainly providers in the UK with balances of 15.1bn.
originated through the branches prior to conversion to plc status at the end of 2000.
CO. UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 3 RECORD HALF-YEAR PERIOD FOR RESIDENTIAL LENDING 4.7bn RETAIL PROFIT BEFORE TAX 14% Retail The Retail business is run through the Groups nationwide network of 207 branches, 145 franchise outlets and also through internet and telephone channels.
The Savings business has a dual role for the Group to gather deposits to help fund the Lending business and to help generate customers for other Retail products.
BRANCH BASED ACCOUNTS INTERNET ACCOUNTS MORTGAGES TOTAL DEPOSITS 12.6bn TOTAL BALANCES 2.0bn The Group offers customers a wide choice of The Group provides a wide range of retail savings In late 2004, as part of its drive to diversify the highly competitive mortgages from a panel of accounts including instant access deposit accounts, channels used for gathering savings deposits, mortgage providers.
regular savings accounts, xed and variable rate Bradford & Bingley entered the market with the bonds, tax efficient accounts ISAs, childrens launch of a range of highly competitive internet INVESTMENT PRODUCTS accounts and tracker accounts on which the accounts.
This addition to the Groups savings The Group also offers financial planning advice interest rates are automatically linked to Bank of range has proved to be extremely successful.
and a wide range of products through our England base rates.
Their DIRECT ACCOUNTS advisers are located in our branch network and BY POST TELEPHONE provide advice and products in the investment, Bradford & Bingley provides direct savings retirement and life protection areas.
accounts which can be accessed via the telephone or by post.
It is also possible for INSURANCE PRODUCTS customers to open and operate the majority of Competitive personal general insurance our branch based accounts by post.
products are also offered through our branches including motor insurance and home OFFSHORE SAVINGS insurance sales from a panel of providers.
TOTAL DEPOSITS 2.4bn Bradford & Bingley also sells travel insurance Bradford & Bingley also operates an offshore through introductions to a tied partner.
savings business, Bradford & Bingley International Limited, based in the Isle of Man.
It attracts funds predominantly from outside the United Kingdom from both corporate and personal customers.
