qxp 14 11 05 6:15 pm Page 9 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Investment Managers Review During the year, British Empires NAV rose 44.4% and the share price rose 51.9% on a total return basis.
The NAV outperformed the Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index by 13.8% and the MSCI World Index by 25.7% on a total return basis.
The three year performance is as set out in the Chairmans Statement.
In the 20 years since the rights issue in 1985, NAV total return has shown a 1,425.8% increase, compared to an increase in the MSCI World Index of 569.6%.
The equity markets were generally strong during the period under review and your Company outperformed the benchmark index.
It appears as though value stocks as a group have almost completed their recovery from the desperately cheap levels they were trading on a few years ago relative to growth stocks.
The disenchantment with large cap growth stocks following the bursting of the technology, media and telecommunications TMT bubble and the search to add value through the purchase of small and mid-cap value stocks, has seen valuations of the two groups meeting somewhere in the middle.
Hedge funds have also contributed to this trend by employing arbitrage strategies to iron out market anomalies.
All this has contributed to our good performance over the past year but may make it more difficult to find the next group of really compelling opportunities.
It is for this reason that our net cash position at year end has risen from 5.3% to 10.9% as a percentage of net assets.
Petro Canada Easy monetary policy in developed markets has caused asset price inflation and a An integrated oil and gas producer lowering of risk premiums.
This can be observed in many markets from the lowering benefiting from high of emerging market bond spreads to the narrow discounts which now prevail in the energy prices and high investment trust universe.
While there may be apparently good explanations for the refining margins 9 19897 MOD BEST p01-23.
qxp 14 11 05 8:40 am Page 10 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued Jardine Strategic has holdings in companies including Hongkong Land, whose Central portfolio comprises a dozen top-quality buildings located within a quarter of a square mile, and 75% of Mandarin Oriental opposite which owns and manages hotels around the world including in New Yorks Columbus Circle rise in each market, such as stronger emerging market economies or improved corporate governance of investment trusts, the fact that many markets are moving in the same direction at a time of easy monetary policy makes us wary.
US Federal Reserve Chairman Greenspan, himself, has recently warned, Any onset of increased investor caution elevates risk premiums and, as a consequence, lowers asset values and promotes the liquidation of the debt that supported higher prices.
This is the reason that history has not dealt kindly with the aftermath of protracted periods of low risk premiums.
Asset inflation is almost guaranteed when interest rates turn negative in real terms as they did in recent years in the US.
Investors have an incentive to gear up under these circumstances and, it is only later when interest rates rise that we discover that much of this borrowing might have been unwise or ill-considered.
There is still substantial liquidity in the financial system searching for excess returns in a world of relatively low interest rates.
Following the bursting of the TMT bubble, we have witnessed booms in real estate, commodities and emerging markets, among others.
Recently, there has been a spike in mergers and acquisitions M&A activity in Europe.
Increased M&A has been helpful for us as it has promoted increased turnover and uplifts in the assets underlying our holding company investments.
It also underlines the preference for companies to buy existing assets that can be immediately earnings accretive rather than investing in new projects which may take years to come to fruition.
The US Federal Reserve has been steadily raising interest rates and this is beginning to drain liquidity from the system.
In addition, high energy and material prices will 10 19897 MOD BEST p1-23.
qxp 10 11 05 5:59 pm Page 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 reduce the spending power of consumers and put pressure on corporate margins outside the energy and mining sectors.
We are not sure that the markets are prepared for a slowdown in corporate profits next year or a fall in consumer confidence.
Until now none of this has had an effect on the markets because rising housing prices in Anglo-Saxon markets have made individuals feel wealthier and have more than offset other negative influences.
With housing markets now expensive and beginning to stall in Australia, the UK, and now the US, the consumer will become more vulnerable.
The US Federal Government is facing estimated hurricane-related expenditures of up to $200bn at a time of already high budget deficits.
There is no plan to raise taxes or offset the spending through cuts elsewhere.
The chances of a fall in the US Dollar are increasing and the gold bullion price is reaching new multi-year highs.
The gold price is reacting to the risk that politicians and central bankers will be tempted to monetise the debt and transfer wealth from creditors to debtors in order to try to keep Americas debt-fuelled consumer going.
Portfolio Review The largest contributors to our 44.4% NAV total return performance during the year were Hansa Trust A & Ordinaries 2.7%, Jardine Strategic Holdings 2.3%, Eurazeo 2.2% Fording Canadian Coal 1.8%, CNP 1.7%, Wendel Investissement 1.6%, Prospect Japan 1.3%, European Asset Value Fund 1.3%, Encana Corp 1.2%, The Eastern European Trust 1.2%, Paris Orlans 1.1%, Ackermans & van Haaren 1.1% and Boskalis Westminster 1.0%.
There were no individual stocks contributing losses of more than 0.5% to the NAV.
Investment Holding Companies 21.3% The weighted average discount to NAV on our investment holding companies has narrowed to 14.7% but we believe there are still opportunities in European investment holding companies.
The holding companies have taken advantage of strong equity markets to IPO some investments and some have been sold to private equity buyers.
This has had the effect of helping to increase NAVs.
At the same time discounts have been narrowing as the companies themselves attract more attention from active investors such as hedge funds.
Hong Kong and Singapore holding companies generally have a strong property element to their portfolios.
The property market, especially, in Hong Kong, has been strong and the property stocks have rallied.
Although the outlook continues to be good the stocks have already discounted a lot of good news and we have taken some profits.
qxp 14 11 05 3:28 pm Page 12 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued Ackermans& van Haaren Ackermans & van Haaren is a Belgian investment holding company which has interests in dredging, domestic banking and a portfolio of private equity and real estate investments.
The company recently announced record profits for the 1st half of 2005 as a result of strong profit growth at its operating subsidiaries.
Profits at the dredging division doubled over the period, and the outlook for this industry has improved dramatically from this time last year.
The shares continue to trade on a discount to NAV despite a near doubling in the share price over the financial year.
In addition, the company has built up a war chest equivalent to almost 30% of its market capitalisation, Mitsubishi Estate which will be used for new investments.
A Tokyo based property investment company Wendel Investissement dominant in the Maranouchi office area.
Wendel has enjoyed another year of stellar share price performance as the market has We are positive on recognised the active rotation within its high quality portfolio of assets the switch out Tokyo real estate and Mitsubishi trades on a of quoted securities, begun some years ago, continued.
But the highlight of the past discount of over 20% financial year was the acquisition of the 66% of Bureau Veritas that Wendel did not already own.
In addition, the important investment in Legrand is performing well and could be the subject of an IPO.
Asset growth has been the major contributor to stock performance, but with the discount much narrower we have been selling stock recently at 3.5x our cost.
Eurazeo Eurazeo has been an excellent performer as the market has responded to its new focus on private equity and the disposal of the stake in Lazard.
Eutelsat has been a major contributor to asset growth following a recapitalisation.
The valuable real estate assets in Lyon and Marseilles have been transferred into a tax efficient REIT.
Meanwhile, the largest asset, Danone has been subject to bid rumours.
Elsewhere Terreal has been sold for a significant profit and Rexel acquired for what appears a sensible price.
As with Wendel, asset growth has been the major contributor to share price performance but, with the discount significantly narrower, we have been realising profits recently at a level 2.5x our cost.
Paris Orlans Paris Orlans is the French holding company of the Rothschild family.
It is the vehicle through which the French branch of the family owns their stake in the international banking interests.
The company also has various private equity and real estate interests, including a holding in the well known Domaines Baron Rothschild and a stake in the redevelopment of Lodz town centre in Poland.
Jardine Strategic Major exposures such as listed holdings Dairy Farm and Hong Kong Land have been performing well over the past year.
The Jardine Group has ceased buying back shares 12 19897 MOD BEST p1-23.
qxp 12 11 05 7:14 am Page 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 as they have publicly stated there is less value left in the company.
The discount recently has been 32% against a long term average of 39%.
Jardine Strategic is not as attractive as it was but there is still some potential upside for the company in a strong Hong Kong economy.
Sabanci Holding An investment holding company controlled by the Turkish Sabanci family trades on a discount of 30%.
The company has interests in banking, retail and manufacturing businesses that should expand in line with Turkeys projected 8% GDP growth.
The company trades on just over 8x 2006 earnings.
Heineken Holding Heineken Holding owns a controlling interest in the operating company Heineken NV and trades at a small discount to the value of its stake.
Earnings at Heineken NV have been depressed by a weaker US Dollar and by the cost of acquisitions in Russia.
Heineken Holding is a defensive investment at a time of generally elevated equity markets and we see potential for an earnings recovery.
Investment Trusts 26.1% In general, the investment trust market offers fewer opportunities for us as discounts PD Ports have narrowed.
Discounts have narrowed as a result of boards of investment trusts A port services and real estate company being more pro-active and an increase in activity from arbitrageurs.
Discounts on operating principally average are now 9% and we see potential risks in buying at these levels.
As mentioned in the Tees and above, the ratings for value and growth have converged in the market and we are now Hartlepool areas seeing some opportunities in fide-rated growth trusts.
Hansa Trust Hansa Trust has performed very well, being first out of 21 over one year in its UK Growth category.
The Trust has been buoyed by holdings in Ocean Wilsons, Glenmorangie and insurance companies.
In addition to strong NAV performance, the discount has narrowed over the course of the year.
We have reduced our exposure to Hansa Trust by close to 50% during the year.
Herald Investment Trust The trust offers well-managed exposure to the smaller quoted technology sector.
When we started buying Herald, the discount was 15% and the portfolio companies traded at modest price earnings ratios well below the peaks of 2000.
Impax Environmental Markets The Trust, which invests in alternative energy, water treatment and waste management companies, has recovered strongly since the market bottomed in 2003.
qxp 14 11 05 3:28 pm Page 14 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued prices and government efforts to promote green technologies have improved sentiment towards the sector and the shares now trade on a premium.
Property-related 16.1% CNP A property bull market has reduced the opportunities for buying deeply discounted Baron Frres family property shares in most markets.
holding company which has benefited from its large exposure to French Deutsche Wohnen oil company Total.
It 2 Deutsche Wohnen AG owns over 22,000 m of residential property concentrated in the also owns 40% of Chateau Cheval Blanc west and south west of Germany and focuses on portfolio management, residential property management and privatisation sales.
The N865 per square metre value attributable to the assets is low in a European context and reflects years of consolidation in a difficult economic environment.
We believe this underperformance may be in the process of changing and the company has been mentioned as a potential target for private equity investors as it trades at a 20% discount to NAV.
"European Asset Value Fund The Fund invests mainly in property companies and those having property asset backing in the Eurozone and the new ""accession"" countries."
The introduction of REIT equivalent status has provided strong performance in those companies benefiting from the new regime.
As the premia in certain quoted companies have increased the Fund has re-weighted in favour of discounted companies, particularly in Germany.
PD Ports PD Ports operates the ports of Teesport and Hartlepool in the North East of England.
The ports operations have benefited from the general growth in global trade over the last few years and unlike most port operators, there is scope to expand the ports operations within the existing estate.
In addition, the company is embarking on a plan to regenerate a large area of Hartlepool.
It is working together with the local authority to prepare a master plan that will include new homes as well as ancillary commercial and leisure uses.
The ports operations generate healthy cash flows, whilst the property development side of the business will hopefully add to the long term asset value of the company and also produce capital gains over time.
Commodity Resources 10.8% The rectification of the underinvestment in resource extraction and processing will require higher commodity prices for some time to come.
Therefore, we are still positive on the mining area generally but are conscious of the volatility caused by swings in sentiment.
We have been taking profits in the energy sector where prices have reached our targets.
qxp 10 11 05 5:59 pm Page 15 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Tethyan Copper Tethyan is developing a potentially very large copper project in Pakistan.
Drilling results have been encouraging and a bid approach by Crosby Capital, though rejected by the company, has highlighted the potential value of the assets.
Fording Canadian Coal Fording Coal through a 60% interest in the Elk Valley Coal Partnership, is one of the largest producers of coking coal in the world.
The company has benefited from tight coking coal markets and rising coal price settlements since 2004.
Fording is organised as an income trust in Canada and so pays out almost all its net income in the form of high dividends.
Petro-Canada Petro-Canada is an integrated oil and gas company that has a well-diversified portfolio of assets including projects in the Alberta oil sands.
The company offers good value against its peer group as their more conservative reporting practices have tended to understate proven reserve figures.
Japan 5.7% 15.3% overall The Japanese economy and equity market continues to show signs of improvement.
The long bear market in Japan has left many smaller companies undervalued and underresearched.
The banking system has largely sorted out its bad loans problem and the property market has found a floor in some major cities such as Tokyo.
We are especially interested in companies trading at big discounts to the value of their property assets.
Baillie Gifford Japan Although the trust is no longer on a discount, it offers exposure to a Japanese market Swire A diversified Hong Kong investment holding company whose most significant exposure is to a recovering HK office property market.
The shares trade on a discount to NAV of 30% 15 19897 MOD BEST p1-23.
qxp 10 11 05 5:59 pm Page 16 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued that we believe is recovering.
The trust is performing well and is 1st out of 6 trusts over one year for Japanese large-cap exposure.
Daidoh Daidoh is a Japanese company that processes fabrics for clothing.
The main attraction to us of the company however, is its real estate holdings and government bond portfolio, which are worth significantly more than its current market capitalisation.
Emerging Markets 2.3% 11.8% overall The emerging markets have had a great run of performance relative to developed markets but still appear good value on most measures.
Magyar Telekom The Hungarian telecom incumbent has languished for a number of years in the market following a spectacular run in the late nineties.
Telecom stocks are no longer valued as glamorous growth stocks but, rather in some cases, now have attractive cash flow multiples and strong dividend yields.
We bought the stock on an 8% dividend yield and we believe there is potential for a takeover bid from parent Deutsche Telekom.
Eczacibasi Ilac Eczacibasi is the largest generic pharmaceutical producer in Turkey.
The company has a market capitalisation of $531m with a hidden value of ca.
$200m in real estate and shares.
If we net out the hidden value, the core pharmaceutical business trades on a PE ratio of less than 6 with double digit earnings growth forecast for the next three years.
Eastern European Trust The Eastern European Trust has performed strongly over the past year.
Russia has rallied on high oil prices despite the fall-out from the Yukos scandal.
The new EU Heineken Holding Owns a controlling interest in the operating company, Heineken NV 16 19897 MOD BEST p1-23.
qxp 10 11 05 5:59 pm Page 17 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 member states of Central Europe have been re-rated and are on multiples consistent with Western Europe.
The trust now trades on a modest discount of 5%.
Liquidity 15.6% Liquidity has increased from 11.5% last year to 15.6% in line with our increased caution on valuations.
Our liquidity is currently held in the form of short-dated British Government securities and cash deposits with banks.
Other 2.1% Comprises a small number of assorted undervalued opportunities.
Net Asset Value Total Returns: % Change Since 30 06 85 10 years 5 years 3years 1 year British Empire 1437.8 307.3 98.1 127.4 44.4 AITC Global Growth 696.0 132.5 11.1 74.1 30.1 MSCI World 558.1 97.0 -13.6 57.1 18.7 Source: AITC, Fundamental Data and Datastream Geographical Profile Gross Assets of 648.4m were distributed on a look-through basis at the year end as follows: Continental Europe 22.8%, UK 18.4%, Asia Pacific 11.7%, Japan 15.3%, Canada 7.1%, EMEA 9.1% and Liquidity of 15.6%.
Outlook We have become more cautious on the outlook for equity markets and have increased our liquidity as a result.
The imbalances in the global markets continue to expand and this increases the vulnerability of the markets to unforeseen shocks.
The valuations on offer have less downside protection.
Many of our stocks have followed a similar pattern since the market bottomed out in early 2003.
Discounts have narrowed and earnings multiples have expanded.
We have been taking profits in stocks that have rallied sharply whilst liquidity has increased as there is presently a scarcity of new compelling investment opportunities.
John Pennink Asset Value Investors Limited 15 November 2005 Figures in brackets indicate estimated see through levels of investment 17
