qxp 10 11 05 5:59 pm Page 22 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Capital Structure continued Voting entitlement: The holders of Debenture Stock have no right to attend or to vote at general meetings of the Company.
Equities Index Unsecured Loan Stock 2013 Index Stock At 30 September 2005 there were 2,906,267 units of Index Stock in issue 2004: 3,061,267.
During the year the Company purchased 155,000 units of Index Stock for cancellation.
Investment characteristics: Units of Index Stock entitle the holders to an income return that matches that of the FTSE All-Share Index the Index and, at maturity, a capital return that also matches that of the Index.
Neither return is fixed and each moves up or down with the United Kingdom stock market.
Income entitlement: Holders of the Index Stock receive interest paid quarterly.
Interest is calculated by reference to the yield on the Index having regard to the movement in the ex-dividend adjustment factor during the relevant quarter as published in the Financial Times.
The interest paid in the year to 30 September 2005 amounted to 81.58 per 1,000 units.
Capital entitlement: The Company shall redeem the whole of the Index Stock on the tenth Stock Exchange dealing day after 31 March 2013, barring any circumstances which may lead to an earlier redemption, at its capital value.
The capital value means, in respect of one unit of Index Stock, the higher of 10 per cent of its nominal amount of 1.74338 and the Index number at the date of calculation divided by 1,000 expressed in pounds and rounded up to five decimal places.
If the Index Stock is redeemed by the Company early, payment will be effected at the capital value.
The capital value of the Index Stock as at 30 September 2005 amounted to 2.74579 per unit.
Voting entitlement: The holders of Index Stock have no right to attend or to vote at general meetings of the Company.
qxp 14 11 05 4:48 pm Page 23 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Board of Directors Iain Samuel Robertson CBE left Status: Independent Non-Executive Chairman Age: 59 Length of Service: 10 years, appointed Chairman on 19 December 2002 Experience: A Director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc until May 2005 and John Menzies plc and, Chairman of BT Scotland and Cairn Capital.
Formerly a Director of Selective Assets Trust plc which was acquired by the Company in 1995 Last re-elected to the Board: Up for re-election in 2005 Committee membership: Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee Remuneration: 24,000 pa Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Peter Richard Allen above Shareholding in Company: 25,000 Ordinary Shares Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 62 Length of Service: 3 yrs Experience: Previously a Director of Lombard: Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Greenwich Capital: Finance Director of Corporate Banking and Financial Markets at The Royal Bank of Scotland Last re-elected to the Board: Up for re-election in 2005 Committee membership: Audit Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee Remuneration: 18,500 pa Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 5,000 Ordinary Shares Philip Strone Stewart Macpherson above Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 57 Length of Service: 3yrs Experience: Senior Independent Director at Close Brothers plc, Non-executive Director of AXA plc, Chairman of Tribal Group plc and JP Morgan Fleming Smaller Companies Rosamund Blomfield-Smith left Investment Trust plc.
Previously he had been a Director at Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Flemings and Executive Deputy Chairman of Misys plc.
Age: 56 Length of Service: 3yrs Last re-elected to the Board: 2003 Experience: A Non-executive Director of The Engineering Committee membership: Audit Committee, Management Business and an independent Board member of the Engagement Committee, Nomination Committee Department of Trade & Industry, the Wales Audit Office and Remuneration: 16,000 pa the Audit Committee of the National Archives.
Govenor of Employment by the Manager: None The University of the West of England.
Formerly Head of Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Corporate Finance at Arbuthnot Latham Limited and a Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Director of N M Rothschild and Sons, ING Barings and the Shareholding in Company: 40,000 Ordinary Shares National Rivers Authority.
Last re-elected to the Board: Up for re-election in 2005 Committee membership: Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee, Nomination Committee Remuneration: 16,000 pa Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Nil John Michael May left Status: Non-Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 50 Length of Service: 2 yrs Experience: A Director of Caledonia Investments plc and, formerly an Executive Director of Hambros Bank Limited and Joint Managing Director of Hambro Countrywide plc Last re-elected to the Board: 2004 Attendance at meetings Committee membership: Nomination Committee Management Remuneration: 16,000 pa Name Board Audit Engagement Nomination Employment by the Manager: None I Robertson 9 3 1 2 Other connections with the Trust or Manager: Director of P Allen 8 3 n a 2 Caledonia Investments, a substantial shareholder R Blomfield-Smith 9 3 1 2 Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None P S S Macpherson 9 3 1 2 Shareholding in Company: Nil J May 9 n a n a 2 No.
qxp 12 11 05 8:07 am Page 24 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2005. Review of the Business A review of the Companys activities is given in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and the Investment Managers Review on page 9.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP, who have indicated their willingness to be re-appointed, as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Results and Dividends The income of the Group for the year amounted to 13,110,000.
After expenses, interest and taxation, there remains a balance of 6,614,000 which the Directors have appropriated as follows: Company Group 000 000 Revenue available for dividends 6,615 6,614 Interim dividend of 0.60p per Ordinary Share paid on 10 June 2005 961 961 Recommended final dividend payable on 6 January 2006 to Shareholders on the Register as at 9 December 2005 ex dividend 7 December 2005 : - Final dividend of 1.60p per Ordinary share 2,561 2,561 - Special dividend of 1.40p per Ordinary share 2,241 2,241 Transferred to revenue reserve 852 851 Principal Activity and Status The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is an investment company under Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
Status The Company is an investment trust and a member of the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
The Company has been approved as an investment trust company under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30 September 2004.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 30 September 2005 so as to be able to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 for that year.
The Company is a qualifying trust for the purposes of Personal Equity Plans and Individual Savings Accounts.
Subsidiary Companies The Company owns one active dealing subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited.
In the year to 30 September 2005, BEST Securities Limited made a loss before taxation of 1,123 2004 - loss 2,246.
All other subsidiaries were liquidated during the year see page 39 - note 9.
Directors The present members of the Board are listed on page 23.
Mr J Walton retired as a Director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 16 December 2004.
In accordance with the requirements of the revised Combined Code Mr Iain Robertson CBE, having been a Director of the Company for more than 9 years, retires and offers himself for re-election.
The Board does not accept that length of 24 19897 MOD BEST p24-54.
qxp 12 11 05 8:07 am Page 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 service necessarily affects the independence of a Director, as a long association with a Company can be valuable to the Board in their deliberations.
The Board accordingly continues to deem Mr Robertson to be independent, to have provided good leadership of the Board and contribution to its management throughout the year and recommends that Shareholders vote in favour of his re-election.
Mr P Allen and Mrs R Blomfield-Smith both retire by rotation in accordance with Article 100 2 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Having conducted a review of performance during the year, the Board considers that both retiring Directors have provided full commitment and contribution to the affairs of the Company throughout the year.
The Board accordingly recommends that Shareholders vote in favour of both these Directors re-appointment.
The interests of the current Directors and their families in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2005 are set out below: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Loan Stock Loan Stock 30 9 05 1 10 04 30 9 05 1 10 04 IS Robertson 25,000 25,000 P Allen 5,000 5,000 R Blomfield-Smith - - PSS Macpherson 40,000 40,000 JM May - - Throughout the year ended 30 September 2005 the Manager operated under the terms of a Management Agreement with the Company.
Mr J May is a Director of Caledonia Investments plc which owns 18.89 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Save as aforesaid, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company.
Substantial Interests in Share Capital At 15 November 2005 the following holdings representing more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital had been reported to the Company: Number of Percentage Shares held Held Caledonia Investments plc 30,240,967 18.89 Funds managed by Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd 9,347,075 5.84 Axa SA and Group Companies 6,394,390 3.99 Legal and General 5,949,320 3.72 Funds managed by ISIS Asset Management 5,561,739 3.47 The Cayzer Trust Company Limited is deemed to be interested in a total of 30,240,967 Ordinary Shares representing 18.89 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital by virtue of its interest in Caledonia Investments plc.
The Investment Manager AVI is the Companys appointed Investment Manager Manager engaged under the terms of a Management Agreement, effective from 1 October 2003.
The Manager is entitled to a base management fee of 0.55% of the net assets of the Company at the end of the previous financial year, increasing to 0.6% in any financial period in which the Company outperforms the benchmark or under-performs by no more than 5%.
The first 0.3% of the base management fee is charged to revenue and the remainder of the base management fee, together with any performance fee, is charged to capital.
qxp 12 11 05 8:07 am Page 26 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued The fee includes a performance element under which the Manager is paid 4% of any out-performance in the net asset value per share on a total return basis over the benchmark the Thomson Financial Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index at the year end, with a cap on aggregate fees of 1% per annum.
Any out-performance in excess of the cap or underperformance in any year will be carried forward for use in the next three years fee calculations on a first-in first-out basis.
The Directors have reviewed the performance of the Manager and are satisfied that the continued appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is in the best interests of Shareholders and the Company.
The Management Agreement is terminable on a minimum of one years notice by either party.
Corporate Governance The Board consists entirely of non-executive Directors all of whom, with the exception of Mr J May who represents a major shareholder, are considered by the Board to be independent.
Arrangements are in place to ensure the level of corporate governance is appropriate to an investment trust and, taking account of the matters referred to below, the Company has complied with the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
Section 1 of the Code has been complied with throughout the period covered by this Report.
The Board has regard for the Association of Investment Trust Companies code of corporate governance for investment trusts and adheres to its principles and recommendations except where otherwise disclosed.
As all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to comply with the principles of the Code relating to Directors remuneration.
In addition the Board has elected not to designate a senior non-executive Director, as the Board considers that each Director has different strengths and qualities on which they may provide leadership.
The Management Agreement between the Company and AVI sets out the matters over which the Investment Manager has authority and the limits above which Board approval must be sought.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board of Directors.
In relation to the use of the Companys voting rights in respect of investee companies, the Investment Manager in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights in the best interests of the Company.
As the Company has no employees and invests in diverse corporations and intermediate holding companies, it has no direct impact on social or economic or environmental matters but would use voting rights attaching to investments to influence such issues should it consider it desirable to do so.
The Board meets approximately nine times per year and receives full details of the Companys assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of meetings.
The Investment Manager and Company Secretary stay in more regular contact with Directors on a less formal basis and individual Directors have direct access to the Company Secretary.
Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Management Engagement Committee, comprises three independent Directors, Mr I S Robertson Chairman, Mrs R Blomfield-Smith and Mr P S S Macpherson.
It is responsible for reviewing the terms of the Management Agreement, to ensure they are appropriate for the Company and compliant with good industry practice and the remuneration of the Investment Manager.
The Nomination Committee comprises the whole Board and convenes to consider the appointment of Directors in accordance with its defined terms of reference.
Candidates for nomination may be sourced from outside of the Company using third party search and selection services as well as potential candidates known to Directors through their extensive knowledge of the industry.
The Nomination Committee met twice during the year.
Newly appointed Directors receive tailored training and induction suited to their needs.
qxp 14 11 05 3:29 pm Page 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 The Board considers that, in view of its non-executive nature, it is not appropriate for Directors to be appointed for a specified term of not more than three years as recommended by the Code.
The Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board abides by the spirit of the Code by ensuring that each Director stands for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board is not of the view that serving as a Director for nine or more years automatically results in that Director losing his her independence.
However, after nine years of service a Director will be subject to annual re-election.
The Audit Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
Copies of the terms of reference are available from the office of the Company Secretary.
The Committee comprises Mr PR Allen Chairman, Mrs R Blomfield-Smith, Mr PSS Macpherson and Mr IS Robertson.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committees main functions are: To review and monitor the internal financial control systems and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant: To consider annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: To monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements of the Company by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager and Administrator: To meet with the external Auditors to review their proposed audit programme of work and their findings.
The Committee also uses this as an opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the Audit process: To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external Auditors and to negotiate the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external Auditors on both audit and nonaudit work: To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following publication of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The Committee has confirmed that the external auditor satisfied all of the criteria identified above.
The significant risks faced by the Company are: financial: operational: compliance: and risk management.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control are outlined below: The Investment Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: The Board and Investment Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: As a matter of course the Investment Managers compliance department continually reviews the Investment Managers operations: 27
