qxp 10 11 05 6:06 pm Page 28 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued Written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Manager and other third party service providers: At its September and November meetings, the Audit Committee carries out assessments of internal controls for the year by considering documentation from the Investment Manager and the Administrator, including their compliance function and taking account of events during the year.
The results of the assessments are reported to the Board.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but, because of the compliance and internal control systems in place at the Investment Manager and Administrator, it has decided that reliance can be placed on their systems and procedures.
Also, as neither the Company nor the Group have any employees the Board does not feel that whistleblowing procedures need to be put in place.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement and loss.
Since the year end, evaluations of the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors were undertaken using structured questionnaires.
The evaluations are led by the Chairman who, after receiving analyses of the results of the questionnaires, discusses the findings with each Director individually.
The performance of the Chairman is assessed from discussion with the other members of the Board, led by Mr PSS Macpherson as the next most senior Director to the Chairman.
The Board are satisfied from the results of the evaluation that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be satisfactory and appropriate for the Company.
After making enquiries and bearing in mind the nature of the Companys business and assets, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors welcome the views of all Shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with Shareholders.
Board representatives and the Investment Manager meet with the Companys major Shareholders throughout the year.
The Board recommends that Shareholders attend the Companys Annual General Meeting on 15 December 2005 and use the opportunity to ask questions of their Board and the Investment Manager either formally at the Meeting or informally at the buffet luncheon afterwards.
At the Annual General Meeting the Investment Manager will make a presentation to Shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company.
Owing to the short period of time between the Companys financial year end, the annual report and accounts becoming available and the calendar year end, the Company is unable to comply with the recommendation in the Code that the accounts be sent out at least 20 working days prior to the Annual General Meeting.
Creditor Payment Policy The Companys payment policy is to settle investment transactions in accordance with market practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and, of the return of the Group for that period, all in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and ensuring that the financial statements referred to above are contained therein.
