Caledonia Investments plc 20 Annual report 2005 Investment review continued Quintain Estates & Development valuation: 48.2m: holding 7.0% Property Quintain is a property investment and development company, with a proven track record, specialising in commercial properties.
Over the year, the value of our holding has grown by 25%, reecting the continued outperformance of Quintain against the FTSE All-Share index.
Quintain has now received planning consent for the first phase of the Wembley development and completed all commercial Caledonias history of property contracts at the Greenwich Peninsula.
In addition to progress with these special projects, Quintain has completed a successful investment has gained us valuable programme of disposals and purchases within its main portfolio.
In July 2004, a new 475m corporate loan was syndicated that, knowledge of this sector.
We combined with the ongoing revenue stream from its investment assets, has ensured that Quintain is in a strong financial position invest in both property assets to acquire new assets and fund its special projects.
and in property management profit before tax decreased to 5.0m for the six months ended 30 September 2004, compared with 7.3m in the corresponding companies.
This was due largely to exceptional costs relating to the re-nancing of the companys debt.
However, Quintain follow-on investments in General notes that the increasing value of the Wembley and Greenwich projects signals that it is on track to deliver good net assets Practice and our weighting in growth for the year to March 2005. property companies has increased General Practice valuation: 19.9m: holding 30.0% to 13%, compared with 4% in the General Practice Group GPG was formed over ten years ago to develop and invest in new surgeries for doctors in general FTSE All-Share index.
However, practice and other associated primary care premises.
Caledonia initially invested in GPG in 2002 and has recently made an the FTSE All-Share represents additional investment of 16.9m to enable GPG to increase substantially its portfolio of surgeries across the country.
GPG quoted property companies only now owns 108 properties, with over 40 new properties per annum being added to the portfolio through its development and not properties held through programme.
Over the year, our In the NHS there are currently over 9,000 main surgeries and 2,500 branch surgeries.
The NHSs aim is to bring all general holdings have increased in value practice premises up to modern standards, with over 3,000 new surgeries combining primary and community services.
by 20%, compared with an increase GPG is a market leader in this expanding sector.
in the property companies in the GPGs annualised rent roll for the year ended March 2005 was 8m and it is on target to exceed 20m by 2008.
Quintain Estates & Development Wembley Caledonia Investments plc 21 Annual report 2005 Savills Buckingham Gate valuation: 15.5m: holding 4.2% valuation: 9.9m: holding 100% Savills is a listed property agency and advisory business Caledonia acquired 30 Buckingham Gate, London in December operating in the UK, Continental Europe and the Far East.
2000 for its headquarters, as the scale of our activities had Recognising the strength and calibre of the management team, outgrown our former City ofce.
The property is a seven oor and the potential for value creation, Caledonia built up its stake ofce building in a prime West End location.
One of Caledonias directors is a non-executive four oors, with the remaining space let out.
As well as being our director of Savills.
head ofce, this allows us to let space, and thereby provide easy access, to some of our investee companies.
For the year to 31 December 2004, Savills showed strong performance with turnover up 9% to 328m and group operating Buckingham Gate has benefited from the gradual recovery of the profit increasing 10% to 39m.
As a result, the share price also West End commercial property market, where there is less over showed strong performance.
As a major initiative, Savills has supply than in the City.
The success of Polar Capital, the fund launched its fund management arm, Cordea Savills, and had management company in which Caledonia has a significant stake, around 1.4bn of funds under management at the end of caused it to vacate the one oor it occupied to move to larger December 2004. premises.
The space vacated has already been partly re-let.
Edinmore valuation: 11.0m: holding 100% Edinmore is a wholly owned property group specialising in rural estates and commercial property.
Caledonia provides the finance and is actively involved in the management of the business.
Edinmore has had another solid year, achieving a number of substantial and profitable disposals, mainly in the rural sector of its property portfolio.
Residential properties in rural areas and agricultural land have continued to command good prices, normally above expectations.
Few substantial rural properties or portfolios have come to the market in the past twelve months and opportunities have, therefore, been very limited.
Land has been kept back from the market due to continuing uncertainty with regard to CAP reform, but it is anticipated that more land will become available within the next year or two.
It has been a very busy year for Edinmores commercial property activities, with a number of substantial investments having been secured, mainly in joint ventures with other property companies.
Although good rental returns have been achieved and there are few voids, Edinmore is working hard on asset management to increase yields where possible and improve the quality of the properties, with a view to achieving enhanced capital values on their disposal when market conditions are perceived to be right.
Buckingham Gate London Caledonia Investments plc 22 Annual report 2005 Investment review continued British Empire Securities valuation: 104.9m: holding 19.9% Managed general funds British Empire is a UK investment trust whose objective is to achieve capital growth from a focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose share prices stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
Caledonia has been a significant shareholder for over 14 years and is represented on the board.
British Empire has continued to perform strongly, both Caledonia has particular expertise outperforming its benchmark indices and remaining as a top performer in the Association of Investment Trust Companies in identifying and supporting Global Growth sector.
Over the year to March 2005, net asset total return was 25.5% compared with a total return of 15.6% asset management teams, which for the FTSE All-Share index.
we often back with an investment From the end of 2004 until recently, British Empire had been trading at a premium to its stated net asset value, reecting this in the management company strong performance.
It has also been taking profit and moving some of its portfolio onto a more defensive footing, should as well as in the fund itself.
Our current market levels not prove sustainable.
weighting of 24% in managed Cobepa valuation: 26.1m: holding 9.4% general funds is greater than the Compagnie Benelux Paribas SA Cobepa is a Belgian investment company with an attractive portfolio of listed and 3% of investment companies that unlisted investments.
Caledonia was part of a consortium that backed the management team to purchase Cobepa from BNP make up the FTSE All-Share index, Paribas in April 2004 and is represented on Cobepas board.
as a substantial proportion of The portfolio is currently valued at n449m, the largest holding being Dicobel, the parent company of Autoglass.
Other our interests are structured as investments of note include DIeteren and NAVTEQ, the NYSE quoted supplier of in-car navigation systems.
Cobepa seeks limited partnerships or offshore to invest between n20m to n50m of equity in either minority shareholdings, alongside families or other institutions, or investment funds.
Over the year, majority positions where transactions are structured as leveraged buyouts.
Its sphere of investment encompasses our holdings have increased in Belgium, France and Holland.
value by 31%, compared with an increase in the investment companies in the FTSE All-Share index of 15%.
Caledonia Investments plc 23 Annual report 2005 Aberforth LP fund Eddington Capital fund valuation: 22.5m: holding 25.5% valuation: 17.8m This limited partnership fund was launched in March 2001 The Triple Alpha Fund is the first investment vehicle of with a remit to acquire significant shareholdings in smaller UK Eddington Capital Management, reviewed on page 15.
The fund listed companies and to work with those companies to release is a multi-strategy fund of hedge funds, which seeks to deliver latent value.
Caledonia committed 25m to this fund, which was two and a half times the returns of the mainstream hedge fund fully drawn down by March 2003.
In the 18 months since launch, the fund has performed was fully repaid, together with a further 4.5m from underlying in line with that target, delivering an 18% return.
The carrying value of 22.5m at 31 March 2005 represents Caledonias interest in the remaining fund, which Performance to date is in excess of the returns earned by contains five underlying portfolio investments.
As at that date, comparable indices, but hedge fund performance in general the fund had generated an IRR of almost 33% per annum, based fell short of the long term outperformance we would have liked.
upon both realised and unrealised gains, showing outperformance An abnormally high correlation between strategies, ckle market against the FTSE All-Share index and demonstrating a significant sentiment and an absence of volatility have all reduced returns achievement by the Aberforth team in both stock selection and from hedge funds and the gain in value of the Triple Alpha Fund, timing of investment and disinvestment.
Caledonia is represented although positive for the year, was lower than we had hoped for.
Polar Capital funds valuation: 20.1m Caledonia has an investment in both Polar Capital and a number of its funds.
Our investment in the management company is reviewed on page 15.
The majority of our Polar Capital fund investments are in hedge funds, which aim to generate a positive return substantially above the market risk free rate, irrespective of market conditions.
These funds have performed well, returning between -1% and 21% over 2004.
During the year, Caledonia moved between various Polar Capital funds.
We redeemed our investments in the Paragon and Japan funds for 11.4m and invested a total of 9.3m in the Polar Capital London new Asia ex-Japan fund, launched at the end of 2004, and the Paragon fund.
