Caledonia Investments plc 12 Annual report 2005 Investment review Close Brothers valuation: 139.5m: holding 12.5% Financial Close Brothers is the largest independent quoted merchant bank in the UK.
Caledonia has been a supportive shareholder since 1986, which highlights our long term investment approach.
One of Caledonias directors is an independent non-executive director of the company.
Close Brothers has been a very successful investment, due in no small part to its sound management.
At the start of the Caledonia has a history of year, it represented over 21% of our portfolio and, after careful consideration, we decided that it would be appropriate to investing in financial services rebalance the holding.
As a result, we sold 7.4m shares for just over 57m in June last year.
The remaining holding of 18m shares companies and we have is still our largest investment, representing 14% of our portfolio.
been actively involved in the In March this year, Close Brothers released a very satisfactory set of interim results for the six months ending January 2005. development of many such Operating profit on ordinary activities before taxation and goodwill amortisation increased by 13% over the same period businesses.
Although we sold a year earlier, to 65.1m.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation also grew by 13%, rising from 27.7p to 31.2p.
part of our Close Brothers stake Investment banking profits increased by some 17% compared during the year, our weighting with the same period a year earlier and contributed 51% to the groups operating result.
Components of these results include in this sector of 27% is still market-making, which performed well given the quiet conditions in the early part of the period, and corporate finance, which greater than the FTSE All-Share completed a pleasing number of transactions for clients.
The key driver of growth, however, was the asset management division, weighting of 24% and reflects which saw profits more than double with funds under management growing by 22% to 6.1bn, from 5.0bn a year earlier.
our interest in an area where Banking, which represents the remaining 49% of operating long term growth prospects profits, saw profits grow by 2% from the same period a year earlier.
Close Brothers loan book increased to 2.0bn from should be achievable.
Over the 1.7bn, with an organic growth rate of some 6%.
year, the value of our holdings in financial services companies has decreased by 2%, compared with an increase of 8% in this sector of the FTSE All-Share.
Caledonia Investments plc 13 Annual report 2005 Rathbone Brothers Oval valuation: 37.4m: holding 11.3% valuation: 17.0m: holding 27.4% Rathbones specialises in providing personalised investment Oval is a UK commercial insurance and financial services management and wealth management services for private clients broking business with annualised fee and commission turnover and trustees, including discretionary asset management, tax of about 36m.
It was established in late 2003, with financial planning, trust and private company management and banking support from Caledonia, to acquire and integrate some of the services.
It manages 7.7bn of funds, including over 800m best regional broking businesses in this still fragmented industry.
managed by Rathbone Unit Trust Management.
Our investment, in the form of equity and a convertible loan, now totals 17m.
Rathbones profit before tax before exceptional gains and goodwill amortisation for its year ended 31 December 2004 The Oval concept involves the use of its own equity as well as increased by 32.0% to 26.0m and earnings per share before cash as consideration for its acquisitions, which should provide goodwill amortisation increased by 22.8% to 46.8p.
Total funds incentives to vendors and help to maintain the value of goodwill under management rose by 13.2% to 7.7bn and the dividend acquired.
As it grows, Oval can take advantage of economies of 27.5p was a 5.8% increase over the previous year.
of scale and the improved terms of trade available from insurers.
The first three months of 2005 saw Rathbones in discussion Ovals experienced and energetic management team has now with Rensburg about a possible merger.
Rathbones continued to successfully completed and begun integrating five acquisitions, regard the strategic and financial case for merging Rensburg and RP Hodson, Bland Bankart, Beddis & Partners, Halkett Associates Rathbones as compelling but, in the absence of a recommendation and Bareld.
This has resulted in rapid growth, with original from the Rensburg board, decided not to proceed with an offer.
profitability is broadly in line with expectations and more acquisitions are planned.
Rathbones will continue to pursue its existing strategy of developing its investment management and wealth management businesses organically, as well as by selective acquisitions and recruitments where culturally compatible and demonstrably earnings enhancing to Rathbones shareholders.
F&C Asset Management valuation: 21.1m: holding 1.9% F&C Asset Management is one of the five largest UK fund management businesses, following the merger of ISIS Asset Management and F&C in the second half of 2004.
Caledonia had been a long term and inuential shareholder in ISIS and, until the merger, had board representation.
Our shareholding in the company, which was renamed F&C Asset Management, was diluted to 1.9% as a result of this merger.
The results of F&C Asset Management for the year to 31 December 2004 are difficult to compare with previous years as a result of the merger.
However, earnings per share rose from 12.0p to 14.0p and the dividend was maintained at 11.0p per share for the year.
F&C Asset Management was also able to confirm that it would deliver the cost savings which were a significant driving factor behind the merger.
Funds under management were 125bn at 31 December 2004 and F&C Asset Management is aiming to build these through delivering strong investment performance and increased choice of investment alternatives for its institutional and retail customers.
Close Brothers London Since the year end, our holding in F&C Asset Management has been sold for 20m.
Caledonia Investments plc 14 Annual report 2005 Investment review continued Marketform valuation: 15.1m: holding 26.8% Financial Marketform is an unquoted Lloyds insurance business, with substantial management ownership.
It specialises in medical malpractice and general liability business for insureds outside the USA.
Marketform manages the business of a consortium of medical malpractice underwriters on a fee and profit commission basis and participates in the consortium through its own partially aligned corporate syndicate, for which it also acts as managing agent.
Caledonia has been a minority shareholder since autumn 2003, through an investment of 15.1m in equity and convertible loan capital.
Profits after tax for 2004 were broadly in line with expectations.
The specialised nature of Marketforms classes of business offers some protection from rate competition and the outlook remains attractive.
SVB Holdings valuation: 9.5m: holding 5.3% SVB is a listed Lloyds insurance business, focusing on longer tail speciality lines, such as financial institutions cover, directors and officers liability and professional indemnity, as well as shorter tail property insurance, aviation reinsurance and some marine cover.
It also has insurance distribution businesses, which produce about a quarter of its premium income.
In 2003, Caledonia invested 9.1m in equity and 4.9m in convertible bonds to back a vigorous new management team to take advantage of the sharply improved trading conditions prevailing after 11 September 2001.
However, as a result of severe deterioration in earlier years losses, SVB had a tough year in 2004.
At the time we invested, problems in SVBs US casualty treaty reinsurance and other liability business underwritten in 2001 and prior years had surfaced, but their full scale and severe toxicity were not then apparent to anyone.
The new management discontinued this area of the business, which is now being run off in a separate unit.
Unexpectedly bad loss reviews began to disclose the full scale of the old year problems in the first half of 2004 and further reserves of 37.8m were required.
In addition, at 30 June 2004, an exceptional loss provision of 103.6m was established, of which 67.1m remains unused.
SVBs ongoing business continues to be very profitable.
We have confidence in the management team and support their view that, in the course of time, the continuing profitability of the ongoing business should substantially outstrip the old year losses.
Caledonia Investments plc 15 Annual report 2005 Polar Capital Eddington Capital valuation: 7.3m 27.4m including funds : holding 24.6% valuation: 0.7m 18.5m including funds : holding 50.0% In January 2001, Caledonia co-founded Polar Capital with Eddington Capital was established in 2003 and is another a highly respected team of fund managers.
Our assistance in example of Caledonia co-founding a business in the fund formulating the Polar Capital structure, obtaining FSA approvals management arena.
As a specialist in high return fund of hedge and recruitment of its key personnel, illustrates well our ability funds, Eddington Capital launched its agship Triple Alpha Fund to play a constructive role in the formation of a business that has on 1 September 2003, which Caledonia seeded with 15m.
Funds under management at the year end stood in excess of $2bn.
Since launch, while Eddington built up a track record, limited marketing of the Triple Alpha Fund has taken place and it only Polar Capital is a research driven fund management company, grew from 15m to 23m.
Eddington has recently started active providing a highly entrepreneurial environment for talented marketing of the fund and its investment approach is seen managers within a structure that offers a level of marketing, as refreshingly different from that of other funds of funds.
administrative and operational support normally only found As potential investors become more familiar with the fund, in much larger organisations.
With a staff of 38, Polar Capital Eddington hopes to see assets under management rise steadily manages $0.65bn in hedge funds and $1.35bn in long-only funds.
Improving the performance and increasing the size of the Triple Alpha Fund should result in Eddington earning Caledonia owns 24.6% of the management company, with the increasing performance fees.
staff owning the balance, and is represented on the board of the management company and the boards of its funds.
As a result of the success and profitability of the business over the year, the value of our equity investment increased from 5.1m to 7.3m.
In addition, Polar Capital repaid 1.0m of subordinated loan notes, initially provided by Caledonia for regulatory capital.
Marketform and SVB Holdings Lloyds of London Caledonia Investments plc 16 Annual report 2005 Investment review continued Kerzner International valuation: 117.4m: holding 10.1% Leisure and media Kerzner International KI is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination resorts, casinos and luxury hotels worldwide.
Caledonia backed the management team when Sun International Hotels now KI was founded in 1994.
Caledonia has had a non-executive director on KIs board from the outset.
In July 2004, Caledonia reduced its holding in KI by selling 1.3m shares at $47.50 per share, as part of a transaction which allowed Caledonia has long experience Istithmar, a company owned by the Government of Dubai, to acquire a 13% holding in KI.
Istithmar is KIs partner in building of the leisure and media sector a new $1.1bn Atlantis resort on The Palm, Jumeirah in Dubai.
We reduced our stake further in February this year, when we sold through its involvement in the 886,000 shares at $61.48 per share.
Caledonias remaining 3.62m shares represented 12% of our portfolio at the year end and were hospitality and publishing valued at 117.4m.
Although we sold Earlier this year, KI reported 2004 full year adjusted earnings per share of $2.47, compared with $2.36 achieved in 2003. part of our Kerzner International The companys agship operation is Atlantis, Paradise Island, a 2,317 room, ocean-themed destination resort off Nassau in stake and our holding in Radio The Bahamas.
The resort includes the worlds largest open air marine habitat and is the home to the largest casino in the Investments during the year, Caribbean.
KI continues to develop the resort and is currently constructing the Atlantis Marina Village, comprising five new further investments in media restaurants and retail space, together with further timeshare developments at the Harborside at Atlantis.
Plans are also in companies have maintained a hand for expanding the water park attractions and constructing a 600 room all-suite hotel and a 500 room condominium hotel.
weighting greater than the FTSE The company was also responsible for the development of, All-Share index, at 17% compared and receives income derived from, Mohegan Sun in Uncasville, Connecticut, which has become one of the premier casino with 12%.
Over the year, our destinations in the United States.
holdings have increased in value In its luxury resort hotel business, the company manages nine resort hotels primarily under the One&Only brand.
The resorts, by 35%, compared with an featuring some of the top-rated properties in the world, are located in The Bahamas, Mexico, Mauritius, the Maldives increase in the leisure and media and Dubai.
companies in the FTSE All-Share In addition to the Phase III expansion in The Bahamas, KI currently has a number of new developments under construction index of 11%.
or in an advanced stage of planning.
These include a 2,000 room Atlantis project on The Palm, Jumeirah in Dubai, a 600 room hotel and casino project in Morocco, a One&Only hotel in Cape Town, South Africa, and a casino in Northampton, for which KI received its certicate of consent from the UK Gaming Board in 2004.
Kerzner International Mauritius Caledonia Investments plc 17 Annual report 2005 A G Barr The Sloane Club valuation: 16.8m: holding 9.4% valuation: 10.1m: holding 100% Caledonia has been a long term shareholder and supporter The Sloane Club is a residential members club, based in the of A G Barr, which manufactures, markets and distributes a heart of Chelsea.
Caledonia bought the Sloane Club in 1991 range of carbonated soft drinks, including the well known brands on a long lease, both as a property investment and because of Irn-Bru and Tizer, as well as juice drinks and mineral water.
It has been enlarged and modernised, most recently with the addition of air conditioning, flat screen A G Barr recently announced an excellent set of results for the TVs and broadband internet service, and currently has a year to 31 January 2005.
Pre-tax profits rose 13.1% to 15.6m membership of around 3,500.
Caledonia is actively involved in a competitive market for soft drinks as a result of improved in the management of the business.
margins and increased market share for its core brands.
Earnings per share rose by 13.3% to 56.6p and there was a 12.7% increase The Sloane Club enjoys the support of a loyal membership.
in the dividend to 28.75p per share.
However, the recruitment of new members, together with the retention of existing members, is important to its future prosperity.
A G Barr has been improving and developing its manufacturing Overall profitability remained stable during the year, in which the and distribution operations and also announced a significant refurbishment of the rooms enabled the Sloane Club to achieve programme of capital investment of 17m over three years to an 11% increase in the average room rate, although this was produce further efficiencies.
This news was well received by the offset by a fall in occupancy.
market and the share price has continued to perform strongly since 31 March 2005.
The business has continued to make progress with a number of successful sales and marketing initiatives during the year.
Incisive Media In addition, the Sloane Club is actively engaged in the pursuit valuation: 13.6m: holding 8.8% of hotel management opportunities.
The Sloane Club competes Incisive Media is one of the UKs foremost specialist providers in the four star hotel sector and, for the foreseeable future, of business information.
Through leading magazines, consultancy, expects the trading environment to remain challenging.
conferences and exhibitions, websites and a variety of other platforms, it serves a number of business sectors, especially in retail and wholesale financial markets.
Caledonia acquired a 6.4% stake in Incisive Media through supporting a fundraising in April 2004, to finance the acquisition of a specialist private equity publishing business, and further purchases of shares were made during the period.
Caledonia is represented on the board.
In its year to 31 December 2004, Incisive Media reported a 49% increase in pre-tax profits to 7.7m on turnover which rose 31% to 46.5m evidence of the quality of the margins achieved by the management team.
Diluted earnings per share, adjusted for goodwill, rose 20% to 7.96p.
The current year has started well and Incisive Media is confident of producing another year of strong earnings growth in 2005.
The Sloane Club London Caledonia Investments plc 18 Annual report 2005 Investment review continued Paladin Resources valuation: 55.7m: holding 9.0% Industrial and services Paladin is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company with assets in the North Sea, Australia, Indonesia, Romania, Tunisia and Gabon.
During the year, we sold part of our holding in Paladin for 6.5m.
Despite this, the strength of Paladins share price during the period has seen the value of our residual stake rise to be the fourth largest in our portfolio.
Paladin reported strong financial results for 2004, on similar Caledonias experience in the levels of production to 2003.
Operating cash ow was particularly impressive at 171.9m and earnings per share increased 24% industrial and services sector to 11.1p.
The dividend was increased by 8% to 1.7p and reserves showed a 5% increase.
dates back many decades, giving Paladin entered new territory during the year with the purchase us the expertise to work closely for $150m of an interest in the Laminaria and Corallina permits in the Timor Sea, off the coast of Australia.
This acquisition ts with management teams of neatly with Paladins strategy of purchasing assets where further active investment enhances production.
During the The outlook for the coming year is favourable, with a strong year, we identified few attractive oil price and a heavy capital investment programme driving increased production.
new opportunities and, as a result, Offshore Logistics Bristow only 18% of our investments are valuation: 23.8m: holding 5.6% Offshore Logistics, together with its afliate company, Bristow in this sector, compared with Helicopters, is a major provider of helicopter transportation services to the oil and gas industry worldwide.
During the year, 23% for the FTSE All-Share index.
3.7m was received as a result of a capital reorganisation of Offshore Logistics afliate, Bristow Helicopters.
However, we have made some In February 2005, Offshore Logistics reported substantially follow-on investments in improved diluted earnings per share of $1.82 for the nine months to 31 December 2004, compared with $0.86 for the same period activities where we see value in 2003.
Together with generally higher levels of activity and improved margins, the benets of restructuring the business opportunities.
Over the year, to improve efficiencies are coming through.
This has been assisted by new fleet introductions and customer and safety our holdings have increased in orientated initiatives.
value by 32%, compared with Offshore Logistics is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and Caledonia is represented on the board.
an increase in the industrial and Wallem services companies in the FTSE valuation: 15.7m: holding 74.4% Wallem is a maritime services group based in Hong Kong.
Caledonia has been a shareholder of Wallem for over 12 years and has board representation.
Wallems activities encompass ship and cargo broking, ship management, shipping and air cargo agency services and maritime software development.
In the period under review, which has been a period of strong growth in the shipping sector, Wallem has increased the fleet of ships under management substantially and seen higher activity and profit from its agency business.
Wallem reported signicantly higher pre-tax profits for the year to 30 September 2004.
Wallem continues to perform strongly in its current financial year.
It has also established a number of new operations in Asia and Europe, which positions Wallem well to take advantage of further growth in world shipping markets and China in particular.
As a result of its strong performance, our valuation of Wallem has increased by 49% over the year to 31 March 2005.
Caledonia Investments plc 19 Annual report 2005 Melrose Resources Sterling Industries valuation: 14.8m: holding 6.7% valuation: 10.8m: holding 100% Melrose Resources is an oil and gas exploration and production Sterling Industries comprises three distinct businesses, all company listed in London.
The company has interests in Bulgaria, operating in the engineering sector.
Sterling Hydraulics is a Egypt, the USA and France.
specialist designer and manufacturer of hydraulic valves primarily used in the construction machinery industry.
Bloom Engineering The highlight of an eventful year for Melrose was the first designs and builds burners for the iron and steel and aluminium production from the Galata gas eld in Bulgaria, which came on industries.
Process Combustion Corporation PCC designs, stream in June 2004.
The seven month contribution from Galata, manufactures, and supplies combustion heat transfer and allied with a 258% increase in production in Egypt, helped overall pollution control systems to various industries to meet production rise to over 8,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day environmental requirements.
boepd, compared with 1,300 boepd in the previous year.
profits after tax for the year rose by 174% to 7.7m, driving Sterling Hydraulics is currently enjoying strong demand for its an increase of 70% in earnings per share to 10.7p and a very products, driven by high commodity prices stimulating demand welcome maiden dividend of 1.0p was declared.
for construction and mining machinery.
The results for the year show a significant improvement on last years outturn and the During the period, Melrose raised 24.6m of new equity, in Sterling board regards the prospects for the coming year as which Caledonia participated with a further 1m investment, most encouraging.
and agreed a syndicated debt facility of $75m to help fund working capital requirements.
Encouragingly, oil and gas reserves Bloom Engineering has operations in Europe, the USA and China.
increased by 14% compared with the previous year.
A number Whilst benefiting from high steel prices in the USA, the European of new exploration licences were secured in Egypt and Bulgaria, business has continued to nd the market challenging.
Prospects as well as a permit to explore in the Rhne-Maritime concession in China are encouraging following Blooms first order from Bao off the southern Mediterranean coast of France.
Steel, which was delivered during the year.
Easybox PCC had a successful year in Europe and the USA, with valuation: 12.3m: holding 99.2% prospects in the latter looking better than for several years.
Easybox, a self storage business currently operating in Italy and Spain, was established in 2000 by Caledonia and a joint venture Amber Industrial partner.
Caledonia bought out its partner in early 2003.
We have a valuation: 10.7m: holding 100% longstanding relationship with the management of Easybox, who Amber is a speciality chemicals business with two significant had previously developed Abacus into a leading UK self storage parts, a global silicones compounding division and an industrial business.
Abacus, a Caledonia-owned company, was sold in consumables distribution division operating in Germany, Austria, 1998 for a substantial profit.
At the start of the year, Amber sold its UK aerosols division and has subsequently relocated its Finding new sites for operations continues to prove very difficult, headquarters and UK silicones operation.
Since Caledonias particularly in Spain.
Whilst a number of these have been viewed year end, Amber has also made a property disposal realising during the year, none have been found which meet Easyboxs proceeds of around 1m.
The existing six facilities are all trading well, particularly the highly visible store in Rome.
Total retail Underlying operating profits, which exclude discontinued space let increased by 37% to 19,427 sq m and revenue is up businesses and the non-recurring costs associated with the 40% on last year.
The companys financial position continues disposal of the aerosols division, were up 28% in the year to to strengthen and operating cash ow is positive.
This was due mainly to improved trading conditions in the USA.
As a result of the disposal of the aerosols division, Ambers valuation has been reduced to 10.7m from 12.8m a year earlier.
Paladin Resources North Sea Offshore Logistics Bristow Gulf of Mexico
