Caledonia Investments plc 07 Annual report 2005 Objectives and strategy Objectives Caledonia seeks to work closely and constructively with the Caledonia aims to achieve a long term total shareholder return management of companies that it has backed and to make in excess of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index, while available the considerable experience of its own team to help maintaining a progressive annual dividend, through a focused the investee companys management to address the business portfolio of significant stakes in companies where it believes issues.
The strategy for each investment, including the returns there to be good opportunities for building value.
and the timing of eventual disposal, is reviewed regularly.
Investments are realised when it is believed that the funds Caledonia measures its performance over the long term by released can provide better long term returns, but in a manner comparing its total shareholder return against the FTSE All-Share consistent with Caledonias reputation as a supportive long Total Return index over five and ten year periods.
Strategy Whilst the source of funding for new investments generally Caledonias strategy is to invest in and actively manage comes from its own resources, Caledonia may at times seek significant stakes in 30 to 40 companies and situations where to enhance returns by taking on moderate levels of gearing.
it believes there to be good opportunities for building value.
Active management will usually be achieved by working closely Tight control is exercised over costs, notwithstanding Caledonias and constructively with the investee management, often through active and participative management style.
Cost containment is board representation, as a long term supportive shareholder.
signicantly aided by managing the large majority of investments Risk is managed by holding a diversied portfolio, with at least through the in-house management team.
50% of the portfolio in quoted securities or liquid assets.
Caledonia self-manages its portfolio, using in-house expertise, Competitive advantages as well as using third party managers who specialise in particular Caledonia believes that its history and strategy deliver the following asset classes or geographical areas.
key competitive advantages: Caledonia seeks new investments with a typical size of 10m Favoured access Caledonias long established and valuable to 25m.
Although Caledonia usually aims to have an inuential reputation as a supportive long term investor attracts a strong minority stake it will, on occasion, be prepared to take a controlling deal ow of opportunities not always available to others, which interest where it believes that this will maximise shareholder enables it to be highly selective in its investments.
When considering an investment opportunity, particular care is taken in appraising the capabilities and commitment of Long experience Caledonias management team has long the management team of the prospective investee company.
experience of proactively working with the management teams The anticipated total return from the investment, the strategy in of investee companies to identify and promote business relation to it, and the overall risks, are carefully analysed as part growth opportunities.
Self-management Caledonias portfolio is largely self-managed, Caledonia will invest part of its portfolio in third party managed thereby reducing third party fees and ensuring that performance funds.
Again, a core skill is its ability to assess the capabilities gains accrue to Caledonias shareholders.
Where investments and commitment of the fund management team and Caledonia are made in managed funds, Caledonia seeks to secure a will often seek to obtain a significant stake in the management stake in the asset management business, to enhance further company, thereby potentially enhancing returns to shareholders.
Progressive dividends Caledonia has a substantial level of distributable reserves to support its progressive dividend policy for the foreseeable future.
