R A Stone FCA Chairman Non-executive Mr Curran was appointed Chairman in May 1999 having previously been Mr Stone was appointed to the Candover board in May 2005.
Until 1998 Chief Executive since 1991 and, before that, Deputy Chief Executive and a he was Deputy Chairman of Coopers & Lybrand and Chairman of the firms director of Candover since July 1982.
Prior to joining Candover in May 1981, European Corporate Finance activities.
From 1998 to 2000, he served as a he was a managing consultant with Coopers & Lybrand Associates and then member of the global board of .
He is Chairman of an investment manager with what is now Cinven.
He is a non-executive Drambuie Limited and a non-executive director of Halma plc, The Property director of Greggs plc and various unquoted companies.
Investment Trust and Gartmore Global Trust plc.
A P Hichens MBA Non-executive Deputy Chairman, remuneration committee chairman, Non-executive, nominations committee chairman Senior Independent Director Mr Hichens joined the board of Candover in December 1989 and became Mr Grimstone was appointed to the Candover board in July 1999, and Deputy Chairman in January 1991.
He stepped down as Deputy Chairman became Deputy Chairman in May 2004.
Formerly an Assistant Secretary at in May 2004, and remains a non-executive director.
He is Chairman of D. S. HM Treasury, Mr Grimstone latterly held a number of senior appointments Smith plc and WaterRower UK Limited and is a member of the Takeover in the Schroders group, including Vice Chairman of worldwide investment Panel.
He is also a non-executive director of JPMorgan Fleming Income & banking activities.
He is a non-executive director of Dairy Crest Group plc, Capital Investment Trust Plc.
He was previously a Managing Director and RAF Strike Command and the Tote, and is Deputy Chaiman of Standard Life Chief Financial Officer of Consolidated Gold Fields.
Assurance Company and Chairman of F&C Global Smaller Companies plc.
Mr Grimstone assumed the role of Senior Independent Director in May 2004.
J G West FCA MSI Mr Grimstone is 56.
Non-executive Mr West was appointed to the Candover board in December 1985 and is a 3.
G D Fairservice MBA former Managing Director of Lazard Brothers and Chief Executive of Lazard Director Investors.
He was previously Managing Director of Globe Investment Trust Plc.
Mr Fairservice joined Candover in March 1984, was appointed to the board He is Chairman of Gartmore Fledgling Trust plc, New City High Yield Trust plc, in July 1986, was made Deputy Chief Executive in January 1991, then Deputy Jupiter Second Enhanced Income Trust plc and Rurelec plc and a nonChairman in May 1999.
Mr Fairservice stepped down as Deputy Chairman executive director of Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc, JP Morgan in May 2004.
Before joining Candover, Mr Fairservice spent eight years with Fleming Income & Capital Investment Trust plc, British Assets Trust plc, ICFC now 3i followed by two years with the British Technology Group now Global Natural Energy plc and various unquoted companies.
N A Lethbridge M S Gumienny ACA Non-executive Senior Managing Director Mr Lethbridge was appointed to the Candover board in January 2003.
Mr Gumienny was appointed joint Managing Director of Candover Mr Lethbridge was previously a senior partner in London of Babcock & Investments plc in March 1998 and resigned in December 2002.
He is Brown, a global investment bank specialising in the acquisition, management a joint Senior Managing Director of Candover Services Limited, the principal and arrangement of asset and project financing worldwide.
Previously operating company in the Candover Group, and of Candover Partners Limited, Mr Lethbridge was a director of J. Henry Schroder Wagg, where he carried the manager of various investment funds.
Prior to joining Candover in January out numerous privatisation and project financing assignments.
He also worked 1987, he qualified as a chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse.
with the Saudi International Bank and earlier spent nine years with the World Transactions led by Mr Gumienny include the buyout of Swissport from Bank in Washington DC.
He is a non-executive director of Partnerships UK plc, Swissair Group AG, the formation of Aspen Insurance, and the buyout of Ekwienox Ltd, Invicta Capital Ltd and Asia Mezzanine Capital Investors Ltd. Gala Group.
He is a non-executive director of a number of unquoted Mr Lethbridge is 56. companies in the Candover portfolio.
C Russell FSIP FCA C L P Chevrillon MBA Non-executive, audit committee chairman Senior Managing Director Mr Russell was appointed to the Candover board in May 2004.
Mr Russell is Mr Chevrillon joined Candover as joint Managing Director of Candover an associate of GaveKal Research and a director of Investec High Income Trust Partners Limited, the manager of various investment funds, in December plc, the Korea Fund Inc, Enhanced Index Funds pcc, LIM Japan Fund, British 2002.
He led the buyout of Qioptiq from Thales in December 2005.
Airways Pension Investment Management Ltd and JP Morgan Chase Fleming Mr Chevrillon founded Chevrillon Associs, a leading French investment Japanese Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
He was formerly a director company, in 1992.
Prior to that he was General Manager of Investment and Head of Overseas Businesses at Gartmore Investment Management plc.
Banking for France for Salomon Brothers SA, which he joined in 1986, and Prior to Gartmore, he was a Holding Board director of the Jardine Fleming Finance Director of Gaumont.
Mr Chevrillon started his career in 1976 with Group in Asia.
Senior Managing Directors C J Buffin ACA Senior Managing Director Mr Buffin was appointed joint Managing Director of Candover Investments plc in March 1998 and resigned in December 2002.
He is a joint Senior Managing Director of Candover Services Limited, the principal operating company in the Candover Group, and of Candover Partners Limited, the manager of various investment funds.
He joined Candover in September 1985 from Deloitte Haskins & Sells, where he spent two years in the investigations and corporate finance departments after qualifying as a chartered accountant.
Mr Buffin has been responsible for a number of transactions which have led to Stock Exchange listings or trade sales.
45 Member of the remuneration committee Member of the audit committee Member of the nominations committee 7 8 21 Candover Report and Accounts 2005
