Valuation policy Investments have been valued by the directors in compliance with the principles of the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines as recommended by the British Venture Capital Association.
Where appropriate, a marketability discount, in the range of 10% to Principles of valuation of unlisted investments 30% may be applied to the investment valuation, based on the likely Investments are stated at amounts considered by the directors to be timing of an exit, the influence over that exit, the risk of achieving a reasonable assessment of their fair value, subject to the requirement conditions precedent to that exit and general market conditions.
to apply a degree of caution in making the necessary estimates.
Fair value is the amount at which an asset could be exchanged between When investments have obtained an exit either by listing or knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
trade sale after the valuation date but before finalisation of Candovers relevant accounts interim or final, the valuation is All investments are valued according to one of the following bases: based on the exit valuation.
cost less any provision required : earnings multiple: In arriving at the value of an investment, the percentage ownership net assets: is calculated after taking into account any dilution through outstanding price of recent investment: or warrants, options and performance related mechanisms.
Principles of valuation of listed investments Investments are only valued at cost for a limited period after the date of acquisition, otherwise investments are valued on one of the other Investments are valued at bid price or the conventions of the market bases described above, and generally the earnings multiple basis of on which they are quoted subject, if appropriate, to marketability valuation will be used unless this is inappropriate, as in the case of discounts where formal restrictions on trading exist.
Valuation review procedures When valuing on an earnings multiple basis, profits before interest and Valuations are initially prepared by the relevant investment executive.
tax of the current year will normally be used, depending on whether These valuations are then subject to review by senior management or not more than six months of the accounting period remain and and external auditors, prior to approval by the directors.
the predictability of future profits.
Such profits will be adjusted to a maintainable basis, taxed at the full corporation tax rate and multiplied by an appropriate and reasonable price earnings multiple.
This is normally related to comparable quoted companies or recent transactions, with adjustments made for points of difference between the comparator and the company being valued, in particular for risks, earnings growth prospects and surplus assets or excess liabilities.
Where a company is loss-making, or the value is derived mainly from the underlying value of its assets rather than its earnings, the valuation may be calculated with regard to the underlying net asset.
Where there has been a subsequent recent investment by a third party in a new financing round that is deemed to be at arms length this may be used as the basis of valuation.
In cases where an exit is actively being sought, then any offers from potential purchasers would be relevant in assessing the valuation of an investment and are taken into account in arriving at the valuation.
