Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the audited financial Directors statements for the year ended 31st December, 2005.
The directors listed below served on the board throughout the year and were in office at the end of the year.
Principal activities Candover Investments plc is an investment company within the S W Curran J G West meaning of Part VIII of the Companies Act 1985 as well as an G E Grimstone N A Lethbridge investment trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation A PHichens C Russell Taxes Act 1988, the tax status of which is shown on page 24.
GD Fairservice Non-executive Candover is engaged principally in the identification, implementation and monitoring of large buyouts and buyins.
Candover Investments Mr Derek Wilson stepped down from the board at the Annual plc makes an investment either under a co-investment agreement General Meeting on 10th May, 2005. with third party managed funds or on its own account.
The third party managed funds, established with commitments from a wide Mr Richard Stone was appointed a non-executive director after range of international institutional investors, are managed by the Annual General Meeting on 10th May, 2005, and will stand for Candover Partners Limited, which is regulated by the Financial election at the Annual General Meeting on 8th May, 2006.
Candover participates in the profit made in certain of these funds subject to an overall minimum return having first been In accordance with the Articles of Association and in compliance with generated for investors in the funds.
This minimum return varies the Revised Combined Code, Messrs Curran, Grimstone, Hichens and from fund to fund.
Candover will be entitled to between 2% and West will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for 5% of any profit made by the 2005 Fund, subject to an overall re-election.
minimum return having first been generated for investors.
The exact percentage received by Candover will be determined by a All of those seeking election and re-election have letters of ratchet based on the investment multiple achieved by the Fund.
appointment, the terms of which are contained in the directors remuneration report on page 33.
These funds and the investment activities of each fund are set out under the Status of funds on page 9.
The biographical details of the serving directors and those seeking election or re-election appear on pages 20 and 21.
Results and review of business The Group profit for the financial year after taxation was 11,633,000 Notifiable interests in the Companys shares compared to 13,239,000 for the year ended 31st December, 2004.
The names of those persons who, insofar as the Company is aware, Revenue was 44,664,000 as against 41,795,000 for the previous are interested directly or indirectly in 3 per cent or more of the year.
Administrative expenses charged to revenue were 28,029,000 issued share capital of the Company as at 17th March, 2006 are compared to 22,832,000 for the previous year.
The changes in shown in note 16 to the accounts on page 53. fixed asset investments are described together with a review of the Groups activities in the Chairmans statement and operational review Directors interests on pages 4 and 7 respectively.
The statements in respect of directors interests in the share capital of the Company are contained in note 16 to the accounts on page 54. Dividend and proposed transfer to reserves Other matters requiring disclosure by the directors are contained in The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of the directors remuneration report on pages 29 to 33.
6,994,000, equal to 32.0p per ordinary share 2004: 6,338,000, equal to 29.0p per share giving a total dividend for the year of Political and charitable donations 10,600,000, equal to 48.5p per ordinary share 2004: 9,584,000, During the year there were charitable donations of 20,000 equal to 44.0p per share.
Payment of the dividend will be made 2004: 30,000.
There were no political donations made during on 17th May, 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of the year 2004: nil.
The dividend details are shown in note 6 on page 46.
Share buyback Although authority to buy back the Companys shares was granted to In accordance with IFRS, proposed dividends are provided for in the the directors at the Annual General Meetings on 12th May, 2004 and period in which they are formally declared and approved.
As a result, 10th May, 2005, there were no share buybacks during the year.
the final dividend for 2005 will be recognised in the following year.
22 Candover Report and Accounts 2005 interests of shareholders safety and security, powers are also Annual General Meeting given to the directors or the Chairman of a General Meeting to The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Monday control attendance, impose security restrictions and, if necessary, 8th May, 2006 at 12 noon at The Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, adjourn a meeting.
The notice of Annual General Meeting appears on page 58. iv Non-executive directors remuneration The existing Articles contain a cap of 200,000 per annum on Resolution 2, if passed, will approve the directors remuneration the aggregate remuneration of non-executive directors.
This has report for the year ended 31st December, 2005. been in place since the adoption of the Articles and Article 93 has been updated to include a revised cap of 400,000 per Resolutions 4-8 concern the election and re-election of directors.
Biographical details for all directors are given on pages 20 and 21.
Each of the directors standing for election or re-election has v Borrowing powers demonstrated their ability to bring a wide ranging and valuable set Article 97, which permits the directors to exercise the of skills and knowledge to the Company.
The board considers all Companys borrowing powers, has been updated in line with its non-executive directors to be independent in character and the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards.
vi Retirement of directors by rotation In addition to the ordinary business of the Annual General Meeting, Article 109 has been simplified to clarify the procedure by the following special business will be put to shareholders: which directors retire by rotation and are then eligible for re-appointment in accordance with the July 2003 Combined Code.
Resolution 11, if passed, concerns the adoption of new Articles of Association by the Company.
vii Electronic communications The Companies Act 1985 Electronic Communications Order Since the Company adopted its existing Articles in 1994, there have 2000 made certain electronic communications legally possible in been a number of changes in applicable law and practice.
In view of respect of UK companies.
The Articles, and in particular Article this, the directors consider that it is appropriate to update the Articles, 152, have been updated to provide for the possibility of certain and the main changes are summarised as follows: notices, including appointments of proxies and notices of meetings being given by electronic means.
i Uncertificated shares A number of changes have been made to reflect the fact that viii Indemnification of directors the Companys shares can be held in either certificated or Article 155 has been amended to reflect new indemnities uncertificated form, and facilitating the issue and transfer of available to directors and other officers following the Companies shares in the CREST system.
Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004.
The new indemnity allows the Company at its discretion to: ii Treasury shares pay defence costs in civil or criminal cases as they are The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares incurred by the director rather than requiring the director to Regulations 2003 allow the Company to re-purchase its own wait until he she is acquitted: shares to be held in treasury rather than cancelled.
Whilst the indemnify the directors for statutory as well as non-statutory Company does not currently hold any shares in this way, several liabilities: and changes have been made to the Articles to distinguish the rights indemnify directors in respect of damages and defence attaching to any shares held in treasury in the future.
costs where proceedings are brought by third parties even if judgement is given against the director.
iii General meetings Changes have been made to Article 68 which permit The indemnity will no longer extend to the Companys auditors.
arrangements to be made for attendance at satellite meetings at the same time as a General Meeting of the Company.
In the 23 Candover Report and Accounts 2005 Report of the directors continued Resolution 12, if passed, authorises the Company to purchase up to Tax status 3,276,306 of its shares.
This authority will expire at the next Annual The board of Her Majestys Revenue and Customs has approved the General Meeting of the Company, or on 8th August, 2007 if the next Companys status as an investment trust, under section 842 of the Annual General Meeting has not been held by then.
This resolution Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, for the year ended 31st also sets out the highest and lowest price at which the shares can December, 2004.
In the opinion of the directors, the Companys be bought.
affairs since that date have been conducted so as to enable it to continue to be treated as an investment trust.
In the event that shares are purchased, they would either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly Financial risk factors or, subject to the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury The Groups investment activities expose it to a variety of financial Shares Regulations 2003 S. I.
2003 1116 the Regulations, be risks: market risk including currency risk, price risk and interest rate retained as treasury shares.
The Regulations permit companies to risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk hold shares repurchased as treasury shares with a view to possible management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial re-sale at a future date rather than having to cancel them.
markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group does not hold any The Company would consider holding any of its own shares derivatives.
repurchased pursuant to the proposed resolution in treasury rather than cancelling them, subject to a maximum of 10 per cent of the Further information on financial risk management is contained in issued share capital immediately prior to such purchase.
By holding Note 22 on page 57. its shares in treasury, the Company is afforded the ability to reissue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and gains additional Return of cash flexibility in the management of its capital base.
It should be noted Taking into account Candovers historic and current cash balances, that no dividends would be paid on shares while held in treasury, no our commitment to the 2005 Fund, and potential investments and voting rights would attach to them and the shares would be treated realisations, the board has decided to recommend a return of cash as if cancelled.
The resolution follows the rules set down by the of 100.0 million, equivalent to 457p per ordinary share to Companies Act 1985 and the UK Listing Authority.
This transaction has been structured as a bonus issue of B shares and C shares to give shareholders a choice between The directors are committed to managing the Companys capital receiving the cash in the form of income or capital, and, so far as efficiently and will keep under review the possibility of buying back possible, to give those who choose capital some choice as to when the Companys shares.
However, they will only do this if they believe the return is made.
There will be no share consolidation and as a that it is in shareholders best interests.
result, the number of ordinary shares in issue will be unchanged.
The return of cash is conditional upon, amongst other things, shareholder The directors consider the passing of the above resolutions to be in approval at an Extraordinary General Meeting which will be held the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
following the Annual General Meeting on 8th May.
A circular detailing the terms of the return of cash will be sent to shareholders in April.
Supplier payment policy The Company negotiates payment terms with its suppliers on an By order of the board individual basis, with the normal arrangements being within 14 to 30 days from receipt of invoice.
Trade creditor days of the Company for the year ended 31st December, 2005 were 38 days based on the ratio of Company trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
ISA status The board has considered the ISA status of Candovers shares and A C Peel for the time being considers that a decision to make Candovers Company Secretary shares eligible for inclusion in an ISA will impose constraints on the 20 Old Bailey Companys investment criteria that will not be in the overall interests London EC4M 7LN of shareholders.
23rd March, 2006 Auditors Grant Thornton UK LLP offer themselves for reappointment as auditors in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985 and an appropriate resolution will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
