2 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Geographical coverage of business centres Profile of the Group Consumer Credit difficulties.
The success of this strategy current circumstances.
The role played The consumer credit division comprises is demonstrated by the divisions by LCUs is fundamental to maintaining Welcome Financial Services, Welcome achievement of continuing stability in its our overall credit quality and arrears Car Finance, Progressive Insurance, customers arrears levels and its loan management.
Dial4aloan and Shopacheck Financial loss provisioning charge.
The division serves more than Welcome Car Finance provides direct 666,000 customers from 278 All applications for direct repayment distribution motor finance.
Progressive separately located business centres credit are initially screened centrally Insurance Company manages the and 38 Local Collection Units LCU using our bespoke customer groups insurance portfolio consisting throughout the UK.
principally of payment protection, Applications which successfully pass health, life and mechanical breakdown The divisions direct repayment product this initial screening are then subject to insurance.
Dial4aloan brokers range includes unsecured and secured a rigorous pre-lending process, consumer credit applications to both personal loans, hire purchase credit including the verification of information external lenders and other parts of the facilities sold to consumer credit provided by potential customers and an consumer division.
Amounts advanced to our assessment of other commitments customers are typically small unsecured which the applicant may have, in order Debt Collection loans 1,500, hire purchase for cars to confirm that the loan is both The Lewis Group provides a full debt 4,800, secured loans 9,000 and appropriate and affordable.
recovery service for external clients and short term home collected advances the consumer credit division.
Loans are repayable over periods A final underwriting decision is taken by ranging from 23 weeks to 3 years, or a senior underwriter at our central Corporate Services longer in the case of secured advances.
processing units in Nottingham and Hull The corporate services division or, in certain cases, by a local branch provides working capital finance to Various repayment methods are manager.
The presence of our branches small and medium sized enterprises in available to our customers including in our customers local communities the business community.
direct debits through the banking or enables our staff to maintain a closer post office systems and over the contact with them and to respond with Cattles Invoice Finance, based in counter payments at one of our local understanding to changes in their shortManchester, Leeds, Oxford, Glasgow, business centres.
In addition, a home term financial circumstances.
Maidstone and Birmingham provides collection service is provided for small invoice factoring and sales ledger value, short-term advances.
When customers experience a longer management services.
term adverse change in their financial Our strategy of maintaining credit position, account management is Prior to their disposal on 14 January quality is underpinned by our policy of transferred from the local branch to a 2005, Cattles Commercial Finance and responsible lending and treating specialist LCU branch.
The LCU is then Cattles Commercial Leasing, based in customers with appropriate sensitivity able to establish a revised repayment Hull, provided asset backed leasing, hire when they experience financial schedule more suited to the customers purchase and block discounting facilities.
