14 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Directors and Officers of the Company Barrie Cottingham, FCA, ATII.
Appointed the company and appointed to Chairman May 1999. the Board 2000.
Appointed Non-executive director of Vp plc.
Formerly a senior partner of Chairman of National Cares.
Previously a member of the UK board and chairman and senior partner of the northern region of .
Joined the company in 1996 and appointed to the Board 1998.
CBI council member for Yorkshire and Humber.
Prior to joining the company was finance director of Brooke Industrial Holdings plc.
Ian S Cummine, Chief Operating Officer.
Joined the company in 1994 when Welcome Financial Services Limited was acquired.
Prior to the setting up of Welcome, of which he was a co-founder, held senior positions in the credit industry.
Joined the company and appointed to the Board 2001.
Prior to joining Member of the Nomination Committee the company was finance director Independent non-executive and member of Polypipe plc.
Previously held of the Audit, Remuneration and senior finance positions in a Nomination Committees variety of listed and private Independent non-executive and member companies.
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees Independent non-executive and member of the Audit Committee Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 15 Alan J McWalter, Age 52.
Non-executive director of Domestic & General Group plc Norman N Broadhurst, FCA, and Alphameric plc and FCT.
Age 64. non-executive chairman of Appointed to the Board 2001.
Nationwide Autocentres Limited Chairman of Chloride Group plc and Constantine Holdings Limited and Freightliner Limited and also and non-executive director of a non-executive director of St Lukes Holdings Limited.
Old Mutual plc, Tomkins plc Previously marketing director of retiring 22 May 2006 and Marks & Spencer plc.
Previously finance director of Railtrack Group plc.
Non-executive director of SIG plc.
From 1991 until his retirement in 1995 he was the managing partner of the London office of Arthur Andersen.
Roland C W Todd, MA Oxon, Frank Dee, Age 55.
Company Secretary and to the Board 2004.
Joined the director of Leeds Building Society company and appointed and Speedy Hire plc and Company Secretary and Legal non-executive chairman of Counsel 2004.
Prior to joining the The Original Factory Shop Group company was a partner in the Limited.
Previously held senior Leeds office of the law firm DLA.
executive roles in a variety of companies in the retail sector.
Non-executive director of Uniq plc.
Previously a managing director of Credit Suisse First Boston and a director of NatWest Markets Corporate Finance Limited.
