P ortfolio Managers Report continued Other sales across the portfolio included: The valuation of GlaxoSmithKline the Trusts third Intercontinent al Hotels Leisure and Hotels sector, largest holding is supported by its existing medicines on AB Ports Transport sector, Enel Electricity sector sale with upside potential from new medicines under and Brixton Est ates Real Estate sector.
Glaxo is delivering stable earnings growth and is a global leader in an industry with good demand Outlook prospects for its products.
Oil industry fundamentals remain good.
The oil price is likely to stay at high levels given increasing demand for Further progress in the real estate sector 6.9% of the oil from developing countries and the lack of new oil Trusts portfolio is expected with investor demand for supply to meet this demand in the short term.
Significant property driven by its appeal as a diversifying asset additional refining capacity will also take time to come class and the attractive yield available.
Overall, we favour BP the Trusts largest of a more tax transparent status for property companies holding due to its superior prospects for oil production.
in the UK, as is being considered by the government, would give further impetus to the sectors upward move.
An improved performance from the Banking sector is expected with share price valuations failing to discount a Finally, we at Henderson Global Investors welcome continuation of reasonably good profit and good dividend the Boards introduction for City of London of a new growth from the sector.
Given money market benchmark, the FTSE AllShare adjusted for a expectations for flat UK interest rates for the year ahead, maximum 4% cap for any single stock.
The reduced size UK consumer lending should continue to grow as in this benchmark of the five largest stocks will allow household incomes improve.
Corporate lending and greater flexibility in the management of the portfolio to savings products also offer useful future growth avenues.
HSBC the Companys second largest holding has the additional advantage of a genuine international spread of operations and is experiencing strong growth in the Far East and in emerging markets.
Job Curtis Distribution of the Portfolio at Estimated Performance Attribution 30 June 200 5 Analysis for the year to 30 June 2005 total returns relative to the FTSE AllShare Index 2005 2004 Stock Selection including income 2.84% 0.73% Gearing 0.80% 0.76% Expenses -0.7 4% -0.61% Share Issues Buy Backs 0.09% cccc T otal 2.99% 0.88% mmmm Source: Henderson Global Investors Limited 10
