Directors Simon fide Zoete, Chairman age 64 is a non-executive director of Mallett PL C and was Deputy Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston Mark Nicholls Angus Russell Sir Keith Stuart Helen W eir age 43 Europe Limited until June age 56 was Head of age 49 is the Chief age 65 is a member is Group Finance 2001.
He is currently a senior adviser to Credit Corporate Finance at Financial Officer of of The Gas & Director of Lloyds Suisse First Boston and an SG Warburg and Chief Shire Pharmaceuticals Electricity Markets TSB, having previously Executive of Royal Group plc.
He was held the role of Group adviser to BAE Systems Bank of Scotland chartered accountant, Chairman of Finance Director with 2000 P ension Plan.
He is an investment banker Private Equity Group.
having qualified with Associated British Kingfisher.
Prior to this specialising in the equity He is Deputy Coopers & Lybrand Ports Holdings PLC she was Finance Chairman of V enture and is a F ellow of The from 1983 to 2002 Director of B&Q and market and was V ice Production Plc and a Association of and he has also between 1990 to Chairman of Barclays fide Zoete W edd prior to its sale non-executive Director Corporate Treasurers.
served as non- 1995 held a senior to Credit Suisse First Boston of Bovis Homes He joined the board executive Chairman position at McKinsey Group PL C, the in 2003. of SE EBOARD plc and Company.
He joined the board P ortman Building and as a nona member of the in 2000.
Society and Alexander executive Director of Accounting Standards F orbes Ltd.
He is also BAA plc and RMC Board and a F ellow of Protector of the Group plc.
He joined the Chartered Institute National Lottery Fair the board in 1999. of Management Share Fund.
She the board in 1997. joined the board in 2002, retires by All directors are independent of the Investment Manager and are rotation at the Annual members of the Nominations Committee, which is chaired by General Meeting in Simon fide Zoete.
The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart October and will not Chairman, Mark Nicholls and Helen W eir.
Management Job Curtis age 44 has been the Portfolio Manager since 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors Limited.
Job is assisted in the management of the portfolio by Alex Crooke and James Henderson.
Krista Burwood acts as Company Secretary on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
From left to right: Job Curtis, Alex Crooke, James Henderson and Krista Burwood.
