Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited accounts Investment Manager Investment management, custodial, accounting, of the Company for the year ended 30 June 2005. administrative and company secretarial services are Status, Principal Activities and Review provided to the Company by wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Company is an investment company as defined in Henderson Global Investors Holdings plc Henderson Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and operates and BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Ltd. as an investment Trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is The base management fee is calculated at the rate of required to seek Inland Revenue approval of its status as 0.30% on the first 400 million of assets under an investment trust under the above-mentioned Section management and 0.25% on assets under management 842 every year and this approval will continue to be in excess of 400 million.
Such fees are payable sought.
Inland Revenue approval of the Companys status quarterly in arrears based on the level of assets at the as an investment trust has been received in respect of relevant quarter end.
In addition, a performance fee is the year ended 30 June 2004.
The directors are of the payable equivalent to 0.1% for every 1% outperformance opinion that the Company has subsequently conducted against the Companys benchmark subject to a cap of its affairs in a manner which will enable it to continue to 0.5% of the average assets under management during gain such approval.
The Company has no employees.
the year including the base management fee over the Companys accounting year.
A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Statement on page 3 and in the Portfolio Managers Changes to the measurement and calculation of the Report on pages 8 to 10. performance fee have been agreed with Henderson and will take effect for the year ending 30 June 2006.
First, Revenue and Dividend because of the Boards concerns about the increased The net revenue after taxation for the year was weightings of the largest stocks in the FTSE AllShare 18,689,000, an increase of 7.
Index, a new benchmark has been adopted, the FTSE AllShare Index adjusted for a maximum 4% cap for Earnings per ordinary share amounted to 8.88p.
Three any single stock FTSE AllShare 4% Capped, which quarterly interim dividends of 2.12p each have been paid will apply from 1 July 2005.
This index is calculated and during the year and a fourth interim dividend of 2.26p maintained by FTSE and is available both on the was paid on 31 August 2005, making a total of 8.62p Companys website, www.
This is an increase of 3.5% on the amount www.
paid in respect of the year ended 30 June 2004.
In addition, with effect from 1 July 2005, an adjustment Assets T otal net assets at 30 June 2005 amounted to to the performance fee will be introduced in order to align it more closely to shareholders actual returns.
The net asset value per ordinary share Whilst the performance fee will continue to be calculated according to existing practice outlined ab ove increased by 17.
This figure is calculated by valuing the Companys long term and, if sufficient performance has been achieved, the cap of 0.5% will be applied, in the event of a significant debt at its nominal value.
When the long term debt is calculated at its fair, or market, value year-on-year the movement in the share price the performance fee will be decreased or increased in line with a sliding scale.
net asset value increased by 16.3% from 210.75p to 245.0 8p.
At 30 June 2005 there were 110 2004: 111 Should the Companys share price decrease over the year in question by between 10.00% and 14.9 9%, the investments, as detailed on pages 12 and 13. performance fee element would be decreased by 10%: 14 Report of the Directors continued a fall of between 15.00% and 19.9 9% in the share T he directors interests in the share capital of the Company price would result in a reduction of 15% of the were as follows: performance fee: and a decline of 20.00% or more in 30 June 1 July Ordinary shares of 25p 2005 2004 the share price would create a decrease of 20% in the with beneficial interest: performance fee.
The new arrangement is symmetrical Simon fide Zoete 142,503 135,000 and, should the share price increase over the period, Mark Nicholls 30,490 30,238 Angus Russell 2,765 1,271 the same thresholds and increases to the performance Sir Keith Stuart 157, 930 150,376 fee would apply.
This could mean that the total fee paid Helen W eir 7, 904 7, 595 may exceed the 0.5% cap by up to 20% of the None of the directors had interests in the preference or preferred performance fee.
ordinary stocks or the debenture stocks of the Company.
Underperformance in any accounting year must be Since the year end, the following directors have become made good in full before a performance fee is payable interested in further shares: Sir Keith Stuart 165 shares, in any subsequent accounting year whilst any Helen W eir 73 shares, Mark Nicholls 60 shares and Angus outperformance in excess of the cap may be carried Russell 209 shares.
forward solely for the purpose of making good There were no contracts during or at the end of the year subsequent underperformance for a maximum of the in which a director of the Company is or was materially next two accounting years.
interested and which is or was significant in relation to the All publications of the Companys net asset value take Companys business.
No director has a contract of service account of any performance fee owing or potentially owing.
As part of the review of the Management Agreement Auditors with Henderson, the notice period has been reduced Resolutions to re-appoint Ernst &Y oung LLP and to from one year to six months in line with best practice.
authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Investment Manager uses certain services which are Substantial Stock Interests paid for, or provided, by various brokers.
In return it At 13 September 2005 notices have been received by the places business, which may include transactions relating Company of the following substantial interests in the issued to the Company, with these brokers.
capital of the Company having unrestricted voting rights: Corporate Governance Ordinary shares A formal statement on Corporate Governance is set out Legal & General Investment Management3.1% on pages 19 to 22.
First preference stock AXA SA 47.
2% Directors Quilter & Co16.6% Royal Insurance PLC 8.3% The current directors of the Company are listed on page 2.
All held office throughout the year.
In accordance with Preferred ordinary stock Windsor Life Assurance Company Limited 21.4% the Articles of Association and the Combined Code, Sir Richard Edwards 5.3% Keith Stuart will retire by rotation and, as recommended Prudential plc 3.4% by the Nominations Committee, will seek re-election at The Board is aware that, as at 30 June 2005, 8.1% of the Annual General Meeting.
Mrs W eir also retires by the issued share capital was held on behalf of rotation but will not seek re-election to the Board.
participants in the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan and 18.3% on behalf of participants in the 15 Report of the Directors continued Henderson PE Ps and ISAs.
The participants in these to the Companys shareholders and would expect, if plans are given the opportunity to instruct the relevant shareholder approval is granted, to hold any ordinary nominee company to exercise the voting rights shares repurchased in treasury, up to the maximum appertaining to their shares in respect of all general stated above.
meetings of the Company, but if the participants choose The directors do not intend to use this authority unless to not to do so the voting rights are not exercised.
do so would result in an increase in the net asset value Issued Share Capital per ordinary share and would be in the best interests of During the year 1,400,000 ordinary 25p shares and shareholders generally.
198,018 4.2% cumulative first preference stock were Pre-emption rights under the Companies Act would apply repurchased and cancelled.
The ordinary shares were to the sale of treasury shares for cash, just as they do to bought at an average discount with the debt at fair the allotment of new shares.
The board routinely seeks value of 10.8% at a cost of 2,597, 000.
The ordinary authority from shareholders to disapply pre-emption shares repurchased had a nominal value of 350,000 rights over 5% of the issued ordinary share capital and it and represented 0.7% of the issued share capital at the is the boards intention that this 5% would relate to year end.
The preference stock was bought at 1.00 either new issues or to the sale of treasury shares.
each and represented 39.6% of that class of stock.
At the date of this report there were 208,413,762 ordinary Authority to Buy Back Preferred Stock shares in issue.
In addition to the authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares, the b oard considers that the Company Authority to Buy Back Ordinary Shares should have the power to make market purchases of its No purchases of the Companys ordinary shares were 4.2% cumulative first preference stock, 4.2% nonmade under the authority granted at last years Annual cumulative second preference stock and 14% nonGeneral Meeting and accordingly the Company has cumulative preferred ordinary stock together the remaining authority to buy back 31,241,222 ordinary 25p preferred stock, in the event that appropriate shares with a nominal value of 7, 810,306, which will opportunities to make such purchases arise.
Accordingly, remain available until the conclusion of this years Annual a special resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting to authorise the Company to The board considers that the Company should continue make market purchases of each such class of preferred to have the power to make market purchases of its own stock, up to a maximum of the entire amount of each ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The maximum price that would be Accordingly a special resolution will be proposed at the payable for each 1 of preferred stock would not be forthcoming Annual General Meeting to authorise the more than 10% ab ove the prevailing middle market Company to repurchase up to a maximum of 14.99% of value of the relevant class of preferred stock for the the issued ordinary share capital equivalent to business day preceding the date of purchase which, 31,241,222 shares at the date of this report.
Shares given the stock is lightly traded, the directors believe would not be repurchased at a price of less than 25p per represents a suitable basis for determining an share the nominal value or at more than 5% of the appropriate maximum purchase price forthe preferred average middle market value of the shares over the stock.
The minimum price per 1 of stock would be 1p.
The board may hold up to The directors have no present intention of exercising this 10% of the issued ordinary share capital in treasury on authority and would only do so if such purchases were the condition that the treasury shares would only be sold considered to be in the best interests of shareholders at a premium to net asset value, the net asset value generally.
The board would cancel any preferred stock being calculated with debt valued at fair value.
The board repurchased and would not hold it in treasury.
considers the use of treasury shares could be beneficial 16 Report of the Directors continued Authority to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights ISAs PE Ps No allotments of the Companys ordinary shares were The Company intends to continue as a fully qualifying made under the authority granted at last years Annual investment trust company under the P ersonal Equity Plan General Meeting.
At the date of this report, the Company and Individual Savings Account regulations.
had valid authority, available until the conclusion of this The Payment of Creditors years Annual General Meeting to allot up to 10,420,688 It remains the Companys policy for the forthcoming ordinary shares.
financial year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there is no single policy as to the terms used.
An ordinary resolution will be proposed to authorise the There were no trade creditors at the end of the year.
directors to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 2,605,172 equivalent to 10,420,688 Going Concern ordinary shares of 25p and 5% of the issued ordinary The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to share capital as at the date of this report.
A special adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts resolution will also be proposed to give the directors as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities power to allot securities for cash on a non pre-emptive that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company basis up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of has adequate financial resources to continue in operational 2,605,172 being 5% of the Companys issued ordinary existence for the foreseeable future.
share capital as at the date of this report.
It is intended that these resolutions would cover both the issue of new shares and the sale of treasury shares.
Appropriate resolutions will be proposed at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and are set out in full on pages 41 to 43.
If renewed, these authorities will expire at the conclusion of By order of the board the Annual General Meeting in 2006.
KMBurwood FCIS The directors will consider using these authorities to allot For and on behalf of shares at a premium to net asset value, the net asset Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary value being calculated with debt at fair value.
