P ortfolio Managers Report continued Other sales across the portfolio included: The valuation of GlaxoSmithKline the Trusts third Intercontinent al Hotels Leisure and Hotels sector, largest holding is supported by its existing medicines on AB Ports Transport sector, Enel Electricity sector sale with upside potential from new medicines under and Brixton Est ates Real Estate sector.
Glaxo is delivering stable earnings growth and is a global leader in an industry with good demand Outlook prospects for its products.
Oil industry fundamentals remain good.
The oil price is likely to stay at high levels given increasing demand for Further progress in the real estate sector 6.9% of the oil from developing countries and the lack of new oil Trusts portfolio is expected with investor demand for supply to meet this demand in the short term.
Significant property driven by its appeal as a diversifying asset additional refining capacity will also take time to come class and the attractive yield available.
Overall, we favour BP the Trusts largest of a more tax transparent status for property companies holding due to its superior prospects for oil production.
in the UK, as is being considered by the government, would give further impetus to the sectors upward move.
An improved performance from the Banking sector is expected with share price valuations failing to discount a Finally, we at Henderson Global Investors welcome continuation of reasonably good profit and good dividend the Boards introduction for City of London of a new growth from the sector.
Given money market benchmark, the FTSE AllShare adjusted for a expectations for flat UK interest rates for the year ahead, maximum 4% cap for any single stock.
The reduced size UK consumer lending should continue to grow as in this benchmark of the five largest stocks will allow household incomes improve.
Corporate lending and greater flexibility in the management of the portfolio to savings products also offer useful future growth avenues.
HSBC the Companys second largest holding has the additional advantage of a genuine international spread of operations and is experiencing strong growth in the Far East and in emerging markets.
Job Curtis Distribution of the Portfolio at Estimated Performance Attribution 30 June 200 5 Analysis for the year to 30 June 2005 total returns relative to the FTSE AllShare Index 2005 2004 Stock Selection including income 2.84% 0.73% Gearing 0.80% 0.76% Expenses -0.7 4% -0.61% Share Issues Buy Backs 0.09% cccc T otal 2.99% 0.88% mmmm Source: Henderson Global Investors Limited 10 New P erformance Benchmark The following is the text of the announcement made on Index, adjusted for a maximum cap so that no single stock 19 April 2005. will represent more than 4% of the Index.
This level of 4% for the cap approximately reflects the long term pattern of The Board of The City of London Investment Trust plc the highest weightings in the FTSE AllShare Index, today announces a new performance benchmark for the before the changes in recent years which have seen the Trust which will take effect from 1 July 2005. increasing dominance of a small number of very large companies.
The Manager will be free to invest more than City of Londons performance benchmark has, for many 4% in any stock, whilst at the same time controlling the years, been the FTSE AllShare Index, and it is against overall risk within the portfolio.
It should also be pointed this Index that the Managers performance is assessed out that the Index adjusted for the cap will probably alter each year to determine whether a performance fee is the industry weightings relative to the uncapped index.
Since the introduction of a performance fee arrangement with Henderson Global Investors in 2001, In addition, the Board intends to introduce into the the Manager has outperformed the existing benchmark performance fee arrangements with the Manager an in three out of four years, and for the six months ending adjustment factor.
This will modify the level of any December 2004 his performance is 2.53% ahead of performance fee depending on whether actual the benchmark.
shareholder total returns are positive or negative in the relevant performance period.
This will further strengthen The Board has become increasingly concerned, however, the link between the reward to the Manager and that the AllShare Index has come to be dominated by a shareholder interests.
small number of very large stocks.
Following the expected consolidation of Royal Dutch Shell and its The new Index will be: enlarged weighting, we estimate that the weighting of The FTSE AllShare Index adjusted for a maximum 4% the top five stocks could be as high as 34% of the Index cap for any single stock.
and, at the end of December 2004, the largest stock was 7.
T en years ago, the top five stocks It will be provided by FTSE International, the leading represented only 15.3% of the Index and the largest calculator of indices and will be available from 1 July stock was only 3.5%.
Based on data provided by FTSE International for each of The Board considers that it would not be prudent for City of Londons portfolio to be concentrated in a small the five years to December 2004, the Capped Index would have performed better than the FTSE AllShare number of stocks in the way in which the AllShare Index is now concentrated.
At the end of December 2004, only Index, in terms of both capital and income, and over the five year period the Capped Index would have two stocks each represented more than 5% of the portfolio.
W e also believe that the benchmark against outperformed the AllShare Index by 6.44%.
Based upon this same data the Manager would have had a higher which the Manager is judged should be consistent with the historic objective of allowing the Manager to manage performance fee hurdle, because of this outperformance, relative to the FTSE AllShare Index.
It should be noted the portfolio actively and ensure that all stocks in the Companys portfolio and their respective weightings are that past performance should not be seen as an indication of future performance.
determined by the Managers view of their income and capital growth potential.
The new performance benchmark will be incorporated W e therefore intend that, from July 2005, the Managers into the Interim and Annual Accounts for the year ending performance benchmark will be the FTSE AllShare June 2006 onwards.
