14 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Group profile Introduction The BOC Group began its business life over 100 years ago as the Brins Oxygen Company.
The company was incorporated in England in 1886 and adopted its present name on 1 March 1982.
A technology to extract oxygen from the air in commercial quantities had just been developed and in 1886 the Brin brothers started production at a factory in Westminster, London.
Two uses had already been found for oxygen.
One was to intensify limelight, which was then used in theatres.
The other was to assist patients breathing during and after surgery.
New technology was soon developed that allowed air to be separated into all its major components - nitrogen, oxygen and argon.
By 1960, industrial gases were in widespread use and BOCs business was firmly established.
Tonnage plants were supplying steelworks with oxygen and the customer base had been broadened to extend from metal cutting and welding to food and medicine.
The business had also spread overseas with subsidiaries or associated companies as far away as Australia and South Africa.
During the 1980s, BOCs South African subsidiary began to invest in private hospitals.
This diversification was the basis of the Afrox hospitals segment.
BOC acquired the vacuum equipment company Edwards High Vacuum International Limited in 1968 and this formed the basis of what was to become the BOC Edwards line of business today.
The BOC Distribution Services business now called Gist was first established in 1970, initially providing a chilled food distribution service for Marks & Spencer and relying upon distribution skills and liquid nitrogen chilling technology, acquired as a result of BOCs involvement in gases.
In 1978, BOC completed the acquisition of Airco Inc in America, a predominantly gases business that doubled the Groups size and brought BOC for the first time into the US gases market.
In the period from 1970 to 1990 The BOC Group significantly increased its presence in the Asia Pacific region through participation in several joint ventures or associated companies.
BOC established strong market positions in Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan, the Philippines, China and Korea.
An investment in 1982 gave BOC effective management control of the Japanese gases company Osaka Sanso Kogyo KK OSK.
BOCs holding in OSK was raised to 97 per cent before BOC and Air Liquide merged their industrial and medical gases businesses in Japan in January 2003.
BOCs subsidiary in Japan has retained a 45 per cent interest in the joint venture company, which is called Japan Air Gases Ltd.
In the period from 1998 to 2001, BOC increased investments in its gases companies in Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines by acquiring the interests of joint venture partners or minority shareholders.
The BOC Group has an international portfolio of companies operating and reporting as three lines of business.
These are Process Gas Solutions PGS, Industrial and Special Products ISP and BOC Edwards.
In addition two separately managed specialist businesses, Afrox hospitals and Gist, are reported as business segments.
Until a disposal in March 2005, results for Afrox hospitals were fully consolidated.
Since then BOC has reported its 20 per cent share of this business.
BOC Process Plants was combined with Linde Engineering in the US with effect from September 2002.
BOC retains an interest in the manufacture of industrial gas equipment through its Cryostar business based in France.
Cryostar makes specialist cryogenic pumps and expansion turbines that are used by most manufacturers of industrial gas plant.
In recent years Cryostar has also developed a strong position in the market for shipboard compressors and heat exchangers used aboard liquefied natural gas LNG tankers.
Management believes that Cryostar is the leading manufacturer of its product range worldwide.
The main exports of the Group in 2005 were special products from the UK, helium from the US and vacuum equipment and semiconductor manufacturing equipment from the UK, the US and Japan.
Trade between Group undertakings is conducted at fair market prices.
Analysis of results by business including share of joint ventures and associates Turnover Operating profit Adjusted operating profit million % million % million % Process Gas Solutions 1,466.3 32 207.2 38 207.2 37 Industrial and Special Products 1,721.7 37 289.4 53 289.4 51 BOC Edwards 826.0 18 17.4 3 38.1 7 Afrox hospitals 275.1 6 37.2 7 37.2 7 Gist 315.9 7 24.5 5 24.5 4 Corporate 32.2 6 32.2 6 4,605.0 100 543.5 100 564.2 100 Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items.
See also pages 40 and 41 of the operating review.
The BOC Group contributes to the economies of some 50 countries throughout the world.
The UK is the largest single source of sales revenue for the Groups products and services, followed by the US.
Other major geographic areas for the Group are Australia, South Africa, Japan and other markets in the Asia Pacific region.
The business therefore operates from a broad geographical base with local manufacturing in most of the key overseas markets.
Group profile 15 Analysis of results by region including share of joint ventures and associates Turnover Operating profit Adjusted operating profit million % million % million % Europe 1,300.8 28 138.6 25 143.7 25 Americas 1,222.1 27 84.4 16 100.0 18 Africa 586.0 13 91.3 17 91.3 16 Asia Pacific 1,496.1 32 229.2 42 229.2 41 4,605.0 100 543.5 100 564.2 100 Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items.
The UK accounts for the largest part of the Groups activities in Europe but BOC has significant gases subsidiaries in Ireland and Poland, vacuum products manufacturing in France and a pharmaceutical packaging machinery operation in the Netherlands.
Gist, BOCs supply chain solutions business, operates principally in the UK but also has operations in other countries.
Subsidiaries in the US are engaged in the Groups three lines of business.
The Groups other principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in the Americas are located in Canada, Venezuela, Colombia, Chile and Mexico.
The largest Group subsidiary in Africa is African Oxygen Limited Afrox, a South African public company in which the Group owns 56 per cent of the equity.
The largest shareholder, other than BOC, holds less than 15 per cent of the equity.
Afrox, primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries, is engaged in the manufacture and sale of products within the PGS and ISP lines of business.
Afrox also has a 20 per cent interest in private hospitals, clinics and other health care services in southern Africa.
There are other Group or Afrox subsidiary companies in Africa located in Botswana, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
These companies are engaged primarily in the manufacture and or sale of products in the ISP line of business.
BOC has businesses in most of the Asia Pacific markets, including Japan, Korea, Thailand, Taiwan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, China, the Philippines, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Australia and New Zealand.
In Australia, the Groups business is conducted by BOC Limited.
This company, as well as its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, is engaged in the manufacture and sale of products in the PGS and ISP lines of business.
BOC participates in the liquefied petroleum gas market in Australia through a 50 per cent shareholding in Elgas Limited.
Elsewhere in the Pacific region, the Group conducts its business through subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies.
Management organisation BOCs management structure is based on three global lines of business and, throughout the period 2003 to 2005, on two specialist businesses.
Each line of business serves a clearly defined type of customer and each pursues its own strategy for growth and performance at a local level.
The organisation is designed to maximise BOCs global as well as local strengths.
The lines of business have global responsibility to set strategy and prioritise investment.
They include operational business units and these local units are responsible to the Group chief executive for delivering financial, safety and operational performance.
The business units contribute to the development of the strategies of the lines of business and customise and implement them in local markets.
The business unit heads collaborate in order to share best practice and to maximise growth and profit opportunities wherever they may appear.
Process Gas Solutions PGS manages all aspects of BOCs business with customers requiring bulk supplies of industrial gases from on-site plants or by pipeline as well as deliveries of liquefied gases.
Typical customers are found in the oil and chemicals, food and beverage, metals, and glass sectors all round the world.
Marketing, business development and the execution of investments to provide customer specific solutions for the supply of industrial gases are handled by Process Systems, which forms part of PGS.
Industrial and Special Products ISP covers BOCs business with customers in the fabrication, medical and leisure sectors as well as the special products and liquefied petroleum gases businesses.
BOC Edwards embraces all aspects of business with semiconductor industry customers worldwide including the supply of bulk gases and electronic materials, vacuum and abatement technology, chemical management systems and  services.
BOC Edwards also serves general vacuum markets around the world and manufactures pharmaceutical freeze-drying and packaging machinery.
The segment reported as Afrox hospitals operated through Afrox Healthcare Limited up to the end of March 2005.
It owned and managed private hospitals and clinics in southern Africa.
BOCs majority-owned subsidiary, African Oxygen Limited Afrox, held 69 per cent of Afrox Healthcare Limited AHealth when the company was sold to a consortium led by two major black economic empowerment investors in March 2005.
Afrox has retained a significant interest in the hospitals business through a 20 per cent holding in the new company.
In 2001, BOC Distribution Services was re-named Gist to reflect the changing nature of its business.
Gist operates as a separate business unit outside the lines of business structure.
It remains focused on developing business with major customers, including Marks & Spencer, and has developed capability in supply chain consultancy and end-to-end supply chain solutions.
16 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Group profile Corporate development Over the last three years BOC has continued to invest in its core businesses at the same time as divesting assets and businesses that were no longer consistent with its strategy.
In October 2002, BOC acquired Environmental Management Corporation EMC, a privately owned water services company based in St Louis, Missouri.
EMC manages water and wastewater treatment facilities for both industrial and local municipal customers around the US.
EMC forms part of the PGS line of business, which is expanding the range of solutions offered to its industrial customer base.
BOC and Air Liquide merged their industrial and medical gases businesses in Japan in January 2003 and BOCs subsidiary in Japan has retained a 45 per cent interest in the combined company called Japan Air Gases Ltd. At the end of January 2003, BOC acquired the partial oxidation syngas plant at Clear Lake, Texas, from Celanese.
Under the agreement BOC fulfils a significant proportion of the industrial gas requirements for the Celanese chemical facility at Clear Lake.
In March 2003 BOC announced an agreement to purchase the Canadian packaged gas and related welding equipment business of Air Products.
The acquisition was completed in April 2003 following approval from the Canadian regulatory authority.
In June 2003, BOC announced an agreement to obtain half the output of a new helium extraction facility to be constructed in Qatar.
Deliveries from the new source are now scheduled to commence during 2006.
In May 2004 BOC agreed to buy Duke Energys 30 per cent ownership interest in the Cantarell joint venture company for US$59.7 million in cash.
This increased BOCs overall stake to 65 per cent on completion in September 2004.
This company supplies Pemex with nitrogen for the pressurisation of its oilfields in the Gulf of Mexico.
BOC completed the disposal of the packaged gas part of its US ISP business to Airgas Inc on 30 July 2004.
The initial consideration received was US$175 million in cash and a final payment of US$20 million that had been subject to performance conditions was recognised in 2005.
These funds were received in November 2005.
All packaged gases and associated hardgoods were included in the sale.
This comprised compressed industrial, speciality excluding electronic and medical gases in the US, sold through BOC retail and distributor channels.
The sale did not include BOCs bulk liquid helium, bulk medical gases and distributor businesses.
In October 2004, BOC purchased a 50 per cent holding in Asia Union Electronic Chemical Corporation AUECC.
This acquisition expanded BOC Edwards electronic materials offering to include the purification, blending, packaging and distribution of wet chemicals for flat panel display, semiconductor and solar cell manufacturers throughout Asia.
In December 2004, BOC sold its shares in Unique Gas and Petrochemicals thereby divesting interests in the LPG and bulk ammonia businesses in Thailand but the cylinder and aqueous ammonia business was retained.
At the end of January 2005, BOC acquired Calor Gas Limiteds UK aerosol propellants business.
This includes the sales, marketing and distribution of bulk and packaged propane, isobutene and butane blends in the UK.
The acquisition also included Calors CARE range of hydrocarbon refrigerants.
In September2005, Gist acquired G Van Dongen Holding BV, a European  transport operator.
The business, which had an annual turnover of some 46 million euros, expands Gists existing primary food business into continental Europe by providing fresh chill and ambient transport services to food manufacturers in the Netherlands, Spain, Germany, Portugal and France.
Industrial gases The BOC Group is one of the major producers of industrial gases in the world.
Its products include the atmospheric gases nitrogen, oxygen and argon produced by air separation plants as well as hydrogen, carbon monoxide and syngas a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide made by technologies including steamreforming or partial oxidation of hydrocarbons.
The Group also markets carbon dioxide, helium and liquefied petroleum gas.
These are generally derived as by-products from chemical processes or from natural sources and are also purchased from other producers.
In addition, the Group markets dissolved acetylene and a wide range of special gases, medical gases, gas mixtures and gaseous chemicals.
Industry structure and consolidationThe industrial gases business is capital-intensive, with increasing demand, together with economies of scale, leading to the need for large production units and distribution networks.
The need for fixed asset investments, the trend towards global customers and the benefits from the transfer of applications technology worldwide have resulted in the business being handled by a relatively small number of companies internationally.
One or more of the other major international producers compete in each of the industrial gases markets served by the Group, and in many of the markets there are smaller local producers as well.
International competitors include Air Liquide, Praxair, Air Products and Chemicals, Linde and Nippon Sanso.
The world market for gases and related products is estimated to be some 25 billion a year.
Group profile 17 Principal industrial gas products Nitrogen possesses two key characteristics that make it the worlds most widely used and versatile industrial gas.
Nitrogen is almost inert and when liquefied it is intensely cold.
This makes liquid nitrogen a highly effective, versatile and non-polluting agent for freezing and chilling.
Under normal conditions nitrogen is chemically inactive.
This makes it an important purging and blanketing gas in the chemical and refining industry as well as in the electronics industry.
Oxygen, in contrast to nitrogen, is useful for its reactivity.
It supports combustion and it supports life.
Oxygen has been used in welding and medicine for over 100 years and in steel production since the 1950s.
Iron and steel producers use oxygen to accelerate melting and to improve metal quality during the refining process.
It is also used by the oil and chemicals industries and many others for a variety of oxidation processes.
Mixed with fuel gases, oxygen provides a heat source for many welding, cutting and metal fabrication processes.
Argon makes up less than one per cent of the atmosphere but it is the most abundant truly inert gas.
It is used to provide a shielding atmosphere in welding, metal fabrication, aluminium processing, microelectronics, glass coating, advanced ceramics and other industrial processes.
It is also used in the steel industry, principally in the production of stainless steel.
Hydrogen is typically produced by steam reforming or partial oxidation of natural gas, petroleum gas, or liquid or solid hydrocarbon feedstocks.
Hydrogen may also be recovered from by-products purchased by BOC from external suppliers.
Hydrogen is used primarily in the oil and chemicals industries for applications aimed at upgrading crude oil through hydrocracking to form lighter fractions and to remove sulphur in the production of cleaner fuels.
The chemicals industry also uses hydrogen where it is required as an active ingredient in many large-scale processes.
Helium is extracted from natural gas deposits.
Only a few sources in the world contain a sufficient proportion of helium to justify its separation.
The Groups supplies now come from the US, Poland and Russia and are secured by long-term contracts.
In June 2003, BOC announced an agreement to obtain half the output from a new helium extraction facility to be constructed in Qatar.
Deliveries from this new source are now expected to begin in 2006.
Due to its high value, helium is the only major industrial gas to be extensively traded internationally.
Helium is used in welding, leak detection, hospital MRI scanners and in the production of optical fibres.
Helium gas mixtures are used in balloons.
Carbon dioxide supplied by BOC is obtained as a by-product from other companies manufacturing processes, from natural sources or recovered in the generation process for hydrogen or syngas and put to constructive use.
Solid carbon dioxide is, like liquid nitrogen, used for chilling and freezing in the food industry.
As a gas it is used to carbonate and dispense beverages of all kinds.
Acetylene is normally supplied in cylinders and used together with oxygen in metal cutting and welding applications.
BOC is a major manufacturer of dissolved acetylene.
Liquefied petroleum gas LPG is a fuel gas with a wide variety of domestic, industrial and transport applications.
BOC is a major distributor of LPG in South Africa, and its joint venture company Elgas Limited is a major distributor in Australia.
BOC has smaller market positions in several other countries.
Production of industrial gases Oxygen was first extracted from the atmosphere by a chemical process.
This was superseded over 80 years ago by the cryogenic low temperature process involving the liquefaction and distillation of air.
The cryogenic process is still by far the most widely used, but non-cryogenic techniques pressure swing adsorption and membrane diffusion, which were first developed during the 1970s, are becoming increasingly significant for smaller or less demanding on-site applications.
Cryogenic air separation is a mature and stable technology, although incremental technical advances are still yielding improvements in capital cost, operating cost, ease of operation and reliability.
The only significant raw material, apart from the air itself, is electricity, which is used in large quantities to drive compressors, pumps and other equipment.
The production process in modern air separation plants is highly automated, and remote operation of BOCs plants from control centres is becoming increasingly common.
The production of hydrogen and syngas uses steam reforming or partial oxidation of hydrocarbon feedstocks such as natural gas, petroleum or coal to separate the hydrogen and carbon compounds.
The choice of feedstock is related to their prices in local markets.
Distribution of industrial gases Industrial gases may be supplied to customers in a variety of ways: through pipelines from on-site or nearby cryogenic or non-cryogenic plants, by deliveries of liquefied gases in road or rail tankers, in portable cryogenic containers or in cylinders also called compressed or packaged gases.
Distribution is an important competitive factor in the industrial gases business and the methods of distribution vary according to the nature of the products themselves and the customers volume requirements.
Most gases have to be stored and distributed either under great pressure, which requires them to be carried in heavy and bulky cylinders, or at extremely low temperatures in specially insulated tankers, which limits how far they can be transported before carriage costs become unacceptable.
Pipeline delivery involves high capital costs and the routing is inflexible.
As a result, there is little international trade in industrial gases.
Production has to occur in or near the market being served and there is a trend towards production at customers own sites.
Business segments The BOC Group reports financial results for the three lines of business and for Afrox hospitals and Gist separately.
18 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Group profile Process Gas Solutions PGS This line of business covers BOCs business with larger-scale industrial customers worldwide, typically in the oil and chemicals, food and beverage, metals, and glass sectors.
Gases and services are supplied as part of customer-specific solutions that create the most value for customers at the lowest cost to BOC.
These range from supply by pipeline or from dedicated on-site plants to the largest users, to supply by road tanker in liquefied form to others.
Tonnage pipeline customers are usually supplied on the basis of long-term contracts, typically containing a fixed facility charge together with a variable charge for product supplied in excess of a set minimum quantity.
Revenues from these contracts thus have a measure of stability with respect to changes in demand for product.
Tonnage plants are often built to produce merchant gases in addition to those required by the tonnage customer and these gases can be sold to other customers.
The BOC Group has substantial positions in the tonnage markets of the UK, the US, Australia, South Africa and Asia as well as in some smaller markets.
The products supplied to tonnage customers have traditionally been the atmospheric gases oxygen, nitrogen and argon.
More recently, hydrogen and syngas are becoming significant tonnage products as are associated utilities including steam and power.
The delivery of liquefied gases by road or rail to the customers site is normally limited by transport costs to a radius of about 200 miles.
Product for this market is supplied either from merchant plants or from tonnage plants incorporating liquefiers.
Larger users are typically supplied with product in liquid form delivered in cryogenic tankers into special storage vessels installed at customer premises.
Tankers and vessels are often BOC Group owned.
Liquefied gases are usually supplied on the basis of contracts with terms of one to five years.
Revenues are generally based upon the actual quantity of gas consumed, with an additional fixed charge for the use of storage equipment.
The growth of sales and profit in this line of business is driven by investment in new production facilities.
Such investment is predominantly the result of opportunities to satisfy long-term supply contracts with one or more heavy industrial customers for each plant.
Marketing, business development and the execution of investments to provide customer-specific solutions for the supply of industrial gases are handled by Process Systems, which forms part of PGS.
Business development In October 2002, BOC acquired Environmental Management Corporation EMC, a privately owned water services company based in St Louis, Missouri.
EMCs management services extend to steam systems, cold and chilled water systems and wastewater treatment.
Customers include small to medium-sized municipalities and industrial customers, many of which are in the food sector.
EMC forms part of the PGS line of business and BOCs strategy is to expand the range of solutions offered to its industrial customer base.
At the end of January 2003, BOC acquired the partial oxidation syngas plant at Clear Lake, Texas, from Celanese.
The Celanese facility is located on the Houston ship canal, and includes a world scale vinyl acetate monomer plant and the worlds largest acetic acid plant.
These require large quantities of oxygen and nitrogen as well as carbon monoxide.
A new hydrogen and carbon monoxide HyCO plant supplying the Thai Polycarbonate Company for the manufacture of plastic resins began production in 2003.
In October 2003, BOC commissioned a new hydrogen plant supplying Citgos oil refinery at Lemont, Illinois.
The hydrogen is used in the removal of sulphur to produce clean fuels.
In the same month BOC, and its joint venture partners, announced plans to invest over US$100 million in developing three schemes in China, at Taiyuan, Suzhou and in the Pearl River region.
BOC-TISCO, the joint venture between BOC Gases and Taiyuan Iron and Steel Corporation TISCO, has under construction two new air separation units ASUs to supply 1,400 tonnes a day of oxygen each to TISCOs plant in Shanxi province in north-central China.
The new ASUs represent an investment of US$82 million and they are scheduled to begin coming on stream during 2006.
This investment is in response to strong demand for stainless steel in China and will support TISCOs vigorous expansion plans.
Pearl River Gases PRG, a joint venture between Guangzhou Iron & Steel GIS and BOCs joint venture, Hong Kong Oxygen, invested in two further ASUs during 2005.
These add some 400 tonnes a day of oxygen capacity to support the expansion of steelmaking in southern China.
Also in 2005, BOCs wholly owned subsidiaries in Suzhou constructed new on-site supply scheme pipelines to meet increasing demand for industrial gases from key customers in Suzhou Industrial Park and the Suzhou New District Industrial Park.
A new hydrogen plant to supply both a Sunoco refinery, and a nearby BP refinery is under construction at Toledo, Ohio.
The hydrogen will be used by both BP and Sunoco in the production of ultra-low sulphur gasoline and diesel fuels.
The complex will be capable of supplying over 120 million standard cubic feet a day of hydrogen.
BOCs partner for engineering and construction is Linde BOC Process Plants of Tulsa, Oklahoma.
BOC is investing more than US$100 million in the facility.
In December 2004, BOC announced a new, 20-year agreement to supply an additional 300 million standard cubic feet a day scf d of nitrogen to be used at the Cantarell and Ku Maalob Zaap oil fields.
The additional supply will lift the total nitrogen output by 25 per cent to 1.5 billion scf d at the site.
Construction of a fifth production module has commenced and the new facility is scheduled to begin production in 2007.
Group profile 19 In China, significant new business was won in the chemical sector.
BOC has agreed to form a joint venture with the Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical Company SPC at Jinshan, near the Caojing chemical complex, to invest in existing assets and then add further air separation capacity to satisfy the industrial gases requirements of SPC in the region.
This follows the establishment in 2003 of a similar joint venture with Sinopec YPC to supply the Sinopec and BASF joint venture petrochemical complex at Nanjing.
BOCs subsidiary in Thailand is investing in a venture establishing a 1,300 tonnes-a-day plant to supply TOC Glycol Co. Ltd. TOCGC in Map Ta Phut and to increase merchant capacity in the area.
When completed in 2006, this will be the largest air separation unit in Thailand.
It will be owned and operated by a joint venture between BOCs Thai subsidiary, TIG, and Bangkok Industrial Gas Company.
In January 2005 BOC formed a joint venture with Maanshan Iron & Steel Company Ma Steel to invest initially in the construction of two large air separation units.
Each will be capable of supplying 1,400 tonnes a day of oxygen to meet the growing needs of Ma Steel in Maanshan City, China.
Total production of oxygen, nitrogen and argon is expected to total some 5,000 tonnes a day when commissioned during 2007.
At the same time BOC India Ltd announced that it had been awarded a contract to supply gases requirements of approximately 1,400 tonnes a day for an expansion programme by Jindal Vijaynagar Steel Limited at Bellary in southern India.
A plant with an oxygen capacity of 855 tonnes a day will be constructed and is expected to be commissioned in 2006.
In April 2005, BOC agreed to invest approximately US$40 million in equipment and pipelines in order to supply hydrogen to Valeros 170,000 barrel a day refinery at Lima, Ohio and to supply other customers in the area.
Construction of the plant has begun and it is expected to start supplying hydrogen during 2006.
In June 2005, BOC announced further refinery hydrogen business in the US with the proposed investment of nearly US$50 million at Salt Lake City to supply Chevron and Holly Corporations Utah subsidiary with hydrogen for cleaner fuels production at their refineries.
The refiners are upgrading their facilities in accordance with the US Environmental Protection Agencys lower-sulphur requirements for gasoline and diesel fuels.
Chevron is installing additional hydrotreating capacity at its 49,000 barrel per day bpd refinery and will take hydrogen and steam from BOCs plant, which will be located on the Chevron site.
Holly will also receive hydrogen for new hydrotreating capacity at its nearby 26,000 bpd Woods Cross refinery through a five-mile pipeline connection from the BOC facility.
Construction of the hydrogen plant has started and production is expected to begin in 2006.
Industrial and Special Products ISP Gases for cutting and welding, hospitality, laboratory applications and a variety of medical purposes are mainly distributed under pressure in cylinders.
The ISP line of business covers products and services provided to this section of the market together with sales of packaged chemicals and liquefied petroleum gas LPG.
Customers are typically in the fabrication, engineering, automotive, refrigeration, hospitality or medical sectors.
The customer base is therefore broad and varied.
The number of separate customers served by ISP is much greater than the other two lines of business and the quality of service is often the key factor in securing existing or obtaining new customers.
In order to raise service standards at the same time as reducing costs, national customer service centres have been successfully established in all the major markets.
In addition to supplying gases, BOC also supplies a range of associated equipment in many of its major markets.
This includes cutting and welding products and, in some markets, associated safety equipment.
BOC has devoted considerable attention over the last few years to understand the requirements of different types of customer in its major markets and to provide the required service at an appropriate price.
Such customer segmentation programmes have been implemented in the UK, South Africa, Australia, Asia, Latin America and are in progress elsewhere.
The cutting and welding applications are a relatively mature part of the industrial gases business and growth opportunities are principally in other segments of the market such as medical applications, safety products, packaged chemicals, hospitality and services.
BOC is pursuing these opportunities by the development of new products, packages and services as well as by marketing initiatives to take advantage of BOCs global capabilities by introducing existing products to new regions.
Electronic commerce has also become an important tool for sustaining and growing sales by making it easier for customers to manage their business with BOC as a supplier.
BOC is a leading supplier of helium and has liquid helium distribution centres, or transfills, in many markets around the world.
With 48 helium transfills in its global network, management believes that this is the largest of its kind.
Helium has a broad range of applications, including welding and the refrigeration of medical scanner magnets, and is vital to the production of optical fibres, semiconductors and special alloys.
It is also used for leak detection, underwater breathing mixtures and lifting.
Business development In April 2002, BOC acquired Matheson Gas Products Canada Inc, one of Canadas leading providers of special gases and equipment.
Unique Gas and Petrochemicals Public Company Limited UGP, a leading distributor of liquefied petroleum gas LPG and ammonia in Thailand, was acquired in May 2002.
BOCs associated company in Malaysia acquired 35.6 per cent of the gases company Nissan Industrial Oxygen Inc NIOI in March 2002 and, following a tender offer, increased its holding to 100 per cent in September 2002.
At the end of August 2002, BOC announced an agreement to purchase Praxairs Polish gases business.
The transaction was completed in January 2003 following approval by the Polish competition authority.
The business acquired includes a high proportion of ISP sales.
Since 2002, BOC has continued its global roll-out of a light-weight medical cylinder with an integrated valve and regulator for homecare patients and emergency services.
Heliox, a helium and oxygen mixture formulated to ease the respiratory effort associated with airway obstruction, was launched in the UK and in some other markets.
20 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Group profile Capacity at BOCs Otis, Kansas, helium plant was expanded in 2002 to match market demands.
In addition, BOC has access to helium produced by other US plants, as well as to product from Poland and Russia.
In 2003 BOC and KRIO, a division of the Polish Oil and Gas Company, entered into a new helium supply agreement.
BOC will purchase for export all of KRIOs helium that is not sold to its domestic customers in Poland.
BOC has been KRIOs sole customer for bulk liquid helium since the original agreement was signed in 1972.
Magnetic resonance imaging MRI systems use liquid helium to cool superconducting magnets.
BOC provides helium as well as a liquid nitrogen filling service to meet MRI operators total requirements.
In 2002, ISP signed a major helium supply scheme with Oxford Magnet Technology now Siemens in the UK.
BOC continued to invest in refrigerant filling facilities and in 2003 new filling facilities were installed in Hong Kong, Malaysia and the Philippines.
Each of these was built to a standardised global design.
BOC now supplies refrigerants in 19 countries compared with six countries in 1999.
In June 2003, BOC announced a global alliance with Hudson Technologies to promote technology for cleaning and recycling used refrigerants.
Significant progress in developing web-based customer portals has been made.
Amongst others, ISP has launched customer portals in the UK, Australia and New Zealand.
Thousands of customers are now able to access detailed material on BOCs product service offers, manage and settle their accounts and place orders on-line.
BOC acquired the Canadian packaged gas and related welding equipment business of Air Products in April 2003.
The initial consideration was US$175 million in cash and a final payment of US$20 million that had been subject to performance conditions was received in November 2005.
In December 2004 BOC sold its shares in Unique Gas and Petrochemicals, thereby divesting interests in the LPG and bulk ammonia businesses in Thailand but the cylinder and aqueous ammonia business was retained.
In January 2005, BOC acquired Calors aerosol propellants business in the UK.
This includes sales and distribution of bulk and packaged hydrocarbon blends together with Calors CARE hydrocarbon refrigerants range and propylene business.
In March 2005, BOC announced plans to build a new liquid plant to extract helium from a natural gas supply at Darwin, Australia.
When it begins production in 2007, it will be the only helium production plant in Australia, and will serve not only domestic Australian demand but also customers in New Zealand and Asia.
BOC Edwards This line of business specialises in gases, services and equipment for the semiconductor industry as well as vacuum products for a range of other industries.
The major markets for BOC Edwards products are in Asia, north America and Europe.
Until September 2005 it was organised into four customer-facing divisions for sales and marketing in Asia Pacific, Japan, the US and Europe and into four manufacturing divisions, Vacuum and Exhaust Management, Chemical Management, Bulk Gases and Electronic Materials.
Kachina semiconductor process tool component management service, Coating Technology and Pharmaceutical Systems were managed separately.
BOC Edwards is now organized around five global business units, Electronic Materials, Electronic Bulk Gases, Semiconductor Equipment, General Vacuum Equipment and Pharmaceutical Systems.
Management believes that BOC Edwards has a unique position as a fully integrated supplier of gases, vacuum, chemical, slurry and exhaust management products, as well as services to the global semiconductor industry and is a leader in the design and manufacture of vacuum pumps, instrumentation and systems for both general vacuum and semiconductor applications and of freeze-drying systems for the pharmaceutical industry.
The vacuum and exhaust product ranges are manufactured or assembled primarily in the UK, with additional manufacturing and assembly in the US, Japan, Korea, China and Brazil.
They include vacuum pumps, coating systems, exhaust management systems, temperature control systems and heat exchangers, instrumentation and controls, vacuum accessories and leak-detection equipment.
The range also includes specially designed systems for specific applications, depending on customer requirements.
BOC Edwards also specialises in the design, manufacture and installation of the systems used to deliver liquid process chemicals, including planarisation slurries to the point of use within semiconductor fabrication facilities.
Manufacture of these products is located mainly in the US.
In addition to the semiconductor industry, the leading customers are in the chemicals, scientific instruments and other industries, as well as in educational and research establishments.
General vacuum products are sold to such customers by a separate sales force.
BOC Edwards service facilities, including plants for cleaning semiconductor process tool parts, are located near concentrations of semiconductor fabrication facilities around the world.
Technology is important to maintain a competitive edge in this business, and considerable resources are committed to enable the business to address new applications and markets.
The major research centres are in the UK, north America and Japan.
The Groups vacuum products are sold directly by Group companies to end-users and also through distributors and agents.
Management believes that the Group is a leading manufacturer of the types of vacuum products that it makes and provides.
The business is highly competitive, with product design and quality, leading to the lowest cost of ownership, being very significant factors.
Group profile 21 Sales opportunities for much of BOC Edwards semiconductor equipment business are dependent upon capital investment by the semiconductor industry.
Management believes that semiconductor production remains on a long-term growth trend but capital investment by semiconductor manufacturers has been subject to sharp variations for a number of reasons, some of which arise from advances in technology.
The products of BOC Edwards Pharmaceutical Systems are tailored specifically to individual customer requirements in the pharmaceutical industry and are used mainly for injectable products.
Freeze-drying systems are made in Tonawanda, New York, US.
Filling, sterilising and packaging lines for the pharmaceutical industry are made at Dongen in the Netherlands and Beijing in China.
Business  the period 2003 to 2005, new ranges of dry pumps for the semiconductor industry were introduced as well as a comprehensive new range of exhaust management products.
These new products meet the needs of 300mm wafer and flat panel manufacturing facilities.
In 2004 a new range of high-speed iGX pumps were introduced, offering attractive features for semiconductor applications such as small size, reduced power consumption and lower lifetime costs.
The range of exhaust management products was also expanded with new burners, wet scrubbers and an advanced plasma-based system for the destruction of reaction products without the use of methane fuel.
Production of nitrogen trifluoride NF3 gas for the semiconductor industry was started at a plant in South Africa during 2000 and production capacity was further increased during 2003.
This product is an important etchant that is also used for in-position cleaning of semiconductor process equipment.
On-site fluorine generators were installed at a number of semiconductor and flat panel display manufacturing facilities during 2004 and a fab-wide pilot programme at LG Philips in Korea was extended during 2005.
BOC Edwards range of electronic materials in Asia was expanded in October 2004 with the addition of ultra-pure wet chemicals through a partnership with Asia Union Electronic Chemical Corporation AUECC and through that company with Huayi, a chemical manufacturer in China.
Afrox hospitals African Oxygen Limited Afrox sold its 69 per cent controlling interest in its hospitals business Afrox Healthcare Limited to a consortium led by two major black economic empowerment investors in March 2005.
In the period 2003 to 2004 and in 2005 prior to the disposal, Afrox Healthcare Limited owned 60 hospitals and clinics and had a minority interest in a further seven hospitals managed by others.
It also managed the Lifecare group of chronic-care hospitals.
In addition to hospitals and clinics, which were the core business, Afrox Healthcare Limited also included Afrox Healthcare Services, which facilitated a direct medicines service for chronic medication, and provided occupational health services, nursing training and laboratory services.
Gist Gist is a provider of specialist supply chain solutions.
The name Gist was adopted during 2001 to reflect both the continuing focus on supply chain operations and an increased emphasis on supply chain consulting, end-to-end supply chain solutions and logistics support to e-fulfilment opportunities.
This realignment of the business followed a planned withdrawal from most non-Marks & Spencer primary temperature controlled operations in the period 1999 to 2000.
High quality supply chain operations remain at the core of the business.
Gist manages a range of supply chains on behalf of retailers, mainly in the UK, as well as some overseas.
For over 30 years Gist has been the largest supply chain provider for Marks & Spencer.
Gist currently handles all of its UK food distribution and the consolidation and dispatch of all overseas shipments to subsidiaries and franchised operations.
During 2003, Gist ceased to operate general merchandise logistics and garment stockholding operations on behalf of Marks & Spencer.
Gist has provided supply chain consultancy services to major supermarket and catalogue retailers in the UK and demonstrated its capabilities in managing international supply chains.
In addition an on-line wholesaling operation has extended the range of Gists skills offered externally.
During September 2005, Gist expanded its primary business in continental Europe with the acquisition of G Van Dongen Holding BV, a  transport operator based in the Netherlands and Spain.
This is to provide chilled and ambient transport to food manufacturers in the Netherlands, Spain, Germany, Portugal and France, and adds to Gists existing operations in the Czech Republic and the Netherlands.
