22 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Strategy The BOC Group has an annual planning cycle culminating in a board review, typically held in March each year.
The strategy is aligned with the Group objectives, published in 2004, which are:Over a sustained period, consistently to outperform our peers in terms of safety, customer service, revenue growth, earnings and cash generation.
We will be the employer of choice for all existing and future employees.
Since 2000, the main components of the strategy have been: To establish a leading position for BOC in growth markets: BOC has continued to invest in production and infrastructure facilities in the growth markets of Asia in general and China in particular.
It has also expanded by acquisition, notably adding to its gases businesses in Poland and Canada and increasing BOC Edwards range with the turbomolecular pump business of Seiko Instruments.
Each line of business additionally has its own growth strategies: in Process Gas Solutions the emphasis has been on increasing the percentage of tonnage business, particularly in the refining and chemicals sectors.
To improve the return on capital employed: BOC has actively pursued opportunities to improve or divest underperforming assets resulting in, amongst others: the formation of Linde BOC Process Plants LLC in the US: the combination of OSK with part of Air Liquide Japan to form Japan Air Gases: and the sale of the US packaged gas business.
To improve business and operational efficiency: BOC has sponsored cost reduction and improved efficiency programmes across all of its operating entities.
To maximise the benefits of BOCs operating model: BOCs structure of lines of business and business units allows global strategies to be implemented successfully while enabling local response to be tailored to local market needs.
The operating model has now been extended to all parts of the world, with Asia being the most recent.
To recruit, retain and develop the best people: BOC has developed a wide range of people programmes to ensure it has the calibre and quantity of people needed to implement its growth strategy successfully.
The components of the strategy are referred to elsewhere in this annual report, notably in the sections on employees, operating review and financial review.
