36 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Research, development and information technology Research and development R&D Research and development is conducted around the world with key sites located in north America, the UK and Japan.
The Group Technical Centre GTC in Murray Hill, New Jersey, is a primary R&D location for market applications for Process Gas Solutions and for electronic materials for BOC Edwards.
Co-ordination of R&D is managed through the Group technology council.
The council also meets regularly with the Group new business development forum to ensure the opportunities and risks from technological change are understood and, where appropriate, exploited.
Process Gas Solutions undertakes internal development, forms alliances and partnerships with universities and customers, licenses or acquires technologies from third parties and leverages governmental funding to progress key developments.
Internal developments use its core technical competencies while external partnerships give access to additional competencies.
In 2005 BOC successfully commissioned the cryogenic refrigeration system for the high temperature superconducting HTS cable project at Albany, New York.
This 34.5 kV HTS cable will form part of the Niagara Mohawk utility grid.
BOC was responsible for the cryogenic system, monitoring and interfacing with the cable system, working with the Niagara Mohawk utility company.
The project drew on BOCs strengths in heat and mass transfer and its ability to manage remote operations infrastructures.
Additional licenses were signed during the year for BOCs proprietary glass melting technology, CGM, which is based on its combustion and modelling competencies.
Major glass companies were willing to publicise their results and allow other glass companies to visit their installations.
These companies include Owens-Corning, Pilkington, Anchor Glass and LG Philips, representing the fibreglass, flat glass, container glass and TV glass segments respectively.
BOCs knowledge of adsorption and materials has been applied to the continuing development of an oxygen generation process.
Based on the selective oxygen sorption properties of specific ceramic materials it has the potential to reduce substantially the cost of oxygen for certain applications in future chemical and power plants.
As part of a European Union funded project, BOC has identified promising new materials for use in oxy-fuel coal boiler-based power plants.
Pilot demonstration of the process is being progressed with government funding in the US and the European Union.
BOC has excellent access to hydrogen synthesis gas production technology through Linde BOC Process Plants.
In addition, BOC continues to develop novel ceramic-based technologies that offer potential step change improvements for the production of hydrogen and synthesis gas.
BOC is working with Ceres Power of the UK jointly to develop fuel cell-based systems for generating electricity, using a variety of cylinder gases.
BOC developed and commercialised a helium conservation system for the optical fibre manufacturing industry and licensed the technology to Fibre Ottiche Sud, a division of Pirelli.
This technology improves overall efficiency substantially and reduces helium wastage.
Based on its combustion and modelling competencies, BOC successfully commercialised a new way to enhance the productivity of steel from basic oxygen furnaces and reached commercial agreements for licensing the technology to leading steel producers.
BOCs heat and mass transfer experience enabled it to develop and commercialise a food freezing technology to crust-freeze luncheon meat logs prior to slicing, allowing customers to increase the speed of their production lines and overall product yield.
It also eliminates product handling, increases the efficiency of cryogenic freezing and makes more efficient use of floor space.
For BOC Edwards, the pace of innovation in the silicon semiconductor market is unabated with leading edge customers following a two year technology cycle.
In the storage market the pace is even more rapid with storage capacity doubling every year.
Fab investments have generally been at or below those in 2004 with the exception of the flat panel area where investments have been higher than predicted.
Emphasis in product development has been on reducing new products demand for power and utilities.
Monitoring and control capability helps create products with these capabilities, including active utility control.
A sensor-less turbomolecular pump with an integrated controller, which was introduced this year, is smaller, easier to install, yet has better performance with lower vibration.
Energy and environmental concerns drive new abatement technology.
The Zenith Plasma for Etch gives excellent destruction and low cost of ownership for customers that prefer non-combustion abatement technology.
Liquid abatement systems for copper can be installed at points of use or throughout a production facility.
In the general vacuum business, new products for the scientific sector offer cost-reduction and enhanced performance.
Lower-cost web-enabled sales channels have been introduced for our broad customer base.
The pharmaceutical business supplied its first systems containing a patented non-contact weighing system.
The application, which uses nuclear magnetic resonance technology, has received approval from the US Food and Drug Administration and is incorporated in several new vial loading products.
Industrial and Special Products installed prototypes of a new thermodynamic cylinder filling package at two sites handling scientific and industrial gases.
Thermodynamic modelling gives real time control and compensates for raw material impurities and other system variations, resulting in tighter mixture tolerances and better production efficiency.
Research, development and information technology 37 Among areas of development undertaken by the industrial products technology group are oxy-fuel cutting, the cryogenic cooling of welds, pipeline welding and shielding gas mixtures.
The cold spray coating process that uses helium or nitrogen is being used in a number of new applications and has been accompanied by the successful introduction of a new helium recovery system.
The design and development of new cylinder packages continues, concentrating on valves with integrated regulators and valve guards.
A web-based global fabrication technical library was launched, designed to support technical and product training initiatives.
The medical business continues to research the clinical application of a variety of gases, including heliox a mixture of oxygen and helium that has demonstrated promising results in a number of areas, including asthma and brochiolitis in infants and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in adults.
The BOC Chair of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care has been awarded to Professor David Menon of Cambridge University.
In special products, work continues on a new environmentally friendly fumigant, Vapormate, which has achieved product registration in Australia and New Zealand.
Total R&D expenditure in 2005 was 43.2 million compared to 41.6 million in 2004 and 39.9 million in 2003.
Information management The information management IM team reports its performance against four criteria: delivering innovation, creating value, enabling the business and operating efficiently.
It also has measures for developing its people and for its safety performance.
All users are surveyed regularly to ensure IMs performance matches their needs.
As well as reporting regularly on its short-term performance, IM this year updated and had approved its five year strategy.
Development work continues in areas as diverse as wireless technologies, network access, telephony, and knowledge and document management.
The SAP computing system has been deployed further, notably to BOC Edwards in north America and more countries in Asia, and deployment has started of a global asset management system.
An IM helpdesk has been set up that is available to all employees, all the time.
It replaces a number of regional centres.
The global data centre, based in the UK, is now well established and undertakes data processing for BOC businesses around the world.
