Board of Directors Adrian D P Bellamy Irene Miller Executive Chairman, Age 63 Non-Executive Director, Age 53 Adrian Bellamy was appointed as Executive Chairman in February Irene Miller was appointed to the Board in August 2000.
She chairs 2002, having been appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive the Audit Committee and serves as a member of the Remuneration Director in January 1997.
Adrian was closely involved in running Committee and the Nominations Committee.
the US business from June 1998 and, along with Peter Saunders, Irene is Chief Executive Officer of Akim Inc, an investment was instrumental in its successful turnaround.
She also serves as a director on Adrian is a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser PLC the boards of Barnes & Noble, Inc. Inditex, S. A. and Coach, Inc. Chairman, The Gap Inc and Williams-Sonoma Inc.
Previously, he Until June 1997, Irene was Vice Chairman and Chief Financial was Chairman and CEO of DFS Group Limited for 12 years.
Officer of Barnes & Noble, Inc.
Previous to this, Irene was an investment banker specialising in emerging growth retail and Peter Saunders consumer companies at Morgan Stanley & Co. Chief Executive Officer, Age 57 Peter Saunders was appointed as a Director and CEO of the Dame Anita L Roddick Company in February 2002.
Peter joined The Body Shop as Non-Executive Director, Age 62 Chief Operating Officer and President of the US business in 1998, Dame Anita Roddick, founder of The Body Shop, is a Non-Executive being promoted to Chief Executive Officer in 2000.
Peter led the Director of the Company and was Co-Chair with Gordon Roddick successful turnaround of the US business, with improvements until February 2002.
The Company has a consultancy agreement in sales, profitability and market share having been achieved.
with Anita Roddick Publications Ltd through which Anita provides Peter has proven experience in merchandising, marketing, strategic expertise and creativity to the central and regional product planning, systems implementation, new product development and development teams.
Anita opened the first branch of The Body Shop in Brighton Previously, Peter was Chief Operating Officer and Chief in 1976.
She was the creative inspiration behind the Companys Merchant at the T Eaton Company Limited, a Canadian department original style and image.
Anita was awarded an OBE in 1988 and store chain.
Peters responsibilities included store operations, a DBE in June 2003. merchandise, logistics, human resources and marketing.
T Gordon Roddick Jack Keenan Non-Executive Director, Age 63 Non-Executive Director, Age 68 Gordon Roddick is a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Jack Keenan was appointed to the Board in September 1999 Gordon was Co-Chair with Anita Roddick until February 2002, and was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 26 February having chaired the Board since 1977.
Jack chairs the Remuneration Committee and serves as a member of the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Ronald fide Waal Jack is a non-executive director of Amphora Fine Wine Fund Non-Executive Director, Age 53 PLC, Marks & Spencer PLC and Tomkins PLC.
Jack is also the Ronald fide Waal was appointed to the Board in March 2000.
Patron of the Centre for International Business and Management at He serves as a member of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Cambridge University.
Previously, Jack was a Director of Diageo plc Committee and the Nominations Committee.
and Deputy Chief Executive of Guinness UDV, Diageos beer, wine Ronald is Chairman of WE International, a Dutch speciality and spirits division, until his retirement in October 2001.
He joined clothing chain which operates 340 stores in Holland, Belgium, International Distillers & Vintners and was appointed to the Board Luxembourg, Germany, France and Switzerland.
He is also of GrandMet in March 1996.
Vice-Chairman of Saks Inc and a director of Post Properties Inc in the USA.
Ronald is a member of several private boards in Europe and the USA and also sits on the board of the Dutch National Retailers Association.
All the Directors shown above served throughout the year.
The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 23
