Special to The Body Shop THE BODY SHOP AT HOME: A GREAT CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE The Body Shop At Home is our direct sales channel, where independent consultants sell our products at parties in customers homes.
Having started in the UK in 1994, The Body Shop At Home has been extended into the USA and Australia.
This sales channel allows The Body half hours.
They are relaxed affairs, designed a great way to try out The Body Shop products Shop to reach out to more customers by to be a fun night of pampering for about 10 while having a fun night in with friends.
bringing the store directly to customers guests who have an opportunity to try out The Body Shop At Home consultant is homes, complementing our existing The Body Shop products.
The consultant typically a busy mum, looking for a way store network and our new e-commerce spends about 45 minutes introducing the to earn a little extra money.
products and encouraging guests to try them are their own boss and can work when it The Body Shop At Home works well out, and the other 45 minutes on one-to-one suits them, so the job ts perfectly around for customers who prefer personalised consultations.
The host receives a gift for family commitments.
The more ambitious service, like to try products before they hosting the party and will receive additional consultants can grow their own business by buy them, and enjoy the pampering gifts based on the partys sales total as well recruiting other consultants to join their team experience of a party.
as the number of future parties scheduled, and can thereby earn a substantial income.
The parties tend to have a theme, such while the consultant earns a percentage of The Body Shop At Home provides a great as skin care or colour, and last for one and a the evenings sales.
All in all, the parties are opportunity for us to take our brand into the homes of new and existing customers.
The party format creates a fun and relaxed environment for customers to try out our product range.
Through our knowledgeable consultants, The Body Shop At Home provides a level of personal service that helps us to form a closer relationship with our customers.
14 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005
