Directors Report For the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2005 The Directors submit their annual report and the audited financial Employees and Employee Involvement statements for the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2005.
The Companys approach to employees and employee involvement is described on page 20.
Principal Activities The Group develops and sells skin and hair care products and Donations and Community Involvement related items through its own shops, franchised outlets, home sales, Please see page 22 for details of charitable contributions.
mail order catalogues and the internet.
No political donations were made by the Group.
Group Business Review and Future Developments Research and Development A review of the Groups business during the year is contained in the Research and development expenditure is detailed on page 21.
Letter from the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on Annual General Meeting pages 2 to 5, and in the Performance Review on pages 17 to 22.
The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 11.00am Results and Dividends on Friday 17 June 2005 at the The Body Shop International PLC, Results for the year are shown in the profit and loss account and Watersmead, Littlehampton, West Sussex, BN17 6LS.
The Notice the notes relating to it.
The Directors recommend the payment of convening the AGM is set out on pages 34 and 35. a final dividend of 3.8 pence 2004: 3.8 pence per share in respect In addition to the ordinary business to be transacted at the of the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2005, payable on 1 July 2005 AGM, there are four resolutions to be taken as special business.
to shareholders on the register at 10 June 2005.
This, together with An explanation of these resolutions is set out below.
the interim dividend of 1.9 pence 2004: 1.9 pence per share, Resolution 7 makes a total dividend for the year of 5.7 pence 2004: 5.7 pence As at previous AGMs, a resolution will be proposed to renew the per share.
Directors authority to allot relevant securities until the next following Directors AGM or, if earlier, the date 15 months after the passing of the Details of the Directors of the Company with their current resolution.
The authority sought will be in respect of securities up responsibilities are given on page 23. to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,525,000, representing 70,500,000 ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Fixed Assets Company Ordinary Shares and equivalent to approximately The Directors consider that the market value of the Groups interest 33% of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date hereof.
in land and buildings approximates to net book value.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising such authority.
Supplier Payments Policy Resolution 8 The Companys policy with regard to payments to suppliers is Resolution 8 relates to the disapplication of pre-emption rights detailed on page 21. as set out in Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, and is a Share Capital resolution that the Directors propose each year at the Annual Movements in share capital during the year are set out in Note 19 General Meeting.
The Companies Act 1985 requires that, subject to certain exceptions, before directors of a company can issue any new Directors Share Interests shares for cash, the new shares must first be offered to existing Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
This provision can create considerable administrative difficulty, Substantial Shareholdings particularly if a rights issue is made, because of entitlements to At 28 April 2005 the Company had been notified of the following fractions of shares that could arise, and because of the restrictions interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares excluding Directors : imposed on the Companys ability to offer new shares to certain overseas shareholders by the laws of their countries.
Number of ordinary shares % of equity It is therefore customary each year for public companies to take a limited authority to issue new shares for cash without first offering Mr I B McGlinn 49,095,408 23.0% those shares to existing shareholders.
Therefore, as in previous Fidelity International Limited 18,530,403 8.7% years, the Board is seeking an authority to issue small quantities Aeon Group 6,700,000 3.1% of shares for cash.
At this years AGM, a special resolution will therefore be proposed to renew this power in respect of equity The interest of Mr I B McGlinn includes a non-beneficial holding securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 534,479 of 3,428,640 ordinary shares.
representing 10,689,580 Ordinary Shares and equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date hereof until the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, the date 15 months after passing of the resolution.
24 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Resolution 9 Auditors The Directors propose that the Company be given general authority A resolution to re-appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as auditors will to purchase up to 21,379,178 of its own Ordinary Shares, be proposed at the AGM.
representing approximately 10% of the current issued ordinary Action to be taken share capital of the Company.
Such authority will expire at the Shareholders are asked to complete the enclosed form of proxy conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, the date 15 months after and to post it to the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, passing of the resolution.
At 28 April 2005, options to subscribe The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL as soon as were outstanding over 16,745,524 Ordinary Shares, representing possible, but in any event to arrive no later than 48 hours before 7.8% of the issued share capital of the Company.
If the full authority the meeting.
Deposit of a form of proxy will not prevent a to buy back shares is used, this proportion will increase to 8.7%.
shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
The Directors do not presently intend to use the authority now sought and will only do so if they are satisfied any purchase would be in the long term interests of shareholders.
They consider it On behalf of the Board prudent that they should be able to act at short notice and make such purchases should market conditions and the price of the Adrian Bellamy ordinary shares so justify.
Executive Chairman If the Company were to purchase its own shares pursuant to 28 April 2005 the authority of this resolution, the Directors would consider whether to cancel those shares or hold them as treasury shares, and in the latter case only to be used for the purposes of the Companys share or share option plans.
Resolution 10 Resolution 10 is proposed as a consequence of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the 2000 Act, which came into force on 16 February 2001 and introduced Part XA Sections 347A to 347K into the Companies Act 1985.
A company must not make any donation to any registered party or to any other EU political organisation or incur any EU political expenditure unless the donation or expenditure is approved by ordinary resolution, or a special resolution if the Directors so determine or the articles so require, of the shareholders.
The Company does not make political donations as a matter of policy and this policy will continue.
However, the new legislation is very widely drafted so that, for example, the definitions of donations and EU political expenditure may cover activities which form part of the normal non-partisan relationships between companies and the political world, even though these activities are not designed to support a particular party, or to influence support for any party, and would not be thought of as political donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
For example, the Company needs to maintain contact with lobbying groups to make them aware of key issues affecting the Company and the industry in which it operates.
This can involve, for example, sponsoring meetings or campaigning charities.
In common with other companies, the Company is seeking a precautionary authority under the 2000 Act to ensure that the Company does not inadvertently commit a breach of the 2000 Act because of the uncertainty of the scope of the legislation.
The resolution does not purport to authorise any particular donation of expenditure but is in general terms as required by the 2000 Act.
The Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at each Annual General Meeting.
The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25
