Chief Executives Review INTRODUCTION Technology transfer initiatives continue to THERMAL PROCESSING I am pleased to report that performance be successful.
The extension of these high Thermal Processing revenue was 384.4m continued to improve in 2005.
Group revenue value added services enhances customer 7% growth and operating profit was 54.3m excluding the divested coatings businesses satisfaction and leads to additional revenue.
18% improvement with an operating margin at 470.9m was 10% ahead of 2004.
Using The cross-selling and bundling of multiple of 14% compared to 13% in 2004.
The Thermal constant currency exchange rates, revenue services creates a unique offering which Processing SBU operates as two divisions, grew 9% compared to 2004, of which 5% appeals to those manufacturers that wish Heat Treatment and Hot Isostatic Pressing HIP was an organic increase.
With growth in the to optimise their performance by focusing with our remaining Surface Engineering activities aerospace market, a continuing strong demand on their core competencies.
The IonBond now incorporated into the Heat Treatment from the IGT sector, new outsourcing business, venture is proving to offer synergistic benets division.
Their performance was as follows: increased market share and the majority of to our customers and partners.
Our geographic HEAT TREATMENT energy cost increases having been recovered, and market spread reduces the risk associated Revenue was 349.2m 6% growth we were able to improve operating margins with any one account or country.
Our top ten and operating profit was 44.8m 15% from 13.0% to 14.4%.
Headline operating customers accounted for approximately 12% improvement with operating margin 1 profit grew 28% to 67.8m compared with of total revenue, compared to 11% in 2004. of 13% compared to 12% in 2004.
Operating profit increased During 2005 31.8m was spent on 14 bolt-on Strong growth in aerospace, oil and gas, by 10% to 61.0m from 55.5m in 2004. acquisitions.
The Health Sciences division of continued strength in IGT and overall stable I thank all the people in Bodycote who have the Testing SBU acquired three laboratories automotive demand provided a reasonable helped deliver these improved results.
in the food testing sector to spearhead a background for our performance.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW global expansion in this market.
Seven further Americas During the year we made good progress laboratories were added during the year to Revenue of 112.8m an increase of 9% in executing our strategy to rebalance our enhance our existing footprint in each of the and operating profit of 11.2m up 38% portfolio by growing the relative size of our Materials Testing, Engineering & Technology were generated.
Our aerospace, IGT, Testing SBU whilst continuing to expand our and Environmental divisions.
Of particular and oil and gas sectors all saw improved Thermal Processing SBU into developing note was the establishment of a European demand from a combination of market manufacturing economies.
We also increased Engineering & Technical Centre in Sweden pickup and new outsourcing contracts.
our investment in our associate undertaking through the purchase of CSM Materialteknik Several automotive related facilities saw IonBond to 20% by the exercise of an option AB from SAAB AB.
a decline in the second half which, based negotiated at the time of the transfer of our The Heat Treatment division of our Thermal on industry forecasts, will remain at subdued PVD division in 2004.
Processing SBU expanded its geographical levels in 2006.
The combination of price Securing major outsourcing opportunities presence with four bolt-on acquisitions.
pressure and increases in energy and remains a key element of our strategy.
In Eastern Europe we acquired four plants employee costs continue to hold back the Outsourcing supports our top line growth, in Poland and a 75% interest in the heat margin improvement expected from higher which is typically higher than the ofcial rate treatment activities of Uttis Industries SA in volumes.
We are now able to offer several of increase in the level of manufacturing Romania.
We also strengthened our position high value added services Low Pressure activity and enhances margins through in the aerospace and nuclear market sectors Carburising, Electron Beam Welding and increased facility utilisation.
Bodycotes by the purchase of Nadcap-approved Expert Kolsterising of stainless steel to complement outsourcing initiative offers manufacturers Heat Treatments Limited in the UK and existing heat treatment and brazing services lower total cost, equal or better quality and ABMT SA in France.
thus helping to improve margins in the fast, reliable turnaround.
The key to our oversupplied North American market.
The divestiture of our non-core electroplating outsourcing success is our technical expertise activities was completed midyear and in niche technologies which are critical but generated cash receipts of 5.8m.
Other asset not core to most manufacturers and our sales, including the divestiture of one heat highly productive model where we operate treatment plant in North America, generated at optimum efficiency.
As predicted, the a total of 8.6m.
trend to outsourcing and closure of in-house facilities, which is well established in Europe, is accelerating in North America, particularly in automotive.
Outsourced work from Strategic Partnerships SP and Long Term Agreements LTA grew 35% and now accounts for 21% of Group revenue compared with 16% in 2004.
Several new SPs will start generating revenue in 2006.
Bodycote annual report 2005 3 The Board of Directors Members of the Board 1.
Richard Scholes Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 2.
Derek Sleight Corporate Development Director 4 Bodycote annual report 2005 6.
Bodycote annual report 2005 5 Chief Executives Review Europe HIP Materials Testing Revenue of 236.4m an increase of 5% Divisional revenue was 35.2m 10% Materials Testing advanced strongly as a and operating profit of 33.7m up 11% growth and operating profit was 9.5m result of continued demand from the buoyant were generated.
Although the manufacturing 34% improvement, with an operating oil and gas sector and improving aerospace sector faced a difficult environment, our margin of 27% compared with 22% in 2004. markets.
Automotive outsourcing of testing strategy of pursuing outsourced work, The revenue growth was driven by the continues to assist our growth.
Our European transferring technology and optimising continuing strong demand from the IGT business saw substantial revenue gains as operational efficiencies paid off.
Almost all market for new and replacement parts.
a number of global projects from the Caspian automotive focused facilities are now certied Aerospace demand continued to pick up region and Sakhalin Island produced significant to the stringent TS 16949 automotive quality throughout the year and is expected to demand for our specialist corrosion services.
standard, whilst most facilities will achieve maintain this growth trend beyond 2006.
In aerospace and defence markets, the ISO 14001 environmental certication by the Although margins improved, we still have acquisition of CSM in Sweden strengthened end of 2006.
This positions us in line with work to do because the high investment in our position in advanced NDT systems, the quality and responsibility expectations HIP facilities requires yet higher margins in polymer composite testing, and materials of world class manufacturers.
Our network order to achieve an acceptable return on consultancy offerings, enabling deployment of Eastern European facilities was expanded capital employed.
We continue to work on of these services across our network.
in 2005 by the commissioning of a start-up innovative new applications in the powder The Middle East benefited from the acquisition facility in Poland which was immediately consolidation sector.
The multi-national of a start-up in Qatar and the purchase of GHD followed by the acquisition of the market nuclear fusion project, ITER, which will be Cladding in Dubai.
Continuing high demand leader with four facilities.
Our Romanian sited in France, opens up the prospect of for our services in the Gulf of Mexico region facility was merged with a competitor generating additional revenue as we have led to investment in a new state of the art to create a market leading position, with successfully demonstrated our ability to HIP facility in Houston, US with relocation Bodycote owning 75% of the new entity.
Continued growth in our Eastern European for Densal treatment of aluminium castings Engineering & Technology operations during 2006 is anticipated.
showed excellent progress in the high In Engineering & Technology we continued to performance European automotive sector Asia capitalise on our strategy of providing high end with adoption in three significant applications.
Our previously announced development in technical solutions to a number of industrial In Europe two large HIP units, out of service Wuxi, China has been boosted by the award sectors.
In the UK the acquisition of J W for a large part of 2004, returned to service of an outsourcing contract from Faurecia SA Worsley brings advanced environmental in 2005.
In North America a used HIP unit, afliated to PSA Peugeot Citron for the simulation testing into the Group to service our previously acquired at low cost, will be heat treatment of automotive components.
clients in the European transportation market.
brought into service in 2006 followed by the 2 Construction of this 10,000 m plant is We invested in several large scale vehicle addition of new mega-HIP capacity in 2007. expected to be completed in the second half dynamics test stands at our Technology Centre of this year.
The size of the plant has been TESTING in Mississauga, Canada to meet demand from doubled from that originally envisaged due to North American heavy duty truck manufacturers, Revenue was 86.5m 32% growth, operating strong interest from other western companies with several large outsourcing projects secured.
profit was 16.3m 31% improvement and setting up manufacturing bases in the area.
the operating margin was maintained at 19%.
Health Sciences As part of the expansion a Testing laboratory This growth in revenue was achieved in The European Health Sciences unit performed has also been added to the project.
The total generally good trading environments with extremely well with the addition of a food cost of the new facility is expected to be outsourcing demand driving organic revenue testing advisory services business approximately 5m.
Bodycote intends to ahead by 9%.
Our strategy to grow this complementing strong revenue growth complete similar new factories in other division continues, with ten small to medium in our pharmaceutical and occupational carefully selected areas of China over the next acquisitions completing in the year.
The acquisition of Law five years to service predominantly western Laboratories and Allied Laboratories mid-year companies establishing new manufacturing Business development strategies aligned positioned Bodycote as the laboratory of operations in the region.
We are actively to customer-facing service provision resulted choice for a number of large UK food retailers.
evaluating opportunities in other Asian markets.
in a reorganisation of management in 2005 The network continues to expand, with the along business streams as opposed to country acquired expertise and technologies being based organisation.
The Testing SBU now rolled out to other geographical regions operates four divisions: Materials Testing, through our technology transfer teams.
Engineering & Technology, Health Sciences and Environmental Testing.
6 Bodycote annual report 2005 Environmental Testing CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS Overall we expect to maintain our Our Environmental Testing business posted Trading since the start of the New Year has performance improvement during 2006 significant revenue growth, particularly in been in line with the Boards expectations.
through our continuous self-help programmes, Canada, where the acquisition of Arthur Notably we entered 2006 with annualised improving market demand, disciplined capital Gordon, continued operational improvements revenue for the Testing SBU in excess of 100m.
investment and value enhancing acquisitions, and investments in fully automated analytical all with a focus on continuing to improve our IGT markets were strong in 2005 and we systems allowed greater customer satisfaction return on capital employed.
anticipate this sector will show continued on deliveries whilst improving productivity.
Aerospace showed SAFETY, HEALTH AND improvement in 2005 and we anticipate the ENVIRONMENTAL SHE pace of growth will increase throughout 2006.
SHE has always been of major importance in Automotive is forecast to remain at in terms our business and since initiating an enhanced of overall build rate for North America and John D. Hubbard Group wide measurement and benchmarking Europe in 2006.
The restructuring being 28 February 2006 system in 2004 we have seen our performance undertaken by some manufacturers will improve but we remain some way from our offer challenges that we are confident we ultimate goal of zero accidents.
Our two will manage successfully.
The low end tooling 1 expressed pre impairment of goodwill 5.8m, 2004: nil, safety KPIs for lost time accidents showed market has continued to decline in western amortisation of acquired intangibles 0.2m, 2004: nil and restructuring costs nil, 2004: 2.4m.
improvement: Frequency Rate fell by 2.1% and markets due to the movement of manufacturing Severity Rate fell by 12.3%.
Our initiative to areas of lower cost, where Bodycote does helps us to understand better the reasons not currently have a significant presence.
and root cause of accidents occurring within Since the year end we have acquired four the Group, improve awareness among the laboratories, Norwest Soil Research seven employees and change behaviour.
As in every Canadian locations and three European joint other area of our business, we work on ventures, West Coast Analytical in the USA, continuously improving our understanding Tetra in the UK and ACT Laboratories, Testing and application of safety procedures in a and Engineering with two locations in Detroit, consistent manner throughout the Group.
as well as one Heat Treatment facility, SGB We continue to roll out our Zero Tolerance Solingen, in Germany.
The pipeline of potential Policy into the various countries.
The research acquisitions which t our strategic plan and project we are funding at a University in investment criteria remains well stocked.
California to advance safety in confined The rate of acquisitions will continue to be space entry procedures is expected to be controlled by our commitment to integrate nalised in 2006, with recommendations successfully each acquisition into our operations.
which will benefit the whole industry.
People are our number one resource.
We will continue to focus our management efforts on training, improving the working environment, increasing the productivity, safety and effectiveness of our human resources.
Energy, our number two cost, is anticipated to remain expensive and we will continue our endeavours to pass these costs on to our customers.
