20 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 board of directors and executives A Richard Baker I Scott Wheway B Paul Bateman J Michael Oliver C Hlne Ploix K Paul Stoneham C DI J D Sir Nigel Rudd L Alex Gourlay E Dr Martin Read M David Kneale F Tim Parker G Jan Bennink A B EF KL M H Guy Dawson GH Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 21 Executive directors Dr Martin Read 55, Non-executive Director Tim Parker 49, Non-executive Director Alex Gourlay 45, Development Director Richard Baker 42, Chief Executive Appointed 1999.
Chairman of the Boots Appointed January 2004.
Tim is currently Alex started working for Boots in 1976 Appointed September 2003.
Dr Read is group chief executive of the Automobile as a Saturday assistant.
He is a qualied chief operating officer and group marketing chief executive of LogicaCMG plc, one of Association and deputy chairman of Kwik-Fit.
pharmacist and has had numerous positions officer at Asda.
Prior to joining Asda, Richard the worlds leading global IT solutions He was chief executive of Kwik-Fit until 2004 in Boots including store manager, regional worked for Mars where he progressed companies.
Before taking over at Logica in and was previously chief executive of C. & J. manager, head of HR for stores, director of through a series of roles including national 1993, he held a number of senior positions Clark Ltd. the footwear manufacturer and retail implementation and retail director.
account management, brand marketing and at GEC Marconi.
He also led the management buy-out Scott Wheway 38, Retail Director Scott then head of sales for UK multiples.
executive director of British Airways plc in and otation of Kenwood Appliances plc.
joined Boots in January 2005 from Tesco 2000 and served as a non-executive director Paul Bateman 52, Group HR and Jan Bennink 48, Non-executive Director where he was CEO of Tesco Japan.
Having of Asda Group from 1996 to 1999.
President and chief started with Tesco at the age of 18 as a Responsible for human resources HR, Guy Dawson 52, Non-executive Director executive of Numico, a leader in infant and management trainee he became a store corporate communications, logistics, Appointed September 2003.
Jans previous experience manager at the age of 22, and subsequently manufacturing, engineering and IS&T.
Paul Boots audit committee and senior includes seven years with Danone as progressed rapidly to positions such as joined Boots in 2001 to lead supply chain independent director.
Guy is a founding president of the dairy division in France, stores director, retail ofce director and and business services development.
He partner of Tricorn Partners, an independent seven years with Benckiser as president of Operations director.
previously worked for Procter & Gamble, corporate finance advisory business.
He has the Detergent Division in Italy and Germany Michael Oliver 56, Company Secretary where he gained many years experience previously held senior investment banking and seven years with Procter & Gamble in Michael is a solicitor, and joined Boots Legal with global supply chains.
positions at Merrill Lynch and Deutsche the Netherlands and the US.
He is also a Department in 1987 from private practice.
Bank, advising major companies on a full board member of Kraft Foods Inc. USA.
Non-executive directors Appointed company secretary in 2000.
He range of corporate finance and strategic Sir Nigel Rudd 58, Non-executive Executive committee is also responsible for the companys legal issues.
He is also a non-executive director Chairman, Appointed December 1999, David Kneale 50, Chief Commercial Officer and intellectual property matters.
Before of The BOC Group plc.
deputy chairman since December 2001, David joined Boots in 1976 and held senior qualifying as a solicitor, Michael was an chairman from 15 September 2003.
Hlne Ploix 60, Non-executive Director positions in the retailing area of the army officer, and he is currently a member Non-executive chairman of Pilkington and Appointed September 2000.
In 1999 he left to become of the Take-over Panel.
He is also deputy chairman of Boots social responsibilities committee and managing director of Waterstones book Richard Baker and Paul Bateman are also Barclays and chairman of the Boardroom a member of the audit and remuneration stores.
He returned to Boots in 2002 as members of the executive committee.
Hlne is Chairman of Pechel director of trading and was appointed to chartered accountant and was previously Industries Partenaires, a private equity his current role in January 2003. executive chairman of Williams PLC for investment management company.
She Paul Stoneham 43, Managing Director nearly 20 years.
is a non-executive director of BNP Paribas, Paul was appointed Managing Director, Ferring, Lafarge and Publicis Groupe.
Boots Healthcare International in August 2001.
Formerly he was President of Alberto Culver International in the USA.
Prior to this, Paul held a number of senior marketing and category positions with Procter & Gamble in the UK, Switzerland, Germany and Canada.
He is also a non-executive director of Hays.
