Managers Review Simon Fraser Rita Grewal Charles Payne Chief Investment Officer of Investment Director Relationship Director Fidelity International Limited MARKET BACKGROUND Despite a slowdown in the residential housing market, Over the review period, the UK stock market made the construction & building materials sector up 26% strong gains against a background of improving was one of the strongest performers.
This was aided by steady property prices had risen strongly in previous years, economic growth, both domestically and globally, with some analysts predicted a sharp correction in house the US and Chinese economies providing much of the prices, particularly after interest rates were raised three impetus.
Increased mergers and acquisitions activity, times early in the review period.
The valuation of many particularly from private equity groups seeking stocks in the sector reflected this perceived risk.
companies with steady cash flows, also provided a boost However, these fears seemed to be exaggerated as to UK stocks.
After a slow start amid concerns about the anticipated hard landing in house prices failed to rising oil prices and interest rates, the stock market rallied materialise.
Companies which had seen strong growth in the second half of 2004 as investors decided that in the profits they derived from the housing market these fears had been overdone.
By the end of the twelve appeared undervalued and rose strongly in the second month review period to 31 March 2005, the FTSE Allhalf of the period.
Share Index had added 15.6% in value on a total return basis.
In broad terms, investors adopted a slightly more Some of the largest sectors in terms of market defensive posture, seeking companies offering attractive capitalisation underperformed.
For two of these, banks yields or whose assets might be undervalued, rather than and telecommunications both up 12%, this shortfall those with rapid earnings growth but which carried a was moderate, but in the case of pharmaceuticals up higher degree of risk.
Shares in the two companies which dominate this sector, GlaxoSmithKline and One such group of companies favoured for their AstraZeneca, were weak after regulators questioned the defensive characteristics was utilities.
The sectors safety of some of their products.
performance up 23% improved after sympathetic regulatory reviews allowed the companies to pass on In February, the FTSE All-Share Index reached its higher input prices to customers.
Utilities relatively highest level for nearly three years.
The stock market predictable earnings and increasing returns to then fell back towards the end of the review period as shareholders were attractive, especially since interest concerns over global inflation and record oil prices rates remained low by historical standards.
Nevertheless, the Indexs rise of 15.6% remained impressive, since for much of the After falling back towards the end of 2004, oil prices period equities had faced the twin challenges of rising rebounded to reach new peaks this year.
Their interest rates and oil prices.
continued strength boosted the performance of the oil & gas sector up 28%.
Larger companies were not the PORTFOLIO REVIEW only ones to achieve strong returns in the sector, with On a total return basis the net asset value per share some of the medium sized and smaller firms focused rose by 16.3%, exceeding the performance of the on exploration attracting substantial interest from FTSE All-Share Index which increased by 15.6% over investors.
A notable example among these was Cairn the same period.
Please note past performance is not Energy, whose shares more than trebled in value a guide to future returns.
The chart overleaf breaks during 2004 until a less encouraging update about its down the various elements which have contributed to newly discovered Indian oil fields led to profit taking.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Page 5 Managers Review The mining sector was another area where performance Year to 31 March 2005 benefited from stock selection.
Here, the portfolios Change in NAV % 16.3 weighting towards Xstrata in preference to Anglo American was the main contributor to returns.
Xstrata, Change in FTSE All-Share % 15.6 which mines coal, copper and zinc, was helped by strong Relative Change % 0.7 demand for these commodities from the buoyant Chinese economy.
In contrast, Anglo American suffered from the strength of the South African rand against the Contribution to Relative Return Year to 31 March 2005 US dollar and subsequently disappointed investors by UK Equities 1.0 failing to offer shareholders a stock buy back programme.
Debenture Borrowings: The largest single contribution to the Companys Invested in equities 1.7 returns came from Yell Group, a publisher of telephone Invested in cash 0.3 directories in both the UK and the US.
The companys Debenture interest -2.1 share price rose after it revealed strong interim results Share Buybacks 0.3 and a larger than expected dividend increase.
Other holdings which delivered strong performances Charges -0.5 included Intertek.
This firm tests products and Total 0.7 benefited from its presence in China, where it is Analysis of capital performance estimated to have 50% of the entire test market.
All figures are calculated on a Total Return Basis i. e. cum income.
The portfolios holdings within the financial oriented sectors undermined its overall performance.
Among The Board and Manager review the portfolio managers banks, the overweight position in Royal Bank of responsible for managing the Companys portfolio on a Scotland detracted from returns.
Its shares were regular basis to ensure that the risk and return profile relatively weak after it declined to use strong profits to of the portfolio continues to be appropriate.
In fund substantial share repurchases.
Investors feared that recognition of the improvement in the Companys the bank might instead use the cash to launch further capital position during the previous 18 months, in acquisitions.
An underweight exposure to Abbey, which September 2004 it was decided to reduce the number was taken over by the Spanish bank BSCH during the of managers in the multi-manager line-up from four to period, also held back relative returns.
At the same time, the amount allocated to the specialist income manager was increased.
This has The portfolios positions in speciality finance companies resulted in an enhanced portfolio yield and an increase also proved disappointing, notably the holding in ICAP, in the tracking error against the benchmark.
the worlds largest inter-dealer broker.
Its profits suffered from poor trading volumes and low volatility in Stock selection was mainly responsible for the portfolios financial markets during the summer of 2004.
A decline returns rather than the weightings in particular sectors.
in the US dollar also hurt ICAPs earnings because most This helped performance in an environment where of its income is in dollars while it reports its results in investors were more discerning when seeking sterling.
Some other holdings in the sector proved companies with steady earnings, strong cash flows and similarly unrewarding, particularly Intermediate Capital, attractive yields.
This was true of holdings in the utilities which arranges finance for company buy-outs, and Man sector such as Scottish & Southern Energy, which Group, a leading provider of hedge funds.
provided one of the strongest contributions to portfolio returns.
This electricity company saw profits benefit from Other individual stocks which held back performance the addition of new low cost generating capacity, which included ITV and Compass.
ITVs shares also allowed it to increase its market share.
underperformed due to investor concerns about disappointing viewing figures, although well-received Elsewhere, stock picking among pharmaceutical results late in the review period partially allayed these companies proved rewarding, particularly the worries.
For Compass, profit warnings prompted by underweight exposure to AstraZeneca.
Its shares rising costs and lower than expected cash flows were suffered after US regulators raised safety concerns responsible for the stocks weakness.
about its anti-cholesterol medication, Crestor.
Investors had previously thought that the treatment would PURCHASES account for around 20% of AstraZenecas profits by Stocks added by the portfolio management team 2007.
Elsewhere in the sector, an overweight position included media company Daily Mail & General Trust, in Warner Chilcott, which was taken over by a private telecoms company BT Group, the building materials equity group, also added to returns.
company Pilkington and energy company BG Group.
Page 6 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Managers Review The portfolio managers also participated in the initial At 31 March 2005 public offering of Admiral, the insurance company.
Portfolio Index Existing holdings which were increased significantly %% during the period included BAT and Tesco.
FTSE 100 77.5% 83.4% FTSE 250 20.1% 13.1% SALES FTSE Small Cap 0.9% 3.5% Key holdings sold during the twelve month period Other 1.5% 0.0% included food production company Unilever, food retailing company WM Morrison, utility group Centrica 100.0% 100.0% and speciality finance company Amvescap.
The holding Size analysis of the UK equity portfolio Index is the FTSE All-Share Index in building materials company RMC, which was acquired by a larger competitor during the period, was also sold.
Elsewhere, the portfolio managers decreased holdings in GlaxoSmithKline and Lloyds TSB.
analysts, they continue to look for stocks where the share price does not fully reflect the future potential of FUTURE PORTFOLIO STRATEGY the company.
The equity portfolio will continue to reflect the strongest investment ideas of Fidelitys fund OUTLOOK management team.
This team is supported by one of Although the government reiterated its forecast for the largest research departments of any global economic growth of between 3.0% and 3.5% this year investment company.
The investment process is based in its latest budget, this appears optimistic when on fundamental company research where frequent compared with the Bank of Englands estimate of 2.7%.
meetings with company management teams play a However, the Bank remains confident about the key role in determining and reviewing the investment prospects for the UK economy, according to Februarys case for each stock.
The portfolio managers do not Inflation Report.
Although forecasting higher inflation focus on macroeconomic forecasts and the portfolio is over the next two years, it believes that rising prices not constructed with any specific expectations for could be brought under control without disrupting the equity market and economic performance in mind.
Rather, the portfolio managers develop their economic and industry perspectives through the After reaching their highest levels for nearly three years process of company meetings.
As such, the holdings towards the end of the review period, equities have in the portfolio represent stocks where the portfolio paused.
Rising bond yields and commodity prices have managers believe a companys future potential is raised concerns regarding the durability of the recent being undervalued by other investors.
In terms of gains and investors have adopted a wait and see market capitalisation, the equity portfolio has greater mentality.
Further progress will rely on a continuation of exposure to medium sized companies than the FTSE the promising outlook for corporate profitability.
If there All-Share Index and holds proportionally fewer of its are signs that this benign economic outlook is assets in larger companies.
This reflects our belief that unravelling, for example, if inflationary pressures were to greater value can be added by stock selection lead to higher interest rates the prospects for further amongst companies that are less intensively rises could be threatened.
However, on a more positive researched by other investors, rather than amongst note, companies increased focus on shareholder returns larger companies where our estimates are less likely to and rising amounts of corporate activity offer the be materially different from the consensus.
The possibility of continued progress for UK equities.
portfolio will continue to reflect the bottom-up investment decisions of the portfolio managers responsible for each sub-portfolio in the Company.
Fidelity Investments International Working with Fidelitys large in-house team of research 24 May 2005 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Page 7
