Board of Directors Richard Barfield William Samuel DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Richard Barfield 58 was William Samuel 53 was appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in 2001.
He is currently a Chief Investment Manager vice chairman of Lazard in at Standard Life.
He is a London having formerly director of Equitas, The been vice chairman of Baillie Gifford Japan Trust, The Merchants Trust, European Investment Banking at Citigroup, The JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Investment chairman of HP Bulmer Holdings and Group Trust, the Standard Life Property Income Trust, Managing Director Investment Bank at Umbro plc and is a member of the Public Schroders and a director of Schroders PLC.
He is Oversight Board for Accountancy.
also independent deputy chairman of Inchcape plc.
He joined Schroders Investment Management Department in 1977 having qualified as a Chartered Accountant and was Head of Investment Banking when Schroders Eileen Mackay sold its investment banking business to Salomon, DIRECTOR Smith, Barney, part of Citigroup in 2000.
Eileen Mackay, CB 61 was appointed to the Board in 1996 and is Senior Sir Nigel Wicks Independent Director.
She is a director of The Royal Bank DIRECTOR of Scotland Group.
She is also a director of Scottish Financial Enterprise and a Sir Nigel Wicks, GCB, board member of the British Library.
Her previous CVO, CBE 64 was career was as a senior civil servant and she was appointed to the Board in Principal Finance Officer in The Scottish Office.
After working for The British Petroleum Company, Sir Nigel joined HM Treasury in 1968.
He worked for Prime Ministers Harold Wilson, James Callaghan and Nicola Ralston Margaret Thatcher.
He has been the United DIRECTOR Kingdoms Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank and the Prime Nicola Ralston 49 was Ministers representative Sherpa for the appointed to the Board in Economic Summits of the Group of Seven 2003.
She started her Industrialised Nations.
From 1989 to 2000, he financial career in 1977 was the Treasurys Second Permanent Secretary moving to Schroders in responsible for international financial matters.
Between 1999 and The UK Prime Minister appointed him as Chair of 2001 she was Head of Investment Management the Committee on Standards in Public Life for for the Schroder Group.
After leaving Schroders the period March 2001 to April 2004.
He is nonshe acted as a Business Adviser to CSTIM, a executive Deputy Chairman of Euroclear plc, a management consultancy, and as a director of non-executive director of Morgan Stanley Bank several hedge funds until December 2004.
In International and Chairman of the Scrutiny January 2005 she was appointed Head of Global Committee of the Actuarial Profession.
She is also a governor of the CFA Institute.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Page 15
