Managers Review Edinburgh US Tracker Trust is the only UK In August, Medco Health Solutions fide-merged from investment trust to track the performance of Merck and was added to the index in place of the S&P 500 Composite Index and provides McDermott International which was removed on shareholders with a broadly diversified account of its low market capitalization.
portfolio which covers the top 500 listed companies in the United States.
The method In September, Quintiles Transnational was taken employed by the company to track the index private by its management and replaced in the index involves full replication of the index by Express Scripts.
The final change to the index constituents.
This means that the companys constituents occurred in November when IDEC portfolio holds every stock making up the Pharmaceuticals acquired Biogen which was index in an amount that equals the stocks replaced in the index by Biogen IDEC.
proportionate weight in the index.
The index is calculated on the basis of the market The total value of purchases in the year amounted to capitalisation of its 500 constituents which are 4.5 million while sales also totalled 4.5 million.
drawn from companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange The US economy staged a powerful recovery in the and NASDAQ and is widely regarded as the second half of 2003 in response to low interest rates, best single gauge of the US equities market.
cuts in personal taxation and a weaker dollar.
Early data for 2004 show continued strength in the The level of activity within the portfolio was low economy and, with no inflation pressures, the once again last year and reflected the changes made Federal Reserve has kept interest rates at historically to the constituents of the index.
The constituents of low levels.
The next move in US interest rates, the S&P Composite Index are controlled by the however, is likely to be upwards although any Standard & Poors Index Committee and the increases are unlikely before the second half of the company bought and sold shares during the year to year.
Corporate profits in recent months have been reflect any changes initiated by the Committee.
stronger than expected, benefiting from productivity gains and the weaker dollar.
If this favourable In February, Rational Software was acquired by background remains in place, US equity markets International Business Machines and replaced in the may make further progress although widening index by AutoNation.
budget and current account deficits are a potential cause for concern.
In March, AMR was removed from the index on account of it low market capitalization and replaced by Apartment Investment & Management, Healthsouth was removed from the index following Edinburgh Fund Managers plc violations of securities laws and was replaced by McCormick & Co and Household International was 9 March 2004 replaced in the index by Symantec after Household was acquired by HSBC Holdings.
In April, following the merger of Pfizer and Pharmacia, both constituents of the index, Federated Investors was added to the index while, in July, Prologis replaced Mirant after Mirant filed for bankruptcy.
PAGE 5 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
