Directors Report Business and Status No contract or arrangement existed during the year The company carries on business as an investment in which any of the directors was materially trust and, for the purpose of the Income and interested.
Directors have no service contracts with Corporation Taxes Act 1988, has been treated by the the company.
Inland Revenue as approved as such for the year ended 31 January 2003.
The company has subsequently Directors Liability Insurance conducted its affairs so as to receive such approval.
The company maintains insurance in respect of directors and officers liabilities in relation to their The company is an investment company within the acts on behalf of the company.
terms of Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
Corporate Governance Review of Activities Compliance During the year the company followed the normal The company is committed to high standards of activities of an investment trust.
Details of these are corporate governance.
In July 2003 the Financial given in the Chairmans Statement and the Reporting Council issued a new Combined Code Managers Review.
which incorporated the recommendations made by the Higgs Review and the Smith Report.
The new Share Capital code is mandatory for accounting periods beginning There were no changes to the share capital during on or after 1 November 2003. the year to 31 January 2004.
In January 2004 following a review of the Dividends provisions of the new Code, the board has enhanced An interim dividend of 2.0p was paid on 10 October its corporate governance procedures so that the 2003.
The directors recommend that a final dividend company will be compliant with the new Code for of 2.85p per share be paid on 14 May 2004 to its full accounting period to 31 January 2005. shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 April 2004, making a total of 4.85p 20034.85p The board confirms that the company has complied per share for the year ended 31 January 2004. throughout the accounting period to 31 January 2004 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Directors 1998 Code and believes it will be able to comply The names of the directors and their holdings in the with the provisions of the new Code for the companys shares are shown in Table 1.
The accounting period to 31 January 2005.
The Board is company has not been notified of any changes in responsible for good governance and this statement directors holdings between 31 January 2004 and describes how the company applies the principles 9 March 2004.
identified in the Combined Code throughout the financial year.
It is with much regret that the directors report the death of Mr Wilson on 25 December 2003.
Ordinary Shares held at Mr Hunter was appointed to the board on 31 January 2004 31 January 2003 Nature of interest 1 September 2003 and Mr Crawford was appointed Sir Angus Grossart 1,000 1,000 Beneficial on 8 March 2004.
In accordance with the articles of association, Mr Hunter and Mr Crawford will retire Guy Crawford appointed 8 March 2004 Beneficial at the annual general meeting and will be proposed for election.
James Ferguson 1,000 1,000 Beneficial Archie Hunter In accordance with the articles of association, appointed 1 September 2003 1,000 Beneficial Mr Ferguson retires by rotation at the annual Table 1 Directors and their holdings in the company general meeting and will be proposed for re-election.
PAGE 11 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report The Board requirements of the companys business and the need The board consists of four non-executive directors, to have a balanced board.
From this review and of whom Sir Angus Grossart is the chairman.
Mr following the death of Mr Bill Wilson, the board Ferguson is the senior independent director and the identified the need to make two board other directors are considered by the board to be appointments.
Mr Hunter, appointed on 1 independent of the company and the investment September 2003, is a chartered accountant bringing manager, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, and free of accounting and financial expertise to the board.
Mr any material relationship with the manager which Crawford, appointed on 8 March 2004, has 30 could interfere with the exercise of their independent years of investment management experience bringing judgment.
investment expertise to the board, particularly within the investment trust industry.
For new Biographies of the board members, including their appointments a description of the required role is relevant experience, appear on page 10 which prepared and possible nominations of directors are demonstrate that each director has the requisite high initially sought in the financial and investment level and range of business, investment and financial sectors and are considered by the board as a whole.
experience and enables the board to provide clear External search consultants may be used to ensure and effective leadership and proper stewardship of that a wide range of candidates can be considered.
Every director is entitled to receive appropriate training as deemed necessary.
During the year the board met five times, the audit committee met three times and the management There is an agreed procedure for directors to take engagement met once.
Each director, who was a independent professional advice if necessary and at director at the time of the meeting, has attended all the companys expense.
This is in addition to the board and committee meetings.
The board has access which every director has to the advice and formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved to it services of the company secretary, Edinburgh Fund for decision and the requirement for board approval Managers plc, which is responsible to the board for on these matters is communicated directly to the ensuring that board procedures are followed and that senior staff of the manager.
Such matters include applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
strategy, borrowings, treasury, dividend and corporate governance policy.
Full and timely information is The tenure of directors corresponds with the formal provided to the board to enable the board to function provisions of the companys articles of association.
effectively and to allow directors to discharge their responsibilities.
The board also reviews the financial A director appointed during the year is required, statements, performance and revenue budgets.
under the provisions of the companys articles, to retire and seek re-election by shareholders at the The board considers that the post of chief executive next Annual General Meeting.
The articles also officer is not relevant for an investment trust require that one third of the directors retire by company as this role has effectively been delegated rotation each year and seek re-election at the Annual to Edinburgh Fund Managers plc under the terms of General Meeting.
In addition, all directors are the Investment Management Agreement.
required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Directors with more than nine Following an appraisal of each director, by the years service will be required to submit themselves chairman, and of the chairman by the other for annual re-election from 2005 onwards.
The directors, the board confirms that all directors board supports the re-election of Mr Ferguson, who contribute to the effective running of the company.
is due to retire by rotation at this years AGM.
Mr In addition the directors assessed the collective Ferguson, being a former deputy chairman of the performance of the board as a whole against the AITC, has considerable experience of the investment PAGE 12 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report trust industry and his contribution to the board is effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage greatly valued.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable There is no remuneration committee.
Details of and not absolute assurance against material remuneration are contained within the directors misstatement or loss.
The board confirms that there is an ongoing process Relations with shareholders for identifying, evaluating and managing the The directors believe in good communication with companys significant business and operational risks, shareholders.
The report and accounts are widely that it has been in place for the year ended 31 distributed to other parties who have an interest in January 2004 and up to the date of approval of the the companys performance.
Shareholders and annual report and accounts, that it is regularly investors may obtain up to date information on the reviewed by the board and accords with the internal company through the managers freephone control guidance for directors on the Combined information service.
correspondence from shareholders addressed to the companys registered office and responds to letters The responsibility to ensure compliance with from shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The regulations and company law to provide effective manager maintains contact with institutional and efficient operation and investment management shareholders and feeds back shareholder views to the has been delegated to the manager under the terms board.
The Companys annual and interim reports of the management agreement.
and other publications can be downloaded from the companys website, www.
The manager is responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of controls and The notice of the Annual General Meeting included procedures to safeguard the assets of the company within the annual report and accounts is sent out at and to manage its affairs properly.
The system least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
extends to operational and compliance controls and Investors in the managers savings plans are risk management.
Clear lines of accountability have encouraged to vote by means of a letter of direction been established between the board and the manager enclosed with the annual report.
All shareholders and regular reports on controls and compliance have the opportunity to put questions at the issues are provided to the board.
In carrying out its companys Annual General Meeting.
review, the board has had regard to the activities of the manager, the managers risk and compliance Proxy voting as an institutional shareholder function and the external auditors.
Responsibility for monitoring the activities of investee companies has been delegated by the board The audit committee, comprising all of the directors to the manager.
The manager will exercise proxy and of which Mr Hunter is the chairman, meets at votes on behalf of the Company if they believe it is least twice a year and considers reports from the appropriate.
external auditors as well as from the manager.
The audit committee keeps the scope and effectiveness of Accountability and audit the external audit under review and considers and The respective responsibilities of the directors and recommends the re-appointment of the auditors to the auditors in connection with the financial the board.
The terms of reference of the audit statements appear on pages 18 and 19. committee are available on request.
The independence and objectivity of the external The board is responsible for the companys system auditors is also considered on a regular basis, with of internal control and for reviewing its particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The PAGE 13 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report non-audit fees for the year to 31 January 2004 were Payments Policy nil.
The companys payment policy is to ensure settlement of suppliers invoices in accordance with Management Engagement Committee the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, settlement All of the directors are members of the Management terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
Engagement Committee and Mr Ferguson is the Chairman.
The Committee reviews the performance Auditors of the manager and their compliance with the terms Resolutions are to be proposed at the Annual of the management and secretarial agreement.
The General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG terms and conditions of the managers appointment, Audit Plc as auditors of the company and to including an evaluation of performance and fees, are authorise the directors to determine their reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
During the year under review the management fee was reduced to 0.2% of gross assets per annum and Annual General Meeting special business the notice period to three months.
The Committee Resolutions relating to the following items of special considers that the Manager, whose team is well business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual qualified and experienced, has fully met the terms of General Meeting:- its agreement with the Company.
The Company has continued to meet its objective of tracking closely i Continuation of the company the S&P 500 Composite Index.
Following a review As required by the companys articles of association, of the management fees and total expense ratio the shareholders are asked to release the board of Committee believe these are reasonable and directors from the obligation in the companys competitive.
Taking these factors into account, the articles of association to convene an extraordinary Committee and the board believe that the general meeting at which an ordinary resolution will continuing appointment of the manager is in the be proposed requiring the company to be wound up interests of shareholders.
Going Concern ii Limited disapplication of Pre-emption Provisions The directors believe that the company has adequate A special resolution will be proposed to give the resources to continue its operational existence for the directors power to allot ordinary shares up to an foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to aggregate nominal amount of 2,209,529, being adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 10% of the current issued share capital of the accounts, notwithstanding that the company is company, for cash other than to existing subject to an annual continuation vote.
shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
Under this authority, ordinary shares would only be issued for Substantial Share Interests cash at a price not less than the net asset value per At 9 March 2004, the interests in the ordinary share share.
A maximum of 7,365,097 of unissued capital which had been notified to the company are ordinary share capital may also be allotted for cash shown in Table 2. pursuant to a rights issue made pro rata to shareholders in the future.
Ordinary shares would only be issued for cash pursuant to a rights issue at a price not less than the net asset value per share.
Holder No of ordinary shares % The directors consider that the powers proposed to be Gerrard 8,837,631 10.0 granted by the above resolution are necessary to retain Legal & General Investment Management 2,735,353 3.1 flexibility and will be used to meet investor demand.
Table 2 Substantial share interests PAGE 14 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report iii Purchase of the companys own ordinary shares A special resolution will be proposed to authorise the company to make market purchases of its own shares.
The maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the company as at the date of the passing of the resolution approximately 13.25 million ordinary shares.
The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p.
The maximum price for an ordinary share exclusive of expenses shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the companys ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would enhance the net asset value and is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
By order of the board Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Secretary Edinburgh, 9 March 2004 PAGE 15 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
