Overview Chairmans Statement Summary Electras objectives are to provide a targeted and cost effective means of investment in private equity for a wide range of investors with the aim of delivering a superior rate of return.
In the ten years to 30 September 2005, Electra achieved an 18% per annum compound rate of return on its investment portfolio, substantially in excess of the returns of the FTSE All-Share Index.
As the existing investment policy provides increasing funds for new investment, the Board believes that Electra is well positioned to continue to create shareholder value.
Sir Brian Williamson As the existing investment policy 7 December 2005 provides increasing funds for new investment, the Board believes that Electra is well positioned to continue to create shareholder value.
Electra Investment Trust PLC 5 Overview Board of Directors Sir Brian Williamson CBE Lord King of Bridgwater Chairman Aged 72, was appointed a Director Aged 60, was appointed a Director in 1992. in 1994.
A Member of Parliament from 1970 until A Director of Resolution plc and a member 2001, he held a variety of senior Cabinet of the Supervisory Board of Euronext NV, posts and was Secretary of State for Sir Brian was previously Chairman of the Defence from 1989 to 1992.
He has been a London Financial Futures & Options member of the Nolan Committee and Exchange.
He is a non-executive Director Chairman of the Intelligence and Security of HSBC Holdings and a senior adviser to Committee.
In the USA he was Governor of the National Association Before entering Parliament he was a senior of Securities Dealers and Chairman of manager in DRG, the printing and Nasdaqs International Markets Advisory packaging group, and subsequently Board.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of London He was formerly a board member of the International Exhibition Centre Holdings.
Financial Services Authority, Chairman of Gerrard Group, and a Member of the Court Michael Walton of the Bank of Ireland.
Aged 62, was appointed a Director in July 2000.
Ronald Armstrong Aged 61, was appointed a Director He was previously on the Board of the in 1994.
He was Managing Director of Gartmore Private Most of his career has been spent in Capital until 1996 and has subsequently companies in which the application of been a Director of NatWest Equity technology is critical to success and he Partners.
He has served on the Council of has considerable experience of this the British Venture Capital Association.
process across a wide range of industries and countries.
He is a Director of Bridgepoint Capital and a number of private companies.
He is a Director of JP Morgan Fleming Worldwide Income Investment Trust, a Peter Williams Director of E-Synergy, which specialises in Aged 63, was appointed a Director venture funding for early-stage technology in 1994. companies, and Chairman of Prism Risk Management.
He is Chairman of RPC Group, one of Europes largest producers of plastic Professor Sir George Bain packaging and of Eposs, a specialist Aged 66, was appointed a Director deliverer of electronic products to the in 1998. mobile phone industry.
He is a Director of Xenos Group, a software company listed on A former President and Vice-Chancellor the Toronto Stock Exchange and several of The Queens University of Belfast, he private companies.
He was formerly has also held senior academic posts at a Director of Reed International and Chief the London Business School and the Executive of David S. Smith Holdings.
He has also been Chairman of the Low Pay Commission and is on the Boards of Bombardier Aerospace Short Brothers and the Canada Life Group UK.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
All Directors, other than the Chairman, are members of the Audit Committee.
