Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting the annual report of the Company and its subsidiaries to the shareholders, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal activities The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings has remained housebuilding in the UK.
More details of the Companys trading performance during the year and its prospects are included in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives operational review and the Financial review.
Results and dividends Profit after taxation amounted to 81.5 million 2004: 101.7 million.
An interim dividend of 8.3 pence 2004: 6.4 pence net per share was paid on 25 November 2005 and it is proposed to pay, subject to shareholders approval at the 2006 Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 16.7 pence 2004: 13.6 pence net per share on 26 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 31 March 2006.
On this basis, the total dividend for 2005 will be 25.0 pence 2004: 20.0 pence.
It is intended that a scrip dividend alternative will again be offered to allow shareholders to elect to receive the whole or part of their dividend in new ordinary shares.
Directors Details of the directors are shown on pages 18 and 19.
Following a period of ill health Sir Nigel Mobbs resigned as a director on 9 September 2005.
Details of directors emoluments, pension rights, service contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are included in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 28 to 35.
In accordance with the Articles of Association two directors, Mr Mark Patrick Nicholls and Mr Malcolm Robert Harris retire from office at the Annual General Meeting on Wednesday 10 May 2006.
Mr Mark Patrick Nicholls and Mr Malcolm Robert Harris being eligible offer themselves for re-appointment.
Having been appointed on 1 March 2006, in accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr John Anthony Warren offers himself for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting on Wednesday 10 May 2006.
Substantial shareholdings At 10 March 2006, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: Ordinary shares of 50p each Number of % of issued shares held share capital Legal & General Investment Management 4,448,050 3.72 Employees The Groups employment policies do not discriminate between employees, or potential employees, on the grounds of sex, sexual orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious belief.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group where requirements may be adequately covered by these persons and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
It is the policy of the Group to train and develop employees to ensure they are equipped to undertake the tasks for which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity for career development equally and without discrimination.
Employees receive regular training in health, safety and environmental matters.
Information about the Groups performance and other matters is provided regularly by a news magazine, notice board bulletins and by consultations at staff meetings.
The Group operates both a defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
The Company has a Share Incentive Plan, a Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme, an Executive Share Option Scheme and a Long Term Incentive Plan to motivate employees and encourage strong involvement with the Group.
See note 19 to the accounts for details of the option schemes.
Corporate social responsibility The Group, in carrying out its business activities, is pursuing its commitment to sustainable development and transparent corporate conduct in social and ethical matters, corporate governance, health and safety and the environment.
The Group's corporate social responsibility policy commitments focus on sustainable development, the environment, health and safety, research and development, human resources, an ethical code of conduct and stakeholder engagement.
The Group has established a Sustainability Working Group, with approved terms of reference to co-ordinate developments in this area and an established process of risk identification and management is embedded in all activities, whether risk is strategic, operational, financial, compliance, legal, environmental, social or related to reputation.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Consultative Committee monitors and maintains the high health and safety and environmental standards expected from offices and sites.
The Board addresses risk in its own decision making and takes regular account of the significance of sustainability, environmental, social and ethical matters through the inclusion of relevant information and data in Board reports and other documentation provided.
Ultimate responsibility rests with the Board and induction and training in this area is supported.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 21 Report of the directors continued Key social, environmental and ethical risks are considered to include the following: existing land contamination is not identified pre-acquisition: wildlife habitats and protected species are not identified resulting in planning difficulties: sustainable development is not addressed leading to planning delays and the loss of potential operational efficiencies and risk management opportunities: failure to design for social inclusion and for use of appropriate materials and resources and minimum waste: environmental pollution occurs on a construction site and is not swiftly controlled: failure to observe health and safety standards leading to injury: a significant environmental, health and safety, social or ethical event impacts reputation and brand.
These risks have specific controls placed against them, which include the completion of detailed investigations and surveys, policies and procedures to achieve sustainable development, an environmental management system and a clear commitment to maintaining high health and safety standards.
Further details of risks and policies and procedures for their management are included in the Groups free-standing Corporate Social Responsibility report dated 10 March 2006, which also includes key targets and performance data.
A copy of the report is available on the Groups website www.
uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Donations The Group made charitable donations in the year amounting to nil 2004: 8,000.
No political donations were made in either year by the Group or Company.
Suppliers The Groups payment policy in respect of all suppliers is to settle agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms and conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders.
Creditor days relating to trade creditors at the year end in respect of goods and services supplied in the normal course of trade amounted to 30 days 2004: 34 days.
The calculation excludes land purchase creditors.
The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Company was nil throughout 2004 and 2005.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the 2006 Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 10 May 2006 is set out on pages 67 to 70.
Members wishing to vote should return the form of proxy to the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may register their voting instructions via the internet by going to www.
At a meeting on 10 March 2006, the Board resolved that a resolution be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
At the present time, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority to purchase any of the shares of the Company, but consider that it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares purchased would be cancelled.
Auditors The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, resolutions concerning their re-appointment and remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board M T D Palmer Company Secretary 10 March 2006 Page 22 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
