Managers Review Fidelity Investments International Tim McCarron age 43 The Company is managed by Fidelity Investments International is a portfolio manager with Fidelity Investment Services which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Limited based in London.
He has been with Fidelity since Authority.
Fidelity Investments International is part of the 1993, when he joined as a research analyst.
He spent a year in Fidelity International Limited group which, as at 31 December Fidelitys Boston office as a research analyst, before returning 2005, had total assets under management exceeding to the UK in 1995.
In addition to Fidelity European Values PLC, 144 billion.
he manages the Fidelity European Fund and a number of institutional portfolios.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW contribution from the refining-related companies As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the including OMV, ERG, PKN and MOL.
Other areas of NAV of Fidelity European Values PLC returned 34.8% the market that helped deliver solid returns were in the year to 31 December 2005, outperforming the stocks in the electricity and media & entertainment FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which returned sectors.
The portfolios performance also gained from a 23.4%.
All performance figures are quoted on a total low exposure to telecommunication services stocks as return basis and in sterling.
the sector was the worst performing during the year due to ongoing concerns over revenue growth in the MARKET BACKGROUND industry.
At country level, stock selection was also European equities delivered strong returns during important, with individual holdings in the core 2005.
Healthy earnings growth and robust levels of European markets contributing to returns, notably takeover activity helped drive the market higher, Austrian, Italian and French companies.
despite continued concerns over energy prices and lacklustre economic growth in the eurozone.
Finally, in the context of a rising market, the portfolios fixed gearing enhanced the total return of the NAV.
The European Central Bank ECB changed interest rates for the first time since 2003, by a rise of one PORTFOLIO STRUCTURE quarter of a percentage point to 2.25%.
After The general structure of the portfolio remains maintaining rates at historically low levels for an unchanged, with a focus on medium-sized and smaller extended period, the ECB justified the rate rise as companies combined with a bottom-up, value-driven necessary to promote price stability, although there stock selection approach.
However, the Manager were concerns that the monetary tightening would increased the weighting in larger-sized companies harm a fragile recovery.
during the year as valuations of some large caps have become attractive.
The French and Dutch No votes to the European Constitution referendum had little impact on European The portfolio continues to have a substantial weighting equity markets.
However, the votes weighed on the in resources and domestic economy stocks, reflected euro.
Following four years of euro strength, the by positions in oil & gas, construction, real estate and currency weakened relative to the US dollar, falling transport.
During the year, the Manager increased the 13.4% from $1.36 to $1.18.
portfolios exposure to a number of growth-oriented sectors where their valuations were reasonable.
PORTFOLIO REVIEW Consequently the portfolios exposure to The outperformance of the portfolio versus the market pharmaceutical and software stocks rose.
The portfolio was due to successful stock selection and sector continued to have a low exposure to financials and the allocation.
In particular, stock selection within the oil & weighting in telecommunication stocks, which has gas sector proved rewarding, with a strong been reduced since 2003, was reduced further.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Page 5 Managers Review In terms of country positioning, the weighting has Relative % weighting to FTSE World Europe ex UK Index become much more balanced between the smaller European countries and core Europe.
Indeed, the core European weighting has moved to an overweight exposure, based on the Managers view that many individual stocks offer more value than in previous years.
As a result, the Manager has substantially reduced the Eastern Europe & Other portfolios holdings in peripheral European markets based on the view that these markets offered less value than they did in the previous years.
OUTLOOK Core eurozone The macroeconomic outlook for the European economy has recently begun to show signs of improvement.
Companies are restructuring and cutting costs, improving their return on equity.
In addition, many Western Europe companies have fide-leveraged over the past few years Non-eurozone and so now have strong balance sheets and are generating strong cashflows.
This provides a very good environment for a stock-picking driven approach and we continue to believe that stock selection, based on inPeripheral eurozone depth company analysis, will continue to be crucial in outperforming the benchmark index over the coming year.
-6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 Fidelity Investments International 6 March 2006 Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Page 6 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005
