Report of the Directors Status of Company | During the year under review the Results and Dividends | The net assets of the Company as at Company carried on the business of an investment trust and 30 September 2005 were 387,002,000 2004: 329,360,000. has since conducted its affairs so as to continue to qualify as such under the provisions of Section 842 of the Income and Attributable to equity shareholders 000s 000s Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The last accounting period for Net revenue available for distribution 4,680 which the Company has been treated as approved by the Proposed final dividend of Inland Revenue is for the year ended 30 September 2004.
This 1.7p per share 1,059 approval is subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under Special dividend of 5.8p per share 3,612 Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
Both payable on 22 December 2005 4,671 The Company is an investment company as defined by Amount transferred to revenue reserve 9 Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in an Capital | At the Annual General Meeting held on 16 December Individual Savings Account ISA and are also eligible as an 2004 shareholders renewed the Boards authority to buy-back investment for Personal Equity Plan PEP transfers.
up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares for Note 1 on the accounts contains full details of the cancellation.
Pursuant to this authority, a total of 5,364,720 accounting policies adopted.
ordinary shares were purchased for cancellation during the year The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to under review.
The prices paid for these shares ranged from adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as the 419.00 pence to 564.00 pence per share and the total cost, assets of the Company consist mainly of securities, which are including expenses, amounted to 29,215,000.
3,687,702 ordinary shares have been bought back since the Companys year end.
Investment Policy | The Company's investment objective is to achieve long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified Substantial Share Interests | At 4 November 2005 the portfolio of Continental European securities and there will be no Company had received notification of the following disclosable material change to its investment objective or investment policy interests in its ordinary share capital: without prior shareholder approval.
Ordinary shares of 25p each % In accordance with the Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority, no more than 10 per cent of the F&C Asset Management plc 16,131,859 27.37 total assets of the Company may be invested in other listed Barclays PLC 6,334,175 10.75 investment companies or investment trusts except in investment companies or investment trusts which themselves Tattersall Advisory Group 2,787,723 4.73 have stated investment policies to invest no more than 15 per Legal & General Investment cent of their total assets in other listed investment companies or Management Limited 2,272,193 3.86 investment trusts, in which case the limit is 15 per cent.
This holding includes 0.22% held on behalf of discretionary clients of F&C Asset Management plc F&C and 27.15% held on behalf of non-discretionary clients through the savings schemes managed by F&C.
F&C is a subsidiary of Friends Provident plc by Review of the Business | A review of the Companys virtue of which it is deemed to be interested in the shares held by F&C.
activities is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3 and in the Managers Review on pages 4 to 6.
Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 15 Report of the Directors continued Directors | The Directors listed on page 9 held office Agreement with F&C Management Limited the Manager throughout the year under review.
The Directors retiring by under which the Manager provides investment management, rotation this year are Messrs D C P McDougall and R Kanza marketing, company secretarial, financial and general and, being eligible, they will offer themselves for re-election at administrative services to the Company for a quarterly this years Annual General Meeting.
Having served for more management fee, payable in arrears, equal to 0.125% of the than nine years, Mr D F E Bierbaum will also retire and seek refunds under management at each quarter end.
In addition, the election at the Annual General Meeting.
"Manager is eligible for a performance-related management fee Mr P Schwartz is not seeking re-election and will retire as a payable at the rate of 0.05% per 1% of annual outperformance Director on 15 December 2005, immediately following this by the net asset value per share of ""target performance"", years Annual General Meeting."
defined as a margin of 1.5% over the FTSE All-World Europe ex The Board has appraised the performance of each of the UK Total Return Index adjusted for the movement in sterling Directors seeking re-election and his effectiveness and against European currencies.
Further details including commitment to the Company, and the balance of skills and provisions relating to underperformance and limits on fees are experience they collectively bring to the Board.
The Board set out in note 3 to the accounts.
No performance related fee believes that each of them continues to provide a relevant and has been provided for in the year ended 30 September 2005. significant contribution and brings valuable knowledge and During the year the Board reviewed the Management experience to the Board, and is satisfied with the present Agreement and, with effect from 30 November 2004, reduced composition of the Board.
Accordingly, the Board recommends the notice period from one year so that either party may to shareholders the re-election of each of the Directors.
terminate the management agreement upon three months Each Director of the Company has signed a letter of notice in writing.
appointment setting out the terms of his engagement as a nonThe Board has conducted a separate review of the Manager executive Director.
No Director has a service contract with the in accordance with the Listing Rules published by the Financial Company.
Copies of these letters are available for inspection at Services Authority.
This considered the Companys investment the Company's registered office during normal business hours record over short and long-term periods, taking into account and at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the Directors both the net asset value and the share price: the performance, shareholdings in the Company and their interests in contracts competence and resources of the Manager, both as a and agreements to which the Company is a party are contained management company and with regard to Ms Curling as the in note 5 on the accounts.
nominated fund manager: and the contractual arrangements with the Manager.
The Board was satisfied with the Directors Remuneration | The Directors Remuneration performance of the Company over the longer term and with the Report on page 24 and note 5 on the accounts provide detailed way it was currently being managed and performance since the information on the remuneration arrangements for the Directors.
On this basis it is the Boards opinion that the Shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors continuing appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is Remuneration Report at the Annual General Meeting.
The in the best interest of shareholders as a whole.
Directors remuneration is not conditional on Resolution 2 being passed.
Policy on Payments to Suppliers | The Companys principal supplier, the Manager, is paid in the month following the end of Management | Note 3 on the accounts provides details of the each calendar quarter, in accordance with the terms and Companys management agreement the Management conditions of the Management Agreement.
Other suppliers are 16 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 paid in accordance with the individual payment terms agreed new shares or to grant rights over shares unless authorised to with each supplier.
At 30 September 2005, the Companys do so by shareholders.
In addition, Directors require specific outstanding trade creditors were equivalent to one days authority from shareholders before allotting new shares or payment to suppliers 2004: one day.
granting rights over shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Risk Control | A summary of risk control measures taken by the Resolution 9 gives the Directors, for the period until the Board is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 21 conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2006, the and 22.
"By means of these procedures, and in accordance with necessary authority to allot securities up to an aggregate ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code"" nominal amount of 736,747 which is equivalent to published by the Working Party for the Institute of Chartered approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital and Accountants in England and Wales, the Board has established an empowers the Directors to allot securities for cash, otherwise ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis."
This authority significant risks faced by the Company and has regularly reviewed provides the Directors with a degree of flexibility to increase the the effectiveness of the internal control systems for the period.
assets of the Company by the issue of new shares, should any This process has been in place throughout the year under review favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of shareholders.
and to the date hereof and will continue to be regularly reviewed The Directors can, if necessary, use this authority to satisfy by the Board going forward.
demand from participants in F&C Savings Schemes when they believe it is advantageous to such participants and the Auditors |  LLP have indicated their Companys shareholders to do so.
willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint In no circumstances would the Directors use the authority to them and to authorise the Directors to determine their issue shares at a price which would result in a dilution of the net remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
asset value per ordinary share.
The Auditors provide some non-audit services to the Company, the details of which are set out in note 4 on the accounts and Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own on page 21.
Shares | Resolution 10 authorises the Company to purchase in the market up to a maximum of 8,835,070 ordinary shares Annual General Meeting | Shareholders will find on pages equivalent to approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital 43 and 44 the Notice of the forthcoming Annual General for cancellation at a minimum price of 25 pence per share and a Meeting of the Company to be held at Exchange House, maximum price per share of not more than 5% above the average Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY on 15 December 2005 at of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived 10:30 am.
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately before the date of purchase.
Special Business at the Annual General Meeting | In Under this authority purchases would only be made within addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, two resolutions guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
They numbered 9 and 10 are proposed as special business.
would be made through the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share, which would have Authority to Allot Shares | Resolution 9 is similar to the the effect of increasing net asset value per ordinary share for the authority and power given to the Directors at previous annual remaining shareholders.
Any ordinary shares which were general meetings.
By law, Directors are not permitted to allot purchased would be cancelled.
Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 17 Report of the Directors continued The Directors consider that it would be advantageous to shareholders for the Company to have the authority to make such purchases as and when it considers the timing to be favourable.
However, use of this authority, if given, will depend upon market conditions and the Boards judgement of its likely effectiveness in increasing net asset value per share and or reducing the discount.
It is proposed that any purchase of ordinary shares would be financed out of realised revenue and or capital reserves and funded from the Companys own cash resources or, if appropriate, from short-term borrowings.
The authority to purchase ordinary shares will continue until 14 June 2007 unless it is renewed at the Annual General Meeting in 2006.
The Board intends to seek a renewal of such authority at subsequent annual general meetings.
By order of the Board F&C Management Limited Secretary 4 November 2005 18 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005
