Twenty Largest Equity Holdings at 30 September 2005 This Last Company | Country % of total Value Year Year Description investments 000s 1 1 Total | France 4.3 17,331 Total is one of the world's largest integrated oil companies.
It continues to trade at a discount to its peers, despite having delivered consistently on its targets.
It offers above-average production growth, is less exposed to the problem of mature field decline and has a much respected management team.
Furthermore, it will use part of its excess cash flow going forward, as well as proceeds from planned disposals, to buy back shares.
2 2 Novartis | Switzerland 4.2 17,110 Novartis is the fourth largest pharmaceutical company in the world in terms of market capitalisation and the fifth largest in terms of pharmaceutical sales.
The company has strong franchises in cardiovascular, oncology, CNS and transplantation.
It also generates significant revenues from its consumer health, generics, animal health and opthalmics businesses.
Its leading products include Diovan for hypertension, Gleevec for chronic myeloid leukaemia, Neoral for transplantation and Zometa for bone metastasis.
3 3 UBS | Switzerland 4.0 16,055 UBS is one of the world's leading financial firms.
Not only is it the largest retail and commercial bank in Switzerland, a major institutional asset manager and a global investment bank, but it is also one of the world's leading wealth management businesses.
Profits have continued to grow thanks to the steady net inflow of new money, sound cost control and falling loan provisions.
Its high cash generation has enabled management both to make small bolt-on acquisitions and to buy back shares.
4 67 Nestl | Switzerland 3.5 14,199 Nestl is the worlds largest food and beverage company in terms of sales, its existing products grow through innovation and renovation while maintaining a balance in geographic activities and product lines.
Nestls emerging market operations, which account for 33% of group profits, present the company with good medium term growth prospects.
Nestl has a strong balance sheet which enables the company to growth through strategic acquisitions and offers the potential for further capital return to shareholders.
5 Roche | Switzerland 3.5 13,952 Roche is the 6th largest pharmaceutical company in the world and has a focus on secondary care.
Consequently Roche does not have the large cost base that results from a Primary care sales force.
In partnership with Genentech, in which it owns a 55.2% stake, it sells the oncology products Avastin and Herceptin both of which have blockbuster potential.
The combination of the low cost base and rapidly growing sales gives a degree of operating leverage unusual for pharmaceutical companies resulting in very strong EPS growth.
6 15 Crdit Suisse | Switzerland 2.5 10,256 Crdit Suisse offers wealth management and financial advice, insurance, pension plans, investment banking, private banking, and corporate and retail banking.
The private banking franchise is very profitable.
Across the group, there has been considerable progress in cost reduction, risk exposures have been run down and management are looking to dispose of the insurance subsidiary, Winterthur, as a result of which earnings in the future should prove less volatile 7 8 AXA | France 2.2 9,020 AXA is among the world's largest multi-line insurers, with significant operations in Life & Savings, Property & Casualty and Asset Management.
Its key markets are the US, France, the UK and Japan.
The group made a successful acquisition of MONY last year and displayed good discipline by withdrawing from a potentially overpriced minority buyout at AXA Asia.
Axa will benefit from the introduction of leading edge unit linked products across Europe in its life business, with further potential to grow via strategic acquisitions by leveraging on its strong balance sheet.
8 11 Nokia | Finland 2.2 9,004 Nokia is the clear leader and a low-cost producer in the mobile phone industry, dominating the sector in terms of market share, profitability, brand value and cash flow.
Having lost some competitive edge earlier last year, the group is now regaining market share through the launch of a number of new competitive products, diversifying away from their traditional mono-bloc design and adding leading-edge features.
Nokia should continue to benefit from the good growth for handsets in the emerging markets and from strong replacement demand in the developed markets.
Further share buy-backs are likely given the excess of 10bn net cash on the companys balance sheet.
9 6 BNP Paribas | France 2.2 8,861 BNP Paribas is the largest French bank in terms of market capitalisation.
It has been expanding internationally with the acquisition of several retail banks, particularly in the western states of the US.
Earnings have continued to grow well thanks to strong consumer lending at home, reduced loan losses, and buoyant fixed-interest business in its investment banking division.
Fears that the groups surplus capital would be used to make value-destroying acquisitions have proven groundless.
10 58 ENI | Italy 2.2 8,743 ENI is an Italian integrated oil and gas company.
Its key businesses areas are in exploration and production upstream, refining and marketing downstream, power generation and chemicals.
ENI has strong positions in exploration and production.
Upstream performance in ENI is strong and underpinned by robust projects.
The group should deliver top quartile growth of about 5% p. a. through to 2008.
The shares offer a dividend yield at 5%, which is attractive relative to its peers.
The group also has a strong position in the Italian gas market.
Despite the opening up to competition the gas business has performed better than analysts expected.
The figures in brackets denote the position at 30 September 2004.
Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 7 Twenty Largest Equity Holdings at 30 September 2005 continued This Last Company | Country % of total Value Year Year Description investments 000s 11 30 Richemont | Switzerland 2.1 8,362 Richemont is one of the worlds leading luxury goods groups, which through subsidiaries, both manufactures and retails merchandise.
Richemont has particular strengths in jewellery, luxury watches and writing instruments.
Richemonts has a strong portfolio of prestigious brands which include Cartier, Van Cleef & Arpels, Piaget, Vacheron Constantin, Jaeger-LeCoultre, IWC, Dunhill and Montblanc.
Demand is strong for Richmonts products, enabling the company to leverage of its assets to provide strong earnings growth in the future.
12 51 Ericsson | Sweden 2.0 8,222 Ericsson is the global leader in mobile infrastructure, a leading supplier of fixed telecom network equipment and has a handset joint venture with Sony.
Emerging markets are investing in infrastructure as mobile penetration continues to grow.
In developed markets networks are being upgraded to 3G and China is expected to announce 3G contracts in the next 12 months.
There are only a handful of companies that can provide the end-to-end services offered by Ericsson to telecom operators which shields them from price pressure found elsewhere in the industry.
Ericssons large installed base will provide them with upgrade opportunities and the complexity of the systems means operators tend to stick with existing suppliers.
The balance sheet is very strong and the valuation is undemanding.
13 5 Deutsche Telekom | Germany 2.0 8,017 Deutsche Telekom is Germany's incumbent telecom operator.
It has gone through a major phase of restructuring, both at the operating level and in terms of balance sheet, as a result of which it has emerged in much stronger shape.
It is now highly cash generative and offers an above sector average growth profile with one of its key growth drivers being its mobile subsidiary in the US, T-Mobile USA.
The stock is lowly valued compared to its peers and further reductions in the German government's stake are largely anticipated.
14 23 Allianz | Germany 1.8 7,299 Allianz is one of the world's leading insurers and financial services providers.
The group provides its more than 60 million customers worldwide with a comprehensive range of services in the areas of property and casualty insurance, life and health insurance, asset management and banking.
The recent RAS transaction presents the group with significant synergies from integrating the insurance businesses in Germany and Italy.
The creation of a new European Holding company Allianz SE consolidates management control within the top of the organisation and reduces holding company expenses.
15 BBVA | Spain 1.8 7,088 In addition to operating one of the largest retail banking networks in Spain BBVA also has a strong presence in Latin America.
It is particularly well placed in Mexico where it acquired one of the best placed domestic banks.
Mexico is experiencing very strong demand as consumers begin to use borrowing particularly mortgages for house purchases.
BBVAs domestic market is also very attractive as Spain is experiencing strong GDP and demand for credit.
16 10 Siemens | Germany 1.7 6,842 Siemens is Europe's largest industrial engineering company, involved in a wide range of activities.
The latter include communications, power generation and transmission, medical equipment, automation and control, transportation and lighting.
The group has undergone a major restructuring over the past few years and is now benefiting from the global upswing in many of its industries.
Following a change in management the group is tackling underperforming business units.
17 4 Telefnica | Spain 1.7 6,733 From its historic base as Spain's national telecom operator, Telefnica is now the leading telecom operator in the Spanish and Portuguese-speaking world with over 100m customers.
Indeed, Latin America now accounts for approximately 35% of the group's revenues.
Its attractions include its strong position in its domestic market, the longer term growth prospects for the Latin American region and its strong free cash flow generation.
18 National Bank of Greece | Greece 1.7 6,664 National bank of Greece is the largest bank in Greece and also has extensive operations in the Balkans especially in Bulgaria.
NBG offers a full range of banking products to its customers but is particularly well placed in consumer banking where it has the largest market share in deposits and mortgages.
The Greek market is very attractive due to a combination of faster than EU average growth, under-penetration of banking products compared to EU average levels and a relatively concentrated market.
As a result NBG is delivering strong revenue and profit growth and is likely to return capital to shareholders in the future 19 Vivendi Universal | France 1.6 6,575 Vivendi Universal is a global telecoms and media company with a leading position in the mobile telephony, paytelevision, music, games, Moroccan telecoms it owns Maroc Telecom, Moroccos leading telecoms operator and a 20% stake in NBC Universal US network, studio and theme parks.
In the past three years, VUs management team has successfully succeeded in its mandate, as the company was on the verge of a liquidity crisis and in need of a radical change.
It has shed 17bn of assets and refinanced most of its debt.
The restructuring has now largely been finished and management is now more focused on growing the business, leading to substantial cash flow generation in the years ahead.
20 BASF | Germany 1.5 6,152 BASF is one of the largest chemicals companies in the world.
It produces low cost commodity chemicals and is quite cyclical.
At this point in the cycle it has a free cash flow yield of more than 10%.
The company has strong management who exhibit good capital discipline and return the majority of this cash to shareholders in the form of share buy-backs and dividends.
The value of the twenty largest equity holdings represents 48.7% 2004: 58.8% of the Companys total investments.
The country is the country of incorporation.
8 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005
