Managers Review European equities made strong gains over the period as Economic newsflow has been mixed, but the general trend investors looked beyond a relatively subdued economic has been a weakening environment.
Expectations of economic background and focused on some considerably more exciting growth across the region have been continuously downgraded corporate prospects and reasonable valuations.
Despite and the core economies of Germany, France and Italy remained slowing economic growth, rising interest rates in the US and hamstrung by high unemployment and weak consumption.
significant appreciation in oil and commodity prices over the Corporate Germany, however, has been making headway in past year, many European companies have delivered earnings adversity to sort out much of its untenable cost base.
Elsewhere, the peripheral countries, such as Norway and Increased merger and acquisition M&A activity has been a Ireland, continued to perform well in economic terms.
major theme of 2005 as companies benefiting from an extensive There have been several political events in the region that bout of restructuring and cost cutting have sought to grow their have been worthy of note.
Progress has not been smooth but businesses through consolidation.
This has not been restricted to even the rejection of the EU constitution by the electorates of any one particular segment of the market, although there have France and the Netherlands in May, which many viewed as a been a number of notable deals in the financial sector.
This setback for EU expansion, integration and structural reform, activity continues to reflect the value in the equity market could not stifle the market for long.
The euro fell and this was perceived by corporate Europe.
In addition, a positive backdrop taken as positive, especially for the exporters.
More recently, the has been provided by a continuation of cash being returned to indecisive nature of Germanys general election result has shareholders through share buy-backs and dividend payments.
increased uncertainty with regard to any hope of radical reform.
A further fillip since the start of 2005 has been a retreat in However, it is worth pointing again to the progress already made the strength of the euro relative to other major currencies a by German companies in improving their competitiveness within move which benefited the regions exporters and saw attention the global environment.
This has been a direct result of local refocus onto currency-sensitive areas such as engineers and conditions and allows for tremendous gearing into any upswing.
PORTFOLIO ACTIVITY Change in manager led to a reassessment of strategy | The change of individual fund manager at the start of 2005 resulted in a rebalancing of the portfolio with a change of focus to companies that either offer undervalued organic growth or that are set to benefit from restructuring, cost cutting and other profitability improvements.
Following the very strong performance of small and mid caps stocks through 2004 and into 2005, we have been mindful that at some point the emphasis will shift.
Nonetheless, there remain a number of interesting opportunities in this area.
In broad terms high oil prices, a weakening US dollar and the direction of US interest rates and economic growth remain key in determining overall global and European market performance.
The period was characterised by a number of themes that ran through the portfolio, for example, exposure to secular growth opportunities such as Chinese and Indian growth through luxury Petroleum Geo-Services ASA is an oilfield service company primarily involved in geophysical and floating production services.
4 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 the oil price ensured the sector continued its impressive performance.
Whilst we remain aware that valuations look vulnerable to a downward correction in the price of oil, demand for energy looks set to remain firm in the medium term, a fact which should continue to support valuations.
With this in mind we increased exposure to the sector through the purchase of shares in ENI and are encouraged that shares bought at the start of 2005 in Fortum and refiner Neste Oil have been significant positive contributors over then year.
Towards the end of the period and the in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita we further increased exposure to the energy sector with new holdings in the oil services sector through Norways Smedvig and Petroleum Geo Services, along with Vestas Wind Systems, a renewable energy company.
Roche Holding AG develops and manufactures pharmaceutical and diagnostic products.
Reducing exposure to telecoms to lock-in profits | One of goods or technology trends, the return of corporate capex, the key changes to the portfolio early on was the significant significant M&A activity and the high oil price to name a few.
reduction in the exposure to telecoms.
Following a positive run into the end of 2004, we felt that the best from the sector had Our preference for regional banks boosted returns | In been achieved in the near term.
The ability and willingness of the banking sector our focus remained stock specific.
We telecom stocks to pay out free cash to investors, through retained significant positions in BNP Paribas and UBS dividends and buy-backs, had been paramount to their appeal.
amongst the large banks but bought smaller regional players However, with expectations for a pick-up in the capex cycle, it such as National Bank of Greece, Bank Austria, seemed likely that less cash would be made available for Hypovereinsbank HVB and KBC which we believe are set to distribution - with a potential negative knock-on effect on their continue to benefit from the immaturity of the markets in share prices.
Accordingly, we felt it an opportune time to lock in which they operate and are, for the same reason, attractive profits and seek better opportunities elsewhere.
We do however take-over targets.
All have performed well and both HVB and continue to favour specific ideas such as TDC and Mobistar.
In Bank Austria have been bid for by Italys Unicredito and have utilities, meanwhile, we have maintained only a small position rallied strongly on the back of this.
Initial weakness in the believing them in general terms to be highly susceptible to any Unicredito share price was used to establish a new upturn in bond yields, hereby impacting on capital values.
shareholding in the company as we see solid post take-over upside for the enlarged organisation.
Chinese growth boosted Europes shipping industry | We Elsewhere among the financials we increased exposure to have also been active in the transport sector, with a specific insurance through new holdings in Storebrand and Skandia early focus on shipping transportation.
We took a position in P&O on, and later in the year took the opportunity to lock-in profits in Nedlloyd which operates in the container shipping market and AXA and sell out of Skandia following a bid from Old Mutual.
was a beneficiary of strong growth fuelled by the huge pick-up in outsourcing to China.
Our view that the sector was ripe for Representation in oils significantly increased | Early on the consolidation was proved correct when P&O received a bid from Company was lightly represented in the oil sector a move AP Moller-Maersk.
We also took a holding in Belgiums Euronav.
which detracted from relative returns as a sharp appreciation in Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 5 Managers Review continued Europe remains a rich hunting ground for investors | Whilst the economic outlook for Europe remains mixed we believe that investment opportunities continue to abound.
Whilst growth in the regions core economies of France, Germany and Italy labour under high unemployment and weak consumer spending, some of the peripheral countries, such as Norway and Ireland, continue to perform well.
Despite this background the outlook for the European markets continues to be relatively positive with equity valuations continuing to look attractive despite the strong performance of late.
Markets should be supported by strong corporate results and positive outlook statements.
Further M&A AdidasSalomon AG manufactures sports shoes and sports equipment.
activity is likely to remain a feature illustrated by Adidas intention Capturing ongoing secular growth trends | The exposure of to acquire US rival Reebok and St Gobains bid for BPB Industries the Company to specific areas of information technology was in the UK.
This has been to gain exposure The Company is maintaining its strategy of seeking out to the pick-up in corporate capex and longer-term access to companies offering undervalued organic top-line growth, the tremendous secular growth trends in such diverse areas as restructuring, cost cutting and other profitability improvements digital TV Tandberg TV: internet and computer games and potential consolidation situations.
Infogrammes: mobile and internet security F Secure: internet search engine Fast Search and Transfer: and even on-line recruitment Stepstone.
This has been in addition to some of the more traditional areas of investment such as mobile telephony through Ericsson and software spend through SAP.
Davina Curling | Manager One of our key investments early in 2005 was in the pharmaceutical company Roche.
The stock has since performed extremely well and we believe will continue to do so.
Its exposure to and success in oncology, in particular, continues to produce excellent results and ongoing margin expansion.
6 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005
