Directors Douglas McDougall OBE Chairman | Appointed Chairman on Michael B Moule | Has considerable experience of investment 7 May 1999 having joined the Board on 22 February 1999.
He managed two investment trusts for chairman of The Law Debenture Corporation PLC, of the Henderson Global Investors for 10 years until his retirement in Independent Investment Trust PLC and of the Scottish Investment the summer of 2003.
He is a director of The Bankers Trust plc.
He is a former senior partner of Baillie Gifford and Co Investment Trust PLC, of Old Mutual South Africa Trust PLC, of and a former chairman of IMRO and of the AITC.
Lowland Investment Company PLC and of Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Trust PLC.
He was appointed to the Board Detlef F E Bierbaum | Partner of Sal.
Oppenheim Jr & Cie. in January 2004.
Age 59. bankers in Cologne, and is in charge of the bank's asset management and investment research departments.
He was Pedro Schwartz OBE Hon | A former deputy in the Spanish appointed to the Board in 1993.
Parliament, Pedro is now Professor of Economics at the San Pablo University in Madrid, non-executive chairman of MTS Clemens A H Brsig | A member of the board of managing Spain and executive adviser of DMR Consulting.
He was directors and chief financial officer CFO of Deutsche Bank appointed to the Board in 1993.
AG and a member of the supervisory board of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG.
He was previously a member of the board Consultant of managing directors and CFO of RWE AG and a member of Sir Nicholas Henderson GCMG, KCVO | Was on the Board the board of managing directors of Robert Bosch GmbH.
He of Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC from 1984 to 1989.
He had was appointed to the Board in 1998.
Age 57. a distinguished career in the Diplomatic Service during which he served as Ambassador to Poland, West Germany, France and Ralph Kanza | He is senior adviser to Egerton Capital, and the United States of America.
He is a director of Sothebys and former vice chairman of Schroder & Co Ltd, based in London.
was the first chairman of the Channel Tunnel Group.
Previously he was chairman of the French stockbroking firm Cheuvreux fide Virieu, and responsible for European equity Members of the Audit & Management Engagement markets at Banque Indosuez.
He was appointed to the Board in Committee September 1997.
D C P McDougall Chairman R Kanza M B Moule Members of the London Committee D C P McDougall Chairman R Kanza M B Moule Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 9
