ANNUAL REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ABOUT THE FRIENDS PROVIDENT GROUP UK LIFE & PENSIONS How we are making our strategies work Focus on investment performance to exceed client requirements Seek and develop distribution opportunities in key markets to deliver organic growth We seek to define and deliver top quartile performance in everything we do.
Our Our distribution model is based on strategy is grounded in our belief in a virtuous circle: delivering excellent performance intermediaries and strategic partnerships.
will be validated by organic growth which will, in turn, translate into earnings growth We are focused on the UK and and stock price performance.
We are an active manager and an active investor.
Our investment process utilises Our priority is to grow organically.
We proprietary research to add value for our clients.
Our investment style is both active will take an opportunistic approach and pragmatic: we are not bound by labels such as value or growth.
2005 Key points Investment performance 2005 Key points 2005 Key points Reorganised the investment Experienced net outflows of management division, replacing the Performance was mixed over the year 6.1 billion of which 5.2 billion traditional Chief Investment Officer with major areas of strength but also related to one insurance client, function as custodian of the House some weakness.
This loss was due to Market View with the new role of Some 54% of our retail funds corporate activity rather than any Head of Investments, which has a delivered above average factor under F&Cs control, and a broad business management brief as performance in their respective further 20 billion of funds have been required by a company with over Investment Management withdrawn in the first quarter 2006.
Association sectors during 2005, Additional outflows were experienced Established an Investment Division compared to 60% over the last from institutional clients due to: Management Committee to ensure three years and just 38% over five - an industry trend away from greater accountability for performance.
balanced to specialist management Recruited a new Head of Fixed We outperformed market - a switch by some clients from Income and selectively upgraded benchmarks over the year in high equities to bonds other investment teams.
For yield, emerging debt, Continental - some instances of disappointing example, last October we recruited a European equities, US smaller performance, particularly in highly regarded team of UK equity companies, UK smaller companies, emerging equities.
We have already Japan and Asia ex-Japan.
Net inflows in some of the higher attracted institutional and retail assets Credit was an area of particular margin areas such as open ended on the back of this move.
strength with the F&C Long Dated retail funds, investment trusts and Corporate Bond Fund finishing the sub advisory.
year ranked first out of 52 funds and the F&C Corporate Bond Fund ranked 2006 Priorities 2006 Priorities second out of 72 funds in their respective sectors over three years, Performance First initiative launch Organic growth founded on strong according to the CAPS pooled across the business which: investment performance is our priority: pension fund survey.
Defines top quartile performance Stay focused on the UK and Our ethical funds were relatively standards for every area of activity: Continental Europe.
disadvantaged against the wider investment performance, marketing UK retail market: build on our market in 2005 by their natural under and client servicing, operations and all relationships with IFAs.
weight exposure to oils and financials, the support functions.
UK institutional market: continue to but they continued to deliver good Sets clear and measurable build on our consultant relationships.
absolute returns and were departmental and individual goals.
European wholesale market: further performance leaders against other Incentivises individuals to achieve develop wholesale and sub-advisory competitor ethical products.
These include Achmea We underperformed in emerging Selectively upgrades human capital The Netherlands, Millennium BCP equities, UK equities and Euro where necessary to achieve our Portugal and Friends First Ireland.
We will consider opportunities for Balanced portfolios benefited from Reinforces a common business acquisitions that would enable us to positive asset allocation decisions.
culture and gives us a focused secure new distribution channels.
Excludes funds with target returns.
Russell Mellon CAPS Pooled Pension Fund Update to 31 December 2005.
The F&C MPF Corporate Bond Fund sits in the UK Bonds Standard Sector.
The F&C MPF Long Dated Corporate Bond Fund sits in the UK Bonds Long Term sector.
Calculation basis: offer to offer, income reinvested at offer, net of fees.
26 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
