CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Board of directors Sir Adrian Montague Keith Satchell Lady Judge CBE, MA, Solicitor, 58, Chairman.
BSc, FIA, 54, Group Chief Executive.
BA, JD, 59, Deputy Chairman, senior independent director.
Appointed a director and Deputy Chairman in Appointed Chairman in May 2005, having been Appointed Group Chief Executive and an June 2001 when her name was Barbara Singer appointed an independent director in October executive director in June 2001, having been an Thomas, having been an independent director 2004.
Member of the Investment and executive director of Friends Provident Life of Friends Provident Life Office from 1994 to Nomination Committees.
Currently the nonOffice since 1992 and its Chief Executive since 2001 and its Deputy Chairman from 1998 to executive Chairman of British Energy Holdings 1997.
Member of the Investment Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration plc, Michael Page International plc and Also a member of the senior Board of Banco Committee, Deputy Chairman of the Investment Infrastructure Investors Limited, and a nonComercial Portugus SA and of the Board of Committee and a member of the Nomination executive director of Cellmark Holdings AB Swiss Mobiliar Cooperative Company and Committee.
Chairman of the UK Atomic Energy Sweden and a Trustee of the Waterways Trust.
European Alliance Partners Company AG.
Authority, Deputy Chairman of The Financial Chairman of the Association of British Insurers.
Formerly Deputy Chairman of Network Rail and Reporting Council, Chairman of the Professional Chairman of Cross-London Rail Links Limited Joined Friends Provident from UK Provident in Standards Advisory Board of the Institute of Crossrail.
Previously Chief Executive of the 1986.
Appointed a divisional General Manager Directors.
A director of Private Equity Investor Treasury Taskforce and Deputy Chairman of in 1987 and Managing Director Business plc, Quintain Estates and Developments plc, Partnerships UK plc.
In his early career, he was a Operations in 1995.
A non-executive director Portmeirion Group PLC, Hardy Underwriting partner of Linklaters & Paines, and subsequently of F&C Asset Management plc, which is 52% Group plc, Second London American Trust plc the Global Head of Project Finance for Dresdner owned by the Company.
A former commissioner of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Ben Gunn Christopher Jemmett MA, FCII, 55, Chief Executive, Friends Provident 69, independent director.
Appointed an executive director in June 2001 Appointed a director in June 2001, having been having been appointed an executive director of an independent director of Friends Provident Friends Provident Life Office in 2000 and Life Office from 1997 to 2001.
Chairman of the Managing Director, Friends Provident Life and Audit and Compliance Committee and member Pensions Limited in March 2001.
A nonof the Investment and Remuneration executive director of Lombard International Committees.
An independent director of F&C Assurance SA, a Luxembourg registered Asset Management plc called ISIS Asset insurance company wholly-owned by the Management plc until October 2004 since Company.
February 1998 when its name was Friends Ivory & Sime plc and its Deputy Chairman and Joined the Friends Provident Group in senior independent director since May 1998.
September 1998 following the acquisition of Chairman of F&Cs Audit and Compliance London and Manchester Group plc where he Committee.
was Managing Director of London and Manchester Assurance Limited and a Group Former director and member of the Executive Executive Director.
Joined London and Committee of Unilever PLC and Unilever NV and Manchester in February 1996 from Hambro a former member of the Council of The Crown Countrywide plc where he was an executive Agents Foundation.
42 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Alison Carnwath Howard Carter Alain Grisay BA Hons, ACA, 53, independent director.
BA, MA, 54, LLM, MA, 52, executive director, F&C Asset Management plc.
Chief Executive, F&C Asset Management plc.
Appointed an executive director in June 2001, Appointed executive director and member of Member of the Remuneration and Audit and having been appointed an executive director the Investment Committee on 1 January 2006.
Compliance Committees and, since April 2004, of Friends Provident Life Office from 2000.
Chief Executive of F&C Asset Management plc has chaired the With-Profits Committees of Member of the Investment Committee.
and Chairman of F&C Netherlands BV.
Friends Providents three regulated whollyWill retire from the Board following the AGM on Joined the Board of F&C Asset Management owned life and pensions operating companies.
Executive director of F&C Asset plc in October 2004 on completion of the Non-executive Chairman of ISIS Equity Partners Management plc.
merger of ISIS Asset Management plc and LLP.
Non-executive director of Gallaher Group Formerly Chief Executive of F&C Asset F&C Group Holdings Limited F&CGH where plc, Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh Water, Land Management plc from October 2000 to he was previously Deputy Chief Executive of Securities plc and Man Group plc.
Joined Prudential Bache in F&CGH and Head of Institutional Business.
Glas Cymru's Remuneration Committee and 1984 as Chief Economist and Director of Gilt Previously at JP Morgan for 20 years, as a Man's Audit Committee.
Chief Economist Managing Director responsible for the Previously a Managing Director of the US Manager, Fixed Interest at Friends Provident investment banks market client business investment bank, Donaldson, Lufkin and 1988 to 1995 and Head of Investments in Europe.
Jenrette International, before it merged with 1996 to 1998.
Appointed Chief Investment Credit Suisse Group in 2000.
Formerly a director Officer of Friends Ivory & Sime plc in 1998. of J Henry Schroder Wagg & Co Ltd, National Power plc, Arcadia Group plc, QA Group plc, The Vitec Group plc and Nationwide Building Society.
Ray King The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor Philip Moore BSc Hons, FCA, 52, independent director.
of Pulham Market TD, MA, FIA, 46, Group Finance Director.
PC, OBE, MA, LLB, 69, independent director.
Member Appointed a director in June 2001, having been Appointed an executive director on 1 September of the Audit and Compliance and Investment an independent director of Friends Provident 2003, having joined Friends Provident plc on Committees.
Group Finance Director for BUPA Life Office from 1998 to 2001.
Member of the Investment since 2001.
Nomination Committee and a member of the Committee.
A non-executive director of Lombard Audit and Compliance Committee.
Also a nonInternational Assurance SA and a non-executive Formerly the Deputy Chief Executive of Parity executive director of Associated British Foods director of F&C Asset Management plc since Group plc, Director of Group Finance and plc, Slough Estates plc and a member of the January 2005.
Control at Diageo plc and Group Finance Supervisory Board of DAF Trucks NV of Director of Southern Water plc.
Previously at AMP UK where he was Corporate Eindhoven, The Netherlands.
Director of Finance and Head of Mergers and A Conservative Member of Parliament from Acquisitions, having been Finance Director and 1974 to 2001 and a member of the Government Actuary of NPI on its acquisition by AMP.
This included five Cabinet Prior to joining NPI in 1998 he spent 9 years at posts including Chief Secretary to the Treasury.
, initially in London and Formerly a member of the Committee for then based in Hong Kong as the partner Standards in Public Life.
Formerly Deputy responsible for the firm's East Asia insurance Chairman of Hill Samuel Bank Limited and consultancy practice.
director of Hill Samuel & Co Limited.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 43
