ANNUAL REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ABOUT THE FRIENDS PROVIDENT GROUP UK LIFE & PENSIONS How we are making our strategies work Seek out and capitalise on rewarding Create and maintain strong and close Differentiate ourselves with market and well regulated markets relationships with our distribution leading service for our distribution partners to enhance sales partners and customers opportunities The international stage in developed Our distribution partners are key to our We seek to differentiate ourselves from and developing territories is where continued business success.
We seek our competition by building trust and clients value higher levels of service to make our distribution partners feel confidence with our intermediaries and and product quality.
We aim to find, confident in the knowledge that customers.
The standard of our service and take advantage of, opportunities in choosing us means they will receive is therefore driven by our delivery of international markets by combining our top-quality service and innovative quality products and solutions, in a skills and infrastructure to make profitable products.
2005 Key points 2005 Key points 2005 Key points Friends Provident International Friends Provident International Friends Provident International Major inroads made into core regions, Innovative distribution arrangements Focused on service in the widest especially the UK market.
established with major fund platforms sense people, systems and New savings plans launched in Asia, in the UK eg Selestia.
the Middle East and Sweden.
Bank and insurance partner Administration functions for Hong relationships strengthened in the Kong moved closer to the customer Lombard Middle East.
Developed relationships with Swiss Lombard Lombard private banks to provide estate planning solutions for their Deepened our relationships with Upgraded the quality and calibre of international clients.
existing European partners: Partner our client servicing teams.
Created promising new distribution relationship management programme Conducted regular partner partnerships with banks serving set up.
satisfaction surveys and introduced clients in Asia and Latin America.
New division Wealth Planning new process for customer and Services launched to target partner query handling.
independent asset managers and other professional advisers.
2006 Priorities 2006 Priorities 2006 Priorities Friends Provident International Friends Provident International Friends Provident International Explore and develop new market Work with key partners in offering Realise benefits of Group synergies, opportunities in Asia and Europe bespoke, dual branded or whiteenhancing flexibility to focus whilst continuing to make progress labelled offerings where this suits the resources where needed.
Continue to get closer to customers, Controlled expansion of protection Complete further deals with major in particular in Asia.
business, building on UK expertise.
Lombard Lombard Lombard Continue surrender management Consider potential new markets, Continue to develop and deepen initiatives and partner satisfaction such as Latin America.
Focus on further progress with Swiss Further develop the concept of long Continue to develop innovative based international private banks.
term strategic partnerships, including financial and estate planning solutions provision of special product solutions for wealthy individuals.
Contribution from new business Total International new business PVNBP Lombard partner satisfaction index Over 75% of Lombards partners surveyed 2005 300% 80m 2005 311% 2,205m in 2005 indicated that service was very good or better.
Lombard plans to develop a partner 2004 20m 2004 537m satisfaction index in 2006.
2003 FPI service measure 2002 FPI also plans to develop a service measure in 2006.
This shows the amount of new business we This measures the profit that we make from have sold and is discussed further on page 22. writing new business and is discussed further It is measured on the new PVNBP basis and on page 23.
It is measured on the new EEV 2004 has been restated accordingly.
2005 basis and 2004 has been restated accordingly.
includes the impact of the Lombard acquisition Figures for years prior to 2004 are not in January 2005. comparable with the EEV basis.
2005 includes the impact of the Lombard acquisition.
The graphics representing the 2002 and 2003 numbers are indicative only.
20 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
