ANNUAL REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ABOUT THE FRIENDS PROVIDENT GROUP UK LIFE & PENSIONS How we are making our strategies work Develop service excellence and Focus on core strategic markets Build strong and reliable leading products to create a positive targeting a leading position in distribution relationships customer experience these markets We aim to deliver outstanding levels We aim to grow market share in each of Independent financial advisers continue of customer and intermediary service, our target markets in a profitable manner to be our primary source of business.
We plan by constantly enhancing our overall Following depolarisation, we aim to to provide new levels of speed and proposition.
We will focus primarily on secure additional distribution alliances accuracy, further enable self-service corporate pensions and individual and develop our current strategic and improve contact management.
protection, but also look for opportunities partnerships.
for profitable growth in the investments, group protection and individual pensions market segments.
2005 Key points 2005 Key points 2005 Key points Consistently delivered against our A number of large bespoke pension 22 new distribution agreements prescribed service levels and quality schemes secured.
secured, predominantly for protection commitments.
New individual pensions proposition business.
Maintained our Five Star ranking for launched.
New distribution agreements secured service.
Our group income protection with banks and building societies, Numerous awards and positive proposition re-launched.
survey results for our products and Best of breed fund range extended Adoption of the multi-tie model by services.
IFAs has been slower than market Major service-related change Subdued housing market led to a expectation.
decline in individual protection Continued to embed Treating business.
2006 Priorities 2006 Priorities 2006 Priorities Maintain our Five Star ranking for Further enhance our pensions and Seek to secure further distribution service.
Continue our major internal change Enhance our investment proposition.
Deepen relationships and accelerate programme that aims to re-define Grow businss volumes from business volumes with major industry service standards.
Continue to embed Treating agreements.
Financial Adviser Practiv service ranking UK Life & Pensions market share Contribution from new business 2005 2005 4.7% 2005 10% 64m 2004 2004 4.3% 2004 58m 2003 2003 4.2% 2002 2002 3.4% This ranking is the result of an extensive This shows our market share of UK Life & This measures the profit that we make from independent survey of IFAs undertaken Pension new business sales.
The statistics are writing new business and is discussed further annually.
The survey rates life and pensions collated by the Association of British Insurers.
It is measured on the new EEV providers covering various aspects of service A summary of the market is given on page 13 basis and 2004 has been restated accordingly.
on a scale of: and a summary of our trading performance is Figures for the years prior to 2004 are not given on page 16. comparable with the EEV basis.
Excellent Good Average Poor Very poor 14 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
