INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK Our view of the market As the name suggests, international business is conducted around the world, with many investors attracted by the wide range of investment options, portability and the lure of strong currency investments.
The mix of business conducted is varied, encompassing regular premium savings and protection as well as single premium savings, investment and tax planning.
Friends Provident International FPI Through its Isle of Man base, FPI aims to meet the savings, investment and protection needs of customers in the four core regions of Asia, the Middle East, Continental Europe and the UK.
By contrast, a number of competitors traditionally the offshore subsidiaries of established UK life companies focus on the UK only or, to a lesser extent, the EU.
As well as having a wide geographical reach, FPI is also diversified by product type and by distribution.
The latter is primarily through specialist Independent Financial Advisers, although institutional partners feature, especially in the Middle East.
In Continental Europe and Scandinavia the strategy is to target a small number of territories, including Sweden and Gibraltar.
Asia produces the largest volumes of new business, dominated by regular premium savings plans.
In the UK, FPIs market is almost entirely single premium investment business.
In 2005, competitive pressures heightened, especially in the UK and Hong Kong.
The UK remains a highly price sensitive market where the challenge is to grow the business at HNWI financial wealth forecast reasonable margins.
In Asia the savings market was similarly under pressure from new by region Figures in trillions US$ products and a variety of incentives and special offers.
Whilst these pressures bring 2009 42.2 some challenges, the overall outlook remains very positive, supported by a continuing expansion of the mass affluent and high net worth segments, and strong demand for Allowing for 6.5%pa global growth effective tax planning.
The mobility of international savers and investors, and the 2004 30.8 increasing diversity of expatriates, offer opportunities to robust international providers.
2003 28.5 The relatively low capital requirements and higher returns available mean the international cross-border market will remain highly attractive for the Friends Provident Group.
2002 26.7 Annual growth rate 2004 - 2009 estimated Lombard Lombard's business is focused on the provision of financial and estate Africa 5.6% planning solutions, which are tailor-made to meet the needs of high net worth Middle East 9.1% individuals HNWIs in Europe and beyond.
Distribution is conducted on a partnership Latin America 6.4% basis with leading specialist advisers to HNWIs, combining the Lombard financial Asia-Pacific 6.9% expertise with the relationship and asset management expertise of the distribution North America 8.4% partner.
Distribution is geographically diversified, primarily across eight EU member Europe 3.8% states but with a growing business in Asia and Latin America.
This diversification is supported by a unique multi-jurisdictional expertise, essential to the planning needs Source: Capgemini Lorenz curve analysis May 2005 of many clients and the business needs of international private banking partners.
This expertise facilitates the writing of increasing volumes of ultra HNWI business.
With private wealth increasing and the requirement to protect it growing, the HNWI ultra HNWI market is potentially very large and offers the opportunity for Lombard to penetrate it more deeply than at present.
As governments seek to increase tax on private wealth, particularly in the HNWI sector, attacks on existing tax planning structures and offshore tax havens intensify.
The relative attractions of life assurance as a tax shelter and estate planning solution continue to increase as the advantages of traditional tax planning structures decline.
Life assurance is now recognised by experts as an important planning structure.
The competition comprises mainly companies that have established subsidiaries in Luxembourg and Dublin, primarily to sell back to their home country, and offer a lower priced, less value-added service.
Lombard will continue to enhance value-added services and administration, rather than competing on price.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 19
