ANNUAL REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ABOUT THE FRIENDS PROVIDENT GROUP UK LIFE & PENSIONS About the Friends Provident Group Our history Founded in 1832, Friends Provident is one of todays leading financial services Our mission: groups, serving more than 2.5 million customers and with a market value To help customers accumulate, exceeding 4 billion.
Over more than 170 years, our fundamental purpose has manage and protect wealth remained the provision of financial help to families facing misfortune or to those Collect, manage and build assets seeking a more secure financial future.
Protect wealth against tax and inflation Our Quaker origins define our proud heritage, and strong ethical principles Protect against financial loss continue to underpin our business, providing a clear point of distinction for us through death and ill health Protect income today.
Over recent years, we have built an award-winning reputation for using technology innovatively, enabling our people to deliver levels of service that we believe are unrivalled in our industry, setting us apart from our competitors.
Our recent development Over the last ten years, we have pursued a consistent strategy, focused on growing our two core businesses Life & Pensions, both in the UK and in International cross-border markets, and Asset Management.
During this period we have made a number of strategic acquisitions, as well as selling non-core businesses in order to maintain our focus.
Most significantly, in 2001 we changed our corporate status from a mutual office to a listed company, owned by shareholders, and gained entry to the FTSE 100 Index of leading shares.
Since that landmark event, our progress has accelerated, indicated not only by growing profits, but also by the number of independent awards we are winning.
Acquisitions and mergers Ivory & Sime London R&SA R&SA ISIS Lombard & Manchester Investments International & F&C 1996 2005 Disposals Preferred Direct Industrial business Estate agencies Exit direct sales to Eagle Star to Royal Liver to Countrywide advice Our three business segments: Our scale and diversity We have transformed the Group from being a UK-focused Life & Pensions Friends Provident plc company, with small international and asset management operations, to a strong, well-balanced international group that operates through three distinct UK International Asset business segments UK Life & Pensions, International Life & Pensions, and Life & Life & Management Pensions Pensions Asset Management, each having significant presence and stature in their Friends Friends F&C Asset respective markets.
Provident Provident Management plc Life & Pensions International 52% owned and In Life & Pensions, we are one of the top ten in the UK for attracting new Lombard business, and one of the top five operating in the international cross-border market.
In Asset Management, F&C is one of the largest fund managers in Europe with 131 billion in assets under management at the end of 2005 and a diverse range of clients.
The geographic reach of the Group now extends throughout Europe, into the Middle East and Asia, and beyond, as we now explore new opportunities in other selected markets.
8 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
