INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK Conclusions and Outlook The Friends Provident Group has continued to advance strongly through 2005, increasing its international dimension and achieving a new scale and balance to Group profits and prospects.
Our 2005 financial performance is characterised by growing profitability, further diversification of earnings, continued control of expenses, effective management of risks, increased cash generation and a strengthened balance sheet.
We support the recent moves to introduce more transparent reporting, and this is reflected in the greater level of disclosure in this Report, including the identification of the risks we face.
Our success is linked to our ability to understand and profit from such risks.
Our strategy continues to prove itself appropriate to the growth and development of the Group, which is organised around its three core business segments of UK Life & Pensions, International Life & Pensions and Asset Management.
Record levels of new life and pensions business have been achieved.
Our share of the UK market has increased although the mix of business has changed, moving towards lower margins products.
The group pensions market was, and remains, the most buoyant for us and we expect our strong growth in sales to continue.
During 2005, two banks and two building societies were included in the 22 new distribution agreements secured, which will help us build our position in the higher-margin but very competitive protection market.
Overall, we have seen the momentum in 2005 continuing into 2006 and estimate increasing our market share, with stable margins across the range of product segments.
We expect 2006 market growth to be broadly similar to 2005.
More than 40% of life and pensions new business is now coming from the generally more profitable international cross-border market.
The acquisition in January 2005 of Lombard has added significantly to our international diversification and future growth prospects.
Friends Provident International and Lombard have both made good progress throughout 2005 across all their regions of operation, and new business profits now exceed that for the UK for the first time in our history.
We anticipate that production will continue to expand, building on well-established distribution partner relationships, although our primary focus is on profit rather than volume.
In asset management, F&C's funds under management at the end of 2005 were 131 billion although this was before the previously announced repatriation of 20 billion Resolution Life funds and other withdrawals over the first quarter of 2006.
The integration of ISIS with F&C was successfully completed and the forecast 33 million of ongoing annual cost synergies will be delivered in 2006.
Our priority is to grow organically.
The management team and structure has been reshaped and focus is firmly on investment performance and targeting new business in higher margin areas.
In summary, we are announcing strong results, achieved through a good performance in UK life and pensions against a challenging marketplace, expanded international operations making excellent headway, with F&C, now with the complex integration behind, better structured for future success.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 39
