309467 1-100 9 3 06 9:12 pm Page 93 Employees Via ACCORD and AMICUS, with whom Directors Report HBOS is a two-tick employer actively seeking the Company shares detailed information applications for employment from disabled regarding the Groups current and planned The Directors have pleasure in presenting people and guaranteeing an interview where strategy, our colleagues are given the the Report and Accounts of HBOS plc for disabled applicants meet the essential criteria opportunity to contribute to the Companys the year ended 31 December 2005. for the role they are applying for.
In the event strategy and delivery.
On a day-to-day basis, of an existing colleague becoming disabled, Union engagement at a local level is a Principal Activities HBOS work with external specialists to ensure common occurrence throughout all divisions.
HBOS plc is the holding company of the that all possible reasonable adjustments are HBOS Group.
The principal activities of the made to allow the colleague to continue in their The incentive arrangements for colleagues Group are the provision of banking and other existing role.
If, after making all possible at all levels are, to varying extents, based financial services in the UK and overseas.
adjustments, a colleague is not able to continue on personal performance, operating The Groups existing business and future in their current role, HBOS will look at suitable divisional performance and Group prospects are reviewed by the Chairman on alternative roles within the Group.
All-employee share plans pages 2 and 3, the Chief Executive on pages and career development opportunities are open form an integral part of those incentive 4 and 5, the Chief Executive Designate on to all colleagues including disabled colleagues arrangements, supporting the alignment pages 6 to 9 and in the Divisional Reviews and Group policies are designed with inclusion of colleague and shareholder interests on pages 18 to 53.
Financial aspects are of disabled colleagues in mind.
in a number of ways: covered in the Financial Review on pages 10 to 17 and the Risk Management report HBOS adopts a multi-media approach Free shares - an award of shares, the on pages 55 to 60.
A list of the main when communicating with its colleagues value of which is determined by Group subsidiary undertakings, and the nature throughout the Group.
The first award under this of each companys business, is given involves e-mail, electronic and printed plan was made in 2005 at 5% of salary, in Note 17 to the Accounts on page 126. magazines, intranets, business television subject to a maximum award of 3,000 and face-to-face communication.
and a minimum of 500 pro-rated for Results and Dividends colleagues working part-time with 95% The Group profit attributable to shareholders Each day several topical news stories are of colleagues electing to participate: for the year ended 31 December 2005, as placed on the Companys award-winning Sharekicker - again in 2005 colleagues shown in the Consolidated Income Statement, intranet site.
These usually link to pages had the opportunity to use their annual was 3,230m.
An interim dividend of 11.75p or other sites for more information.
net cash bonus, which is determined per ordinary share was paid on 7 October on personal, divisional and or Group 2005.
The Directors propose a final dividend Television programmes are used to performance, to buy HBOS shares - and of 24.35p per ordinary share to be paid on announce the Groups annual and half-year get 50% extra shares after 3 years: and 15 May 2006 to shareholders on the register results to colleagues, plus ones featuring Sharesave - where colleagues have the on 17 March 2006, subject to approval at the the Chief Executive answering colleagues option to buy HBOS shares - granted at a 2006 Annual General Meeting AGM.
In March 2005, colleagues were discount of up to 20% - after 3, 5 or 7 years.
also invited to take part in an online question Directors and answer session.
A special television Charitable and Political Donations Details of the present Directors are given on programme in January 2006 featured the During the year the Group made charitable pages 66 and 67.
Mark Tucker resigned as a short-listed charities for HBOSs charity donations in the UK of 9.37m.
Additionally Director on 24 March 2005 and John Maclean of the year, which colleagues then voted 2.6m in total has been made available to retired as a Director on 27 April 2005 at the on electronically and over the phone.
charities as a result of their affinity to the Visa conclusion of the AGM.
George Mitchell Charity credit cards offered by Halifax plc and retired as a Director on 31 December 2005.
The groupwide electronic magazine, entitled Bank of Scotland.
In addition, during 2005 HBOS Today, is used to update colleagues 1.1m was donated to the Tsunami appeal.
Sir Ronald Ron Garrick, Phil Hodkinson, on key business news, it is issued as Andy Hornby and Coline McConville will retire required, rather than on a set publishing It is HBOS policy not to make donations by rotation at the 2006 AGM.
is pleased to confirm that the performance of all Directors continues to be effective and As well as groupwide communication, Under the terms of the Political Parties, that they demonstrate commitment in their colleagues also receive more specific Elections and Referendums Act 2000 respective roles.
procedural communication at a PPERA companies are required to obtain divisional level.
shareholder approval before they can make Peter Cummings and Karen Jones were any political donations, and to disclose any appointed Directors from 1 January 2006 In addition to the above, our colleagues such payments in the Companys Annual and 24 January 2006 respectively.
Both are also kept systematically informed of all Report and Accounts.
The PPERA is extremely will retire at the forthcoming 2006 AGM matters of concern to them as employees wide in scope and its precise meaning is and offer themselves for election.
via their local Human Resource teams.
Many listed companies, including the Details of Human Resource policies and Company, have therefore obtained authority Particulars of Directors remuneration joint agreements with our recognised trades from shareholders to make such payments and interests in shares of the Company unions which impact upon colleagues, can be as a precautionary measure, so as to enable are given in the Report of the Board readily accessed via our internal Intranet site.
legitimate business activities, which would in relation to remuneration policy and not be regarded as political donations in the practice on pages 74 to 92.
The views of HBOS colleagues are sought ordinary sense, to proceed.
on a regular basis, most notably through The Company has provided an indemnity consultation with our recognised trades At last years AGM, the Board accordingly for the benefit of all of its current Directors unions, ACCORD and AMICUS.
The Company obtained shareholders approval for the which is a qualifying third party indemnity continues to support our colleagues rights Company to make Donations to EU Political provision for the purpose of the Companies to join trades unions and believes that around Organisations and or to incur EU Political Act 1985. half of its UK workforce are union members.
Expenditure up to defined limits.
Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 93 309467 1-100 9 3 06 9:12 pm Page 94 HBOS plc complies with the Better Payment Disclosable interests Directors Report Practice Code.
Information regarding this Number Percentage Code and its purpose can be obtained from continued of shares of issued the Better Payment Practice Groups website share capital at www.
During the last financial year, an employee Barclays PLC 149,109,232 3.890% was seconded part-time, initially by HBOS The Companys main trading subsidiary Legal & General Group UK plc and then by HBOS plc to the Cross plc and or its undertakings, Halifax plc and Bank of Party Group on the Scottish Economy subsidiaries 150,949,890 3.938% Scotland, had trade creditors outstanding CPG in the Scottish Parliament.
The Capital Group at 31 December 2005 representing The CPG is not a political party.
Companies, 13 days of purchases for each company.
Inc and its affiliates 144,660,380 3.774% The Company itself owed no amounts The PPERA contains a specific exemption to trade creditors at 31 December 2005. to the definition of EU Political Organisation Properties for all party groups composed of members Share Capital The Directors are of the opinion that the of the Westminster Houses of Parliament.
Full details of the movements in the current market value of the Groups There is no such specific exemption for authorised and issued share capital of properties is not significantly different from all party groups of the Scottish Parliament.
the Company during the year are provided the amount at which they are included in the The Company is therefore disclosing that in Note 34 to the Accounts on page 147. balance sheet.
the total amount of the donations made to the CPG during the last financial year was The Company has the authority to purchase Auditors 11,365 in respect of the completion of 70 up to 392,565,936 of its ordinary shares.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc working days of the secondment, representing The authority remains valid until the 2006 as auditors will be put to shareholders at the the employees salary paid by the Company AGM or, if earlier, 27 July 2006.
during that time, not a cash donation.
2,385 to authorise the purchase of up to 383,103,366 of that amount was paid by HBOS UK plc ordinary shares will be put to the 2006 AGM.
On behalf of the Board and 8,980 of it was paid by HBOS plc.
During the year the Company managed During the year, and in connection with its capital position actively through a series the Companys consideration of the of measures that: H F Baines implications of the Turner Review and managed key balance sheet ratios Company Secretary pensions reform generally, the Company to explicit targets: 28 February 2006 subscribed to membership of The City promoted a more efficient capital structure & Business Network - a discussion forum through a realignment of equity and on public policy issues of interest to most preferred capital: UK companies.
The Network is an offshoot progressively released capital emerging of The Fabian Society which, although in the investment businesses as a result a social research organisation, comprises of the switch away from with-profits an EU Political Organisation for the purposes products: of PPERA.
The above subscription totalling introduced a dividend reinvestment plan: 3,525, which will not be renewed, thus in lieu of the Companys former scrip constitutes political expenditure within dividend alternative: and the meaning of the Act.
returned capital to shareholders, through a share buyback programme.
Going Concern The Directors are satisfied that the Group has During the year 115.6 million ordinary adequate resources to continue in business shares of 25p each representing 3.02% for the foreseeable future and consequently of the issued ordinary share capital of the the going concern basis continues to be Company at 31 December 2005 were appropriate in preparing the accounts.
acquired by the Company and transferred into Treasury.
The aggregate cost of the Payment Policy shares so acquired was 994m.
110 million For the forthcoming period the Groups policy of the acquired shares representing 2.87% for the payment of suppliers will be as follows: of the issued ordinary share capital at 31 Payment terms will be agreed at the start December 2005 were cancelled on various of the relationship with the supplier and dates during the year.
will only be changed by agreement: Standard payment terms to suppliers of In 2006 there will be a further return of capital goods and services will be 30 days from to shareholders through a share buyback the date of a correct invoice that has been programme, initially set at up to 750m.
received for satisfactory goods or services which have been ordered and received As at the date of this report there is a unless other terms are agreed in a contract: disclosable interest in the issued share Payment will be made in accordance with capital notified to the Company in accordance the agreed terms or in accordance with with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies the law if no agreement has been made: Act 1985 as shown in the following table.
and Suppliers will be advised without delay when an invoice is contested and disputes will be settled as quickly as possible.
HBOSplc Annual Report and 94 Accounts 2005
