HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Cautionary Statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking the impact of lower than expected statements with respect to the financial condition, investment returns on the burden of funding results of operations and business of HSBC.
private and public sector defined benefit pensions: Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about HSBCs beliefs and the effect of unexpected changes in expectations, are forward-looking statements.
Words actuarial assumptions on longevity which such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, would influence the funding of private and believes, seeks, estimates, potential and public sector defined benefit pensions: reasonably possible, variations of these words and continuing or deepening recessions and similar expressions are intended to identify forwardemployment fluctuations: and looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and consumer perception as to the continuing therefore undue reliance should not be placed on availability of credit, and price competition them.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of in the market segments served by HSBC.
the date they are made, and it should not be assumed changes in governmental policy and regulation, that they have been revised or updated in the light of including: new information or future events.
the monetary, interest rate and other Written and or oral forward-looking statements policies of central banks and bank and other may also be made in the periodic reports to the regulatory authorities, including the United United States Securities and Exchange Commission, Kingdom Financial Services Authority, the summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy Bank of England, the Hong Kong Monetary statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press Authority, the United States Federal releases and other written materials, and in oral Reserve, the US Office of the Comptroller statements made by HSBCs Directors, officers or of the Currency, the European Central employees to third parties, including financial Bank, the Peoples Bank of China and the analysts.
central banks of other leading economies Forward-looking statements involve inherent and markets where HSBC operates: risks and uncertainties.
Readers are cautioned that a expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation number of factors could cause actual results to differ, of assets and changes in legislation relating in some instances materially, from those anticipated to foreign ownership: or implied in any forward-looking statement.
These factors include, among others: initiatives by local, state and national regulatory agencies or legislative bodies to changes in general economic conditions in the revise the practices, pricing or markets in which HSBC operates, such as: responsibilities of financial institutions changes in foreign exchange rates, in both serving their consumer markets: market exchange rates for example, changes in bankruptcy legislation in the between the US dollar and the pound principal markets in which HSBC operates sterling and  and the consequences thereof: exchange rates for example, between the Hong Kong dollar and the US dollar : general changes in governmental policy that may significantly influence investor volatility in interest rates: decisions in particular markets in which volatility in equity markets, including in the HSBC operates: smaller and less liquid trading markets in other unfavourable political or diplomatic Asia and South America: developments producing social instability lack of liquidity in wholesale funding or legal uncertainty which in turn may markets in periods of economic or political affect demand for HSBCs products and crisis: services: illiquidity and downward price pressure in the costs, effects and outcomes of national real estate markets, particularly regulatory reviews, actions or litigation, consumer-owned real estate markets: including any additional compliance requirements: and 5 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Cautionary Statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements continued the effects of competition in the markets incidence of loan losses or delinquency, and where HSBC operates including increased managing those risks through account competition from non-bank financial management, hedging and other techniques.
services companies, including securities Effective risk management depends on, among firms.
other things, HSBCs ability through stress testing and other techniques to prepare for factors specific to HSBC: events that cannot be captured by the statistical the success of HSBC in adequately models it uses.
identifying the risks it faces, such as the Information about the Enforceability of Judgements made in the United States HSBC Holdings is a public limited company certain civil liabilities under US securities laws incorporated in England and Wales.
Most of HSBC in original actions: or Holdings Directors and executive officers live judgements of US courts based upon these civil outside the US.
As a result, it may not be possible to liability provisions.
serve process on such persons or HSBC Holdings in the US or to enforce judgements obtained in US In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions courts against them or HSBC Holdings based on brought in the US or elsewhere may be civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the unenforceable in the UK.
The enforceability of any US.
There is doubt as to whether English courts judgement in the UK will depend on the particular would enforce: facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time Exchange Controls and Other Limitations affecting Equity Security Holders There are currently no UK laws, decrees or restrictions under the laws of the UK or the terms of regulations which would prevent the import or the Memorandum and Articles of Association of export of capital or remittance of distributable HSBC Holdings concerning the right of non-resident profits by way of dividends and other payments to or foreign owners to hold HSBC Holdings equity holders of HSBC Holdings equity securities who securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so.
are not residents of the UK.
There are also no 6 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Description of Business synergy between the various components.
Key to Introduction this integration process is the blending of local and HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial international expertise.
services organisations in the world, with a market The most significant developments are capitalisation of US$182 billion at 31 December described below.
Other acquisitions in 2005 are 2005. discussed in the Financial Review on pages 26 to Headquartered in London, HSBC operates 177. through long-established businesses and has an The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking international network of over 9,800 properties in Corporation purchased The Mercantile Bank of India 76 countries and territories in five geographical Limited and The British Bank of the Middle East, regions: Europe: Hong Kong: Rest of Asia-Pacific, now HSBC Bank Middle East Limited HSBC including the Middle East and Africa: North America Bank Middle East in 1959.
In 1965, it acquired a and South America.
Within these regions, a 51 per cent interest subsequently increased to 62.14 comprehensive range of financial services is offered per cent in Hang Seng Bank Limited Hang Seng to personal, commercial, corporate, institutional, Bank, consolidating its leadership position in Hong investment and private banking clients.
Hang Seng Bank is the third-largest listed delivered primarily by domestic banks, typically bank in Hong Kong by market capitalisation.
with large retail deposit bases, and consumer finance operations.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation entered the US market in 1980 by HSBC manages its business through four acquiring a 51 per cent interest in Marine Midland customer groups: Personal Financial Services: Banks, Inc. now HSBC USA, Inc.
The remaining Commercial Banking: Corporate, Investment interest was acquired in 1987.
Banking and Markets: and Private Banking.
Personal Financial Services incorporates the Groups In 1981, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking consumer finance businesses, reflecting their Corporation incorporated its then existing Canadian increasing integration within mainstream financial operations.
HSBC Bank Canada has since made services around the world.
The largest of these is numerous acquisitions, expanding rapidly to become HSBC Finance Corporation, one of the leading the largest foreign-owned bank in Canada and the consumer finance companies in the US.
The establishment in 1999 of HSBC as a From the early 1980s, The Hongkong and uniform, international brand name ensured that the Shanghai Banking Corporation began to focus its Groups hexagon corporate symbol has become an acquisition strategy on the UK.
In 1987, it purchased increasingly familiar sight across the world.
a 14.9 per cent interest in Midland Bank plc, now HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank, one of the UKs History and development principal clearing banks.
In 1991, HSBC Holdings plc was established as the parent company of the The founding member of HSBC, The Hongkong and HSBC Group and, in 1992, it purchased the Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited The remaining interest in HSBC Bank.
As a consequence Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, was of this acquisition, HSBCs head office was established in both Hong Kong and Shanghai in transferred from Hong Kong to London in January 1865.
The bank expanded rapidly, with an emphasis 1993. on building up representation in mainland China and In 1997, HSBC assumed selected assets, throughout the rest of Asia, while also establishing a liabilities and subsidiaries of Banco Bamerindus do presence in the major financial and trading centres in Brasil S. A. now HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
Mltiplo HSBC Bank Brazil, following the In the mid-1950s, The Hongkong and Shanghai intervention of the Central Bank of Brazil, and in Banking Corporation embarked on a strategy of Argentina completed the acquisition of Grupo pursuing profitable growth through acquisition as Roberts, now part of HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. well as organic development a combination that HSBC Bank Argentina.
has remained a key feature of HSBCs approach ever In December 1999, HSBC acquired Republic since.
New York Corporation, subsequently merged with With each acquisition, HSBC focused on HSBC USA, Inc. and Safra Republic Holdings S. A. integrating its newly acquired operations with its In July 2004, HSBC Bank USA, Inc. merged with existing businesses with the aim of maximising the 7 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Description of Business continued HSBC Bank & Trust Delaware N. A. to form HSBC Limited Industrial Bank, one of only 13 national Bank USA, N. A. HSBC Bank USA.
To expand its base in the euro zone, in 2000 In December 2005, HSBC Finance completed HSBC completed its acquisition of 99.99 per cent of the acquisition of Metris Companies Inc. Metris the issued share capital of Crdit Commercial fide for US$1.6 billion.
HSBC is now the 5th largest 1 France S. A. subsequently CCF S. A. CCF and issuer of MasterCard and Visa cards in the US.
now HSBC France, a major French banking group.
Outlook In 2002, HSBC took further steps in expanding its presence in the Americas, completing the In the near term, the outlook is encouraging.
The acquisition of 99.59 per cent of Grupo Financiero world economy continues to grow steadily.
The US Bital, S. A. fide C. V. the holding company of what is economy is strong, the UK resilient, Japan and now HSBC Mxico, S. A. HSBC Mexico, the Germany are recovering and the emerging markets fourth-largest banking group in Mexico measured by are buoyant.
assets and the third by customer deposits.
Longer term prospects are more uncertain.
Apart Mainland China remains a key long-term from the possibility, albeit remote, of a sudden shock growth area for the Group.
In 2002, HSBC to the worlds financial system, HSBC remains completed the acquisition of a 10 per cent equity concerned about the unprecedented level of trade stake in Ping An Insurance Company of China imbalances.
Similarly, the implications of Limited Ping An Insurance, reducing its holding demographic change and of ageing populations for to 9.99 per cent following an initial public offering financial markets and businesses will be profound.
In August 2005, HSBC acquired a It is inevitable that at some stage a process of further 9.91 per cent of Ping An Insurance at a cost adjustment will begin, but the timing is open to of US$1,039 million, increasing its investment to question.
So far, the financial markets are taking a 19.9 per cent.
Ping An Insurance is the secondbenign view of these potential sources of instability.
largest life insurer and the third-largest property and Progressively, globalisation is forcing countries casualty insurer in mainland China.
and businesses operating within them to re-evaluate In 2003, HSBC acquired Household their comparative advantages and to adjust to a International, Inc. now HSBC Finance Corporation world in which emerging markets compete not only HSBC Finance.
HSBC Finance brought to the in terms of cost but also in skills and technology.
The Group national coverage in the US for consumer globalisation of the services industry, spurred on by lending, credit cards and credit insurance through new technologies and the rapid fall in multiple distribution channels, as well as expertise in communication costs, will afford huge opportunities consumer finance for HSBC to roll out but also pose significant challenges to many areas of internationally.
economic activity, including financial services.
Incipient protectionism, resulting from a reluctance Also in 2003, HSBC expanded in Brazil, to face up to the new competitive realities, remains a acquiring Banco Lloyds TSB S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo threat to the continuing growth of the world and the countrys leading consumer finance economy.
company, Losango Promotora fide Vendas Limitada Losango.
In certain mature markets, under-funded pension schemes threaten to become a drain on companies In 2004, the acquisition of The Bank of resources.
Combined with the rising cost of longBermuda Limited Bank of Bermuda was term health care, they pose a considerable challenge completed.
Continuing productivity growth is, In the same year, HSBC acquired Marks and therefore, increasingly important.
Only if it is Spencer Retail Financial Services Holdings Limited, achieved will financial markets be able to offer which trades as Marks and Spencer Money M&S returns with a meaningful premium to the risk-free Money in the UK.
rate embodied in government debt.
Without such productivity gains and associated financial returns, In mainland China in 2004, HSBC acquired 19.9 the affordability of pension and health care promises per cent of Bank of Communications Limited Bank of Communications, mainland Chinas fifth largest bank by total assets.
In the same year, Hang Seng 1 Visa is a registered trademark of VISA USA, Inc. and Bank acquired 15.98 per cent of Industrial Bank Co. MasterCard is a registered trademark of MasterCard International, Incorporated.
8 will strive to secure and maintain a leading position will become increasingly burdensome.
The challenge within each of its customer groups in selected to society of managing the equitable distribution of markets.
wealth created between competing generations may well become one of the most pressing of the next HSBC will concentrate on growing earnings decade.
over the long term at a rate which will place it favourably when compared with its peer group.
It In this environment HSBC, with its unique will also focus on investing in its delivery platforms, international footprint, is determined to continue to its technology, its people and its brand to support the deliver profitable growth and value to its various future value of HSBC as reflected in its comparative constituencies.
Success ensures that the Group can stock market rating and total shareholder return offer good employment prospects to an ever more TSR.
HSBC remains committed to benchmarking diverse workforce.
It means that HSBC can afford to its performance both absolutely and by comparison continue to invest in expanding the platforms by with a peer group.
For full details of the peer group which it delivers services to its customers.
It enables benchmark, see page 220. the Group to contribute to the savings and retirement needs of those who invest in HSBC directly, or HSBCs core values are integral to its strategy, indirectly through pension plans and investment and communicating them to customers, shareholders funds.
and employees is intrinsic to the plan.
These values comprise an emphasis on long-term, ethical client Building on its achievements, HSBCs priority relationships: high productivity through teamwork: a for the rest of 2006 is to continue to implement its confident and ambitious sense of excellence: being Managing for Growth strategy.
It will achieve this by international in outlook and character: prudence: being distinctive, reinforcing its brand values of trust creativity and customer-focused marketing.
and integrity in all its dealings with customers.
The Group will make itself even more relevant by The plan also reaffirms HSBCs recognition of broadening the product, channel and geographical its corporate social responsibility CSR.
Furthermore, HSBC will ensure has always aspired to the highest standards of that the scale and complexity needed to compete conduct, recognises its wider obligations to society successfully will be seamless from the perspective of and believes there is a strong link between CSR, its customers and manageable from that of its long-term success and value creation.
changing public expectations across a wide spectrum of social, ethical and environmental issues require HSBCs businesses in Asia, Turkey, Mexico, continuing attention to this area.
The strategy Brazil and the Middle East see strong opportunities therefore calls for a renewed emphasis on CSR and for growth on the back of investments already made.
for increased external communication of the Groups The Group also sees opportunities to strengthen its CSR policies and performance, particularly on position in its franchises in the UK, Hong Kong, education and the environment, which will remain North America and France.
HSBC believes there is the principal beneficiaries of HSBCs philanthropic growing momentum from the development of its activities.
new business streams within Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets businesses.
Overall, HSBC is HSBCs growth ambitions centre on its four well positioned for further growth.
customer groups: Personal Financial Services: Commercial Banking: Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets: and Private Banking: and Strategy specific strategies are being implemented for each of At the end of 2003, HSBC launched Managing for them.
HSBC believes that by organising its internal Growth, a strategic plan that provides HSBC with a and external reporting around customer groups, it blueprint for growth and development during the reinforces to all its employees the Groups customer period to 2008.
The strategy is evolutionary, not focus.
It builds on HSBCs strengths and it Within Personal Financial Services, the addresses the areas where further improvement is increasing integration, skills sharing and transfer of considered both desirable and attainable.
technology with the consumer finance business has Managements vision for the Group remains augmented and enhanced existing activities.
In consistent: HSBC aims to be the worlds leading addition, the introduction of skills and practices from financial services company.
In this context, leading the worlds leading retailing businesses is shaping means preferred, admired and dynamic, and being HSBCs competitive positioning.
recognised for giving the customer a fair deal.
HSBC 9 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Description of Business continued Key elements in achieving HSBCs objectives with 55,000 employees, the US 49,000, Brazil for its customer groups will be accelerating the rate 28,000, Hong Kong 26,000, Mexico 22,000, India of growth of revenue: developing the brand strategy 20,000 and France 14,000.
HSBC negotiates with further: improving productivity: and maintaining the recognised unions, and estimates that approximately Groups prudent risk management and strong 40 per cent of its employees are unionised.
Developing the skills of HSBCs highest concentrations of union membership are in staff will also be critical and it will be necessary to Brazil, France, India, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, the ensure that all employees understand how they can Philippines, Singapore and the UK.
As a result of contribute to the successful achievement of the well-developed communications and consultation Groups objectives.
Employees who do make such a programmes, HSBC has not experienced any contribution will be rewarded accordingly.
material disruptions to its operations from labour disputes during the past five years.
Operational management will continue to be organised geographically under four regional In support of its strategy, HSBC focuses on intermediate head offices, with business activities attracting, developing and motivating the very best concentrated in locations where growth and critical individuals and on encouraging talent internally.
Emphasis is placed on performance management: differentiated rewards: succession planning: The plan contains eight strategic imperatives: diversity: and learning and development, with Brand: make HSBC and its hexagon symbol one priority accorded to enhancing sales and relationship of the worlds leading brands for customer management skills.
HSBC continues to endeavour to experience and corporate social responsibility: ensure that employees engagement with the business is maximised as this is beneficial to Personal Financial Services: drive growth in key shareholders, colleagues and customers alike.
markets and through appropriate channels to make HSBC the strongest global player in HSBC recruits from a broad cross-section of personal financial services: society and encourages the sharing of individual perspectives and ideas through collective training Consumer Finance: extend the reach of this and global secondments.
HSBCs diverse workforce business to existing customers through a wider represents a significant competitive advantage.
The product range and penetrate new markets: broad cultural mix and increasing cross-border Commercial Banking: make the most of HSBCs mobility of its employees enables HSBC to resource international customer base through effective operations with individuals who have detailed relationship management and improved product knowledge of local markets and of HSBC globally.
offerings in all the Groups markets: This strengthens international networks and facilitates the sharing of best practices.
In addition, a Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets: continuing focus on policies that encourage an accelerate growth by enhancing capital markets inclusive working environment and the availability and advisory capabilities focused on client of career opportunities for all is critical to HSBC service in defined sectors where HSBC has being an employer of choice.
HSBC seeks to critical relevance and strength: maintain an employee profile that reflects its Private Banking: serve the Groups highest customer base.
value personal clients around the world: HSBC operates in a highly competitive and People: attract, develop and motivate HSBCs international business environment.
Through its people, rewarding success and rejecting network of international operations, it has the mediocrity: and advantage of being able to respond to the availability of talented employees wherever they are, in order to TSR: fulfil HSBCs TSR target by achieving enhance customer service and improve productivity.
strong competitive performances in earnings per As education levels improve globally and as share growth and efficiency.
investments in technology and telecommunications facilitate access at competitive cost to hitherto Employees and management untapped resources, the balance of employment continues to change, resulting in global resource At 31 December 2005, HSBCs customers were centres of excellence.
Job losses may arise in some served by 284,000 employees including part-time countries, but HSBC has a good record of employees worldwide, compared with 253,000 at communicating openly and sensitively in these 31 December 2004 and 232,000 at 31 December circumstances, and of reassigning employees and 2003.
The main centres of employment are the UK 10 minimising compulsory redundancies wherever current and savings accounts, mortgages and personal possible.
loans, credit cards, and local and international payments services.
HSBC seeks to promote and recruit the most able people and attaches great importance to Personal customers prefer to conduct their cultivating its own talent.
Resources have been set financial business at times convenient to them, using a aside to ensure a supply of talented individuals to range of delivery channels.
This demand for flexibility meet business succession needs, with support is met though the increased provision of direct provided for these employees in the form of career channels such as the internet and self-service terminals, enhancement and personal development in addition to traditional and automated branches and programmes.
In addition, HSBC recognises that service centres accessed by telephone.
there are lessons to be learned from other successful Delivering the right products and services for businesses, and will recruit from non-banking particular target markets is a fundamental requirement industries where appropriate.
in any retail service business, and market research and customer analysis is key to developing an in-depth Customer groups understanding of significant customer segments and their needs.
This understanding of the customer Profit before tax by customer group ensures that Customer Relationship Management Year ended 31 December 2005 CRM systems are effectively used to identify and fulfil sales opportunities, and to manage the sales US$ million process.
12,000 HSBC Premier is a premium banking service 10,000 9,904 providing personalised relationship management, 8,000 24-hour priority telephone access, global travel 6,000 assistance and cheque encashment facilities.
There are 5,163 4,961 4,000 now over 1.3 million HSBC Premier customers, who 2,000 can use more than 250 specially designated Premier 26 912 branches and centres in 35 countries and territories, 0 either when visiting, or on a more permanent basis if they require a banking relationship in more than one Personal Financial Services Commercial Banking country.
Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Private Banking Other Insurance and investment products play an important part in meeting the needs of customers.
1 Insurance products sold and distributed by HSBC Total assets by customer group through its direct channels and branch networks As at 31 December 2005 include loan protection, life, property and health % insurance, and pensions.
Acting as both broker and underwriter, HSBC sees continuing opportunities to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets 50.7 deliver insurance products to its personal customer Personal Financial Services 31.7 base.
Commercial Banking 11.7 HSBC also makes available a wide range of Private Banking 4.0 investment products.
A choice of third party and Other 1.9 proprietary funds is offered, including traditional long only equity and bond funds: structured funds that provide capital security and opportunities for an 1 Excluding Hong Kong Government certificates of enhanced return: and fund of funds products which indebtedness.
offer customers the ability to diversify their Personal Financial Services investments across a range of best-in-class fund managers chosen after a rigorous and objective Personal Financial Services provides some 120 million selection process.
Comprehensive financial planning individual and self-employed customers with a wide services covering customers investment, retirement, range of banking and related financial services.
The personal and asset protection needs are offered precise nature of the products and services provided is, through specialist financial planning managers.
to some extent, driven by local regulations, market practices and the market positioning of HSBCs local businesses.
Typically, products provided include 11 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Description of Business continued High net worth individuals and their families largest providers of third party private label credit who choose the differentiated services offered within cards or store cards in the US based on receivables Private Banking are not included in this customer outstanding, with over 70 merchant relationships and group.
In addition to originating and refinancing motor Consumer Finance vehicle loans, HSBC Finances motor vehicle Within Personal Financial Services, HSBC Finances finance business purchases retail instalment operations in the US, the UK and Canada make contracts of US customers who do not have access to credit available to customer groups not well catered traditional prime-based lending sources.
The loans for by traditional banking operations, facilitate pointare largely sourced from a network of approximately of-sale credit in support of retail purchases and 10,000 motor dealers.
support major affiliate credit card programmes.
At The credit card services business is the 31 December 2005 HSBC Finance had over fifth largest issuer of MasterCard and Visa credit 60 million customers with total gross advances of cards in the US, and also includes affiliation US$142.1 billion.
Consumer Finance products are programmes such as the GM Card and the AFLoffered through the following businesses of HSBC CIO Union Plus credit card.
Also, credit cards Finance: issued in the name of Household Bank, Orchard The consumer lending business is one of the Bank and Direct Merchants Bank brands are offered largest sub-prime home equity originators in the US, to customers under-served by traditional providers, marketed under the HFC and Beneficial brand names or are marketed primarily through merchant through a network of nearly 1,400 branches in 45 relationships established by the retail services states, direct mail, telemarketing, strategic alliances business.
Consumer lending also acquires A wide range of insurance services is offered sub-prime loans on the secondary market.
Subby HSBC Finance to customers in the US, the UK prime is a category used in the US which describes and Canada who are typically not well-served by customers who have limited credit histories, modest traditional sources.
incomes, high debt-to-income ratios, high loan-tovalue ratios for real estate secured products or have The taxpayer financial services business experienced credit problems caused by occasional accelerates access to funds for US taxpayers who are delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other entitled to tax refunds and offers financial services credit-related actions.
Consumer lending products through more than 25,000 tax return preparers in the include secured and unsecured loans such as first and US.
The business is seasonal with most revenues second lien closed-end mortgages, open-ended home generated in the first three months of the year.
equity loans, personal loans, loans secured on motor HSBC Finances business in the UK HFC vehicles and retail finance contracts.
Consumer Bank provides mid-market consumers with lending also offers a near-prime mortgage product mortgages, secured and unsecured loans, insurance which was first introduced in 2003 to broaden the products, credit cards and retail finance products.
It range of customers to which its products are concentrates on customer service through its 187 relevant.
HFC Bank and Beneficial branches, and finances The mortgage services business purchases first consumer electronic goods through its retail finance and second lien residential mortgage loans, including operations.
Its credit card business was sold to open-end home equity loans, from a network of over HSBC Bank in December 2005.
In Canada, similar 280 unaffiliated third-party lenders in the US.
products are offered through trust operations of Purchases are primarily of pools of loans bulk HSBC Finances subsidiary there.
acquisitions, but also include individual loan portfolios flow acquisitions, made under Commercial Banking predetermined underwriting guidelines.
Forward HSBC is one of the worlds leading, and most commitments are offered to selected correspondents international, banks in the provision of financial to strengthen relationships and create a sustainable services and products to small, medium-sized and growth channel for this business.
HSBC Finance, middle market businesses, with over 2.5 million through its subsidiary, Decision One Mortgage customers including sole proprietors, partnerships, Company Decision One, also originates mortgage clubs and associations, incorporated businesses and loans referred by mortgage brokers.
The retail services business is one of the 12 At 31 December 2005, HSBC had total financing products is offered, as well as specialised commercial customer account balances of services such as insured export finance, international US$148.1 billion and total commercial customer factoring and forfaiting.
HSBCs expertise is loans and advances, net of loan impairment supported by highly automated systems.
Leasing, finance and factoring: HSBC has Commercial Banking places particular emphasis established specialised divisions to provide leasing on multi-disciplinary and geographical collaboration and instalment finance for vehicles, plant and in meeting its commercial customers needs, thereby equipment, machinery and materials handling, and differentiating, broadening and enhancing its large complex leases.
HSBC also provides domestic offering.
The range of products includes: and international factoring and receivables finance services through a network of 11 businesses Payments and cash management: HSBC is a worldwide.
leading provider of payments, collections, liquidity management and account services worldwide, Credit cards: HSBC offers commercial credit enabling commercial customers to manage their cash card services in 18 countries.
Commercial card efficiently on a global basis.
HSBCs extensive issuing provides small to middle market businesses network of offices and strong domestic capabilities with services, including corporate and purchasing in many countries, including direct access to local cards, which variously enhance cash management, clearing systems, enhances its ability to provide improve cost control and streamline purchasing high-quality competitive cash management services.
Commercial card acquiring enables merchants to accept credit card payments either inTreasury and capital markets: Commercial store or on the internet.
Banking customers have long been volume users of the Groups foreign exchange capabilities.
These are Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets now being supplemented with more sophisticated currency and interest rate options.
HSBCs Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets business provides tailored financial Investment banking: A small number of solutions to major government, corporate and Commercial Banking customers need occasional institutional clients worldwide.
Managed as a global investment banking advisory support.
Co-operation business, this customer group operates a long-term with Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets relationship management approach to build a full ensures that in most key markets such requirements understanding of clients financial requirements.
Sectoral client service teams comprising relationship Wealth management services: These include managers and product specialists develop financial advice and products related to savings and solutions to meet individual client needs.
They are provided to Commercial dedicated offices in over 60 countries and with Banking customers and their employees through access to HSBCs worldwide presence and HSBCs worldwide network of branches and capabilities, this business serves subsidiaries and business banking centres.
offices of its clients on a global basis.
Insurance: HSBC offers insurance protection, Products and services offered include: employee benefits programmes and pension schemes designed to meet the needs of businesses and their Global Markets employees, and to help fulfil the applicable statutory HSBCs operations in Global Markets consist of obligations of client companies.
These products are treasury and capital markets services for provided by HSBC either as an intermediary broker, supranationals, central banks, corporations, agent or consultant or as a supplier of in-house or institutional and private investors, financial third party offerings.
Products and services include a institutions and other market participants.
Products full range of commercial insurance, including include: pension schemes: healthcare schemes: key man life insurance: car fleet: goods in transit: trade credit foreign exchange: protection: risk management and insurance due currency, interest rate, bond, credit, equity and diligence reviews: and actuarial employee benefit other specialised derivatives: consultancy.
government and non-government fixed income Trade services: HSBC has more than 140 years and money market instruments: of experience in trade services.
A complete range of traditional documentary credit, collections and precious metals and exchange traded futures: 13 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Description of Business continued equity services, including research, sales and Management structure trading for institutional, corporate and private During February 2006, the management structure of clients and asset management services, Global Markets and Corporate and Investment including global investment advisory and fund Banking was restructured.
Under the new structure, management services: and there are three principal business lines: Global distribution of capital markets instruments, Banking, Global Markets and Global Transaction including debt, equity and structured products, Banking.
This new structure will allow Corporate, utilising links with HSBCs global networks.
Investment Banking and Markets to focus on the relationships and sectors that best fit the Groups Corporate and Investment Banking footprint and ensure seamless delivery of HSBCs enhanced product capabilities to clients.
Global Investment Banking comprises: capital raising, both publicly and privately, Private Banking including debt and equity capital, structured HSBCs presence in all the major wealth-creating finance and syndicated finance: regions has enabled it to build one of the worlds corporate finance and advisory services for leading private banking groups, providing financial mergers and acquisitions, asset disposals, stock services to high net worth individuals and their exchange listings, privatisations and capital families in 74 locations in 35 countries, with total restructurings: and assets under management of US$282 billion at 31 December 2005.
HSBC Private Bank is the project and export finance services providing principal marketing name of the HSBC Groups non-recourse finance to exporters, importers and international private banking business which, financial institutions, and working closely with together with HSBC Guyerzeller and HSBC all major export credit agencies.
Trinkaus & Burkhardt, provides private banking Corporate and Institutional Banking includes: services.
Utilising the most suitable products from the direct lending, including structured finance for marketplace, Private Banking works with its clients complex investment facilities: to offer both traditional and innovative ways to leasing finance with an emphasis on large manage and preserve wealth whilst optimising ticket transactions: and returns.
Products and services offered include: deposit-taking.
Investment services: These comprise both advisory and discretionary investment services.
A Global Transaction Banking includes international, wide range of investment vehicles is covered, regional and in-country payments and cash including bonds, equities, derivatives, options, management services: trade services, particularly the futures, structured products and alternative products, specialised supply chain product: and securities mutual funds, hedge funds and fund of funds.
services, where HSBC is one of the worlds leading Supported by six major advisory centres in Hong custodians providing custody and clearing services Kong, Singapore, Geneva, New York, Paris and and funds administration to both domestic and crossLondon, Private Banking seeks to select the most border investors.
Factoring and banknotes services suitable investments for clients needs and are also provided by specialist units.
Private Equity comprises HSBCs captive private Global wealth solutions: These comprise equity fund management activities, strategic inheritance planning, trustee and other fiduciary relationships with certain third party private equity services designed to protect existing wealth and managers together with direct listed and unlisted create tailored structures to preserve wealth for equity investments and fund commitments.
Areas of expertise include trusts, foundation and company administration, charitable Group Investment Businesses trusts and foundations, insurance and offshore These comprise asset management products and structures.
services for institutional investors, intermediaries Specialist advisory services: Private Banking and individual investors and their advisers.
offers expertise in several specialist areas of wealth management including tax advisory and financial planning, family office advisory, corporate finance, 14 A. S. in Turkey, HSBC Bank Malta, HSBC Private consolidated reporting, industry services such as Bank Suisse, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt KGaA charities and foundations, media, shipping, diamond and HSBC Guyerzeller Bank AG.
Through these and jewellery, and real estate planning.
Specialist operations HSBC provides a wide range of banking, advisers are available to deliver products and treasury and financial services to personal, services that are tailored to meet the full range of commercial and corporate customers across Europe.
high net worth clients individual financial needs.
General banking services: These comprise Hong Kong treasury and foreign exchange, offshore and onshore HSBCs principal banking subsidiaries in Hong deposits, credit and specialised lending, tailor-made Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking loans and internet banking.
Private Banking works to Corporation and Hang Seng Bank.
The former is the ensure its clients have full access to relevant skills largest bank incorporated in Hong Kong and is and products available throughout HSBC, such as HSBCs flagship bank in the Asia-Pacific region.
It corporate banking, investment banking and is one of Hong Kongs three note-issuing banks, insurance.
accounting for more than 65 per cent by value of banknotes in circulation in 2005.
Geographical regions Rest of Asia-Pacific including the Profit before tax split by geographical region Middle East Year ended 31 December 2005 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation US$ million offers personal, commercial, corporate and 8,000 investment banking and markets services in 7,000 6,872 mainland China.
The banks network spans 12 major 6,000 6,356 cities, comprising 12 branches and eight sub- 5,000 4,000 4,517 branches.
Hang Seng Bank offers personal and 3,000 commercial banking services and operates six 2,574 2,000 branches, four sub-branches, and two representative 1,000 offices in eight cities in mainland China.
HSBC also 647 0 participates indirectly in mainland China through its three associates, Bank of Communications 19.9 per Europe Hong Kong cent owned, Ping An Insurance 19.9 per cent and Rest of Asia-Pacific North America Industrial Bank 15.98 per cent.
South America Outside Hong Kong and mainland China, the 1 HSBC Group conducts business in the Asia-Pacific Total assets split by geographical region region primarily through branches and subsidiaries As at 31 December 2005 of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking % Corporation in 22 countries, with particularly strong Europe 42.7 coverage in India, Indonesia, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan.
HSBCs presence in the Hong Kong 15.0 Middle East is led by HSBC Bank Middle East in a Rest of Asia-Pacific 9.5 network of branches and subsidiaries with the widest North America 31.1 coverage in the region: in Australia by HSBC Bank South America 1.7 Australia Limited: and in Malaysia by HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad, which has the second largest presence of any foreign-owned bank in the country.
1 Excluding Hong Kong Government certificates of HSBCs associate in Saudi Arabia, The Saudi British indebtedness.
Bank 40 per cent owned, is the Kingdoms sixth largest bank.
Additional information regarding business developments in 2005 may be found in the North America Financial Review on pages 26 to 177.
HSBCs North American businesses cover the US, Europe Canada, Mexico, Bermuda and Panama.
Operations in the US are primarily conducted through HSBC HSBCs principal banking operations in Europe are Bank USA, N. A. which is concentrated in New York HSBC Bank in the UK, HSBC France, HSBC Bank 15 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Description of Business continued State, and HSBC Finance, a national consumer saturation, with little scope for further market finance company based in Chicago.
Greater potential for expansion lies in the businesses in Mexico and Panama are run through provision of a wider range of financial services, HSBC Mexico, with HSBC Bank Canada and Bank including consumer finance, to new and existing of Bermuda responsible for operations in their customers.
HSBC has also identified emerging respective countries.
economies in Asia-Pacific, Mexico, the Middle East, Turkey and Latin America as a source of current and South America future growth.
HSBCs operations in South America principally Advances in technology comprise HSBC Bank Brazil and HSBC Bank Argentina, although HSBC is also represented in Over the last decade, new technologies such as the Venezuela, Chile and Uruguay.
In addition to internet and related innovations have matured, and banking services, HSBC operates large insurance financial institutions have not been alone in businesses in Argentina and Brazil.
In Argentina, recognising the potential of these developments.
HSBCs main insurance business is HSBC La Financial services and other market participants can Buenos Aires and, through Mxima and HSBC New now deliver a large and expanding range of products York Life, HSBC offers pensions and life assurance and services through these channels and competition products.
In Brazil, HSBC also offers consumer is, as a result, fierce.
However, with competition finance products through its subsidiary, Losango.
HSBC will continue to offer a full range of services via the channels preferred by its customers.
These currently include the internet, Competitive environment interactive TV, mobile phone, WAP and telephone HSBC believes that open and competitive markets banking as well as the traditional branch network.
are good for both local economies and their participants, and the Group faces very strong Regional factors competition in the markets it serves.
In personal and Europe commercial banking, it competes with a wide range of institutions including commercial banks, The European Commission has commenced consumer finance companies, retail financial service inquiries into retail banking and business insurance companies, savings and loan associations, credit across all member states.
All HSBC entities affected unions, general retailers, brokerage firms and have responded to the initial questionnaires.
In investment banking, The 65 member banks of the European HSBC faces competition from specialist providers Payments Council EPC have signed an agreement and the investment banking operations of other to create a Single European Payments Area SEPA commercial banks.
by 2008 which aims to harmonise transfers, bankers Regulators routinely monitor and investigate the orders and cards transactions.
This should offer competitiveness of the financial services industry of strong growth opportunities for some banks but will which HSBC is a part in a number of areas, also lead to more competition.
particularly in the UK and Europe.
UK Global factors After several very positive years, UK growth slowed Consolidation in the banking industry in 2005.
Although corporate earnings rose and the UK stock market was healthy, strong commodity and Over the past few decades there has been a trend oil prices adversely affected several sectors.
towards consolidation in banking and financial Retailers are suffering from declining levels of services, both nationally and internationally.
This consumer confidence and disposable income, mainly development has created a large and growing caused by high levels of indebtedness and rising tax number of institutions which are capable of and utility burdens.
competing with HSBC across a wide range of services.
A stable interest rate environment, strong employment levels and a solid housing market Limited market growth helped to keep demand for consumer finance strong but could not prevent a rise in default and arrears The majority of HSBCs business is conducted in the rates in all forms of unsecured personal lending.
Penetration of standard banking services in these markets is nearing 16 Despite these developments, competition in the HSBC policy is to co-operate and work retail banking sector for the best customers remained positively with all its regulators, inputting data and intense, with pressure on credit products, interest perspective on those issues which affect all financial margins and, in particular, deposit rates.
service providers via industry bodies.
The high level of personal indebtedness and France strong competition within the retail banking and consumer finance sectors led regulatory authorities Stable interest rates in the euro zone contributed to a to continue to monitor closely the financial services strong growth in real estate investment in France.
Competition between French banks was concentrated on the promotion of real estate In December, the UK Competition Commission mortgage loans, which are the principal means by released its provisional remedies to improve which new customers in France are acquired.
Market competition following its investigation into the activity increased and consumers enjoyed improved US$8.3 billion store card industry.
HSBC continues pricing to the detriment of bank margins throughout to co-operate with the Commission as the inquiry 2005. draws to a conclusion.
The payment of interest on sight deposits, which Also in 2005, the Office of Fair Trading OFT has only been permitted since the beginning of 2005, continued with its inquiry into credit card terms was introduced by one major mutual French bank.
under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts This move did not provoke a widespread reaction in regulations.
HSBC has made various submissions to the domestic market and, to date, no other leading the OFT and discussions continue.
French bank has followed suit.
The OFT also published its decision on the In December 2005, Banque Postale a subsidiary multilateral interchange agreement between of the French Postal service received the necessary MasterCard members in October.
MasterCard has regulatory approvals and with effect from January appealed against the decision to the Competition 2006 will be able to offer real estate mortgages and Appeals Tribunal.
Visa is also subject to financial services, including the sale of investment investigation but the case is suspended pending products manufactured by third party providers.
resolution of the MasterCard case.
Given the scale of Banque Postales geographical In November, the Financial Services Authority coverage, this will increase competition in an already published the results of its themed review of the sale competitive market.
It has expressed The French government has reformed tax law concerns regarding some practices which were for 2006 2007 with two measures which will common within the industry.
HSBC has not received increase disposable income for high income a negative response in respect of its own procedures, individuals: a tax exemption on capital gains on but will be considering its products and sales equities held for more than eight years, which brings practices in the light of the findings.
The OFT will the French taxation regime into line with practices in be undertaking a market investigation into Payment many other European countries, and a cap on total Protection Insurance following a super-complaint household taxes at 60 per cent of income.
This will from the Citizens Advice Bureau.
boost one of the market segments on which HSBC Throughout 2005, a Payments Task Force France focuses.
chaired by the OFT has brought together At the end of December, French banks were representatives of the banking industry, consumer granted approval, as in the UK, to provide equity bodies and business with the Bank of England and release mortgages.
This will assist customers to HM Treasury to look at various aspects of the invest in real estate and also to finance consumption.
Its first report recommended that the payment industry implement a faster means of Hong Kong making low cost electronic payments.
HSBC agrees Whilst fierce competition in traditional core banking that this is in the consumers interest and favours its products remained evident in Hong Kong, the rising early implementation.
cost of funds in the second half from increasing The Consumer Credit Bill, currently in its interbank rates made banks with smaller deposit second reading in Parliament, updates existing bases more cautious in price competition.
A decline consumer legislation in order to provide better in property loan demand also added pressure on consumer protection, and is likely to come into force banks to look for new outlets for lending.
Personal during 2006. loans, including credit card advances, attracted 17 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Description of Business continued banks attention as consumer spending revived The five largest banks in Canada dominate the strongly.
Despite this, the market remains very competitive with The Chinese currency regime was reformed in comparable financial products and services offered July 2005 and the second phase of Hong Kongs by other banks, insurance companies and other renminbi business introduced late in the year.
Merger activity among the largest banks developments in these areas remain at an early stage, in Canada remains possible, but without such they are expected, along with the benefits flowing consolidation major financial institutions will from the liberalisation of Chinas financial sector continue to look elsewhere for growth.
under the World Trade Organisation agreement, to be a continued source of growth in the future.
Mexicos banking industry is highly concentrated.
Five large foreign-owned banks, Rest of Asia-Pacific including HSBC, control 75 per cent of banking including the Middle East assets and 78 per cent of deposits through their local subsidiaries.
The majority of Mexicos 105 million The competitive environment in the Rest of people neither have access to nor use the banking Asia-Pacific continues to intensify as international system.
Thus there are favourable growth banks focus on targeted sectors in emerging markets opportunities for retail banking over the medium to in pursuit of higher returns.
Local banks are also long term.
HSBC is well placed in this environment, actively expanding their reach and business, both with an extensive branch network and an expanding within countries and across borders.
Competition base of young customers from which to develop remains intense throughout the region in all the growth opportunities.
Currently, there is strong customer groups served by HSBC.
However, in regulatory and consumer pressure to reduce banking many countries the growing sophistication of the and pension management fees and commissions as relatively young population and increasing affluence volumes increase, constraining growth in non-funds of the middle class continue to provide HSBC with income.
Mexicos economy is very closely linked to further opportunities for growth.
the US and 88 per cent of its exports are sent there.
Banks and non-banks, both local and international, are rapidly building consumer finance South America and direct banking businesses in a number of The composition of the Brazilian financial system countries in the region.
saw relatively little change in 2005.
The top ten banking groups, which account for 68 per cent of North America assets and 86 per cent of branches, remained In an already highly competitive US financial dominated by a combination of large state-owned services industry, institutions involved in a broad banks, privately-owned local banks and subsidiaries range of financial products and services continued to of foreign banks such as HSBC.
Within the banking sector, consolidation the sixth largest non-state owned bank in the country, continued into 2006, with a greater focus on national ranked by assets.
networks and retail branch banking.
Notwithstanding the persistence of high interest The Groups principal US subsidiaries, HSBC rates in Brazil and an uncertain outlook for the Bank USA and HSBC Finance, face vigorous economy, 2005 saw strong growth in lending to competition from a wide array of financial individuals.
Central Bank statistics indicate that institutions.
These include banks, thrifts, insurance personal lending increased by an estimated 37 per companies, credit unions, mortgage lenders and cent during the year, following growth of 28.6 per brokers, and non-bank suppliers of consumer credit cent in 2004.
However, total lending as a percentage and other financial services.
Many of these of GDP remained low in international terms at institutions are not subject to US banking industry 31.3 per cent.
This, together with the fact that within regulation, unlike HSBC.
This gives some of them the economically active population an estimated cost and product advantages and will further increase 40 million people have limited access to financial competitive pressures.
HSBC competes by services, indicates that the outlook for further growth expanding its customer base through portfolio is positive.
acquisitions or alliances, co-branding opportunities Against this background, banks continued to and direct sales channels, by offering a very wide develop their consumer finance businesses, with variety of consumer loan products and by particular emphasis on partnerships with large maintaining a strong service orientation.
retailers and green field ventures.
In the retail 18 segment, payroll and pension-linked advances upon the pensions and life insurance business, which emerged in 2005 as a significant source of lending.
also benefited from increasing contributions as more Banks also developed virtual banking networks people returned to employment in the formal known as correspondentes bancrios.
typically small retail establishments offering basic Consequently, the banking industry showed payment and banking services on behalf of improved profitability with many of the larger established banks on a commission basis.
By the foreign-owned banks re-capitalising their domestic end of 2005, HSBC had developed a network of operations.
Continued growth and increased 1,824 correspondentes generating close to one confidence in the economy were reflected in million monthly transactions.
increased deposit levels and a 38 per cent growth in In Argentina, HSBCs competition comes from demand for loan products compared with 2004. international financial groups which, in most cases, HSBC sees the return to a more normal business provide an equivalent range of banking, insurance, environment continuing and intends to monitor pension and annuity products and services.
opportunities within the financial services industry in The completion of Argentinas international debt Argentina with a view to growing core retail and swap negotiation eliminated a major concern that commercial banking franchises.
had overshadowed the country and the financial system.
This had a significantly favourable impact 19
