The geographical analysis of average deposits is based on the location of the office in which the deposits are recorded and excludes balances with HSBC companies.
The Other category includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase.
The majority of certificates of deposit and time deposits are in amounts of US$100,000 and over or the equivalent in other currencies.
181 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Other Information continued Short-term borrowings HSBC includes short-term borrowings within customer accounts, deposits by banks and debt securities in issue and does not show short-term borrowings separately on the balance sheet.
Short-term borrowings are defined by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC as Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings.
HSBCs only significant short-term borrowings are securities sold under agreements to repurchase and certain debt securities in issue.
Additional information on these is provided in the tables below.
i Financial guarantees, letters of credit and similar undertakings Note 40 on the Financial Statements on page 327 describes various types of guarantees and discloses the maximum potential future payments under such arrangements.
Credit risk associated with all forms of guarantees is assessed in the same manner as for on-balance sheet credit advances and, where necessary, provisions for assessed impairment are included in provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments.
ii Commitments to lend Undrawn credit lines are disclosed in Note 40 on the Financial Statements on page 327.
The majority by value of undrawn credit lines arise from open to buy lines on personal credit cards, cheques issued to potential customers offering them a pre-approved loan, advised overdraft limits, and mortgage offers awaiting customer acceptance.
HSBC generally has the right to change or terminate any conditions of a personal customers overdraft, credit card or other credit line upon notification to the customer.
In respect of corporate commitments to lend, in most contracts HSBCs position will be protected through restrictions on access to funding in the event of material adverse change.
iii Credit derivatives HSBC uses credit derivatives through its principal dealing operations, acting as a principal counterparty to a broad range of users, structuring deals to produce risk management products for its customers, or making markets in certain products.
Risk is typically controlled through entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts with other counterparties.
HSBC manages the credit risk arising on buying and selling credit derivative protection by including the exposure to any credit risk that arises from such transactions within its overall credit limits structure to the relevant counterparty.
The trading of credit derivatives is restricted to a small number of offices within the major centres which in managements view have the control infrastructure and market skills to manage effectively the credit risk inherent in the products.
Credit derivatives are also used for the management of credit risk in the Groups loan portfolio.
HSBCs use of credit derivatives in this manner is not significant, however.
182 The following table presents the notional amounts of credit derivatives protection bought and sold by HSBC: Notional amount of protection Bought Sold US$m US$m At 31 December 2005 249,347 262,393 At 31 December 2004. 93,750 102,321 The mismatch between these notional amounts is attributable to HSBC selling protection on large, diversified, predominantly investment grade portfolios including the most senior tranches and then hedging these positions by buying protection on the more subordinated tranches of the same portfolios.
In addition, HSBC uses securities to hedge certain derivative positions.
Consequently, while there is a mismatch in notional amounts of credit derivatives, the risk positions are largely matched.
iv Special purpose and variable interest entities HSBC predominantly uses special purpose entities 'SPE', or variable interest entities 'VIE', to securitise loans and advances it has originated where this source of funding is cost effective.
Such loans and advances generally remain on the balance sheet under IFRSs.
HSBC also administers SPEs that have been established for the purpose of providing alternative sources of financing to HSBCs customers.
Such arrangements also enable HSBC to provide tailored investment opportunities for investors.
These SPEs, commonly referred to as asset-backed or multi-seller conduits, purchase interests in a diversified pool of receivables from customers or in the market using finance provided by a third party.
The cash flows received by SPEs on pools of receivables are used to service the finance provided by investors.
HSBC administers this arrangement, which facilitates diversification of funding sources and the tranching of credit risk.
HSBC also typically provides part of the liquidity facilities to the entities, together with secondary credit enhancement.
HSBC also has relationships with SPEs which offer management of investment funds, provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and facilitate capital funding through the issue of preference shares via partnerships.
All SPEs used by HSBC are authorised centrally upon initial establishment to ensure appropriate purpose and governance.
The activities of SPEs administered by HSBC are closely monitored by senior management.
The use of SPEs is not a significant part of HSBCs activities and HSBC is not reliant on the use of SPEs for any material part of its business operations or profitability.
For a further discussion of HSBCs involvement with SPEs and the accounting treatments under IFRSs and US GAAP, see Note 47 j on the Financial Statements on page 398.
Contractual obligations The table below provides details of HSBCs material contractual obligations as at 31 December 2005.
