Directors Report The directors present their report and the General Meeting on page 84 for those to be Intranet sites are available in both the UK audited Financial Statements of the Group re-elected as non-executive directors.
and the US allowing employees easy access for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Details of the service contracts of the to the Companys website for infor mation current directors and of the interests of the on current developments.
The intranet Activities, business review and directors in the Companys shares are brings together infor mation on employment development shown in the Remuneration Committee opportunities, the staff handbook, including A full and fair review of business activities Report on pages39 to 40. policies and procedures, and compliance and future developments of the Group is procedures and manuals.
given in the Group Profile, Chair mans In accordance with the Companys Articles Statement and the Group Chief Executive of Association Charles Gregson, Stephen Charity Day and charitable donations Officers Review on pages 1 to 5 and pages McDer mott, William Nabarro and Jim During the year the Group donated 6 to 21 for the Operating and Financial Pettigrew will stand for re-election at the 4.2 million 2004 4.0 million to Review OFR.
charitable or ganisations globally, including medical health and childrens charities of Related party transactions Corporate Social Responsibility which 2.1 million 2004 2.1 million Details of related party transactions are set As an international business operating in was donated to charitable or ganisations in out in note 29 to the Financial Statements.
23 countries with 2,900 staff worldwide, the UK.
For the past 12 years ICAP has held ICAP aims to conduct its business in a an annual Charity Day and the Groups Post balance sheet events socially responsible manner, to contribute to of fices around the world have raised over On 8 April 2005 it was decided that ICAP the communities in which it operates and to 21million.
Many charities have received would exercise its option to satisfy respect the needs of customers, significant donations enabling them to 2.3 million $4.3 million of the final shareholders, staff and suppliers.
continue their valuable work without deferred consideration payment in respect incurring the costs of fundraising.
Among of the First Brokers acquisition in cash ICAP endeavours to comply with the laws, them were two of the charities that are rather than shares.
regulations and rules applicable to its focusing on the long-ter m redevelopment in business and to conduct its business in Asia following the Tsunami disaster: CARE The Group is in the process of completing a accordance with established best practice International to assist children affected by $225million subordinated debt private in each of the countries in which it the disaster in Indonesia and Medical Aid to placement.
The Group aims to be a Sri Lanka.
Further infor mation can be found responsible employer and adopt values and on the Companys website www.
Further infor mation is given in note 33 to standards designed to help guide our staff the Financial Statements.
in their conduct and business relationships.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to employment Results and dividends Employee involvement and employment policies that follow best practice and of fers The results of the Group for the year are set practices opportunities for employment, training and out in the consolidated profit and loss The Group is committed to achieving the career development and promotion based account on page 42.
The directors highest standards in its workplace.
The on individual abilities, regardless of gender, recommend a final dividend of 6.4 pence policies and practices in place within the race, national origin, disability, age, sexual per share which, together with the interim Group to deter acts of harassment and orientation, or religious or political beliefs.
dividend of 1.85 pence per share already discrimination are regularly monitored.
The declared, makes a total for the year ended Group maintains a zero tolerance policy Health and safety 31 March 2005 of 8.25 pence per share.
concerning sexual harassment, The Company has a health and safety policy 2004 7.4p.
Details of the interim discrimination and retaliation against approved by the board and a Heath and dividend payment are set out in note 10 to individuals who report problems in the Safety Committee, chaired by the Group the Financial Statements.
These topics are Company Secretary, that meets quarterly.
approval at the Annual General Meeting the covered in the training of all US employees.
The board is committed to providing for the final dividend will be paid on 26 August All managers in the UK take part in health, safety and welfare of all its 2005 to shareholders on the Register on externally managed diversity training employees and to maintaining standards at 29 July 2005 ex-dividend date being courses which cover discussions on the least equal to the best practice in the 27 July 2005.
After allowing for the expected and acceptable standards of financial services industry.
payment of the proposed dividend, the profit conduct and behaviour for employees.
for the year transferred to reserves was Environment 31.7 million.
The Group recognises the value of Recognising that the Groups operations are communication with employees at all levels themselves of minimal environmental Directors and directors interests and incentive schemes and share impact, ICAPs policy is to operate, as far Biographical details of the directors who ownership schemes are run for the benefit as practicable, environmentally friendly held of fice throughout the year, with the of employees.
Infor mation on these policies and meet the statutory exception of Paul Zucker man who retired on schemes is set out in the Remuneration requirements placed on the Group.
14 July 2004, are given on pages 22 and Committee Report on page 35.
23 and also in the notice of the Annual 24 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 Various control measures have been At the Annual General Meeting held on Creditor payment policy implemented and, in the UK head of fice 14 July 2004, the Company was given The Groups policy with regard to the where more than 1,000 employees are authority to purchase up to 57,829,625 payment of its suppliers is to agree the based, an environmental management ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
This ter ms of payment at the start of business system is in place for lighting and air authority will expire at the conclusion of the with each supplier, ensure that the conditioning controlled by a supervisory PC Annual General Meeting to be held on suppliers are made aware of the ter ms of utilising the latest software.
Time 13 July 2005. payments and pay in accordance with its programmes within the software allow for all contractual and legal obligations.
The units to be switched of f when not required, Annual General Meeting Company does not have any trade creditors.
The use of The seventh Annual General Meeting of the presence detectors for light fittings ensure Company will be held on Wednesday, Political donations an ener gy ef ficient method of control.
The Notice of Meeting is set In the UK the board approved a donation to Regular planned maintenance is carried out out on pages 82 to 85.
V ote No of 11,684 2004 10,000 to to ensure that all units are working at their Business for Sterling.
The Company promotes In addition to the ordinary business of a paper recycling regime with a collection voting upon receiving the Financial Share capital being made weekly in the UK.
Statements, declaring a dividend, the During the first half of the financial year the re-election of directors, the re-appointment Company purchased for cancellation The landlords of the Broadgate building are of auditors and the setting of the auditors 7,920,000 ICAP plc ordinary shares of responsible for heating, ener gy consumption remuneration, the following special 10 pence each at an average price of and ventilation.
The heating system is business will be considered: 217 pence per share.
This represented operational during the winter months and 1.29% of the issued share capital and was controlled according to outside temperature.
Resolution 9 will be proposed as an not part of a continuing programme.
Gas consumption is minimal and electricity Ordinary Resolution to approve the usage is monitored through an ener gy Remuneration Committee Report.
Changes in share capital consumption meter.
All changes in share capital are detailed in Resolution 10 will be proposed as an note 23 to the Financial Statements.
As at In the US Harborside of fice where more Ordinary Resolution.
It is to authorise the 31 March 2005, options existed over than 800 employees are based, the directors to allot ordinary shares of the 21,454,356 of the Companys ordinary landlords are responsible for heating and Company to an amount equal to shares of 10 pence each in relation to ventilation which are monitored by a approximately one third of the existing employee share option schemes.
Of this building management system which controls issued share capital.
figure 6,127,369 are options over existing the supply to each area.
Lighting is shares which are held in Trust and the controlled by a centralised low voltage relay Resolution 11 will be proposed as a Special remainder are expected to be satisfied by system allowing each lighting zone to be Resolution.
It is to empower the directors to new issues of shares.
Changes in options programmed specifically to its allot ordinary shares, otherwise than on a under the various schemes are detailed in corresponding areas hours of operation.
pro-rata basis to existing shareholders in note 24 to the Financial Statements.
connection with any future rights issue or grant rights over shares or sell treasury shares for cash, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,027,532 being Substantial shareholdings approximately 5% in value of the existing As at 17 May 2005, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or issued share capital at 31 March 2005 and more in its issued ordinary share capital: 4.99% of the issued share capital at 29 April 2005.
Number of ordinary % of ordinary shares held shares held The authorities in Resolutions 10 and 11 Mr & Mrs Michael Spencer, together last for periods of one year each, in accordance with institutional guidelines.
The with INCAP Finance B. V. and directors have no present intention of IPGL Limited 131,816,360 21.769 exercising these authorities.
It is nor mal for Fidelity Investments 42,186,2466.967 boards of listed companies to have these Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 30,481,444 5.034 authorities in order to take advantage of Legal and General Group plc 23,262,7123.842 market opportunities as they arise.
Jupiter Asset Management Limited 18,585,889 3.025 HBOS plc 18,314,474 3.069 Resolution 12 will be proposed as a Special Resolution.
It will empower the Company to Mr and Mrs Michael Spencer own approximately 55.10% of IPGL which in turn owns 100% of purchase its own ordinary shares by market INFBV.
Accordingly, Mr and Mrs Spencer are deemed by Schedule 13 of the Companies Act 1985 purchases not exceeding approximately 10% to be interested in all the shares held by IPGL 5,223,855 and INFBV 125,545,705 respectively.
A Trust fund of which their children are beneficiaries holds a further 50,000 shares of the Companys issued share capital as at and Michael Spencer holds 996,800 shares in his own name.
The maximum and minimum Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 25 Directors Report prices are stated in the resolution.
The Details on electronic proxy voting can be concerns.
For this reason they continue to directors believe that it is advantageous for found in the Notice of the Annual General adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Company to continue to have this Meeting on pages 82 to 85. these financial statements.
flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
In the event that shares are Auditors By order of the board purchased, they would either be cancelled  LLP were and the number of shares in issue would re-appointed auditors to the Company on be reduced accordingly or, subject to the 14 July 2004.
Resolutions to re-appoint Companies Acquisition of Own Shares  LLP and to Helen Broomfield Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the authorise the directors to set their Group Company Secretary Regulations which came into force on remuneration will be proposed.
Note 5 to 1 December 2003, retained as treasury the Financial Statements sets out details of 23 May 2005 shares with a view to possible re-sale at a the auditors remuneration.
future date rather than having to cancel them.
The Company would consider holding Statement of directors responsibilities for repurchased shares pursuant to the the Financial Statements authority conferred by this resolution as The directors are required by the treasury shares.
This would give the Companies Act 1985 to prepare Financial Company the ability to re-issue treasury Statements for each accounting period that shares quickly and cost ef fectively and give a true and fair view of the state of would provide the Company with additional affairs of the Company and Group as at the flexibility in the management of its capital end of the financial year and of the profit or base.
The directors would exercise this loss of the Group for the year.
The directors authority only if they were satisfied that a confir m that suitable accounting policies purchase would result in an increase in have been used and applied consistently expected earnings per share and would be and reasonable and prudent judgements in the interests of shareholders generally.
and estimates have been made in the There is no present intention of exercising preparation of the Financial Statements for this authority and the authority given in the the year ended 31 March 2005.
The resolution will expire at the conclusion of directors also confir m that applicable United the Annual General Meeting to be held in Kingdom Accounting Standards have been 2006. followed.
Resolutions 13 and 14 will be proposed as The directors are responsible for keeping Ordinary Resolutions to approve the making proper accounting records which disclose of political donations and incurring of with reasonable accuracy the financial political expenditure by the Company and its position of the Company and of the Group, subsidiary Garban-Intercapital Management for taking reasonable steps to safeguard Services Limited of up to an aggregate the Groups assets and to prevent and amount of 100,000 in the period to the detect fraud and other irregularities.
Companys Annual General Meeting to be held in 2006.
The Political Parties, The maintenance and integrity of the Elections and Referendums Act 2000, Companys website is the responsibility of contains restrictions on companies making the directors: the work carried out by the donations to EU political or ganisations or auditors does not involve consideration of incurring EU political expenditure without these matters and, accordingly, the auditors prior shareholder approval.
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Resolution 15 will be proposed as a Special Statements since they were initially Resolution to amend the Articles of presented on the website.
Legislation in the Association by deleting the current Article United Kingdom governing the preparation 164 and replacing it with a new Article 164 and dissemination of Financial Statements to bring it into line with the Companies may dif fer from legislation in other Audit, Investigations and Community jurisdictions.
Enterprise Act 2004 which came into force on 6 April 2005 which allow companies to Going concern provide directors and of ficers with more The directors are satisfied that the protection from potential liabilities and the Company and the Group have adequate cost of defending proceedings.
resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future and confir m that the Company and the Group are going 26 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005
