Group Profile ICAP is the worlds lar gest inter dealer broker with an average daily transaction volume in excess of $1 trillion, 50% of which is electronic.
The Group is active in the wholesale markets for OTC derivatives, fixed income securities, money market products, foreign exchange, ener gy, credit and equity derivatives.
Global markets ICAP has created a power ful combination: n demand for significant deficit financing in With 2,900 staff, ICAP has a strong the worlds lar gest voice and electronic many of the G7 countries: presence in each of the three major interdealer broker.
There is growing demand n increased issuance in the corporate bond financial markets, London, New Y ork and for electronic broking of liquid products, and mortgage backed securities markets: T okyo, together with a local presence in which is complementary to voice broking of n shifts in foreign exchange rates: and 20 other financial centres.
more bespoke, less liquid products.
The n changes in the demand for commodities majority of the markets in which ICAP such as oil, coal and gas.
The role of the interdealer broker operates rely on, and will continue to rely ICAP provides a specialist inter mediary on, voice broking skills.
ICAPs version of The strong growth exhibited in the credit broking service to commercial banks and electronic broking naturally complements and the interest rate markets clearly investment banks in the wholesale financial voice broking and in most markets underscores the benefits these products markets.
An interdealer broker works in combines voice and or electronic access to provide as financial risk management tools.
these markets to draw together liquidity and a common pool of liquidity.
This combined The credit default swap market, for to match buyers and sellers so that deals solution provides customers with both voice example, has been ef fective at can be executed by its banking customers.
redistributing risk away from the banking Banks pay a commission when they use a system to other institutions such as broker to complete a deal.
The wholesale financial markets insurance companies and pension funds, ICAP is an interdealer broker in the over the facilitating a transfer of credit risk out of the ICAP of fers banks significant economies of counter OTC markets for derivatives, fixed banking system.
scale in price discovery by having a number income securities, money market products, of staff covering each product and is in foreign exchange, ener gy, credit and equity There are two types of derivative market, constant contact with a range of derivatives.
These markets are used by which operate in parallel: the OTC market counterparties.
Access to a broker therefore financial institutions and others to manage and the exchange-traded futures market.
allows a bank to increase market coverage their exposure to risk, including credit, Significant trading opportunities exist in busy times without incurring additional interest rate and exchange rate risks, and between these closely related markets overheads.
In many markets ICAP operates they have grown significantly in recent years which both grew at the same rapid pace as an agent or matched principal broker driven by: between 1995 and 2004. providing banks with the opportunity to deal anonymously through a neutral party at the n volatility in medium ter m interest rates: most attractive price available.
n increased allocation of capital for trading and position taking by the banks and hedge funds: Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 01
