05 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 INVESTMENT MAINTAINING OUR PLANT Put simply, the three imperatives for the business are world-class nuclear operations, financial stability and life extensions.
BILL COLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE stage of PiP.
The investment phase, which we commenced this year, At 30 June 2005, we had fixed price contracts in place for is designed to improve plant reliability through strategic investment.
approximately three quarters of planned output for the year Investment will bring improvements but the full extent will not be ending 31 March 2006 at an average contract price of seen until completion of the investment phase in 2007 08.
This is discussed in more detail on page 10.
Our plan for the year ending 31 March 2006 for investment in plant, I am grateful to our stakeholders for their support and projects and strategic spares, including costs associated with PiP, understanding during this testing period for all concerned is unchanged at 230m to 250m.
We will continue to pursue life extensions for our nuclear power I am also immensely grateful to our dedicated staff who continue to stations.
The first of these decisions is with respect to Dungeness demonstrate their commitment to our Company and the enthusiasm B.
The technical and commercial work is progressing well and a and drive to achieve world-class nuclear operations.
decision is expected to be made in the autumn.
Nuclear output for the year was 59.8 TWh.
This is below what our nuclear power stations will be capable of delivering if PiP is successfully completed and we are dedicated to ensuring that it is.
We will not pursue short-term gain in output at the expense of completing the investment required to make our plants perform BILL COLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE reliably, in line with world-class operational performance.
Accordingly, we expect the average annual nuclear output over the next two years to be 63 TWh.
Nuclear output for the quarter ended 30 June 2005 was 15.7 TWh.
Output from our coal-fired plant was 1.7 TWh for the same period.
Output for the quarter is in line with plan.
The wholesale market forward price for baseload electricity has risen significantly in recent months and continues to show considerable volatility.
We have benefited from the recent rise in power prices, however, contracts for the remainder of our planned output for the current year will fix throughout the year and thus are subject to market movements in electricity prices.
06 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 REVIEW OF OPERATING PERFORMANCE BILL COLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE IMPROVEMENT THROUGH INVESTMENT We have had significant success in establishing and embedding BUSINESS FOCUS a consistent set of processes relating to management of work in OUR BUSINESS our nuclear power stations.
As a result, we have seen a significant We supply around one-fifth of the UKs electricity requirements.
We reduction in our non-outage defect backlog, beyond our stretch have eight nuclear power stations.
Seven are powered by Advanced target for the year.
Gas-cooled Reactors AGR, the eighth is powered by the UKs sole Pressurised Water Reactor PWR.
We also have one coal-fired We have now started an effectiveness review process across all power station which provides flexible generation.
Across the Group areas of PiP, to ensure that the improvements introduced are we employ around 5,400 staff.
Our electricity is sold through a effective and sustainable.
Over the coming year we will integrate number of routes including our direct supply business, which is now the lessons learned from PiP into the line organisation.
one of the leading suppliers to the UK industrial and commercial sector.
In recognition of the work carried out on change management, we were short-listed for a Manufacturing Excellence Award from the WORLD-CLASS NUCLEAR OPERATIONS Institute of Mechanical Engineers.
During the year we continued to implement PiP with the aim of improving the reliability of our nuclear power stations and reducing Sizewell B hosted a follow-up review with WANO in June 2005 at the level of unplanned nuclear losses.
The programme has six main which the WANO team leaders indicated that the long-standing trend areas: foundation organisation, people, leadership and culture in declining performance levels at our nuclear power stations had change, training, human performance, equipment reliability, been stopped and noted visible signs of improvement in most areas management of work and operational focus.
The focus for the past of previous concern.
year has been on improvements relating to people and processes in each of these areas.
FINANCIAL STABILITY Our ability to take advantage of market conditions is impacted by Over the year we have developed and implemented a new the requirement to post collateral in the absence of an investment organisational structure.
We have also created assessment and grade credit rating.
We expect this to improve as cash balances development centres for senior staff and introduced new station increase through time.
However, in the short term, we aim to management structures.
We have recruited 415 staff a net improve financial stability through improved trading risk increase of 181 to enhance operational skills throughout management and greater use of financial products to minimise the organisation.
Training is a key part of PiP and we have the impact of collateral requirements.
No change in our credit rating strengthened our processes as a result.
is expected in the near term.
Any improvement will require us to demonstrate, amongst other things, sustained improvements in Development of managers has continued through the provision of the reliability of our power stations over time.
on-site coaching support and the use of action learning groups.
We have educated managers on how to encourage positive behaviour, LIFE EXTENSIONS reinforce standards and expectations, and promote the use of error We are continuing to pursue life extensions for our nuclear power reduction tools in order to encourage the best possible performance stations.
This will require technical and commercial evaluations from our staff.
Managers are expected to spend time in the field and we expect to complete these at least three years in advance of every week observing and coaching staff.
This has had a positive the planned decommissioning date for each of our nuclear power effect on many of our key performance indicators including lost stations.
The work for Dungeness B is progressing well and we time accidents, nuclear reportable events and unplanned automatic expect to make a decision regarding its life extension in the reactor trips.
To address equipment reliability issues we have formed an Asset Planning and Investment group API.
The API and associated NUCLEAR GENERATION processes will enable more effective investment and support Nuclear output for the post-RED trading period was 14.3 TWh.
the planned increase in investment in our plants.
We are also Nuclear output for the year was 59.8 TWh against a revised target creating System Health Departments at each station to further of 59.5 TWh, down from 65.0 TWh in the previous year.
A requirement for significant additional work was identified during We have also completed the roll-out of a comprehensive Corrective the statutory outages on one reactor at each of Heysham 1 and Action Programme CAP across the nuclear fleet.
The subsequent planned shutdown of the second enables identification and rectification of issues concerning people, reactor at Hartlepool and the unplanned shutdown of Heysham 1s plant and processes and is identified by many US nuclear plant second reactor resulted in extended outages at all four of these operators as being a key factor in driving performance improvement.
