07 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 SAFETY IMPROVED TRAINING TO SUPPORT SAFE, RELIABLE GENERATION We always put safety before commercial gain and nuclear safety is paramount.
Our improvements in key safety performance indicators reflect a stronger focus, with clearer accountabilities and increased effort to tackle the root causes of accidents.
BILL COLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE reactors.
This was necessary to undertake not only planned cast We plan to carry out six outages in the year ending 31 March 2006, iron pipework replacement works but also the inspection of boiler including the statutory outage at Sizewell B which commenced in closure units and to address emergent fire and flood safety case March 2005. requirements.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS All four units returned to service at the end of December 2004, During the statutory outage inspection at one unit at Heysham 1 in although a subsequent turbine blade failure at Heysham 1 at the May 2005 we identified a further issue relating to the potential for end of January resulted in one unit being shut down until early April stress corrosion cracking of primary holding down bolts.
2005 while repairs were carried out.
The resultant loss of output in the year from these unplanned outages was 7.4 TWh.
As a result we have undertaken further inspection work, both on the unit at Heysham 1 and one unit at Hartlepool which is of a The years best performing power station by unit capability factor similar design, as a result of which the return to service of the unit was Sizewell B with a total output of 9.1 TWh a unit capability at Heysham 1, but not the unit at Hartlepool, has been delayed by factor of 88%.
Hinkley Point had the highest output for the year around a month.
We intend to continue work programmes to inspect with a total of 9.3 TWh a unit capability factor of 87%.
The rolling the integrity of the bolts at two other units, one at Heysham 1 three-year performance achieved by Dungeness B was its best ever.
Further outages may be required to address this issue.
NUCLEAR GENERATION OUTPUT BY STATION 2004 05 TWh As a result of the graphite brick inspections at Hartlepool we have increased the frequency of our inspections of the graphite cores Hinkley Point 9.3 affected and are required to undertake and develop further safety Sizewell B 9.1 cases in conjunction with the NII.
Torness 8.3 Hunterston 8.3 In April 2005 we were advised of an incident at British Nuclear Heysham 2 8.2 Groups BNG a subsidiary of BNFL Thermal Oxide Reprocessing Dungeness B 6.5 Plant which reprocesses spent fuel from our AGR power stations.
Heysham 1 5.1 BNG have assured us that the necessary steps will be taken to Hartlepool 5.0 maintain continuity of AGR spent fuel receipts at Sellafield.
Unplanned Capability Loss Factor UCLF is one of our most SAFETY OVERVIEW significant performance indicators.
The average UCLF of our nuclear We are continuing to maintain a high profile for safety and, stations over the year was 18%, up from 13% in the previous year, together with the protection of the environment, it will continue largely due to the unplanned losses at Hartlepool and Heysham 1. to be a fundamental priority of the Company.
The changes to our This must be reduced substantially to achieve top tier performance.
organisational structure are designed to enhance accountability for every aspect of our safety performance.
AVERAGE UCLF NUCLEAR STATIONS % NUCLEAR SAFETY The International Nuclear Event Scale INES is the standard scale 04 05 18 for communicating the significance of nuclear safety events.
In 03 04 13 the year the number of reportable events was 47, a significant 02 03 13 decrease from the 77 in the previous year.
None of these events 01 02 11 were rated higher than Level 1 the lowest point of the scale.
Such 00 01 12 events are classed as minor operating incidents with no impact on staff or the general public.
In addition to the role played by PiP, We completed four statutory outages in the year with a further an important contribution to this improvement has come from the statutory outage at Sizewell B commencing in March 2005, completion of the programme to implement new operating rules and leading to a total loss of output from statutory outages of 2.9 TWh.
instructions at our AGR power stations through a procedure known A further loss of output of 3.0 TWh was attributable to refuelling.
This is the approach in use at most In addition to the loss of output from the unplanned outages at high performing nuclear plants around the world.
Heysham 1 and Hartlepool described earlier, there were further losses of potential generation from unplanned outages of 9.9 TWh.
Of these, some 6.5 TWh were due to outages of 14 days or less.
08 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 REVIEW OF OPERATING PERFORMANCE BILL COLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE IMPROVEMENT THROUGH INVESTMENT RADIOLOGICAL SAFETY All radioactive waste produced by power stations is highly regulated The collective radiation dose to workers at our stations was and controlled so as to minimise discharges and ensure they 0.03 manSv reactor in the calendar year 2004, a decrease remain within authorised limits.
During the course of the year none from the collective radiation dose of 0.09 manSv reactor in the of our stations exceeded the relevant Radioactive Substances Act 1 th prior calendar year.
This represents approximately 25 authorised discharge limits and the highest potential radiation dose of the worldwide median of the operators contributing to WANO to any member of the public from our stations remained very low and places us within the top 10% of performers in this respect.
at least 50 times less than the average UK dose from natural radiation.
INDUSTRIAL SAFETY We encourage the reporting of accidents, including those where no However, an event at Sizewell B in September 2004 resulted in injury resulted.
the Environment Agency issuing an enforcement notice under the Radioactive Substances Act 1993, for failure to maintain and We have put significant effort into improving the investigation and keep in good repair the system for discharging a waste stream.
analysis of all accidents to identify root causes and opportunities This event did not result in an impact on the environment but did for improvement.
indicate procedural shortfalls which we are now addressing.
Using the Environment Agencys classification scheme, there were no In order to ensure health and safety issues are raised and events within British Energy during the year which could be classed addressed we consult regularly with our workforce and contractors.
as incidents resulting in actual harm.
This is achieved through meetings of the Health and Safety ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS No.
Committee both at corporate and site level, team safety meetings, workforce questionnaires and observation tours.
04 05 15 During the year our accident frequency rate for nuclear generation 03 04 was 0.22 per 200,000 man-hours of operation, a significant 02 03 decrease from 0.53 per 200,000 man-hours in the previous year.
01 02 There was also a considerable reduction in lost-time accidents 00 01 involving either employees or contractors working on our nuclear sites to 22, from 41 in the previous year.
We also saw a reduction in lost-time accidents at Eggborough involving either staff or contractors from seven to four in the POWER AND ENERGY TRADING last year.
Sadly, however, as reported on page 2, there was MARKET CONDITIONS an accident at Eggborough in July 2005 where one of our Electricity prices in the UK wholesale market reached an all-time contractors lost his life.
high during the year, driven up by high oil and gas prices and concerns in the market over the ability of gas supplies to meet demand at peak times.
Both spot and forward power prices have LOST TIME ACCIDENTS NUCLEAR No.
also been very volatile throughout the year.
04 05 22 Gas prices continue to be a key influence on the electricity market.
03 04 41 In autumn 2004, National Grid Transco plc highlighted a risk that 02 03 38 there might be insufficient gas to meet power station demand in the event of a cold winter.
This contributed to a sharp rise in gas and 01 02 57 power prices for winter 2005 and 2006.
Although temperatures in 00 01 53 winter 2004 were above long-term averages, relatively cold weather at the end of February, coupled with reduced gas supply, triggered ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE exceptionally high spot prices for both gas and power.
Worldwide We have taken a number of steps during the year to improve our demand for coal has remained strong, keeping coal prices in the environmental performance and regulatory compliance, including range $60$80 tonne for delivery to European ports.
strengthening central and station environmental organisation and embarking on a major programme of improvements to procedures at our power stations.
