45 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Directors present their report and the audited Group financial During the period the Group spent 3m on research and statements for the period from incorporation on 2 July 2004 to development and these costs have been classified within Materials 31 March 2005 period ended 31 March 2005. and Services.
This is primarily scientific and engineering research activity that is directed towards securing further improvements in GROUP RESTRUCTURING the reliability, performance and safety of its generating business On 14 January 2005, British Energy Group plc acquired British and related activities.
Energy plc and consequently became the new holding company of the Group.
British Energy plc was re-registered as a private limited DIRECTORS company and re-named British Energy Limited.
On 17 January 2005 Information required under the provisions of the Companies Acts British Energy Group plcs shares and warrants were admitted to regarding the remuneration and share options of Directors, the the official list of the London Stock Exchange.
The Restructuring interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital has been accounted for on an acquisition basis, and therefore the of the Company and Directors service contracts is detailed in the Group profit and loss account includes the results of the Acquired Remuneration Committee Report on pages 38 to 44.
Group only from the date of acquisition of 14 January 2005.
POLICY ON PAYMENT OF CREDITORS Further details of the Restructuring are set out in the Restructuring The Companys policy is to settle the terms of payment with Section on pages 28 and 29. suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms and to abide by the PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES, REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS agreed terms.
British Energy Group plc had no trade creditors at The Groups principal activities are the generation and sale of 31 March 2005 and the Group had trade creditors of 129m at electricity.
The Review of Operating Performance on pages 4 to 10 31 March 2005.
During the post-RED trading period, suppliers to and the Financial Review on pages 11 to 24 review the Groups the Group were paid within an average of 68 days.
For the purpose business performance during the financial period and its future of this analysis supplier purchases exclude payments to BNFL, the prospects.
The Group will publish a separate Corporate Social Groups principal supplier, which are generally made against an Responsibility Report including health, safety and environmental agreed contract profile.
data on its website later this year.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS SHARE CAPITAL The Group made charitable donations during the period of 58,583 Details of British Energy Group plcs share capital are included in in support of the community.
No political donations were made note 25. during the period.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The consolidated results for the Group are set out in the Group Profit and Loss Account on page 48.
The Board has decided that no dividend will be payable for the period.
The profit for the period of 35m has been transferred to reserves.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 27 July 2005 the Company had been notified of the following interests in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: B J Stark Esq 5.4% Deutsche Bank 14.3% Duquesne Capital Management LLC 3.0% Fidelity Investments 3.1% Invesco Asset Management 6.1% Legal and General Investment Management 3.0% M&G Investment Management 4.9% Schroder Investment Management 5.4% The Company is not aware of any other interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company of 3% or more.
46 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 EMPLOYEES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Group is committed to involving employees in the business Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements through a policy of communication and consultation.
Arrangements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state have been established for the regular provision of information to all of affairs of the Group and the Company, and of the results of the employees through briefings, staff conferences and well-established Group and Company, for that period.
A statement by the Directors formal consultation procedures.
on Corporate Governance matters is set out in a separate report on pages 32 to 37.
The Group is committed to its equal opportunities policies, which includes promoting training and career development In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: for all employees.
Full and fair consideration for all vacancies and opportunities will be given to men and women, people with select suitable accounting policies and then apply them disabilities and those from ethnic minorities, regardless of marital consistently: status, age, religion or sexual orientation.
The policy is supported make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and by a Code of Practice on harassment that recognises that all prudent: employees have the right to be treated with dignity and respect.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and AUDITORS explained in the financial statements: and  LLP were appointed as auditors of the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Company and they have indicated their willingness to continue in unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue office and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed in business.
at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above AGM requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Companys AGM will be held at the Murrayfield Stadium Conference Centre on 15 September 2005 at 11.00am.
A letter The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records from the Chairman detailing the business to be considered at which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial the meeting, together with a Notice of Meeting, accompanies position of the Company and Group and to enable them to ensure this Report.
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of CAPITAL REDUCTION the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps On 25 January 2005 the Court approved a reduction of British for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Energy Group plcs share premium account from 737m to nil, thereby creating distributable reserves of 737m.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
The information published on the website has been prepared under United Kingdom company law and may not be in accordance with the legal requirements of other countries from which the information can be accessed.
This Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 July 2005 and signed on its behalf by: ROBERT ARMOUR, COMPANY SECRETARY
