09 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 TRADING OPTIMISING VALUE FROM OUR TRADING ACTIVITIES Our direct sales to industrial and commercial customers have continued to grow, building on our reputation for excellent service.
Industrial and commercial customers continue to rate us number one in customer satisfaction surveys.
BILL COLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE The forward price for annual baseload electricity for 2005 06 DIRECT SALES TO CUSTOMERS delivery rose from around 24.5 MWh in March 2004 to over Volume equivalent to almost half of our generation was sold directly 35.0 MWh by the end of March 2005, an increase of over 40%.
to industrial and commercial customers in the year.
Total direct Concerns over a potential shortfall in winter peak gas supply sales for the year were 31.4 TWh, up approximately 7% from contributed to a rise in the price for delivery for the year from 29.2 TWh in 2003 04.
We now have over 2,000 customers and October 2005 to over 37.0 MWh in early October 2004.
As are supplying over 15,000 sites across Great Britain.
We have at 30 June 2005, the price for delivery from October 2005 had continued to hold number one ranking in the quarterly customer subsequently risen to over 49.0 MWh.
satisfaction survey of industrial and commercial customers carried out by the Energy Information Centre, a position we have now held TRADING STRATEGY for over five years.
We also regained the top ranking for customer We have continued to follow a prudent trading strategy, in line satisfaction in Datamonitors six-monthly survey, reported in March with commitments made in the prospectus we issued in November 2005, against strong competition from other suppliers.
Our direct 2004 the Prospectus, in order to reduce the Groups exposure supply business was transferred to a new subsidiary company, to potential falls in the market price of electricity.
Our routes to British Energy Direct Limited BEDL, on 1 April 2005 fulfilling one market include direct sales to industrial and commercial customers, of the State Aid conditions discussed in more detail on page 29. contracting in the wholesale market, together with sales of BEDL is licensed to supply non-domestic customers throughout balancing and ancillary services to National Grid Company plc.
Our contracted price position continues to include the impact of EGGBOROUGH a number of fixed and capped price contracts entered into at a Output from our coal-fired power station at Eggborough was 7.6 TWh time when significantly lower market prices prevailed.
The contract during the year, unchanged from the prior year.
Eggborough is portfolio also includes profiled contracts both wholesale and direct operated primarily as a flexible mid-merit plant and its output level sales and therefore the contracted price is not directly comparable is influenced by a number of factors including the market prices of to a baseload market price.
In a period of rising prices, selling forward generally results in a Recently, evidence of turbine blade cracking was found in two units realised price that is less than market outturn prices.
With minor repairs to one unit and modification proportion of our output is contracted at variable prices and hence of the second during the current outages, these units should be reflects outturn prices.
We also take advantage of the differential returned to service shortly at slightly reduced output.
Inspection between peak and baseload prices in deciding when to operate our of the remaining similar turbine on a third unit should also be coal-fired plant.
TRADING DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME The capability has been developed at Eggborough for co-firing coal We have now completed our Trading Development Programme.
with various forms of organic matter biomass which qualify for We have developed sophisticated plant performance and reliability co-fired Renewable Obligation Certificates ROCs.
models to assist in decisions over the optimum running of our plant and improved risk monitoring policies and procedures.
We have On 1 January 2005, the European Unions Emissions Trading also made major changes to develop communications and interface Scheme ETS came into effect.
From that date, all installations arrangements between our generation, trading and direct supply included in the scheme must have a permit to emit greenhouse activities to enhance business performance.
gases and will be required to submit allowances on an annual 2 basis to cover their emissions of CO.
Initial allowances have been REALISED PRICE allocated by the Government according to a National Allocation Plan Our realised price which is calculated by dividing turnover, net of which was approved by the European Commission.
In the National energy supply costs and miscellaneous and exceptional income, Allocation Plan published by the Government and approved by the by total output for the year was 20.4 MWh, an increase of European Commission, Eggborough has been granted an allocation 2 approximately 20% compared with a realised price of 16.9 MWh of 4.54 million tonnes of CO allowances under the ETS for each in 2003 04.
We benefited from higher market prices, however, of the calendar years 2005, 2006 and 2007 equivalent to output of this was offset by certain historic power contracts and the approximately 5 TWh per annum.
The cost of carbon is factored into consequences of a number of unplanned outages.
Imbalance our decisions over the economic running of Eggborough.
costs were incurred together with market purchases at short notice and at higher prices to cover lost generation from these unplanned outages.
10 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 REVIEW OF OPERATING PERFORMANCE BILL COLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE IMPROVEMENT THROUGH INVESTMENT Eggboroughs future output will also be affected by the Large The market price of CO allowances has risen since the beginning 2 Combustion Plant Directive LCPD, which sets limits on the of 2005, and reached over 15 tonne of CO on 1 April 2005 and 2 emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulates from 25 tonne at 30 June 2005, increasing the cost of marginal coal fossil-fuel power stations from 2008.
Flue Gas Desulphurisation and gas generation.
FGD equipment has been fitted to Units 3 and 4 at Eggborough in order to comply with the requirements of the LCPD.
A performance RECENT DEVELOPMENTS problem emerged during commissioning tests on the FGD On 1 April 2005, the British Electricity Transmission and Trading equipment in 2004.
Remedial works have now been completed and Arrangements BETTA were brought in to include Scotland in the further tests are being carried out.
Units 1 and 2 have been opted existing market arrangements for England and Wales.
As a result out from the LCPD requirements subject to resolution of certain our traded portfolio now includes output from our two Scottish issues of interpretation between the Government and the European stations.
The historic contractual arrangement for the sale of our Commission.
These include a question over whether a plant will be Scottish output, known as the Nuclear Energy Agreement, came to treated as a whole power station or as individual generating units, an end when BETTA was implemented.
Under BETTA, National Grid of which Eggborough has four.
The European Commissions decision Company plc has responsibility for operating and balancing the may have an impact on the future life of the station.
As a result, the transmission system across Great Britain.
Revised charging deadline for any decision to reverse the LCPD opt-out for Units 1 arrangements for access to the transmission network were and 2 has been deferred by six months, to 31 December 2005. introduced at the same time.
OUTLOOK FOR 2005 06 In June 2005 the European Commission launched an inquiry into As at 30 June 2005, fixed price contracts were in place for competition in gas and electricity markets focusing on how prices approximately three-quarters of planned output for the year ending are set.
An interim report is expected at the end of 2005 with the 31 March 2006 at an average contracted price of 29.8 MWh.
This main results to follow in 2006. price excludes the impact of higher prices that might be achieved as a result of running Eggborough to take advantage of the differential between peak and baseload prices.
This price also excludes Balancing Services Use of System and other electricity market participation charges of around 0.7 MWh, market costs incurred through output variation and unreliability expected to be around 1.0 MWh, and the impact of capped price arrangements of approximately 5 TWh at around 30.0 MWh.
We intend to BILL COLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE progressively close out our exposure to market prices for 2005 06 and to build our hedge position for 2006 07 subject to limits on trading collateral.
