28 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 RESTRUCTURING We completed our Restructuring on 14 January this year and shares was highly unlikely that there would have been any return to in British Energy Group plc, the Groups new parent company, British Energy plc shareholders.
started trading on the London Stock Exchange on 17 January 2005.
REQUISITIONED EGM AND DELISTING OF BRITISH ENERGY PLCS ORDINARY The Restructuring involved the holders of British Energy plcs SHARES, A SHARES AND AMERICAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS guaranteed bonds the Bondholders, the banking syndicate On 3 September 2004 two groups of shareholders, together who provided project finance for Eggborough power station holding 10.22% of British Energy plcs ordinary shares Polygon the Eggborough Banks, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS and Brandes, requisitioned an extraordinary general meeting of the and certain significant creditors all of whom later transferred Company the Requisitioned EGM.
We were, as a result, obliged their interests to Deutsche Bank the Significant Creditors under the Companies Act 1985 to call the Requisitioned EGM.
compromising their claims against the British Energy Group in One of the resolutions proposed by Polygon and Brandes would exchange for, amongst other things, the issue to those creditors have had the effect, if passed, of requiring the Company to seek of new bonds issued by British Energy Holdings plc a wholly-owned shareholder approval prior to applying for the cancellation of its subsidiary of the Company New Bonds and new ordinary shares listings in London and New York.
If we had subsequently been of the Company New Shares.
required, under the terms of the Creditor Restructuring Agreement, to take steps to cancel the London listings of our shares, but As a part of the implementation of the Restructuring the could not have done so as a result of a failure to achieve such Bondholders and RBS compromised their claims through a shareholder approval, the Company believed, having taken legal court-approved scheme of arrangement under section 425 of advice, that it would have been likely to have been in breach of the Companies Act 1985.
The Significant Creditors extinguished the Creditor Restructuring Agreement.
all, and the Eggborough Banks extinguished part, of their claims against the Group pursuant to various arrangements under the Subsequently, after the notice to shareholders convening the Creditor Restructuring Agreement entered into on 30 September Requisitioned EGM had been issued, Polygon announced that 2003 and related documents which laid out the agreed terms it would withdraw its support for, and would vote against the of the Restructuring with Creditors.
resolutions proposed at the Requisitioned EGM, and not further oppose the Restructuring.
The Requisitioned EGM took place on In order to implement the Restructuring, British Energy plc cancelled 22 October 2004 and all of the resolutions were defeated.
its ordinary and A shares, and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of British Energy Holdings plc by means of a court-approved scheme When we announced on 23 September 2004 that the Requisitioned of arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act which EGM would be held on 22 October 2004 we indicated that we would required the approval of British Energy plc shareholders.
British be applying to the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA to cancel Energy plc obtained the approval of its ordinary and A shareholders the listings of our ordinary and A shares.
As a consequence, the at meetings held on 22 December 2004.
The sanction of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE suspended trading in British court was obtained on 14 January 2005.
British Energy plc was Energy plcs American Depository Receipts ADRs prior to the then re-registered as a private limited company named British commencement of trading on 28 September 2004.
At that time, Energy Limited.
the NYSE also instituted delisting proceedings.
We appealed unsuccessfully against the NYSEs decision, and our ADRs were As a result of the approval of the Members Scheme, and subject to permanently delisted.
The delisting from the NYSE does not affect certain restrictions relating to non-UK shareholders, shareholders in our status as an SEC registrant under the US Securities Exchange British Energy plc were entitled to receive New Shares and warrants Act 1934, or our periodic reporting obligations.
in the Company the warrants entitle the holder to subscribe for New Shares within five years of the Restructuring Warrants.
Since neither British Energy plc nor British Energy Group plc were able to satisfy the relevant listing criteria for the NYSE Shareholders who validly completed and returned the relevant on admission of our shares to the London Stock Exchange form s of election referred to as a Shareholder Election were referred to as Admission, no new ADRs were issued on Admission.
entitled to receive 1.0 New Shares and 2.1 Warrants in British Holders of ADRs received the New Shares and or Warrants to Energy Group plc for every 50 ordinary or A shares in British which they were entitled.
Energy plc held by them at 6.00pm on 13 January 2005.
PRINCIPAL TERMS OF THE RESTRUCTURING For those shareholders who did not make a valid Shareholder The principal elements of the Restructuring were as follows: Election, the relevant New Shares and Warrants were sold in the market at the best price reasonably obtainable and the net EGGBOROUGH ARRANGEMENTS proceeds were remitted to the relevant shareholder.
The average The Eggborough Banks were repaid approximately 37.5m pursuant price for the New Shares and Warrants sold in this way was to a Letter of Credit issued by RBS and replaced the balance of 2.55 for the New Shares and 1.62 for the Warrants.
their existing secured and unsecured claims with a right to receive 150m under an amended credit agreement the Amended Credit British Energy plc indicated in earlier annual reports and the Agreement on substantially the same payment terms as the New Prospectus, that its shareholders would suffer a very significant Bonds, together with 20m of New Bonds issued by British Energy dilution of their interests as a result of the Restructuring.
Under Holdings plc, and 13.7% of the New Shares.
the terms of the Creditors and Members Schemes shareholders received 2.5% of the issued share capital of British Energy Group In addition, the Eggborough Banks were granted an option under plc together with Warrants entitling shareholders to subscribe for which they may acquire the Eggborough Power Station in 2010 upon shares within five years from the Restructuring Effective Date.
payment of 104m subject to adjustment and the cancellation of However, it was the view of the Board that had it been unable to the outstanding payments under the Amended Credit Agreement implement the Restructuring it may have been unable to meet its at that time.
The Eggborough Banks continue to benefit from the financial obligations as they fell due, in which case it may have had security they previously held and certain new securities.
to take appropriate insolvency proceedings.
Had this happened, it 29 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 THE NUCLEAR LIABILITIES FUND STATE AID RESTRICTIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE Under new arrangements with the Secretary of State, the former On 24 September 2004, the Secretary of State received notification Nuclear Decommissioning Fund was enlarged into and renamed the from the European Commission which confirmed that the giving Nuclear Liabilities Fund or NLF, which will fund, subject to certain of State Aid in connection with the Restructuring was compatible exceptions, the Groups qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities with the Common Market.
As part of the State Aid approval, we and qualifying decommissioning costs.
The Secretary of State has have agreed with the Secretary of State to implement certain agreed to fund such liabilities and costs to the extent that they compensatory measures which will restrict our operations in a exceed the assets of the NLF and, subject to certain exceptions, number of ways.
contracted liabilities for historic spent fuel.
To the extent that there is any surplus remaining in the NLF, this amount will be paid to The State Aid approval allows the Government to fund the payment the Secretary of State.
The Group is responsible for funding certain of: a liabilities related to the cost of management of spent fuel excluded or disqualified liabilities and will, in certain circumstances, loaded into our AGR power stations prior to the Restructuring be required to compensate or indemnify the NLF and the Secretary Effective Date up to a specified level: b the costs of certain of State in relation to such liabilities.
Our obligations under these other historic liabilities: and c any shortfall of the NLF relating to arrangements with the Secretary of State are guaranteed by certain liabilities concerning decommissioning of our nuclear assets and companies in the Group.
In consideration for the assumption of these liabilities by the The key compensatory measures are that we will not, before Secretary of State and the NLF, British Energy Holdings plc issued 23 September 2010, own or acquire any rights of control over: 275m in New Bonds to the NLF.
The Group will also now make i additional operational nuclear generating capacity in the the following payments to the NLF: i an annual contribution initially European Economic Area EEA without the prior approval of the equal to 65% of the Groups adjusted net cash flow, adjusted for European Commission: or ii fossil-fuelled generating capacity certain corporate actions but never to exceed 65% the NLF Cash in the EEA or large hydroelectric generating capacity in the UK, Sweep Payment : ii fixed decommissioning contributions equal to which in aggregate exceeds a capacity of 2,020 MW.
20m per annum indexed to RPI from March 2003 but tapering off as the nuclear power stations are currently scheduled to close : and We have also been required to establish and maintain our existing iii 150,000 indexed to RPI from March 2003 for every tonne nuclear generation activities, electricity direct supply business and of uranium in PWR fuel loaded into the Sizewell B reactor after the electricity trading business in separate subsidiaries: not to allow Restructuring Effective Date.
our nuclear generation business to provide a cross-subsidy to our non-nuclear generation activities or any other business of the The NLF has the right from time to time to convert all or part Group: and not, for a period of six years, to price our direct supply of the NLF Cash Sweep Payment into convertible shares the NLF contracts below the prevailing wholesale price, save in exceptional Conversion Right.
On a full conversion, the NLF would hold up to market circumstances.
65% of the thereby enlarged equity share capital of British Energy Group plc.
However, the terms of the convertible shares include There are also certain restrictions on the conduct of our business, a limit on the voting rights attaching to such shares equal to a including our ability to pay dividends and restrictions on incurring maximum of 29.9%.
As set out in the Prospectus, for a period of expenditure, until we build up certain cash reserves.
The intention six months following Restructuring, the Secretary of State for Trade is to allow us the flexibility to continue our existing business of and Industry agreed not to direct the NLF to exercise the NLF generating and selling electricity and we are also permitted to trade Conversion Right or to dispose of any share in the Company and electricity within Europe and to decommission our nuclear power at that time also confirmed there was no current intention to direct stations or those previously owned by us.
the NLF to exercise the NLF Conversion Right following the expiry of that six month period.
This period expired on 14 July 2005 and the We do not believe that the restrictions on our expenditure under Government keeps all aspects of its financial interest in British these arrangements prohibit spending on PiP as currently Energy under regular review.
envisaged at the levels previously announced.
However, our permitted annual capital expenditure aimed principally at securing NEW BNFL CONTRACTS life extensions is limited to 20m.
This figure can be reviewed with On 31 March 2003 and 16 May 2003, we exchanged contracts DTI consent.
with BNFL covering front-end and back end AGR fuel services respectively, which became fully effective on completion of the RELATIONSHIP WITH GOVERNMENT Restructuring.
Following the completion of the Restructuring, we are required to supply information to the Secretary of State and the NLF, including The new arrangements provide an important partial hedge against providing the Secretary of State with all the information reasonably electricity market price movements on approximately 50% of the needed to monitor the financial health of the Group.
As a result of Groups total nuclear output.
The pricing provisions in the contracts these requirements, the Company has agreed to provide both the are intended to enable us to reduce a proportion of our fuel Secretary of State and a DTI team with a variety of information costs which are fixed by providing for a discount when the market including periodic reports on its business performance and baseload price of electricity is below a specified amount and a strategic business plans.
There are also regular meetings and surcharge when above this amount.
As electricity prices have risen communication between the Secretary of State and senior substantially since October 2003, we are now making additional executives and the Board on a range of topics.
Over time, payments to BNFL under the new arrangements for spent fuel the frequency and content of the reporting may be reviewed.
management in the form of the surcharge referred to above.
This will continue as long as electricity prices remain above 16.0 MWh but capped at 21.0 MWh in 2002 03 monetary values and indexed to RPI.
