03 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 ACHIEVEMENT INVESTING FOR THE FUTURE This has been a year of both exceptional challenges and very significant achievement.
That we came through the year in good order is a tribute to the professionalism, commitment and sheer resilience of all concerned.
ADRIAN MONTAGUE, CBE, CHAIRMAN Stephen Billingham joined as Finance Director from WS Atkins plc The resolutions to be considered will also include several changes where he was Finance Director during its successful financial to the British Energy Group plc Long Term Deferred Bonus Plan the recovery.
Stephen has held a number of senior finance roles in LT plan which the Remuneration Committee believes are necessary major companies including BICC plc now Balfour Beatty plc and to make it consistent with our current business needs.
The changes Severn Trent plc.
include a modification to the output targets for the financial year ending 31 March 2006 to a range of 62 to 64 TWh.
These changes David Pryde was appointed as an independent Non-Executive do not affect our expected average annual nuclear output over the Director bringing with him extensive trading and risk management next two years, which remains at 63 TWh.
experience, having held various senior managerial positions in trading businesses at J P Morgan and Co. Inc. Last year placed exceptional strains on everyone in British Energy.
One way or another, the Restructuring, the extended outages at The appointment of Roy Anderson as Chief Nuclear Officer was Hartlepool and Heysham 1 and the demanding trading conditions confirmed in April 2005 following agreement from the Nuclear we faced during a difficult year engaged every member of staff.
Installations Inspectorate NII to the creation of this post.
Roy That we came through the year in good order is a tribute to the has substantial nuclear experience in the US, most recently as professionalism, commitment and sheer resilience of all concerned.
On behalf of all the members of the Board, I should like to pay tribute and give our warmest thanks and appreciation to the entire Our executive management was further strengthened by the arrival British Energy team.
of Peter Wakefield as Safety and Technical Director in April 2005.
Peter was previously Generation Safety and Assurance Manager for Eskom in South Africa and has extensive experience in the nuclear industry in all aspects of nuclear power plants.
We have a talented team in place to take the organisation forward and I believe that we are well placed to meet our goal of achieving world-class nuclear operations.
ADRIAN MONTAGUE, CBE, CHAIRMAN I hope you will be able to join us at our forthcoming annual general meeting.
The resolutions being considered this year ask shareholders to support the Boards recommendation to seek to deregister from the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
SEC registration has a considerable annual cost implication and takes up a great deal of management effort and, now that we have disposed of our US stations and ceased to have an ADR listing, we think this would be better spent improving our operational performance.
