30 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE TEAM BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 ADRIAN MONTAGUE 57 B 6 JOHN DELUCCA 62 B Joined British Energy as Chairman in November 2002.
He is Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in 2004 and currently also Chairman of Friends Provident plc, Michael Page Deputy Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He holds an MBA in International plc and Infrastructure Investors Limited, and a Finance from Fairleigh-Dickinson University School of graduate study.
During the year he stepped down as He has held a variety of senior roles in US business.
Most recently, Deputy Chairman of Network Rail and was appointed Chairman from 2003 until March of this year he was Executive Vice-President of Cross London Rail Links Limited and a Director of Friends and Chief Financial Officer of the REL Consultancy Group.
He previously undertook a number of senior roles that, from 1998 to 2002 he was Executive Vice-President, Finance in the implementation of the Governments private finance policies and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of Coty Inc. and a and was awarded a CBE in 2001. member of their Executive Committee.
He is a Non-Executive Director, and chairs the audit committees of ITC Deltacom, 2 BILL COLEY 62 B Enzo Biochem and the Elliott Company.
Accepted position as Chief Executive in March 2005 having served as an independent Non-Executive Director since 2003.
During his 7 IAN HARLEY 53 B 37 year career with Duke Power he held a variety of management Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in 2002 and and executive roles culminating in being Group President Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He held a variety of posts in the between 1997 and 2003.
He is a Non-Executive Director Finance, Retail Banking and Wholesale Banking Divisions of Abbey of CT Communications Inc. and Peabody Energy.
National and spent nine years on the Board.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Fellow and Past President 3 ROY ANDERSON 57 OB of the Institute of Banking.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director Appointed Chief Nuclear Officer in September 2004.
He was of Rentokil Initial plc, JW Educational Limited and Remploy Limited.
previously President of PSEG Nuclear in the US, and Chief Nuclear He is Governor of the Whitgift Foundation, Vice-President of the Officer of Nuclear Management Company and of Florida Power National Deaf Childrens Society and Director of South London Corporation.
His early career involved working for Carolina Power Church Fund and Southwark Diocesan Board of Finance.
Previously and Light Company, Boston Edison Company and General Electric Chairman of the Association for Payment Clearing Services, a Company, all in the US.
member of the Deposit Protection Board, appointed by the Bank of England, and a member of the Financial Services Authoritys 4 DR STEPHEN BILLINGHAM 47 B Practitioner Panel.
Appointed as Finance Director in September 2004.
Immediately prior to joining British Energy, he was the Group Finance Director of 8 DAVID PRYDE 55 B the engineering consultancy and support services group, WS Atkins Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in September plc, during its successful financial recovery.
He led the finance 2004, he has extensive trading and risk management experience.
team which signed the Metronet-London Underground Public Private He has held various senior management positions in trading Partnership.
He has been Group Treasurer of the engineering group businesses, including Global Head of Precious Metals Trading, BICC plc now Balfour Beatty plc and has held finance positions in Global Head of Commodity Derivatives Trading and Marketing and Severn Trent plc, Burmah Oil plc and British Telecom plc.
Global Head of Futures and Options Brokerage at J P Morgan.
He was also strategist for J P Morgan Chase Investment Bank.
He sat 5 DR PASCAL COLOMBANI 59 B on the boards of the Commodity Exchange, the Chicago Mercantile Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in June 2003.
Exchange and the Futures Industry Association.
He is Chairman of He holds a Doctorate in Nuclear Physics.
He presently holds the Trading Review Committee.
directorships at Alstom SA, Rhodia SA, the French Institute of Petroleum, and is an Associate Director of A. T. Kearney.
He was, until 2003, a member of the Electricit fide France Supervisory Board and the Non-Executive Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Areva, the international nuclear services group.
He is Chairman of the French Association for the Advancement of Science and a member of the French Academy of Technology.
He is a Knight of the Legion of Honour and an Officer of the Order of Merit.
He is Chairman of the Nuclear Performance Review Committee.
31 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 123 4 9 5 6 78 10 11 12 13 14 EXECUTIVE TEAM 9 CLARE SPOTTISWOODE 52 B 11 ROBERT ARMOUR 45 Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in 2001 and Company Secretary since 1995 and General Counsel since 2003.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director A solicitor, he was a partner in Wright Johnston & Mackenzie, since June 2002.
She is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
solicitors, between 1986 and 1990 before joining Scottish Nuclear Between 1993 and 1998 she was Director General of Ofgas and as Company Secretary in 1990.
He was Director of Performance she currently chairs Economatters Limited and was previously a Development for Scottish Nuclear between 1993 and 1995.
From Non-Executive Director of Booker plc.
She is also currently a Non- 1997 to 2003 he was Director of Corporate Affairs.
He holds a law Executive Director of Advanced Technology UK plc, Anker plc, degree and MBA from Edinburgh University and has also attended Biofuels Corporation, Tullow Oil plc and Petroleum Geo-Services INSEADs Advanced Management Programme.
She was awarded a CBE for services to industry in 1999.
12 NEIL OHARA 39 10 SIR ROBERT WALMSLEY 64 OB Appointed as Director of Power and Energy Trading in May 2004.
He Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in 2003. has over 10 years trading and risk management experience in the Previously he served in the Royal Navy where his final appointment energy sector including the power, coal and gas sectors.
His trading was as Controller of the Navy and member of the Navy Board as experience was gained in the UK where he worked at Manufacturers a Vice Admiral, starting in 1994.
During Hanover Trust, British Gas, Centrica and RWE Innogy.
He has also his naval career he held a number of nuclear-related posts including worked on generation optimisation, co-firing and operations and service as the Chairman of the Naval Nuclear Technical Safety engineering projects.
Panel and Director General, Submarines.
After retiring from the Navy, he was appointed as Chief of Defence Procurement a 13 SALLY SMEDLEY 55 Permanent Secretary grade post in the Civil Service, occupying that Appointed as Human Resources Director in 1999.
She was position from 1996 until 2003.
He is an independent Director of previously Human Resources and Corporate Relations Director at General Dynamics Corporation, the Major Projects Association, EDO East Midlands Electricity plc, and Employee Relations Director at the Corporation and Stratos Global Holding Limited.
He is Chairman of BOC Group plc.
She has a BSc Tech in Occupational Psychology.
the Governance and Nominations Committees and the Safety, Health and Environment Committee.
14 PETER WAKEFIELD 54 O Appointed as Safety and Technical Director in April 2005.
He joined B denotes member of the British Energy Group plc Board British Energy from Eskom, the vertically integrated South African denotes member of the Audit Committee power utility.
For over 28 years he was closely associated with the denotes member of the Remuneration Committee South African nuclear programme being the first operating manager denotes member of the Governance and Nominations Committee at Koeberg holding a Senior Reactor Generator Licence.
He also O denotes member of the Safety, Health and Environment Committee denotes member of the Nuclear Performance Review Committee held corporate engineering and technology management posts.
denotes member of the Executive Committee denotes member of the Trading Review Committee denotes member of the Pensions Committee Bill Coley was appointed Chief Executive on 20 March 2005, following the resignation of Mike Alexander.
He formally accepted the position on 14 April 2005 having received clearance to work in the UK.
Prior to this, Bill Coley served as an independent Non-Executive Director from June 2003.
Each of the current Directors of British Energy Group plc was appointed to the Board on 16 September 2004.
Prior to the Restructuring Effective Date, each of the Directors were also Directors of British Energy plc.
