BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC GROWTH POTENTIAL 10 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 At only 44% penetration, 8 Operating and Financial Review we believe the pay television sector in the UK and Ireland PAGE 10 6 is still immature.
Our target is to reach 10 million DTH 4 subscribers in 2010.
2 0203 04 05 10 Sky operates the leading pay Maintenance of subscriber television broadcasting service quality THE BUSINESS, ITS in the United Kingdom UK Sky continues to develop the and Ireland, providing television programming and other services it broadcasting services and offers on the Sky digital platform, additional services, which are resulting in high satisfaction and OBJECTIVES AND ITS provided to both retail and perception of value for money.
The financial return on an incremental subscriber is a STRATEGY Sky is an established and widely function of the revenue, direct recognised brand, with a costs and expected duration of the reputation for quality and subscription.
It operates and product portfolio and supplier SKYS PRIMARY OBJECTIVE distributes 28 wholly-owned relationships to ensure that it channels via its digital service can achieve an attractive return, and retails a further 109 third regardless of the tier of IS TO MAXIMISE party channels to DTH viewers.
Sky expects Sky also operates the Sky Box to continue to invest in subscriber Office SBO service, which acquisition, including the cost of provides pay-per-view films, subsidising digiboxes, adjusting SHAREHOLDER VALUE sporting events and concerts.
the level of such acquisition costs according to the profile of new Skys primary objective is to groups of subscribers.
THROUGH PROFITABLE maximise value for shareholders by focusing on profitable growth Investment in programming in the number of subscribers to Investment in attractive SUBSCRIBER GROWTH its digital pay television services programming is a key factor in in the UK and Ireland.
In order to generating the DTH and cable achieve this objective, Skys focus subscription revenues that make is on the following priorities: up 79% 2004: 79% of Skys total revenue.
Skys strategy is to Continued expansion of the acquire exclusive, high quality DTH subscriber base rights for films, live sporting Sky drives expansion of its events and for other general subscriber base, both through entertainment programming.
the acquisition of new DTH subscribers, and through the Growing the popularity of maintenance of a low churn rate.
Skys channels Skys short-term target is to reach Skys channels are key to driving 8 million DTH subscribers by the appeal of the Sky digital December 2005, and has a platform, and generate longer term target of 10 million significant advertising revenues DTH subscribers in 2010: the for the Group.
Sky One remains Company is on track to reach one of the UKs most watched both of these target levels.
non-terrestrial channels, offering a strong schedule combining top Maintaining a low churn rate US programming with original is a significant component of commissioned productions.
maximising the return Sky makes Sky News, voted RTS News on its investment in customer Channel of the Year for the fourth acquisition, and Skys target is to year running, has a reputation maintain churn at close to 10%.
for impartial, authoritative and Skys customer relationship up to the minute coverage of management CRM centres, breaking news.
principally based in Scotland, play a key role in achieving this As the universe of multichannel priority.
The CRM centres deal homes continues to grow, Skys with the handling of orders from channels have been able to subscribers, the establishment increase their share of UK and maintenance of subscriber television advertising, and Sky accounts, the invoicing and expects this trend to continue.
collection of revenue, telemarketing and customer Innovation in products, services.
These activities, packages and services together with a high level of Sky has a strong track record customer service, allow the of innovation and operates in a centres to play a key role, both highly competitive environment, in customer acquisition and which is reliant on technology customer retention.
that is subject to rapid change DTH subscribers millions MULTIROOM PENETRATION 30 SKY PENETRATION 25 Our Multiroom product, which 90% of Sky customers rate 24 20 allows customers to watch their satisfaction of the product different Sky channels on between 8 and 10 on a 10 point 18 15 different television sets, offers scale.
Our target is for 25% of enhanced viewing flexibility our customers to have Sky 12 10 in the home.
Our target is in 2010. for 30% of our customers 6 5 to take two or more 03 03 02 04 05 10 02 0405 10 subscriptions in 2010. and development.
Sky therefore Investment in infrastructure to looks to invest in and adapt its support subscriber growth products and packages in order On 4 August 2004, the Group 98% OF HOUSEHOLDS IN THE UK AND to remain competitive, and keeps announced a four year capital under review emerging investment programme to technologies for the distribution support its growth strategy, IRELAND FALL WITHIN THE FOOTPRINT of entertainment content and for which would focus capital the provision of new services to expenditure on the following: OF SKYS DIGITAL SATELLITE SERVICES, Skys subscriber base.
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MORE THAN ANY OTHER DIGITAL Sky has announced a number of MANAGEMENT CRM The Group changes to the way it packages continues to upgrade its TELEVISION SERVICE.
entertainment channels which customer service systems.
Key will give more choice and systems, designed to maintain flexibility to existing and future the Groups first class customer customers.
These changes are service which is fundamental to consistent with Skys long-term the future of the business, will SKY SEEKS TO MAXIMISE CUSTOMER growth strategy, further go live during this calendar year.
emphasising the range and LOYALTY AND SATISFACTION BY quality of programming available PROPERTY The Groups property from pay television and allowing programme will ensure that COMBINING THE HIGHEST QUALITY customers to pick a tailored its main campus is a flexible, package that best suits their needs.
efficient and  WITH NEW TECHNOLOGIES friendly place to work, and fully Sky has continued to promote scalable with the long-term new products and services such growth and expansion of THAT ENHANCE THE VIEWING as its personal video recorder the business.
PVR product, Sky, and EXPERIENCE.
Multiroom subscriptions, which ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY CENTRE continue to increase in popularity.
ATC The Group has In October 2004, Sky introduced completed construction of an enhanced Sky digibox, this facility during the year, IN 2006 SKY PLANS TO LAUNCH THE offering 160GB of storage updating key elements of our capacity and extra connectivity broadcast infrastructure to MOST COMPREHENSIVE HIGH DEFINITION through two USB ports.
From state-of-the-art technology, 2006, Sky also intends to offer and strengthening our subscribers a premium high business continuity plans.
definition service on the digital satellite platform.
Through a new NEW CONTACT CENTRE AND TRAINING HD box, which will be combined FACILITY The Group has identified with PVR functionality, consumers the need to increase capacity will be able to watch a set of at its contact centres to service dedicated HD channels and access future subscriber growth.
selected events produced in HD.
The Group is also planning to Consistent with Skys strategy, develop a new training centre these products further extend the that will help keep customer range of hardware and service service standards at the options available to subscribers, forefront of the industry.
Sky has set targets for Multiroom The Group has invested 158 penetration of 30% of DTH million in these projects during subscribers in 2010 and Sky the year and expects the full penetration of 25% of DTH programme to cost around 450 subscribers in 2010. million, with the remaining investment spread equally over Skys DTH customers also have the next three years.
In addition access to Sky Active and a range to this spend, the Group expects of other digital interactive core capital expenditure to services.
These services include remain at around 100 million betting, game-playing, shopping, per year.
interactive programming, interactive advertising and telephony-based services, such as voting.
