BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and Financial Review PAGE 12 DTH SUBSCRIBERS DTH SUBSCRIBERS millions The Groups targets are to obtain 8 million subscribers in 2005, growing REVIEW OF RESULTS 03 6.8 to 10 million subscribers in 2010.
04 7.4 Growth in subscriber numbers is one of the drivers of future business growth.
05 7.8 FOR THE YEAR SKY PENETRATION The number of households at the end SKY PENETRATION of a period who take Sky, expressed % as a percentage of the number of DTH subscribers at the end of a period.
SKY HAS DELIVERED AN 03 2 The penetration of Sky reflects the 04 5 Groups goal of introducing a wider range of hardware and service options 05 11 to subscribers to promote revenue EXCELLENT SET OF RESULTS and subscriber growth.
The Groups target is 25% penetration of DTH MULTIROOM PENETRATION subscribers in 2010.
% MULTIROOM PENETRATION GENERATING MORE THAN 03 2 The number of households at the 04 4 end of a period who take Multiroom, expressed as a percentage of the 05 8 number of DTH subscribers at the 4 BILLION IN TOTAL REVENUE, end of a period.
The penetration of Multiroom reflects the Groups goal of OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE GOODWILL introducing a wider range of hardware AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS million and service options to subscribers to promote revenue and subscriber A 34% INCREASE IN OPERATING 03 364 growth.
The Groups target is 30% 04 600 penetration of DTH subscribers in 2010.
05 805 OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE GOODWILL PROFIT BEFORE GOODWILL AND AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Operating margin reflects the Groups EARNINGS PER SHARE BEFORE GOODWILL operational profitability.
The Group AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS pence expects operating margin before goodwill and exceptional items to 03 10.2 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS TO 805 grow in the medium term.
04 18.3 EARNINGS PER SHARE BEFORE 05 29.0 GOODWILL AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS MILLION, REPRESENTING A Profit on ordinary activities after taxation, before goodwill and OPERATING CASH FLOW exceptional items, divided by the million weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year, less the 03 664 MARGIN OF 20% AND weighted average number of Ordinary 04 882 Shares held in the Groups ESOP trust during the year.
Earnings per share 05 978 reflects the Groups profitability.
EARNINGS PER SHARE OF 29 OPERATING CASH FLOW Operating cash flow represents the Groups ability to generate cash.
The Group expects sustained cash flow PENCE, AN INCREASE OF 58% generation.
Reported figures are derived from internal company data.
ON THE COMPARABLE PERIOD Full-year reported figures are derived from externally-audited information.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC DTH SUBSCRIBERS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Skys DTH subscriber base Operating and Financial Review has grown from 7.4 million to 7.8 million during the year.
PAGE 13 7.8m OPERATING REVIEW Financial Review Jeremy Darroch At 30 June 2005, the total The total number of Multiroom Chief Financial Officer number of DTH subscribers in the households has more than UK and Ireland was 7,787,000, doubled year-on-year, increasing representing a net increase of by 352,000 in the year to 432,000 subscribers in the 645,000, 8% penetration of financial year.
During the year, total DTH subscribers.
the number of subscribers to one or more premium channels DTH churn for the year was increased by over 250,000 to 10.3%, in line with the Groups 5,619,000.
The Group remains stated goal of around 10%.
DTH on track to achieve its target of churn for the last quarter of the eight million DTH subscribers year annualised was in line by 31 December 2005. with the fourth quarter of last year at 10.5%, and down from The Group recorded gross DTH 11.1% for the previous quarter.
subscriber additions in the last quarter of the year of 303,000, Annualised average revenue per GROSS MARGIN INCREASED FROM reflecting further progress since DTH subscriber ARPU in the the launch of a number of last quarter of the year was 384, strategic initiatives, including 2 higher than the previous 53% FOR THE COMPARABLE the what do you want to watch?
quarter reflecting increased marketing campaign on Multiroom subscriptions, a PERIOD TO 60%, DEMONSTRATING 1 October 2004, and despite greater number of pay-per-view a more challenging consumer PPV events and higher net environment.
THE OPERATIONAL GEARING IN The total number of Sky households increased by 491,000 SKYS BUSINESS MODEL.
in the year to 888,000, reflecting an 11% penetration of total DTH subscribers.
Since relaunching with a revised pricing structure in October 2003, the number of THE GROUP GENERATED Sky subscribers has increased at an average rate of 110,000 every quarter, equal to the growth in OPERATING CASH INFLOW OF total DTH subscribers over the same period.
continues to receive high satisfaction ratings and attract new customers to Sky, with 14% of new additions in the last quarter of the year taking Sky.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC TURNOVER GROSS MARGIN ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Total revenues increased by 11% Gross margin for the year Operating and Financial Review on the comparable period to over increased from 53.2% 4 billion.
PAGE 14 4,048m 59.6% FINANCIAL REVIEW Analysis of turnover 4% Revenue The SkyBuy retail service was due to the higher operating 13% of total revenue, equal to 2% Total revenue for the year wound down and closed during costs of Sky News following the average rate over the last 7% increased by 11% over the the year.
This, together with the the commencement of the three years.
During the year, the 8% year ended 30 June 2004 expiry of a number of historical contract to supply news to five Group launched a number of 6% 73% the comparable period interactive contracts and services, and the coverage of the Tsunami marketing initiatives to attract to 4,048 million.
led to a reduction in Sky Active disaster and the elections at new subscribers and drive the revenues of 24 million to 92 home and abroad.
After penetration of the yield enhancing DTH revenues increased by million.
Underlying revenues adjusting for the 17 million Sky and Multiroom products.
DTH 12% on the comparable period excluding these items rose by accelerated stock amortisation This increase reflects the strong Cable to 2,968 million.
This was 10% to 87 million, reflecting charge in the final quarter of last growth in the number of gross Advertising mainly driven by 6% growth the growth in areas such as financial year, entertainment additions, with three times as in the average number of interactive advertising, games and costs increased by 22% on the many new joiners taking Sky Sky Bet DTH subscribers and a 5% third party betting and gaming.
This increase from the outset compared to Sky Active increase in the average revenue reflects the greater investment in last year.
As a consequence Other per DTH subscriber, mainly as Programming costs acquired and commissioned of this activity, the blended a result of the January and Total programming costs programming for Sky One.
subscriber acquisition cost September 2004 price rises decreased by 75 million on the SAC for the year was 237.
Analysis of operating and increased Multiroom comparable period to 1,636 Third party channel costs The number of existing customers expenses, before goodwill subscription revenues.
This reduction has been increased by 1% on the upgrading to Sky increased by and exceptional items, net primarily driven by contractual comparable period to 362 over 40% year-on-year and the 7% Wholesale revenues increased by savings in the renewal of sports million, representing a 6% number upgrading to Multiroom 9% 2% on the comparable period to contracts and the benefit of increase in the average number increased by almost 150% over 219 million.
After adjusting for improved rates at which the of DTH subscribers offset by a the same period.
These products 12% 51% a one-off receipt of monies from Group is able to purchase US 6% reduction in the cost per generate high levels of satisfaction NTL, a cable operator, following dollars to satisfy its movie subscriber.
This saving has been and offer an attractive return on 16% an audit of sums due to the commitments.
primarily driven by the renewal investment through lower churn 5% Group in the first quarter of the of our contracts on improved and a higher propensity to take last financial year, this represents Sports costs, which represent terms and the termination of premium packages and multiple Programming a 5% increase on the 46% of total programming costs, our contract with Granada Sky subscriptions.
This has decreased by 56 million on the Broadcasting GSB, slightly marketing costs for the year were Marketing primarily been driven by the comparable period to 747 offset by new channels joining 74 million, an increase of 50% Subscriber management changes to wholesale prices in million.
The renewal of the FA the pay-TV line-up including FX, on the comparable period as a Administration January and September 2004 Premier League and Football Turner Classic Movies and UK TV result of the what do you want to Betting and the carriage of Sky Sports Association contracts led to Style Gardens.
campaign and marketing Extra and PREMPLUS.
substantially all of this reduction of the new Sky One schedule.
which was partly offset by the Gross margin defined as total Advertising revenues increased Ryder Cup, a bi-annual event, revenues less total programming Subscriber management costs by 5% on the comparable period and investment in production costs, as a percentage of total increased by 25 million on the to 329 million.
This has been costs behind increased coverage revenues for the year was 60%, comparable period to 396 driven by 4% growth in the UK in a number of sports, most representing an increase of million.
This reflects the growing television advertising sector and notably football, with an increase 7 percentage points on the subscriber base, increased call continued growth in the Groups of 32 live Barclays Premiership comparable period.
volumes due to higher levels of share of this sector.
games and delayed footage or sales activity and a higher level of extended highlights of every Other operating costs Sky and Multiroom installations.
Total SkyBet revenue for the Barclays Premiership match Total other operating costs before year was 261 million, a 37% through the Football First service.
goodwill and exceptional items Administration costs before increase on the comparable increased by 262 million on the goodwill and exceptional items period.
Gross margin increased Movie costs decreased by 37 comparable period to 1,607 increased by 32 million on the from 8% to 10% driven by the million on the comparable period million.
comparable period to 289 introduction of fixed odds games to 356 million primarily due to million, mainly due to increased during the year, such as roulette an improved rate at which the Transmission and related costs technology, facility and IS and multi-line slot games.
On 8 Groups US dollar denominated for the year were 171 million, development costs, and a oneApril 2005, the Gambling Act was movies were amortised as a result an increase of 25 million on the time charge of 14 million for successfully passed by Parliament.
Savings from comparable period, reflecting restructuring costs following Once implemented, the Act will the renewal of a non-major higher engineering, broadcast an efficiency and effectiveness present an opportunity to offer studio agreement were offset by support and maintenance costs review of the business.
gaming services combining TV the additional costs associated associated with an expanding and interactivity.
Gaming with an increase in the average broadcast infrastructure, Betting costs increased by 61 includes games of chance and number of movie subscribers.
resulting from projects including million to 236 million in line skill and therefore the Act will the creation of the new Sky News with the strong growth in permit the launch of true casino News and entertainment costs Centre and the ATC.
games such as poker, in addition were 171 million, an increase of to the fixed odds games already 16 million on the comparable Marketing costs increased by Operating profit before goodwill available on SkyBet.
This increase is primarily 119 million to 515 million, and exceptional items increased BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC OPERATING PROFIT OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN BEFORE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 BEFORE GOODWILL AND GOODWILL AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Operating and Financial Review EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Operating profit margin before Operating profit before goodwill goodwill and exceptional items PAGE 15 and exceptional items increased increased by four percentage by 34% to 805 million.
805m 19.9% by 34% on the comparable Interest inflow of 978 million.
After consideration of 416 million, period to 805 million.
Operating Total net interest payable for the taxation of 103 million and net including stamp duty and profit margin before goodwill year reduced by 19 million to interest paid of 63 million, the commissions.
The programme is and exceptional items increased 62 million primarily as a result of Group utilised cash in a number ongoing, and will continue until from 16% to 20%, despite the an increase in interest receivable of areas, including the share the authority granted on 12 small dilutive effect of the due to higher levels of cash on buy-back programme 416 November 2004 expires at the structurally lower margin SkyBet deposit at higher interest rates.
million, including 3 million of next AGM on 4 November 2005. business, which currently stamp duty and commissions, generates a margin around 10%.
Taxation capital expenditure 230 It remains the overall financial The total net tax charge for the million and dividend payments policy of the Board to achieve Goodwill period of 206 million includes 138 million, resulting in a an appropriate balance between The goodwill associated with the a current tax charge of 159 reduction in net debt during the distributions arising from strong acquisition of planetfootball.
com million, a deferred tax charge of year from 429 million to 379 free cash flow generation to was fully written off in June 2004 68 million and a tax charge in million at 30 June 2005. shareholders, and maintaining a resulting in a 3 million reduction relation to exceptional items of prudent degree of strategic and in the goodwill amortisation 4 million, partly offset by a 25 During the year, the Group financial flexibility.
charge on the comparable period million adjustment in respect of progressed a number of capital to 116 million.
Excluding the effect expenditure and infrastructure The Board considers that an of goodwill, joint ventures and projects in line with the plans on-market share repurchase Exceptional items exceptional items, the Groups announced on 4 August 2004. programme is a flexible, During the year, the Group sold underlying effective tax rate on The Group spent 75 million on equitable and tax-efficient means its 49.5% investment in GSB to ordinary activities for the year a combination of infrastructure by which to make distributions ITV plc for 14 million cash was 30%.
projects including the acquisition to shareholders which are consideration.
After deducting of four freehold properties, incremental to the ordinary the carrying value of the The net 25 million adjustment previously leased at its Osterley dividend.
As a result, the Board investment in GSB and writing in respect of prior years campus, and the construction currently intends to propose back the original goodwill comprises a 7 million benefit of the Sky News centre.
The resolutions at the AGM in relating to the increase of the in respect of consortium relief Group continued work on the November 2005 to renew the Groups interest in GSB to 49.5% on losses purchased from ATR, CRM programme to upgrade annual authority last granted by in March 1998, which had and the favourable settlement its customer service systems, shareholders in 2004 to buy back previously been eliminated of some prior year items.
investing 59 million during up to a further 5% of its issued against reserves, the disposal the year, with roll-out scheduled share capital.
generated an accounting loss The mainstream corporation tax to commence in the second half under UK Generally Accepted liability for the year was 161 of this calendar year.
As part of In pursuing a continued buy-back Accounting Principles UK million and, in accordance with the Groups business continuity authority, the Board is sensitive GAAP of 23 million.
the quarterly instalment regime, plan, 24 million was invested to the concerns expressed by 75 million was paid in the year to build and fit out the ATC.
In the last quarter of the year, and 40 million was paid in July The remaining 72 million, Accordingly, as part of the buythe Group received 13 million 2005.
The final payment is due in regarded as core capital back proposals, the Board intends from the liquidators of ITV October 2005. expenditure, was spent on to enter into an agreement with Digital as a full and final IS infrastructure, broadcast News UK Nominees Limited, settlement in respect of Earnings equipment and new product which would limit the exercise amounts owed to the Group.
Profit on ordinary activities after development, including HDTV.
of its voting rights to the level These amounts had been fully taxation for the year was 425 held at the time of the 2005 provided for in the year ended million, generating earnings per Corporate AGM expected to be no more 30 June 2002, therefore share, before goodwill and The Board of Directors are than 37.2%.
This voting generating a non-recurring exceptional items, of 29 pence, proposing a final dividend of arrangement will be conditional operating exceptional item an increase of 58% on the 5 pence per Ordinary Share on the buy-back proposals being in the year.
At 30 June 2004: 3.25 pence per Ordinary approved by shareholders.
2005, the total number of shares Share, resulting in a total Further details of the proposals Joint ventures outstanding was 1,867,523,599. dividend for the year of 9 pence will be sent to shareholders in The Groups share of net per Ordinary Share 2004: advance of the AGM.
operating profits from its joint Cash flow 6 pence per Ordinary Share.
ventures was 14 million for the Earnings before interest, tax, The ex-dividend date will be The Group has served a claim year, compared to a 5 million depreciation and amortisation 26 October 2005 and, subject for a material amount against net operating loss for the EBITDA before exceptional to shareholder approval at the an information and technology comparable period.
After items increased by 28% on the Companys AGM, the dividend solutions provider, which adjusting for a one-off 11 comparable period to 897 will be paid on 18 November provided services to the Group million write down in relation to million.
After a 55 million 2005 to shareholders of record as part of the Groups investment Attheraces ATR in the final positive movement in working on 28 October 2005. in CRM software and infraquarter of last financial year, this capital, a 13 million receipt structure.
The amount that represents an increase in net from the liquidators of ITV Digital During the year, the Company will be recovered by the Group operating profits of 8 million, and other items, the Group repurchased for cancellation will not be finally determined generated primarily from ATR.
generated an operating cash 74 million shares for a total until resolution of the claim.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC NUMBER OF CHANNELS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Sky digital continues to offer the Operating and Financial Review widest choice in multichannel television in the UK and Ireland.
PAGE 16 480 channels BALANCE SHEET Financing 100 million of 7.750% US$300 million of 7.300% million, due to the amortisation The Groups principal source of Guaranteed Notes, repayable in Guaranteed Notes, repayable in of goodwill.
Intangible assets liquidity is its operating cash July 2009.
The fixed coupon is October 2006.
At the time of comprise the goodwill that arose flow.
Long-term funding comes payable annually.
In March 2004, issuing these notes, the Group on the acquisitions of British primarily from its US dollar and the Group entered into an entered into swap transactions Interactive Broadcasting Holdings sterling-denominated public bond interest rate swap arrangement to convert the dollar proceeds to Limited BiB, Sports Internet debt, together with its currently in respect of 50 million of this pounds sterling 189 million, Group plc SIG and WAPTV undrawn 1 billion Revolving debt, whereby the previously half of which carries a fixed rate of Limited WAPTV.
Credit Facility RCF, each of fixed rate of 7.750% was interest of 8.384% until maturity, which are described below.
swapped to a floating rate of payable semi-annually.
The Tangible fixed assets increased LIBOR plus a margin of 2.050% remainder was fixed at 7.940% in the year by 150 million, GUARANTEED NOTES During the from July 2004 to July 2005. until 15 April 2002, thereafter primarily due to 244 million current and prior year the Group On 9 July 2005, and every 9 July floating at 0.620% over six of additions, including further had in issue the following thereafter, the counterparty months LIBOR, again payable investment in CRM, property, publicly-traded guaranteed notes: had the right, but not the semi-annually.
In respect of this the ATC and increased customer obligation, to cancel this swap, remaining floating exposure, contact and staff training facilities, US$650 million of 8.200% returning the Group to its on 16 January 2002, the Group partly offset by depreciation of Guaranteed Notes, repayable in July previous fixed rate of 7.750%.
entered into a further interest rate 92 million.
At the time of issuing these The counterparty cancelled this hedging arrangement to fix the tangible fixed assets are assets notes, the US dollar proceeds swap in July 2005. rate at 6.130% from 15 April 2002, in the course of construction, were swapped into pounds payable semi-annually for the which increased by 153 million sterling 413 million at an US$600 million of 6.875% remainder of the life of the notes.
in the year, mainly due to the average fixed rate of 7.653% Guaranteed Notes, repayable in investment in CRM and the ATC.
At the time of REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY In Investments in joint ventures December 2002, the Group issuing these notes, the US dollar November 2004, the Group decreased by 10 million, entered into further swap proceeds were swapped into entered into a 1 billion RCF.
mainly due to the sale of the arrangements relating to 64 pounds sterling 367 million at This facility was used to cancel Groups investment in GSB.
million of this debt, which an average fixed rate of 8.200%, an existing 600 million RCF and Net assets decreased by 124 arrangements were subsequently payable semi-annually.
In July is available for general corporate million, principally due to amended in March 2003 and July 2003, the Group entered into a purposes.
At 30 June 2005, the continued amortisation of 2004, the effect of which was to further interest rate hedging 1 billion facility was undrawn.
goodwill and returns to fix the interest rate on 64 million arrangement in respect of The 1 billion facility has a shareholders, in the form of at 5.990% until January 2004, 61 million of this swapped maturity date of July 2010, and dividends and a share buy-back, after which time it reverted to debt.
The effect of this new interest accrues at a margin of partly offset by the Groups floating six months London Inter hedging arrangement was that, between 0.45% and 0.55% strong operating performance.
Bank Offer Rate LIBOR plus a from July 2003 until February above LIBOR, dependent on the margin of 2.460%, except that 2009, the Group will pay floating Groups leverage ratio of net debt Reserves should LIBOR be less than 2.750% six months LIBOR plus a margin to EBITDA as defined in the loan CORPORATE REORGANISATION for the period January to July of 3.490% on 61 million of its agreement.
On 13 April 2005, the High 2004, 2.890% for the period July swapped debt.
However, at each Court approved a reduction 2004 to January 2005, or 2.990% six monthly reset date, the At 30 June 2005, the ratio of in the share capital of BSkyB thereafter, the effective rate shall counterparty to this transaction net debt to EBITDA before Investments Limited, a whollybe deemed to be 7.653%.
After has the right to cancel the exceptional items was 0.5 2004: owned subsidiary.
The reduction July 2004, the margin increases transaction with immediate 0.6.
Interest cover the ratio of was registered with Companies from 2.460% to 2.840%.
In October 2003, the Group EBITDA before exceptional items House on 14 April 2005.
This to increase its exposure to floating entered into a further interest to net interest payable was 14.7 formed part of a corporate rates, in July 2003, the Group rate hedging arrangement in 2004: 8.7.
The Group currently reorganisation, allowing the entered into another interest rate respect of a further 61 million expects these ratios to continue Group access to additional hedging arrangement in respect of this swapped debt, the effect to improve.
of a further 64 million of the of which was to reduce the rate above-mentioned debt, the effect payable to 7.950% for the period Both the bank facilities and the DISPOSAL OF GSB In accordance of which was that, from July 2003 August 2003 to February 2004. publicly-traded guaranteed notes with FRS 10 Goodwill and until July 2009, the Group will pay Thereafter, until August 2006, the have been entered into by the Intangible Assets FRS 10, floating six months LIBOR plus a rate payable is 7.950% plus any Company and guaranteed by the Group has included the margin of 2.818% on a further margin by which the floating six British Sky Broadcasting Limited, write back of 32 million of 64 million of its swapped debt, monthly LIBOR reset rate exceeds BSkyB Investments Limited and unamortised goodwill in the except that should LIBOR be less the sum of the previous reset Sky Subscribers Services Limited.
calculation of the loss on disposal than 2.750% for the period rate plus 0.500%.
Thereafter, In addition, the 1 billion of GSB, the effect of which has January to July 2004, or less than the rate reverts to a fixed RCF is guaranteed by BSkyB been included in the profit for the 2.990% thereafter, the Group 8.180%.
The goodwill arose on the shall revert back to 7.653%.
the 7.950% interest rate on this increase of the Groups interest in At 30 June 2005, none of the swap was renegotiated to Fixed and current assets GSB to 49.5% in March 1998, and floor levels had been breached, 8.020%, with all other aspects Intangible assets decreased by had previously been written off therefore the Group continues to of the swap remaining 116 million during the year, to the profit and loss reserve as pay the relevant floating rates.
from 417 million to 301 permitted prior to FRS 10.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC EPS GROWTH ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Earnings per share before Operating and Financial Review goodwill and exceptional items increased by 58% to 29 pence PAGE 17 per share.
58% Accordingly, an adjustment has financial instruments to manage interest rate swaps and swaption 1.00.
In addition, at 30 June been made to write back the these exposures.
The principal agreements 30 June 2004: 2005, currency options collars 32 million charge to the profit instruments currently used are 77%.
The fair value of both were held relating to the and loss reserve.
interest rate swaps and options interest rate and cross-currency purchase of a total of US$114 on interest rate swaps swaps held, as of 30 June 2005, million 30 June 2004: nil.
SHARE BUY-BACK On 12 November swaptions to hedge interest was approximately 103 million 2004, the Companys rate risks, forward exchange against the Groups favour, The Groups primary Euro shareholders approved a contracts and currency options compared to 105 million exposure arises as a result of resolution at the Annual General collars to hedge transactional against the Groups favour at revenues generated from the Meeting for the Company to currency exposures, and cross- 30 June 2004.
Groups subscribers in Ireland, purchase up to 97 million currency interest rate swaps to being approximately 3% of total Ordinary Shares.
During the hedge exposures on long-term At 30 June 2005, the Group had revenue in the year 2004: 3%.
financial year, the Company foreign currency debt.
outstanding cross-currency swap, These Euro-denominated purchased, and subsequently interest rate swap and swaption revenues are offset to a certain cancelled, 74 million Ordinary Interest rate management agreements with net notional extent by Euro-denominated Shares at an average price of The Group has financial principal amounts totalling 1,018 costs, relating mainly to certain 5.56 per share, with a nominal exposures to both UK and US million, compared to 968 million transponder rentals, the net value of 37 million, for interest rates, arising primarily at 30 June 2004.
This movement position being a Euro surplus.
consideration of 413 million from long-term bonds.
The reflects new interest rate swap and stamp duty and fees of Group manages its exposures and swaption agreements The Group has purchased the 3 million.
This represents 4% by borrowing at fixed rates of designed to achieve a more programming rights to certain of called-up share capital at the interest and by using interest rate appropriate balance between UEFA Champions League football beginning of the financial year.
swap and swaption agreements fixed and floating rate debt.
matches until the end of the to adjust the balance between 2005 06 season.
Payments in Treasury policy and risk fixed and floating rate debt.
Currency exchange rates respect of these rights are made management All of the Groups US dollarThe Groups revenues are pursuant to the contract in Swiss The Groups treasury function is denominated debt has been substantially denominated in Francs, which means that the responsible for raising finance swapped to pounds sterling, pounds sterling, although a Group will be exposed to the for the Groups operations, using cross-currency swap significant proportion of Swiss Franc pound sterling together with associated arrangements, which, in addition operating costs are denominated exchange rate.
In line with the liquidity management, and to the translation of the principal in US dollars.
In the year to 30 Groups policy of limiting foreign the management of foreign amount of the debt to pounds June 2005, 13% of operating exchange transactions to fixed exchange, interest rates and sterling, also provide for the costs 409 million were price instruments, 76% of this credit risks.
Treasury operations exchange, at regular intervals, denominated in US dollars 2004: exposure CHF 76 million was are conducted within a of fixed-rate amounts of dollars 14% 439 million.
These costs hedged during the year via the framework of policies and for fixed-rate amounts of pounds relate mainly to the Groups longuse of forward contracts for the guidelines authorised and sterling.
All of the Groups debt term programming contracts exchange of Euros and pounds reviewed by both the Audit exposure is denominated in with US suppliers.
Since Committee and the Board, who pounds sterling after cross- 30 June 2005, 100% of this receive regular updates of currency swaps are taken into During the year, the Group exposure has been hedged.
Derivative account: at 30 June 2005, the managed its US dollar pound instruments are transacted for split of the Groups aggregate sterling exchange risk exposure Euro 4 million were exchanged risk management purposes only.
net borrowings into their core on US programming contracts for US dollars on currency spot It is the Groups policy that all currencies was US dollar 91% by the purchase of forward markets during the current hedging is to cover known risks and pound sterling 9% 30 June exchange contracts and currency period 2004: nil and no surplus and that no trading in financial 2004: US dollar 90% and pound options collars for up to five Euros were exchanged for instruments is undertaken.
The Group also years ahead.
All US dollarpounds sterling during the Regular and frequent reporting to enters into pound sterling denominated forward exchange period 2004: Euro 15 million.
management is required for all interest rate swap and swaption contracts, currency options and At 30 June 2005, Euro 82 million transactions and exposures, and arrangements, which provide for similar financial instruments 56 million has been retained the internal control environment the exchange, at specified entered into by the Group are to meet obligations under is subject to periodic review, intervals, of the difference in respect of firm commitments forward exchange contracts for both by the Groups internal audit between fixed rates and variable only and those instruments the purchase of Swiss Francs.
team and by its Treasury rates, calculated by reference to maturing over the 12 months Committee.
an agreed notional pounds following 30 June 2005 represent sterling amount.
Certain of the approximately 80% 30 June The Groups principal market swaption agreements can be 2004: 80% of US dollarrisks are exposures to changes cancelled prior to the maturity denominated costs falling due in interest rates and currency of the bonds.
The counterparties in that period.
At 30 June 2005, exchange rates, which arise both are all A long-term rating or the Group had outstanding from the Groups sources of better.
commitments to purchase, in finance and from the Groups aggregate, US$670 million 30 operations.
Following evaluation At 30 June 2005, 72% of the June 2004: US$705 million at of those positions, the Group Groups borrowings were at fixed average rates of US$1.79 to 1.00 selectively enters into derivative rates after taking account of 30 June 2004: US$1.62 to BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC OPERATING CASH FLOW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating cash flow increased Operating and Financial Review by 11% during the year to 978 million.
PAGE 18 978m RISK IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT Management continues to Statements.
Judgement is of the Groups total assets.
develop and review its processes sometimes required in respect Applying the lives referred to Revenues are invoiced and for the identification, evaluation of items where the choice of in the previous paragraph has recorded as part of a periodic and management of business specific policy to be followed resulted in this years charge for billing cycle, and are recognised risks.
Examples of the risks can materially affect the Groups amortisation amounting to 116 as the services are provided.
facing the business include: the reported results or net asset million 2004: 119 million.
Pay-per-view revenue is highly competitive environment position, in particular when recognised when the event, in which the Group operates, estimating the life and Goodwill impairment reviews movie or football match is which is subject to rapid change: recoverability of particular assets, are also an area requiring viewed.
Cable revenue is reliance on technology which is or in the timing of recognition of managements judgement, recognised as the services are subject to failure, change and a transaction.
A description of requiring assessment as to provided to the cable companies development: capital expenditure the Groups significant accounting whether the carrying value of and is based on the number projects, including significant policies is provided in Note 1 to goodwill can be supported by the of subscribers taking the investment in customer the Consolidated Financial net present value of future cash Sky Channels, as reported to relationship management Statements on pages 44 to 45. flows derived from assets using the Group by the cable systems: failing to meet cash flow projections, and companies, and the applicable expectations in terms of The Groups accounting policies discounting using an appropriate wholesale prices.
The overriding timescale, budget or anticipated in respect of the following are rate.
The Group completed two principle followed is to recognise benefits: changes in the considered to be critical: significant acquisitions in the revenues in line with the broadcasting, telecommunications year ended 30 June 2001.
These provision of service, and and competition regulatory Goodwill were the acquisitions of the accordingly, this leaves little environment, primarily in the UK Where the cost of acquisition 67.5% of British Interactive scope for subjectivity.
In the and the European Community: exceeds the fair value attributable Broadcasting Holdings Limited year, subscription revenues reliance on a limited number to the net assets acquired, the BiB, not previously owned by from DTH subscribers and of customers to generate difference is treated as purchased the Group and 100% of Sports cable companies comprised 79% wholesale revenues: reliance goodwill and capitalised on the Internet Group SIG a company of total turnover 2004: 79%.
on intellectual property and Groups balance sheet in the year that the Group acquired in July proprietary rights which may of acquisition.
Determining the 2000, which owns a bookmaker Management judgement is not be adequately protected: fair value of assets acquired and which operates telephone and required to evaluate the reliance on encryption liabilities assumed requires interactive betting services under likelihood of collection of technologies to protect against managements judgement and the brand name SkyBet.
This evaluation unauthorised access to the often involves the use of In accordance with FRS 11, requires estimates to be made, Groups services and the financial significant estimates and Impairment of Fixed Assets and and a provision is made for those and other obligations imposed assumptions, including Goodwill, impairment reviews amounts which management upon the Group by a number of assumptions with respect to were performed on the carrying determines are unlikely to be long-term agreements and or future cash flows, discount rates values of BiB and SIG goodwill recovered.
Currently, the Groups other arrangements.
and asset lives, among other balances at the end of the provision is partly based upon items.
Purchased goodwill arising first full financial year after the historical trends in the The Groups risk management on acquisitions from 1 July 1998 acquisition, at 30 June 2002, percentage of total subscriber processes include a Risk is capitalised.
Prior to 1 July 1998, which did not indicate debts which are not recovered.
Management Committee, chaired goodwill arising on acquisitions impairment.
Consistent with the As DTH subscriber revenues are by the Chief Financial Officer and was eliminated against reserves.
Groups strategy, the business billed in advance and corrective comprising Senior Executives.
plans on which these reviews action is taken early within the The Committee meets at least Where capitalised goodwill is were based reflect significant billing cycle, bad debts are a four times a year to review the regarded as having a limited projected increases in betting relatively low percentage of adequacy of systems and useful economic life, FRS 10 and other interactive revenues sales.
Additionally, more detailed procedures controlling risks provides that the cost is amortised over the subsequent five years reviews are carried out in respect throughout the business.
In on a straight-line basis over that and the carrying value of the of more significant balances, addition, the Audit Committee life, of up to 20 years.
All goodwill goodwill is therefore heavily which include cable subscriber monitors and reviews the currently held on the Groups dependent on the forecast revenues, whereby specific effectiveness of the internal audit balance sheet is being amortised performance of, and projections provisions are made where and risk management function.
over periods of up to seven years for, these businesses.
Goodwill Group continues to monitor is reviewed for impairment if the performance of these The remaining 21% of turnover CRITICAL ACCOUNTING events or circumstances indicate businesses and is satisfied 2004: 21% comprises POLICIES that the carrying value may not be that no impairment of goodwill advertising, SkyBet, Sky Active recoverable.
Recognition The application of UK GAAP or impairment write-down of these revenues takes place often requires managements is charged to the profit and Revenue recognition and bad once the advertising is broadcast, judgement when the Group loss account.
debt provision or when the relevant goods or formulates its accounting policies The main source of the Groups services have been delivered or and when presenting a true and At 30 June 2005, the carrying revenue is revenue from provided.
SkyBet revenues fair view of the Groups financial value of goodwill amounted to subscribers.
Revenues from represent amounts receivable in position and results in the 301 million 2004: 417 million the provision of DTH subscription respect of bets placed on events Consolidated Financial and represented 13% 2004: 18% services are charged to contract which occur in the year and BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC CAPITAL EXPENDITURE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 We invested 230 million during the year Operating and Financial Review in the capital investment programmes which support our growth strategy.
PAGE 19 230m net customer losses in the year four years.
All CRM-related Deferred tax respect of capital losses in respect in respect of the on-line assets were brought into use in The Group recognises deferred of football clubs and other casino operations.
September 2005. tax assets and liabilities in investments, 14 million 2004: respect of timing differences that 13 million, on UK losses in the Tangible fixed assets Amortisation of programme stock have originated but not reversed Group and 64 million 2004: Tangible fixed assets represented A significant proportion of at the balance sheet date, where 64 million on trading losses 23% of the Groups total assets programming costs relates to transactions or events that result in the Groups German holding at 30 June 2005 2004: 16%.
the amortisation of television in an obligation to pay more tax companies of KirchPayTV.
The Tangible fixed assets are stated programme rights.
Programming in the future, or a right to pay Directors consider that at at cost, net of accumulated costs constituted 51% of less tax in the future, have 30 June 2005 there was depreciation and any provision operating expenditure before occurred at the balance sheet sufficient evidence to support for impairment.
The Groups goodwill and exceptional items date.
Deferred tax liabilities the recognition of the Groups depreciation policy in respect of in the year 2004: 56%.
The existing at the balance sheet date deferred tax asset on the basis tangible fixed assets is disclosed Groups investments in television are provided for in full at the that it was more likely than not in Note 1 of the Consolidated programme rights are amortised average tax rates that are that there would be suitable Financial Statements.
Management over the planned number of expected to apply in the periods taxable profits against which estimate the useful life of these showings according to the type in which the timing differences this asset could be utilised and assets based on their periods of of programme right, with the are expected to reverse, based on from which future reversals of expected use and this estimation exception of movie rights and tax rates and laws that have been underlying timing differences is judgemental.
Management certain sports rights, which enacted or substantively enacted could be deducted.
reviews the period of expected are discussed below.
The by the balance sheet date.
The Group amortisation methods used Deferred tax assets are recognised Exceptional items begins amortisation of these are based on programme genre when, on the basis of all Operating exceptional items are assets when they become and have been based on the available evidence, it is regarded those that, in managements available for use.
Tangible fixed repeatability and value to the as more likely than not that there judgement, are items that arise asset impairment reviews are also Group of showing the will be suitable taxable profits from events or transactions that an area requiring managements programme.
This basis is against which to recover carried fall within the ordinary activities judgement in determining regularly reviewed.
The principle forward tax losses and from of the Group but which whether the carrying value of the followed is to match the benefit which the future reversal of individually or, if of a similar Groups tangible fixed assets can received from the showing of the underlying timing differences type, in aggregate, need to be be supported by the net present programme to the cost of the can be deducted.
disclosed separately because value of future cash flows derived programme rights.
Acquired of their size or incidence if the from the asset using cash flow movie rights are amortised on The Groups management financial statements are to projections, and discounted using a straight-line basis over the regularly reviews its deferred tax properly reflect the results for an appropriate rate.
The Group period of the transmission assets for recoverability and the the period.
These items are performs impairment reviews rights.
The Groups own in-house expected reversals of existing included in the line of the profit if events or circumstances movie productions are amortised timing differences.
If the Groups and loss account to which they indicate that the carrying value in line with anticipated revenue ability to generate sufficient relate, but are disclosed in a of tangible fixed assets may not over a maximum of five years.
future taxable income changes, separate column to provide be recoverable.
There have been Where contracts for sports rights or if there is a material change the reader with a better no material impairments in the provide for multiple seasons or in the actual tax rates or time understanding of the ongoing current year.
competitions, the amortisation period within which the performance of the business.
of each contract was previously underlying timing differences FRS 15, Tangible Fixed Assets, based on anticipated revenue.
become taxable or deductible, The determination of which specifies criteria for the Since 1 July 2004, these the Group could be required items should be separately recognition of tangible fixed contracts are now amortised on either to write down its deferred disclosed as operating assets, including a detailed a straight-line basis across the tax assets, resulting in an exceptional items requires a definition of costs that are season or competition as increase in the Groups effective degree of judgement based capitalised in relation to selfmanagements estimate of the tax rate and an adverse impact on the materiality and nature constructed assets.
As at 30 June benefits received from these on the Groups financial results, of the items.
2005, the net book value of costs rights was determined to be or to recognise additional capitalised on the balance sheet more appropriately aligned with deferred tax assets, resulting in a Non-operating exceptional items in respect of the Groups CRM a straight-line amortisation decrease in the Groups effective are defined by UK GAAP, although project was 160 million profile.
This change in estimate tax rate and a positive impact on management judgement is 2004: 118 million.
Capitalised did not have any impact on the its financial results.
required to determine whether costs include technology amortisation charge for the year, such items are individually hardware and software assets, as all associated programme At 30 June 2005, the Group has sufficiently material or, if of a site preparation and development stock would be fully amortised recognised a deferred tax asset of similar type, in aggregate, to costs, and associated consultancy over the year under either 100 million 2004: 151 million warrant separate disclosure.
Provisions are made and has unrecognised deferred These items are included below project costs capitalised during for any programme rights tax assets of 330 million 2004: operating profit in the profit and the year were associated with the which are surplus to the 450 million in respect of capital loss account, within the same CRM systems 2004: 100%.
These Groups requirements or losses related to the Groups separate column as the operating assets are being depreciated over will not be shown for any German holding of KirchPayTV, exceptional items.
periods of between three and other reason.
24 million 2004: 21 million, in BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and Financial Review PAGE 20 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS The Group will report its limit the Groups ability to assess date of grant the intrinsic financial results in accordance the final impact of IFRS on its value.
No charge is recognised with International Financial financial statements.
As a result, in respect of the Executive Share Reporting Standards IFRS, as the IFRS financial results Scheme, as the awards had an adopted by the European Union reported in the Groups 2006 intrinsic value of nil, nor in EU, from 1 July 2005.
The Annual Report and Accounts for respect of the Sharesave scheme transition date for the Groups the comparative year ended 30 due to a specific exemption under adoption of IFRS of 1 July 2004 is June 2005 may vary from those UK GAAP for such schemes.
determined in accordance with presented in the indicative IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of guidance.
Under IFRS 2 Share-based International Financial Reporting Payment, the Group is required to Standards.
Particular uncertainty surrounds recognise a charge in the income IAS 39 Financial Instruments: statement for all share options and As noted in the 2004 Annual Recognition and Measurement, awards, based on the fair value of Report and Accounts, the Group which has been adopted by the the awards as calculated at the established an IFRS transition EU on a partial basis, with grant date using an option-pricing steering committee to oversee certain requirements of the model as necessary.
This method the transition to IFRS.
The standard issued by the IASB of valuation is used to calculate Committees main responsibilities having been removed the the charge for all share option have been monitoring the carve-outs.
The carve-outs schemes, including the Executive progress of a dedicated transition relate to the use of the full fair and Sharesave Schemes, resulting working group, making key value option in accounting for in an additional charge under IFRS decisions relating to the certain types of financial compared to UK GAAP.
transition, and reporting to the liabilities that the Group does not Audit Committee in relation to currently hold and a method of Financial instruments and hedge the transition.
Implementation hedging interest rate risk that accounting plans have been completed to the Group currently does not The Group manages its interest modify the Groups procedures, employ.
Therefore, the current rate and foreign currency systems and controls, and an modifications to IAS 39 have not exposures using a combination IFRS training programme for the affected the Group and we of interest rate swaps, crossGroups finance function has also expect that the Group will be currency swaps, swaptions, been completed.
compliant with both the IASB and forward exchange contracts the EU versions of the standards.
and zero cost currency option Indicative guidance on the impact structures collars.
of the transition to IFRS on the The adoption of IFRS will lead Groups financial results was to some significant changes in Under UK GAAP, where the made available during the first the Groups accounting policies, Group has taken out financial quarter of the year ending results, and the presentation of instruments to provide an 30 June 2006, and can be its financial statements, which economic hedge for foreign accessed from the British Sky are currently in accordance with currency exposures, the rates Broadcasting web page at UK GAAP.
Based on the Groups inherent in the hedging contracts www.
This assessment of current IFRS are used to translate the hedged indicative guidance was prepared requirements, the principal items.
The derivative financial on the basis of IFRS as endorsed effects on the Groups financial instruments are not recognised by the EU, as at 30 June 2005. statements are as follows: on the balance sheet, and the Some uncertainties remain as to gain or loss on the instrument whether the International Share-based payments is not recognised in the profit Accounting Standards Board Under UK GAAP, the Group and loss account until maturity IASB and other related bodies recognises a charge in the profit of the instrument.
will issue new or revised and loss account for its Long-Term standards that, subject to their Incentive Plan LTIP, Equity Under IFRS, the Group is required adoption by the EU, will either be Bonus Plan EBP and Key to record all foreign currency mandatory for the Groups 30 Contributor Plan KCP based on transactions at spot exchange June 2006 financial statements, the difference between the rates at the transaction date, or may be adopted early exercise price of the award and and to state all foreign currency voluntarily.
Such uncertainties the price of a BSkyB share on the monetary assets and liabilities at BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC DIVIDEND ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 The Group declared a full Operating and Financial Review year dividend of 9 pence, approximately one-third PAGE 21 of retained profit.
9p share closing exchange rates at each Goodwill changed as a result of the balance sheet date.
This results Under UK GAAP, the Group reclassification.
In addition, in a restatement of foreign amortises goodwill on a under UK GAAP, the Group currency creditors, programming straight-line basis over periods has chosen to expense certain additions and amortisation, of no longer than 20 years.
IFRS requires US dollar debt and accrued Under IFRS, the Groups goodwill all of these development costs interest thereon at the balances that existed at the date to be capitalised if certain transaction date, with of transition to IFRS are no criteria are met.
restatement of foreign currency longer amortised but instead creditors, US dollar debt and are subject to annual Presentation of the financial accrued interest at the balance impairment testing.
The Group is IAS 1 Presentation of Financial required to recognise its Furthermore, under UK GAAP, Statements does not provide derivative financial instruments goodwill arising on acquisitions definitive guidance on the format on the balance sheet at fair value which had been written off to of the income statement or from inception of the contract, reserves is recycled to the profit balance sheet, but stipulates with changes in fair value being and loss account on disposal of certain line items that, as a recognised in the income the investment.
Under IFRS, any minimum, must be disclosed.
Where hedge such goodwill remains written Additional line items, headings accounting of cash flows is off against reserves, resulting in and subtotals are presented on achieved, the portion of the a different gain or loss on the face of the Groups income gain or loss on the hedging disposal of such investments.
statement and balance sheet instrument i. e. the change in where such presentation is its fair value that is determined Dividends relevant to the understanding to be an effective hedge is Under UK GAAP, a dividend of the Groups financial initially recognised through declared after the balance sheet performance.
IAS 1 includes a equity in a hedging reserve, date, but before the date of requirement that all deferred tax and is then reclassified to the signing the financial statements, assets must be classified as income statement during the is treated as an adjusting post non-current assets under IFRS.
same periods in which the balance sheet event, and the underlying hedged exposure associated dividend payable is affects the income statement.
recorded as a liability within the DIRECTORS REMUNERATION year end balance sheet.
Under The Groups foreign exchange IAS 10 Events after the Balance Executive Directors and Senior hedging policy was revised Sheet Date, such a dividend is Executives incentive opportunity during the year to extend the recorded as a liability in the in the LTIP is mainly dependent maturity profile of hedging accounting period in which it on a limited number of measures, instruments to match the time is approved.
including growth in earnings per horizon of the underlying share before goodwill and contracts more appropriately, Intangible assets exceptional items, free cash flow and to extend the range of Certain assets, principally per share and DTH subscribers.
permitted instruments to software acquired and The remaining 30% is based on protect exposures rather than developed that is not integral Total Shareholder Return, fix transaction rates.
The Group to a related item of hardware, measured relative to the does not see a requirement to which are classified as tangible constituents of the FTSE 100. change its current hedging fixed assets under UK GAAP policy as a result of the new must instead be classified as requirements for achieving intangible assets under IAS hedge accounting under IAS 39 38 Intangible Assets.
These and expects to be able to assets are reclassified on achieve hedge accounting for transition to IFRS, and continue the majority of its derivative to be amortised over their useful financial instruments.
economic lives, which have not
