The Portfolio In the year ended 31 January Ist Credit, a UK company, provides D V Holding, a French company, 2005 ICG and its mezzanine debt purchase and outsourced is a leading operator in the nursing funds invested in the following debt collection services.
In October homes and elderly care market.
In companies: 2004 ICG arranged and provided December 2004 ICG arranged and a mezzanine facility of 20m to provided a 16m PIK facility to assist in the secondary buyout.
assist in the buyout of a minority shareholding.
ICG also provided The AA is a UK provider of 10m of equity.
roadside breakdown services and insurance.
In November 2004 ICG DSV Miljo is an environmental took a participation of 85m in the services business based in Denmark.
mezzanine facility provided to assist In February 2004 ICG arranged and in the buyout.
ICG also took a provided a mezzanine facility of participation of 5m in the equity.
DKK 200m to assist in the buyout.
Accantia is a UK brand owner Elmville, an existing borrower in and manufacturer, operating in the UK, is a hotel operating feminine hygiene and health & company.
In March 2004 ICG took arranged and provided a facility of a participation of 23m in the 8m to refinance the portion of the mezzanine facility provided to mezzanine loan not held by ICG.
assist in the secondary buyout.
Eurodatacar is a French company Comptage Immobilier Services is that provides services to the French leader in water and heat complement traditional insurance metering services.
In July 2004 ICG policies covering theft of vehicles.
arranged and provided a mezzanine In January 2005 ICG took a facility of 20m to assist in the participation of 9m in the secondary buyout.
mezzanine facility arranged to assist in the secondary buyout.
Condor Ferries, a UK company, provides ferry and catamaran Eurofarad is the leading French services to the Channel Islands.
manufacturer of customised and In December 2004 ICG took a small batch high-end passive participation of 42.5m in the components.
In June 2004 ICG mezzanine and subordinated arranged and provided a mezzanine shareholder loan facilities used to facility of 20m to assist in the assist in the secondary buyout.
ICG also took a participation of2m in the equity.
Gealan, a German company, is a manufacturer of PVC window systems.
In January 2005 ICG provided a mezzanine facility of 25m to assist in the secondary buyout.
11 Intermediate Capital Group PLC The Portfolio Continued Global Garden Products is the Picard, is the leading French Sia, an existing borrower, is a European powered garden company in the distribution of French company which designs equipment market leader with frozen food.
In December 2004 ICG and imports high quality decoration particularly strong positions in jointly arranged mezzanine facilities accessories.
In June 2004 ICG Italy, Scandinavia, France and the totalling 270m to assist in the provided 4.5m of additional UK.
In February 2004 ICG took secondary buyout.
ICG also took a financing for acquisition purposes.
a participation of 23m in the participation of 15m in the equity.
mezzanine facility arranged to SR Technics, an existing borrower, assist in the secondary buyout.
Red Funnel is a UK company is a high quality global aircraft operating ferry services between maintenance provider based in Groupe Moniteur, a French Southampton and the Isle of Wight.
In June 2004 ICG company, is a leading magazine In December 2004 ICG took a arranged and provided an additional group.
In April 2004 ICG arranged participation of 20m in the mezzanine facility of 9.4m to assist and provided a mezzanine facility subordinated loan stock provided in financing an acquisition.
of 47m to assist in the buyout.
to assist in the secondary buyout.
ICG also took a participation of Team System is an Italian company 4m in the equity.
Regent Medical, a UK company, providing software packages and manufactures and distributes related maintenance.
In December Homann is a German company surgical gloves.
In September 2004 2004 ICG arranged and provided that produces chilled food and ICG took a participation of 20m a mezzanine facility of 25m to delicacies.
In November 2004 ICG in the mezzanine facility provided assist in the secondary buyout.
arranged and provided a 30m to assist in the buyout.
ICG also took a participation of mezzanine facility to assist in the 5m in the equity.
Remeha is a leading boiler manufacturer based in The Thule is a Swedish based leading IMO Car Wash, a UK company, Netherlands.
In July 2004 ICG global sports utility transportation operates the largest standalone arranged and provided a company.
In December 2004 ICG car wash business in Europe.
mezzanine facility of 33m to took a participation of 33.6m in In March 2004 ICG took a assist in the acquisition of the the mezzanine facility arranged participation of 6m in the French heating company.
mezzanine bond provided to assist in the secondary buyout.
Saga is a UK company Vetco International is a UK providing products and services company supplying products, Keolis is Frances leading private to people aged 50 and over.
In systems and services to upstream passenger transport company.
In December 2004 ICG took a oil and gas companies.
In July 2004 September 2004 ICG arranged and participation of 85m in the ICG took a $31m participation in provided a mezzanine facility of mezzanine facility provided to the mezzanine facility arranged to 130m to assist in the buyout.
Leisure Link, an existing borrower, Score is a French company in the is a UK company that manages a contract catering market.
In wide range of gaming and other October 2004 ICG arranged and entertainment machines.
In July provided a mezzanine facility of 2004 ICG arranged and provided 7.5m to assist in the buyout.
an additional mezzanine facility of 2.5m for business development.
12 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Heading for the year ended 31 January 2005 Sector analysis of ICGs portfolio Geographical analysis of ICGs portfolio Building materials 4% Other 5% Denmark 2% Finland 1% Business services 8% Shipping & transport 11% Chemicals & plastics 2% Publishing & printing 4% Consumer products 9% Pharmaceuticals 2% UK 34% France 36% Paper & Drapery & packaging 2% stores 3% Motors 4% Electrical 9% Motor parts 4% Switzerland 4% Leisure 10% Sweden 3% Germany 12% Financial services 5% Insurance 5% Spain 2% Food 5% Health 8% Netherlands 5% Italy 1% Repayments During the year, repayments of loans and investments amounted to 315m.
Loans to 23 companies were repaid or prepaid in full.
These companies were: Name Country Form of realisation Adco Dixi Germany Refinance Asia Cinema South Korea IPO Asia Directories Singapore IPO Baxi UK LBO Blagden Belgium Trade sale Cantrell and Cochrane Ireland IPO Cegelec France Refinance Coral UK Refinance Danish Timber Denmark Refinance Dometic Sweden Refinance Eurodatacar France LBO HMY France LBO Janton Finland Refinance Malmberg Netherlands Trade sale Meyn Netherlands Refinance MGE France Trade sale Pets At Home UK LBO Picard France LBO Pinewood Studios UK IPO Plastimo France LBO Portman Travel UK Amortised TMD Friction Germany Refinance William Cook UK Refinance 13 Intermediate Capital Group PLC
