Directors Non-Executive Chairman John Manser, CBE, DL, age 65, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
He was formerly Chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited and is currently Chairman of Shaftesbury PLC, Hiscox Investment Management Ltd and deputy Chairman of Colliers CRE plc and a non-executive director of SAB Miller PLC.
Executive Directors Tom Attwood, age 52, Managing Director.
Prior to joining Prior to joining ICG in April 1996, he was ICG in 1997, he worked for Societe a director of James Capel & Co where he Generale.
He is responsible for ICGs French worked for eight years.
He chairs the and Italian mezzanine business.
executive committee and is responsible for ICGs UK mezzanine business.
Tom Bartlam, age 57, Managing Director, is a Andrew Phillips, age 42.
Prior to joining qualified Chartered Accountant.
Prior to founding ICG in 1989, at its formation, he worked for ICG in 1989, he was a director in Charterhouse Chemical Bank.
He is responsible for ICGs Bank, where he worked for fourteen years.
He Fund Management business and its Nordic is a non-executive Chairman of Pantheon mezzanine business.
He is stepping down as Managing Director but remaining on the Board as a non-executive director.
Prior to joining Paul Piper, age 47.
Prior to joining ICG ICG in 1994, he worked for Banque fide in 1989, at its formation, he worked for Gestion Privee in Paris.
He is responsible for Chemical Bank.
He is responsible for finance ICGs mezzanine business in Germany, and operations and is chairman of the Benelux, Spain and the Asia Pacific Region.
Non-Executive Directors Martin Kohlhaussen, age 69, is the nonEric Licoys, age 66, was formerly Director executive chairman of Commerzbank and a General of Vivendi Universal, the media and non-executive director of Bayer, ThyssenKrupp, communications group, having previously Schering and a number of other positions.
He been President of the venture capital arm serves on the International Investment Council of Lazard Freres in France.
He is a past to President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa.
James Nelson, age 57, is a non-executive Peter Stone, age 58, a qualified solicitor.
partner in Graphite Capital, Chairman of PIFC He is a non-executive director of DTZ Group Limited and a non-executive director Holdings PLC as well as a number of other of American Opportunity Trust PLC and businesses and was previously a director of Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Close Brothers Group plc.
He is a past Chairman of the BVCA.
