Treasury and Specialised Finance Specialist structuring and advisory business Scope of activities We provide a wide range of specialist products, services and solutions and the bulk of the groups proprietary trading activities.
Furthermore, all non-private client deposit taking, corporate and public sector lending, project finance, advisory and structuring activities are transacted through us.
Our activities can be described as either financial markets or banking activities.
Activities Financial Markets Activities: - Interest rates - Foreign exchange - Equity derivatives and finance Banking Activities: - Corporate treasury and balance sheet management - Financial products - Structured and asset finance - Project finance - Commodity and resource finance Target market - Select corporate clients - Public sector bodies - Institutions Strategic focus Our objectives include: Continuing to remain a focused and specialised business, targeting markets and products where we can be distinctive and competitive.
Ensuring, through strong discipline, centred on clients and delivery of structured products: - Asset creation opportunities - Product structuring and distribution - Trading, hedging and proprietary market opportunities - Advisory business Developing our market leading position, focusing on growth initiatives and growing a portfolio of quality term assets.
Continuing to concentrate on systems, processes and automation, particularly in the trading businesses, to ensure maximum competitive advantage and long-term cost savings.
Taking advantage of significant opportunity to use our specialist skills to launch specialist funds.
A number of initiatives are under way which should ensure significant annuity fees in time.
Targeting significant and sustainable growth.
50 Management structure Regional Management Banking Activities David van der Walt International and UK Treasury - Balance Sheet Richard Wainwright South Africa Clive Sindelman South Africa Michael Cullen Ireland John Barbour UK Craig McKenzie Mauritius Peter Binetter Australia Financial Markets Activities Treasury - Corporate Gary Gorman South Africa Interest Rates Carol Grainger UK Brett Hopkins South Africa Aisling Dodgson Ireland John Barbour UK Financial Products Foreign Exchange Richard Wainwright International Grant Barrow South Africa Mark Currie South Africa Phillip Wells UK Ruth Leas Co-head UK Michael Schewitz Co-head UK Equity Derivatives and Finance Milton Samios International and South Africa Structured and Asset Finance Mark Roessgen UK David van der Walt International Loman Gallagher Ireland Anton Millar Structured Finance - South Africa Operations David Kuming Acquisition Finance - South Africa Kevin McKenna International and South Africa Alistair Crowther Structured Finance - UK Jodi Joseph UK Michael Francis Asset Finance - UK Jeff Boswell Acquisition Finance - UK Divisional Compliance and Legal Pauline Trollip International Project Finance Maurice Hochschild International and UK Information Technology Michael Meeser South Africa Mylene Walker International and South Africa Lee OBrien UK Commodities and Resource Finance Jose fide Nobrega International and South Africa Financial Control George Rogers UK Stuart Spencer South Africa Melanie Abromowitz UK Alan Byrne Ireland Settlements Christa Hefer South Africa Vanessa Clark UK Michael Newman UK Treasury and Specialised Finance Specialist structuring and advisory business Overview and financial analysis Operating profit increased by 33.9% to 47.9 million, contributing 20.8% to group profit.
We continued to focus on our core value drivers - advising, structuring, asset creation, distribution, trading and proprietary portfolio management.
Core lending books grew by 34.5% from 1.2 billion to 1.6 billion.
There was substantial growth in the Acquisition Finance business, where low interest rates and private equity investment drove activity.
31 March 31 March % UK GAAP 000 2005 2004 Variance change Net interest income 46 970 40 832 6 138 15.0% Net fees and commissions receivable 46 727 36 256 10 471 28.9% Dealing profits 35 746 35 340 406 1.1% Other operating income and dividends received 1 313 1 414 101 7.1% Admin expenses and depreciation 81 476 74 095 7 381 10.0% Provision for bad and doubtful debts 1 346 3 942 2 596 65.9% Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill 47 934 35 805 12 129 33.9% Banking Activities 43 233 29 878 13 355 44.7% Financial Markets Activities 4 701 5 927 1 226 20.7% Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill 47 934 35 805 12 129 33.9% Southern Africa 31 121 18 887 12 234 64.8% UK and Europe 15 527 14 015 1 512 10.8% Australia 1 496 436 1 060 100% Other 210 2 467 2 677 100% Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill 47 934 35 805 12 129 33.9% Shareholders' funds 187 422 201 941 7.2% ROE pre-tax 27.8% 21.5% Cost to income ratio 62.3% 65.1% Number of employees 427 434 1.6% The variance in operating profit over the period can be explained as follows: Net interest income benefited from growth in core advances and a stable interest rate environment in South Africa, following the negative impact of the 5.5% rate cuts experienced in the prior period.
The increase in net fees and commissions receivable is attributable to a solid performance from the advisory and structuring businesses, with a number of mandates closed successfully in the year in the Project Finance, Resource Finance, Structured Finance and Financial Products divisions.
Trading and hedging activity, although subdued, improved year-on-year if Israel is excluded.
Initiatives to develop client flows started to benefit the foreign exchange side of the business.
Dealing profits reflect an improvement in the performance of the South African trading activities, following losses incurred by the Interest Rate and Currency Trading desks in the prior period.
This result was, however, offset by the weaker performance of the UK trading activities, with losses incurred by the Commodities desk in the first half of the year and a difficult environment experienced by the Equity Derivatives desk in the second half of the year.
Variable remuneration grew, based on increased profitability.
Business expenses were higher, largely as a result of increased legal costs incurred in the UK, given strong deal flow in the Project Finance and Structured Finance divisions.
Provisions decreased as a result of a bad debt recovery in South Africa.
52 Contribution analysis Operating profit Employees Adjusted shareholders funds % % % 100 100 100 10.3 20.8 26.1 89.7 79.2 73.9 0 0 0 Remainder of Investec group Treasury and Specialised Finance Before taxation, exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill and excluding Assurance and Group Services and Other Activities.
Amounts are shown before taxation, exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill.
Treasury and Specialised Finance Specialist structuring and advisory business Developments Our focus on specialised and niche activities continued during the year and we have developed a strong platform and are well positioned for growth.
Equity Derivatives UK and Europe: - The Equity Finance business in Ireland continued to perform well and we successfully diversified our product range and client base.
- The Equity Derivatives business was hampered by declining equity volatilities in the second half of the year.
South Africa: - A difficult year was experienced as equity volatilities reached their lowest level.
This was offset by successes in the structuring area.
Foreign Exchange The strategies implemented during the previous financial year were largely responsible for a turnaround in the performance of the South African and UK businesses.
South Africa: Successful corporate foreign exchange marketing initiatives contributed to the achievement of good profitability.
Rated the leading forex service provider in the niche banks category for the fifth year running PMR Golden Arrow Awards, 2005.
UK and Europe: The corporate business expanded actively and differentiated its client base after a disappointing year.
Australia: Foreign exchange trading commenced during the period, largely to capture margin on internally generated deal flow.
Interest Rates UK and Europe: The business was set up to facilitate internal deal flow and no new plans are in the pipeline.
South Africa: Liquidity and flow levels in the market remained low and performance was acceptable given market conditions.
Treasury Asset creation opportunities increased in the UK and South Africa.
UK and Europe: A j500 million commercial paper programme and a 1 billion medium-term note programme were established, with both completing successful issues.
South Africa: Liquidity remained well managed and we performed strongly in a more stable interest rate environment.
Australia: We remained well funded and continued to have excess liquidity.
Financial Products UK and Europe: Structuring opportunities remained good and a number of collateralised loan obligation and collateralised debt obligation deals were successfully arranged and structured.
This resulted in good structuring fees and a growing annuity of management fees.
South Africa: A specialist derivative sales and structuring team was created to focus on providing customers with specialist solutions across all trading book products.
Product innovation remains high and the commercial paper conduit was successfully launched, with R1.5 billion of assets added in the last nine months of the year.
Structured and Asset Finance Momentum in aircraft finance was positive, with a number of lead mandates and specialist leasing opportunities successfully concluded e. g. South African Airways, Jet Airways, Quantas and SAS.
54 UK and Europe: - A number of leasing deals were concluded during the year, generating good fee income.
- The Acquisition Finance business was successfully established, with asset creation well ahead of expectations.
- The Asset Finance business was bolstered with the recruitment of a small team from Barclay's Capital.
Since year end, a business comprising structured medium ticket asset finance was acquired from Citigroup.
The business has a book of 70 million, manages assets of 240 million and employs 18 people.
South Africa: - The Acquisition Finance business had a good year, completing a number of successful large corporate deals.
- The debt origination and securitisation business was moved from the Financial Products team to enhance synergies in the two areas and a number of new initiatives were implemented, focusing on black economic empowerment, mid corporate market and property finance.
Project and Infrastructure Finance We remained highly rated and were ranked the leading bank advisor by number of closed projects in the Europe, Africa and Middle East region in 2004.
UK and Europe: - We successfully lead arranged, participated and structured the largest power deal in Ireland, Tynagh Power.
- A number of mandates were successfully concluded in the health and transport sectors and we expanded to increase our capability in the power sector.
South Africa: - Prospects remained good but projects were generally slow to complete, largely as a result of government delays.
Australia: - We completed significant transactions earning fees well in excess of prior years.
- The build up of assets in the clean energy sector for a proposed listing and launch of the Viridis Clean Energy Fund in Australia, in which we have a large stake in the management company, is progressing well.
Commodities and Resource Finance To ensure that the proprietary trading losses from the first half of the financial year were not repeated, strict discipline was enforced and we restructured the business to focus on resource finance and related commodity hedging.
A number of deals were successfully closed in all geographies, although the strong Rand meant that deal flow in South Africa was slow.
Loans and advances For the year ended 31 March 31 March % million 2005 2004 change UK 335 125 100% Ireland 71 7 100% Australia 27 31 14.0% South Africa 1 210 1 058 14.4% 1 643 1 221 34.5% Outlook There is a good level of positive momentum in the business, which is more apparent than at the same time last year.
Line of sight income is good.
Initiatives with potential benefit in the year ahead relate to leveraging off existing platforms, with greater penetration of the existing client base and active measures to increase this.
On balance, we have built a strong platform and are well positioned to target significant and sustainable growth.
