Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Report Directors Report Note: The interest of Silchester International Investors Principal activities and business review Limited SII includes holdings on behalf of SII and a Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a holding company, holding of 5,573,092 JLT shares held on behalf of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of Sanderson Asset Management Limited in which SII has which are engaged in insurance & reinsurance broking a 49.9% interest.
A review of the Groups trading activities and prospects is included in the Chairmans Relationship with Jardine Matheson Group Statement, Chief Executives Statement and Operational Trading: During the year, the Group continued to have a Reviews on pages 2 to 15 and should be read as part of number of arms-length trading links with Jardine this report.
Matheson Group companies, the financial implications of 24 which are given in note 32 on page 96.
Results and dividends The financial statements deal with the consolidated results Business services: In prior years, Jardine Matheson of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2005, provided internal audit services to the Group on an armswhich are shown on pages 46 to 103.
With effect from 1st January 2005, the attributable to shareholders amounted to 50,573,000 internal audit function was transferred to the Company, 2004: 55,657,000. reporting to the Audit and Compliance Committee.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend The Board of 12p per share which, together with the interim dividend With the exception of Nick MacAndrew and Chris Keljik, of 8.5p per share paid in October 2005 amounts to a total who were appointed directors during the year, the dividend of 20.5p per share 2004: 20.5p per share.
directors shown on pages 22 and 23 served throughout Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be the year.
paid on 28th April 2006 to shareholders registered at the Claude Chouraqui, John Lloyd and Richard Sermon close of business on 31st March 2006. retired from the Board on 28th April 2005 and Tony The unconsolidated financial statements for the Company Hobson retired on 31st July 2005.
Nick MacAndrew to 31st December 2005, prepared in accordance with UK and Chris Keljik were appointed directors on 1st July GAAP, are set out on pages 104 to 110. and 1st November 2005 respectively.
Both are independent non-executive directors and serve on the Substantial shareholders Nominations, Audit and Compliance and Remuneration At the date of this report, the Company had been Committees.
Mr MacAndrew was appointed Chairman of notified of the following major interests, each representing the Audit and Compliance Committee on 1st August 3% or more of the existing issued ordinary share capital 2005.
Mike Hammond resigned as a director on 1st see table below.
During the year, Jardine Matheson December 2005.
Holdings Limited increased its interest in the Company Dominic Collins, Chris Keljik, Rodney Leach, with the acquisition of 750,000 ordinary shares and its Nick MacAndrew and Vyvienne Wade will retire at total interest increased to 64,514,916 ordinary shares, the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being being 30.39% of the issued share capital of the Company.
eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Ken Carter This interest is held through its wholly owned subsidiary will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual JMH Investments Limited.
Jardine Strategic Holdings General Meeting.
After that date he will remain with the Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Group until 31st December 2006 when his employment Holdings Limited under Section 203 2 b of the will terminate.
His duties to that date will include Companies Act 1985. continuing as Chief Executive of our USA retail operations.
Shareholder Ordinary shares % Held JMH Investments Limited 64,514,916 30.39 Silchester International Investors Limited note 40,394,899 19.03 Morley Fund Management Limited 10,446,200 4.92 a subsidiary of Aviva plc Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Report As reported in the Chairmans Statement, Geoffrey Howe expenditure authorisations and any other matters that are will succeed Ken Carter as Chairman on 27th April 2006. referred to it.
As a result he will relinquish his roles as Senior The Board has established a number of standing Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration committees including an Audit and Compliance Committee.
Bob Scott will assume the role of Senior Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Independent Director and Chris Keljik the role of Chairman Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference of these of the Remuneration Committee.
Committees are available on the Company's website.
As set out in the Articles of Association, each director Relationship with shareholders: The Board endeavours to must stand for re-election at least once every three years maintain dialogue with institutional shareholders and and Rodney Leach is required to stand for re-election 25 carries out a programme of meetings and presentations annually, having attained the age of 70 in 2005. each year following the publication of interim and final The Special Notice required by s293 and 279 of the results and at other times as appropriate.
At the Annual Companies Act 1985 has been received in respect of his General Meeting the Chairmen of the Audit and proposed re-election.
Compliance, Nominations and Remuneration Committees The service contracts for Messrs Keljik, Leach and will be available to answer questions.
MacAndrew are subject to a three month notice provision.
During the year an Investor Relations Director was The Company is required to give 364 days notice under appointed to facilitate dialogue with investors, this being the service contracts with Mr Collins and Mrs Wade.
During the past twelve months, a formal evaluation of the Committees of the Board Board, its committees and individual directors has been The Audit and Compliance Committee undertaken.
The Committee consists of non-executive directors, a The performance evaluation was undertaken by means majority of whom are independent.
The membership of of individual questionnaires which were summarised and the Committee during the year comprised: Tony Hobson debated by the Board or the relevant committee.
Chairman until retirement from the Board on 31st July : The non-executive directors, led by the senior Nick MacAndrew appointed 1st July and Chairman from independent director, also carried out a performance 1st August : Geoffrey Howe: Chris Keljik appointed 1st evaluation of the Chairman during this period.
November : Simon Keswick: Rodney Leach and Richard Full details of the directors remuneration and interests are Sermon until retirement from the Board on 28th April.
shown in the Remuneration Report.
During the period, Mr MacAndrew is a chartered accountant and his profile no director had any material interest in a contract, is noted on page 23. disclosable pursuant to s. 317 Companies Act 1985, to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings The Committee generally meets at least four times a year.
It meets with executive directors and management, as well as separately with both the external and internal At the date of this report the Board is comprised of six auditors.
executive directors, including the Chairman, and six nonexecutive directors.
The work of the Committee during 2005 and to the date of this Report included: There are established formal procedures for the structure Review of the Interim Report, Preliminary and authorities through which the Board discharges Announcement and the Annual Report and Accounts its responsibilities for the direction and management of for the 2005 year end.
Review of reports from Compliance and Internal Audit The Board meets at least six times a year, to review the functions.
performance of the Group and to discuss the matters reserved for its decisions, which include, inter alia, the approval of Group strategy and budget plans, material Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Report Directors Report Approval of the external audit plan and fee proposal Nominations Committee and consideration of auditor independence in relation The membership of the Committee during the year to non-audit services provided.
comprised: Rodney Leach Chairman : Ken Carter: A formal review of the external auditors.
Claude Chouraqui until retirement from the Board on Consideration of the Groups risk management profile.
28th April : Tony Hobson until retirement from the Board Implementation of International Financial Reporting on 31st July : Geoffrey Howe: Chris Keljik appointed 1st Standards.
November : Simon Keswick: Nick MacAndrew appointed 1st July : Bob Scott and Richard Sermon until retirement A review of the Group's acquisition procedures.
from the Board on 28th April.
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee.
26 The Terms of Reference of the Audit and Compliance The Committee met four times during the year.
Committee cover all matters indicated by the Combined Its purpose is to make recommendations to the Board on Code and include responsibility for providing advice to the the appointment of directors of the Company.
The terms Board on the Groups interim and financial statements: on of reference of the committee are available on the accounting policies and on the control of its financial and Companys website.
business risks as well as reviewing the work of the internal Group Executive Committee and external auditors.
A copy of the Terms of Reference The Group Executive Committee is responsible for the can be obtained from the Company Secretary and is day-to-day management of the Groups operations.
displayed on the Groups website.
At the date of this report, the Committee is comprised of Remuneration Committee five executive directors and two non-board appointees.
The Committee consists of non-executive directors, a The membership of the Committee during the year majority of whom are independent.
The membership of comprised: Dominic Burke Committee Chairman from the Committee during the year comprised: Geoffrey Howe 1st December 2005 : Brian Carpenter appointed 1st May Chairman : Tony Hobson until retirement from the Board 2005 : Ken Carter until 1st December 2005 : Dominic on 31st July : Rodney Leach: Chris Keljik appointed 1st Collins: John Hastings-Bass: John Lloyd until retirement November : Simon Keswick: Nick MacAndrew appointed from the Board on 28th April : Mike Hammond until his 1st July : Bob Scott and Richard Sermon until retirement resignation on 1st December : George Stuart-Clarke and from the Board on 28th April.
The Remuneration Committee met six times during the Ken Carter stood down as a member and Chairman of year.
It is responsible, inter alia, for setting the the Committee upon the appointment of Dominic Burke remuneration and terms and conditions of the executive as Chief Executive on 1st December 2005. directors and setting overall remuneration policy for senior William Nabarro was appointed a member of the Group management of the Group.
It also approves the Executive Committee on 3rd March 2006. allocations under all long term incentive plans and share option schemes.
Assistance was provided to the Committee by the Chairman and the Chief Executive, neither in relation to his own remuneration, and by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC.
NBSC were appointed by the Remuneration Committee to act as advisers to the Committee and they have no other connection with the Company.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Report Board attendance The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown in the table below.
Audit and Board Compliance Remuneration Nominations meeting Committee Committee Committee Note 7 x in period 5 x in period 6 x in period 4 x in period K A Carter 7-- 4 D J Burke 7--- C Chouraqui 2 4 - - - 27 A D J B Collins 7 - - - J P Hastings-Bass 7 - - - M P Hammond 6 5 - - - A J Hobson 34432 G M T Howe 7564 C A Keljik 42122 S L Keswick 4344 C G R Leach 7154 E J Lloyd 2 3 - - - N R MacAndrew 53142 R A Scott 7 -44 T R Sermon 24221 G W Stuart-Clarke 7 - - - V Y A C Wade 5 - - - Notes to table 4 Mr C A Keljik was appointed a director on 1st November 2005.
1 The attendance of directors who retired or resigned during the year is shown up to the date of their retirement or 5 Mr N R MacAndrew was appointed a director on 1st July resignation.
2 Messrs Chouraqui, Lloyd and Sermon retired as directors at 6 Mr M P Hammond resigned as a director on 1st December the AGM on 28th April 2005.
3 Mr A J Hobson retired as a director and Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee on 31st July 2005.
"Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Report Directors Report The Board believes that the presence of Messrs Leach Corporate Governance and Keswick on the Board and its committees During the year the Company has been in compliance subject to re-election under the Articles continues to with the provisions as set out in Section 1 of the be appropriate and in the interests of shareholders Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by generally and does not detract from their the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the ""Code"" independence and judgment on any relevant issue."
except for the following: The non-executive directors bring to the Board Ken Carter was appointed Executive Chairman on a broad range of experience and expertise.
26th November 2004, combining the roles of The knowledge held by Messrs Leach and Keswick Chairman and Chief Executive.
Following the 28 built from the long standing relationship between appointment of Dominic Burke as Group Chief Jardine Matheson and JLT continues to be of Executive on 1st December 2005, Ken Carter has particular value.
reverted to the role of Chairman.
He will retire as Chairman and also from the Board at the conclusion The majority of the members of the Audit and of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting at which Compliance and Remuneration committees are time Geoffrey Howe, currently Senior Independent independent.
However, Rodney Leach and Simon Director and Joint Deputy Chairman, will assume Keswick both served on these committees during the the role of Chairman of the Board.
year, and therefore the Group did not comply with the Code in relation to the membership of the these Following the retirement from the Board on 28th April Committees.
2005 of Messrs. Chouraqui, Sermon and Lloyd, the Company was in breach of the Combined Code as Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards the number of executive directors exceeded the in place to prevent the compromise of the auditors number of non-executive directors.
Following the independence and objectivity.
Details of services provided retirement of Mr Hobson on 31st July, the by the Groups auditors are set out in note 8 on page 71. appointment of Messrs MacAndrew and Keljik on The Audit and Compliance Committee also have a policy 1st July and 1st November 2005 respectively, and the on the engagement of external auditors and the supply of resignation of Mike Hammond on 1st December non-audit services to the Group, including an annual 2005, one half of the Board has been non-executive review of the auditors independence.
and a majority of the non-executive directors are The external auditors also report regularly on the actions considered independent in the context of the Code that they have taken to comply with professional and and its definitions.
The four independent directors are regulatory requirements and current best practice in order Geoffrey Howe, Chris Keljik, Nick MacAndrew and to maintain that independence.
The directors are able to consult the Companys legal, Rodney Leach Joint Deputy Chairman and Simon financial and other professional advisers on any matter Keswick both served as non-executive directors and relating to the Companys affairs.
Any director may make both are directors of Jardine Matheson Holdings use of this facility subject to notifying the Chairman or Limited, which has a 30.39% interest in the Company.
The relationship with Jardine Matheson is maintained on an arms-length basis as detailed in note 32 on If independent advice is sought, this is subject to prior page 96.
However neither director can be regarded as consultation with the Chairman or a non-executive independent in the context of the Code.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability insurance in respect of legal actions against its directors.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Report It is also the responsibility of the directors to ensure that Share capital arrangements are made for the maintenance of adequate Movements in the share capital of the company during accounting records, to safeguard the assets of the Group the year ended 31st December 2005 are set out in note and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, At 31st December 2005 the authorised share capital of consistently applied and supported by reasonable and the Company was 12,500,000 of which 10,615,243 prudent judgements and estimates, have been used in had been issued and 1,884,757 unissued.
the preparation of the financial statements and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Accountability and audit 29 The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups Operating Company controls: The identification and systems of internal control and for reviewing their mitigation of major business risks is the responsibility of effectiveness.
Each operating company maintains controls and procedures appropriate to its The implementation and maintenance of the risk own business environment while conforming to Group management and internal control systems are the standards and guidelines.
responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management.
The system is designed to manage, rather These include procedures to identify and then investigate than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business all types of material risk.
objectives and can provide only reasonable assurance, Compliance and legal: The Groups legal, compliance and but not absolute assurance, against material misquality control departments establish compliance policy statement or loss.
and carry out regular audits.
The scope of work includes Directors responsibilities: The following statement ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and operating should be read in conjunction with the Auditors Report standards for the conduct of business which is reported on page 45. to the Board and Audit and Compliance Committee.
The directors are required to present for each accounting Going concern: The directors consider that the Group period financial statements which give a true and fair view and the Company have adequate resources to continue of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at in operational existence in the foreseeable future.
the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Consequently, the financial statements have been Group for that period.
These statements are prepared on prepared on a going concern basis.
the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to Internal control: The directors acknowledge that they are presume that the Group will continue in business.
responsible for the Groups systems of internal control The financial statements must be prepared in compliance and for reviewing their effectiveness and this review has with the required formats and disclosures of the been undertaken during the year.
Companies Act 1985 and with applicable accounting standards.
Internal financial controls: The present framework of financial controls may be summarised under the following headings: Organisational structure: There are clearly defined areas of responsibility and limits of authority within the Group.
Annual budgets are approved by the Board following detailed reviews by management.
Group results are reviewed against budget and reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Report Directors Report Treasury: Treasury policy is reviewed and approved by The Group conducts a formal annual risk profiling review the Board and a review group reporting to the Finance to identify and profile the significant risks, both operational Director and Audit and Compliance Committee is and strategic, faced by the Group and to review the responsible for monitoring treasury activity and effectiveness of risk management controls including loss performance.
The Group has policies to cover the key prevention and recovery planning.
treasury activities of investment of funds, counterparty This exercise involves the senior management across the risk, foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Group and covers a broad range of risks, including Cash and investments mostly consist of money market operational, financial treasury, information technology, deposits, commercial paper, certificates of deposit and health & safety, human resource and legal areas.
30 money funds with prime banks and institutions.
Monitoring of risk is facilitated internally by functional The Group maintains a counterparty policy based on management and assurance gained through financial, published rating criteria to limit the concentration of funds compliance and quality based auditing.
Significant failures and the exposure with any one party.
Monetary limits are are reported to the executive directors to ensure remedial assigned to each counterparty based on an agreed scale action is taken.
in relation to their rating.
The Groups procedures for the management of risk have The Group adopts a prudent approach to the been reviewed by the Board during the year.
The annual management of its US dollar foreign exchange exposure risk profiling report has been reviewed by the Audit and by maintaining a hedging programme based on the use of Compliance Committee on behalf of the Board which is forward foreign exchange contracts and, to a lesser satisfied that appropriate processes and procedures are in extent, options with the objective of selling forward a place in order to identify and manage the significant risks minimum of 50% of US dollar income projected to arise faced by the Group.
during the following 12 months and 25% of that expected As noted above, the overall responsibility for internal to arise over the subsequent 12 months.
controls within the Company and its subsidiary Interest rate risk arises on the interest earnings from both undertakings rests with the directors of the Company.
own and fiduciary funds held in the Group.
The Group Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of such policy is to protect its sterling and US dollar interest controls forms part of the duties of the Audit and earnings by maintaining, on a rolling 12-month basis, a Compliance Committee.
Monitoring procedures include minimum hedged position.
Depending on market detailed reviews of operating company systems which are conditions this minimum can alter between 25% and routinely undertaken by internal audit.
The responsibility 75% of projected interest earnings during the following for internal controls within associated undertakings rests 12 months and between zero and 50% over the essentially with the senior management of those subsequent 12 months.
operations, the role of the Group being to monitor its investments and to exert influence, normally through Financial risk management, borrowing facilities, liquidity Board representation.
risk and foreign currency risk are discussed within the Treasury Section of the Financial Review on pages Investment appraisal: Major items of capital expenditure 18 and 19. require Board approval.
Risk management controls: In accordance with the Code, The Board is also responsible for the overall strategy of a process has been established for identifying, evaluating the Group, including acquisitions and related due and managing risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the financial statements were approved.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Report Employment policies Annual General Meeting It is the policy of the Group to provide an environment in The notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be which individual talents can excel.
Employee involvement held on 27th April 2006 at 12 noon at 6 Crutched Friars, is encouraged with wide share ownership and London EC3N 2PH is contained in the circular participation in share option schemes.
The special business comprises the following items: Employees are kept informed of the performance of the Group and all matters affecting them as employees by The renewal, within prescribed limits, of: means of regular briefings and consultation.
i the authority of the directors to allot securities of the The Group is an equal opportunities employer and bases Company up to the available unissued capital: 31 all decisions on individual ability regardless of race, ii the disapplication of the statutory pre-emption rights: religion, gender, age or disability.
iii the authority of the Company to purchase, for Applications for employment by disabled persons will cancellation, its own shares by way of market always be fully considered, having regard to their purchases: particular aptitudes and abilities.
Should employees become disabled, every effort will be made to ensure that iv a waiver of the requirement arising under Rule 9 of the their employment with the Group continues and, in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, that Jardine event that they are unable to continue to work, that their Matheson Holdings Limited, together with parties financial interests are safeguarded.
It is the intention of the deemed to be acting in concert with it, be required to Group that opportunities for training, career development make a general offer for the Company by reason of and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as the change in its percentage holding in the capital of possible, be identical with those for other employees.
the Company arising from any such purchase under iii above: Suppliers Save for the allotment of shares under the Companys The Group agrees payment terms with suppliers when it share option schemes or as may arise with the acquisition enters into contracts for the purchase of goods or of minority interests, the directors have no present services and seeks to abide by those terms when it is intention of utilising the authority under i and ii above.
satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and The directors will only consider making purchases of the conditions.
At 31st December 2005 the Company did Companys shares if they believe that it would be in the not have any direct external supplier creditors.
best interests of shareholders and would result in an improvement in earnings per share.
The Group does not have a standard or code which deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
Auditors It is proposed that the auditors,  Donations LLP, having signified their willingness to continue in office, During the period the Group made charitable donations be reappointed auditors of the Company.
A resolution totalling 462,000 2004: 430,000. proposing their reappointment will be put to the Annual No political donations were made by the Group.
By order of the Board D J Hickman, Secretary 21st March 2006
