Investment Managers Report Stephen Macklow-Smith Has been managing the Companys assets since September 1997.
INVESTMENT MANAGER The year under a review saw further rises in equity The following table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
The Companys NAV performance lagged the index slightly, with the NAV returning 17.4% Performance attribution for the year to against a benchmark return of 18.2%.
The 31st March 2005 discount also narrowed, meaning that the share 1 Year % price total return was 23.3%, a significant outNet asset value total return 17.4 performance of the benchmark.
Benchmark total return 18.2 Our long term performance remains satisfactory, Relative return 0.8 with the three and five year returns ahead of the Analysis of relative return Allocation effect 0.8 benchmark.
The three year absolute return is Selection effect 0.9 positive, but the five year absolute return is Gearing cash liquidity effect 0.2 slightly negative, reflecting the fact that the Currency effect 0.2 Management fee & other expenses 0.9 starting point is March 2000, which marked the Buybacks 0.4 peak of the previous bull market.
Residual item 0.2 Total 0.8 Economic recovery continued, although numbers for the Euro zone struggled to reach trend.
Inflation is Source: Frank Russell JPMAM Fundamental Data.
well contained and interest rates in Europe remain Definitions low.
The big story in the global economy for the last Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its five years has been China, which in the first quarter benchmark.
of 2005 was growing at around 10% in real terms.
Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios European companies actually benefited from this, weighting in different sectors or asset types.
with Germany which two years ago reassumed its Selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in individual securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in position as the worlds largest exporter particularly the benchmark, or of investing in securities outside the benchmark.
European GDP growth may disappoint but Gearing cash liquidity effect: Measures the impact on we as shareholders get paid from the profits made relative returns of the Companys net borrowings.
Currency effect: Measures the impact of currency exposure by companies, and this is often not directly differences between the Companys portfolio and its connected to GDP growth.
In China, for instance, the benchmark.
It also identifies the effect of holding forward currency contracts or currency futures.
Shanghai A share index is making new five year lows Management fee and other expenses: The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore at a time when the Chinese economy is showing has a negative effect on relative performance.
In Europe, by contrast, the Buybacks: Measures the net effect on relative performance of decreasing the number of shares in issue.
headline figures are dull, but profits growth is good: Residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between indeed analysts are currently more optimistic about total return as calculated by Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by the attribution generating system.
This prospects for European growth than they are for UK is a result of methodology differences with respect to the treatment of income and cashflows, and timing differences.
JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 7 Investment Managers Report continued This reflects, in part, a theme which we have Czechia is examining the proposal.
Euro zone discussed in previous reports that of countries are protesting, but this is a market-based restructuring.
European reform continued to move reform which they cannot influence.
Cuts in forward last year, and there were some landmark corporate tax rates flow straight to net profit.
The accession of some of our eastern is all part of a much wider story of value creation European neighbours opened up access to a lower which is taking place in Europe as a result of the cost labour pool.
Siemens used this as a lever to increased internal competition catalysed by the reach an agreement with unions at its handset Single market and the Single Currency.
In the plant to raise the working week from 35 hours to recession of the early 1990s, European companies 40 hours, with no rise in pay in other words a fide destroyed value.
In the worst year of the recent facto 12.5% pay cut.
The biggest German union, IG slow-down, they all but matched their cost of Metall, acknowledged this on its website when it capital, and now they are creating value again.
talked of how it had agreed to the deal in order to Returns on capital have been improved by a safeguard jobs in an area of Germany where combination of lower tax rates, lower labour costs employment prospects were not good.
German and higher productivity, and at the same time the unit labour costs have fallen 6% relative to the cost of capital has fallen by virtue of more effective Euro zone since late 2001, largely through a wage balance sheet structures.
Higher returns relative to squeeze.
German public sector workers agreed a cost of capital create value for shareholders and three year wage freeze in February, and in France the valuation of quoted Europe is not demanding.
the lower house has passed a bill allowing some Within the portfolio we have good exposure to modification of the rules on the 35 hour week.
German autoparts Corporate tax rates were cut in a variety of manufacturer Continental has been an excellent countries, including Austria and Greece, and now performer for us for a number of years, and much Germany is putting a bill to its parliament to cut its of this has stemmed from its ability to reap the corporate tax rate from 25% to 19%.
This is a direct benefits of good cost control in its German response to the pressure to compete for capital in manufacturing base.
The same is true of truck a single currency area and we should expect to see manufacturer MAN AG and large chemicals concern more cuts in tax rates in future years.
We have spoken before of restructuring and European countries are leading the way in this, corporate activity in the financial sector, and this with flat tax rate regimes in Russia, Lithuania, remained a theme in the year under review.
In Latvia, the Ukraine and Slovakia, among others.
general terms the profitability of European banks Poland has said it is aiming for a flat tax rate, and has been boosted by a move towards lower 8 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European provisioning over the course of the cycle, and this German economy and in 2003, despite the wellhas helped their profits growth.
More specifically publicised issues over labour cost and the strength we saw continued interest from larger banks in of the Euro, Germany resumed its place as the acquiring smaller regional entities with strong largest exporter in the world.
franchises, and this helped the performance of The future looks fairly promising to us.
Valuations several of our smaller holdings.
In a variety of are not extended, the global economy continues to sectors and industries, we found interesting expand, and Europe is concentrating on reducing opportunities of this nature through the best of costs in order to make itself a more effective global value part of our philosophy.
There are, of course, threats, among It was not only reform, however, which drove which the elevated price of raw materials notably returns.
One of the key planks of our process, best oil is probably the most high profile.
Nevertheless, of growth, seeks to identify those companies with we believe that the European economy is good growth dynamics supported by positive news sufficiently resilient to weather these dangers and, flow.
Examples of stocks which did well for us in with further growth in profitability expected, we 2005 were Nobel Biocare, a Swiss company which can see the equity markets moving higher in the manufactures dental implants and is benefiting next three years.
We believe that our focus on the from the increasing interest in cosmetic dentistry, extremes of the value and growth spectra will and GN Store Nordic, which is not only a major deliver continued steady out-performance in the developer of digital hearing aids, but also has a years to come.
division supplying Bluetooth headsets for mobile Stephen Macklow-Smith phones.
Another instance of a good European Investment Manager 9th June 2005 growth story is Merck, a German pharmaceutical company, one of whose divisions has a 40% market share globally in the manufacture of LCDs.
LCDs have achieved something of a breakthrough in the last three years as the medium of choice for computer monitors and TV sets.
Many people are surprised to find that the raw material for such a voguish technology is dominated by a German company, but they should remember that Germanys expertise in high specification manufacturing has been a rock of strength to the JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 9
