Investment Managers Report Stephen Mitchell Jonathan Dobson has been managing the has been assisting in the assets of the Company since management of the assets of December 1997. the Company since June 2001.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS Review Koizumi took a tough line after his Post Office In last years annual report we wrote optimistically Privatisation bill was rejected by the Upper House, that Japanese companies looked in the best shape and he resolutely dissolved parliament.
The for fifteen years and that investors were being electorate voted him and the Liberal Democratic unduly cautious towards Japanese stocks.
This Party back in with a clear mandate for reform, and analysis proved to be accurate, with the Tokyo this was taken as a signal that Japan had indeed market as measured by the Topix All Share index changed.
rising 28.9% in sterling over the twelve months to The year ended with the Tokyo market slightly September 2005, a very satisfactory return.
By the overbought after such a wave of money had end of the year the Tokyo market had become one entered it in just a few months.
Nevertheless greatly favoured by asset allocators around the sentiment remained positive, and expectations globe, and had risen for two consecutive years.
that a sustainable economic recovery was possible It took some time for confidence in Japan to were high - based on domestic demand rather than develop, and the returns for the year were very exports.
This is evidenced by the renewed health much concentrated in the final July to September of Japanese banks which are now generating quarter.
Indeed the buying by foreign investors sufficient cash to have started paying back the was one of the major factors behind the rise, and money the government had supported them with the value of the buying exceeded that in any of the during the 1990s.
The year started quietly with Performance Portfolio Changes worries about rising oil and commodity prices, the The Companys NAV rose 28.3% over the year, Federal Reserve Bank in the United States ending 0.6% behind the Topix benchmark index.
It its ultra-low interest rate policy and caution performed well during the first half of the year due because US macro-economic data was going to a significant bias towards companies through a mildly soft patch.
concentrated in the domestic economy in real The trigger for the rally in Tokyo stocks eventually estate, finance and services.
However, the final came from within Japan itself.
Firstly, GDP and quarter of the year saw these smaller growing profit numbers came in at the top end of names pause, and the large foreign fund inflows expectations, and secondly, data on land prices were more concentrated in big liquid names in from various Tokyo based research institutes steel, banking and insurance for example.
Whilst showed that fourteen consecutive years of land the Company had exposure to these areas, and price declines had ended.
Prices of prime plots in was correctly very underweight in defensive major cities such as Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto and sectors, it temporarily suffered from this shift from Fukuoka were actually being bid up.
The small and mid cap growth names to big liquid importance of this cannot be under-estimated.
The holdings the Company has in these third and final factor was when prime minister domestic growth areas are strategic they will do JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 3 Investment Managers Report continued better over the medium term and a decision was Performance attribution for the year taken to hold onto them and not chase momentum to 30th September 2005 in large cap stocks over a short period.
Indeed, the 1 Year correction in share prices in some of these % attractive smaller names gave the manager an Net asset value total return in sterling terms 28.3 opportunity to increase exposure in domestic Benchmark total return in sterling terms 28.9 sectors such as retail, real estate and services.
Relative return 0.6 Global cyclicals performed well in the Companys Analysis of relative return Allocation 1.0 portfolio, but by the end of the period concerns Stock selection 4.4 about the US economy were rising again, and Gearing cash 3.7 some profits were taken in oils, mining, steels and Management fee and other expenses 0.8 trading companies.
The extent to which Japan Other residual items 0.1 benefited from rising oil and commodity prices was Total 0.6 perhaps surprising for a country which has scarce Source: Frank Russell JPMAM Fundamental Data natural resources.
However, after their negative Definitions experience during the previous cycle in the 1970s, Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its many Japanese trading, metal and oil companies benchmark.
have been quietly investing in liquid natural gas Allocation: Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios LNG, iron ore, coking coal and copper projects as weighting in different sectors or asset types.
partners to the global majors for much of the Stock selection: Measures the effect of investing in subsequent twenty years.
When the boom came securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities they have reaped the rewards.
The Company has outside the benchmark.
reduced weightings but not come out of these Gearing cash: Measures the impact on returns of areas altogether.
borrowings, cash balances or cash substitutes on Companys relative performance.
The end to deflation and a return to mildly positive Management fee and other expenses: The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and inflation has hugely positive implications for therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
domestic sectors and corporate profits overall, as Other residual items: Arises when there is a divergence has been seen over the last few years in the Hong between total return as calculated by the AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by Kong economy.
Thus the Company saw the the attribution generating system.
This is a result of overweight positions in real estate, services and methodology differences with respect to the treatment of Income and cashflows, and timing differences.
The portfolio holds significant positions in companies such as Aeon Mall shopping mall developer, Urban real estate securitisation, Matsui Securities on-line stockbroking, USS internet 4 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese based car auctions and SFCG loans to small commodities.
This wave of demand triggered a businesses.
These are generally younger new found confidence in Japanese business companies with more entrepreneurial management executives, whose corporations now have enough and a more western regard for their shareholders.
free cash flow to start pro-actively investing for the Companies such as Creed in real estate, E Trade future again.
Capital expenditure thus started to Securities in internet finance and Haseko, a pick-up, not just in overseas areas such Thailand revived condominium builder, all helped and China, but domestically within Japan.
What has changed over the summer of 2005 are Gearing the renewed profitability of Japanese banks, the During the course of the Companys financial year recovery in land prices and a gradual tightening up your Managers operated at an average gearing of the labour market within Japan.
This was financed by drawing on Yen the final pieces in the jigsaw for a sustainable loan facilities provided by two lending banks.
domestic recovery to take place in the Japanese Towards the end of September 2005 the Managers economy over the next few years.
Yields on real reduced the level of gearing to 105% as they were estate remain well above the 1.5% income offered of the opinion that the Japanese stock market was by Japanese government bonds and the confidence temporarily overbought.
The reduction in gearing to undertake refurbishment and development was effected by selling a futures contract on the projects has now returned.
The futures contract was bought back capital expenditure is thus also recovering as and cancelled on 28th October 2005. evidenced, by investment in new stores by retailers, refurbishment of older buildings by REITs, Outlook the building of many new hotels and lastly large Japan is beginning to show that the economic office projects built on land often sold off by the dislocation of the last fifteen years is over.
The recovery in the real estate market recovery started with exports to the USA and cannot be emphasised enough.
Japan is still the China, and broadened out as China started to build worlds second largest economy and the value of factories on a vast scale that caused a boom in its real estate market enormous.
Activity had been demand for Japanese machine tools, industrial frozen since the bubble economy crashed in 1990 robots, plastic injection moulding machinery and and the amount of activity needed to catch up with other factory automation equipment.
China also this under-investment will take many years.
caused demand to tighten up in older industries such as shipping and steel.
A boom in Japanese The labour market has gradually improved in Japan made construction machinery happened, not just and job offers are now exceeding the number of for building work in China, but for mining applicants by a significant margin.
Indeed in equipment as mines around the world tried to Nagoya and Tokyo there are already signs of labour keep up with Chinas voracious appetite for shortages of skilled people.
Over the next three JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 5 Investment Managers Report continued years or more demographics will work in favour of has a relatively open economy sensitive to the workers, as the number of youngsters entering the level of overall global trade, and the risks we see workforce drops off sharply the so-called 2007 at the macro-economic level are largely exogenous.
problem, and older workers from the first baby The greatest concerns come from the US, where boom start to retire in greater numbers.
This has the auto and auto-parts industries are in some some influence on the managers of the Company difficulty, and where an almost unprecedented in how they construct the portfolio.
So although fourteen year consumer cycle could be coming to after 2010 the increasing burden of funding an end.
Many commentators worry about the pensioners and declining population may elevated level of the US housing and real estate negatively affect the Japanese economy, the years markets.
To some extent offsetting this is that up until then see a tighter job market and thus China continues to manage its economy relatively improved consumer confidence.
Consumption is well, although over-investment with poor returns the one area of the economy that has been on capital may at some stage pose a problem - just relatively subdued but which makes up 50% of as it did in Taiwan and Japan in the late 1980s.
Not surprisingly then with both the Emerging economies continue to do well and they labour and real estate markets looking better, a now have a more sustainable approach to more positive stance can be taken towards Japans economic management.
Russia, India and the potential GDP growth rates.
Even more importantly middle east continue to develop and are attracting for shareholders in JPMorgan Fleming Japanese, a much increased level of inward investment, and corporate profits in general should keep growing.
this spending is visibly benefiting Japanese companies.
Japanese corporations seem to have found a new discipline in achieving a return on capital higher The developments outlined above continue to than their cost of funds, creating free cash flow, provide a significant number of attractive which they are much more pro-actively returning to opportunities, and when constructing a portfolio of shareholders through increased dividends and approximately seventy growing companies from share buy-backs.
This is providing valuation the four thousand or so listed in Tokyo there is not support for the market, where a cash yield of a shortage of choices, indeed currently rather the around 2.3% exceeds bond yields of 1.5%.
Company has, this year, been able to buy Japanese Real Estate Investment Trusts REITs with yields of Stephen Mitchell 4.0% to 4.5%, a level of income not seen in Japan Jonathan Dobson since the 1970s.
Investment Managers 10th November 2005 In summary then, confidence concerning the Japanese economy is much improved, but Japan 6 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese
