Board of Directors George Paul Chairman Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Age 65 Appointed on 7th January 1998 George Paul is Chairman of Agricola Group Limited, formerly Agricola Holdings, since 1997.
He is also Deputy Chairman of Aviva plc and was formerly Chairman of Norwich Union plc.
Richard Barfield Senior Independent Director Age 58 Appointed on 1st November 2001 Richard Barfield is a Director of Equitas and Chairman of its investment committee.
He is also Chairman of Synergy GP Ltd and a Director of Rio Tinto Pension Investments Ltd, Umbro plc, Baillie Gifford Japan Trust plc, Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and Merchants Trust plc as well as a member of the Public Oversight Board for Accountancy.
He was formerly Chief Investment Manager of Standard Life.
Simon Davies Age 46 Appointed on 29th November 1999 Simon Davies is Chief Executive Officer of Threadneedle Asset Management.
He began his investment career in 1981 with Rothschild Asset Management, before moving to Gartmore where he became Head of International Equities.
He joined Threadneedle as Chief Investment Officer before taking his current position of CEO.
Geoffrey Howe Age 56 Appointed on 1st November 1999 Geoffrey Howe holds a number of directorships including Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc, Investec plc and Nationwide Building Society.
He was formerly Chairman of Railtrack Group plc, Managing Partner of Clifford Chance and Director and Group General Counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd. John Rennocks Chairman of the Audit Committee Age 60 Appointed on 1st November 2001 John Rennocks is Chairman of Nestor Healthcare Group and Diploma plc, Deputy Chairman of Inmarsat plc and a Non-Executive Director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc, Babcock International Group plc and Wagon plc.
He was previously Finance Director of Corus Group plc formerly British Steel plc, Powergen plc and Smith & Nephew plc.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee 16 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas
