Ten Largest Investments at 30th June 2005 Valuation 1 Company Country 000 % Total Fina France 11,453 3.1 Total Fina produces, refines and markets oil and natural gas and undertakes exploratory work.
The company operates in over 100 countries.
The diversified nature of the business together with a strong balance sheet enable this company to be at the forefront of the industry in innovation and efficiency.
General Electric USA 11,210 3.0 GE is a diversified industrial conglomerate with significant operations in financial services, medical technology, power systems, aero engines and broadcasting.
This portfolio of businesses is well placed to grow significantly over the next few years.
Altria USA 7,990 2.2 Altria is the holding company for the Phillip Morris US and international cigarette brands.
Altria also has a controlling interest in Kraft Foods.
Both companies have premium positions in their respective industries.
HSBC Hong Kong 7,974 2.1 HSBC provides a variety of international banking and financial services, including retail and corporate banking.
A strong management team has positioned the business to benefit from Asian economic growth and deliver consistent earnings growth.
Bank of America USA 7,775 2.1 Bank of America provides consumer and commercial banking, asset management, global corporate and investment banking, and equity investments.
The company continues to be at the forefront of consolidation within the US financial services industry, recently acquiring MBNA, a credit card company.
Roche Holdings Switzerland 7,701 2.1 Roche develops and manufactures pharmaceutical and diagnostic products, with a focus on producing differentiated products that can sell for a premium price.
The company also benefits from a majority holding in Genentech, a US biotechnology company, which has a very strong pipeline of oncology products.
GlaxoSmithKline UK 7,576 2.0 GlaxoSmithKline is a research-based pharmaceuticals group selling a wide range of drugs across many therapies.
The company has invested heavily to generate a healthy pipeline of promising compounds that should allow the company to grow faster than the overall industry.
GlaxoSmithKline also offers an attractive dividend yield.
Microsoft USA 7,388 2.0 Microsoft Corporation develops, licenses, sells and supports software products.
The company offers has successfully diversified its business, successfully reinvesting the cashflows from the Windows and Office franchises into growth opportunities in both corporate and consumer applications.
Surplus cash is also now being returned to shareholders.
Citigroup USA 7,022 1.9 Citigroup is the largest diversified financial services company in the world.
It provides a broad range of financial services to consumer and corporate customers around the globe.
With such broadly diversified revenue streams, Citigroup offers earnings and profitability stability well above that of its peers throughout the economic cycle.
AIG USA 6,382 1.7 AIG is the worlds largest insurer, writing both property and casualty and life insurance business.
The company is again positioned to use its scale and competitive advantage to grow profits significantly faster than the industry.
Total 82,471 22.2 1 Based on total assets less current liabilities of 370.7m.
