Investment Managers Report Ed Walker INVESTMENT MANAGER Overview environment.
Emerging markets were another area Global stock markets made good progress in the of strength.
Growth remained strong and relatively year ending 30th June 2005, building on the rally stable and investors appeared increasingly that began in March 2003.
Company profits prepared to pay developed market prices for increased strongly against a generally positive assets with superior growth characteristics.
economic backdrop, although UK growth has been The Japanese market lagged following a very lacklustre.
European, Asian and emerging stock strong performance in the previous year.
The markets performed most strongly with the US also domestic economy has continued to splutter: with producing a positive return.
Japan was the only positive signs, such as stabilising land prices and major market not in positive territory.
improving consumer confidence, offset by slow Markets tracked steadily higher throughout the progress on reforms.
year, with only brief periods of weakness.
The Currency volatility and the upward march of chief concerns were the effects of rising interest energy and commodity prices were also notable rates in the US and the potential for a return of features of the period.
Energy prices continued to inflation.
As it turned out, rising interest rates in move higher due to demand from emerging the US were quite easily absorbed by the market economies and a lack of new resource economy with only a modest impact on growth discoveries.
Given this strength, it is no surprise rates, and the news on inflation has continued to that these were also among the best performing show that there does not appear to be a real sectors.
Otherwise returns were broadly based threat, despite higher input price, particularly oil across different industries, with information and commodities.
technology the only large sector in negative European markets have performed particularly territory.
The US dollar continued its steep fall well.
Although economic conditions remain until January, but has since rallied from its lows challenging, companies have still been able to against sterling, driven by higher interest rates in grow profits from a combination of cost-cutting the US making the currency more attractive, and a efforts and export-led growth.
European markets narrowing of both the current account and budget also benefited from a stable interest rate deficits.
JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 3 Investment Managers Report continued Performance The following table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
The Companys performance was modestly ahead of the benchmark during the year.
The key positive Performance attribution for the year to 30th June 2005 drivers of performance were emerging market and 1 Year Japanese stock selection.
Exposure to emerging % markets averaged nearly 7% for the year, with Net asset value total return in sterling terms 11.9 Benchmark total return in sterling terms 11.3 returns approaching 50% from these assets.
Relative return 0.6 Japanese stock selection was over 8% ahead of Analysis of relative return that market as exporters, particularly those Allocation effect 1.1 Stock selection effect 0.4 exposed to Asian growth, outperformed.
Relative Currency effect 0.2 performance was held back by slight Gearing cash liquidity effect 0.1 Management fees and other expenses 0.6 underperformance in Europe and the US where Performance fee accrual 0.1 the Companys bias to own higher quality stocks Buybacks 0.1 was not rewarded by the market given a still high Total 0.6 appetite for risky assets.
Source: Frank Russell JPMAM Fundamental Data.
Activity Definitions Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating assets Assets held by the Company continue to be driven differently from those in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, sectors, or asset types.
by individual stock considerations, rather than the Stock selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in country or currency of listing.
Exposure was securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities outside the increased to more cyclical sectors such as benchmark.
Currency effect: Measures the impact of currency exposure industrials, information technology and basic differences between the Companys portfolio and its materials.
The main source of funds came from the benchmark.
Gearing cash liquidity effect: Measures the impact of returns consumer cyclical and telecommunication sectors.
on borrowings, cash balances or cash substitutes on the Companys relative performance.
This reflects the relatively healthy positions of the Management fees and other expenses: The payment of fees finances of corporates over consumers.
By and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
geography, the major changes were an increase in Performance fee accrual: The outperformance of the Company against the benchmark leads to an increase in performance continental European holdings at the expense of fees accrued.
The increase in this accrual has a negative the UK and profit taking in emerging markets, impact on relative performance.
Buybacks: Indicates the net effect on relative performance of particularly Korea.
decreasing the number of shares in issue.
4 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Outlook After two years of very strong growth in The outlook for the global economy continues to profitability, driven by both demand growth and be positive.
Economic policy makers have pulled very effective cost control, margins are at off the delicate trick of balancing growth without historically high levels.
This means that it is likely generating inflation.
For as long as this holds, the that in the year ahead profit growth will slow outlook for equity returns is likely to remain significantly.
Equity valuations have also been favourable.
The corporate sector is particularly supported by very low yields on other financial robust, generating significant cashflow and finding assets, most notably government bonds.
Any ample investment opportunities to produce significant rise in government bond yields could healthy rates of return.
At the same time, be detrimental to stock valuations.
High input distributions to shareholders, through increased prices, particularly energy, also need to be dividends and stock buybacks, are occuring.
The monitored closely going forward relative to both consumer, although being quite highly indebted, inflation and the drain on consumers incomes.
is able to service the debt given the low level of However, so far the economy has coped well with interest rates.
As such we continue to favour the sustained rise in energy prices.
In this slower those companies exposed to corporate over earnings growth world it is our belief that a bias consumer growth.
towards owning higher quality companies will serve our Company well.
Emerging markets continue to have a profound effect on many sectors.
Growth in emerging economies, most notably Brazil, Russia, India and Ed Walker China, continues to influence the delicate supplyInvestment Manager 26th September 2005 demand balance in energy and commodity markets as well as keeping a lid on inflationary pressures through the increased globalisation of manufacturing and some services.
The move by China to allow its currency to float in July was an important step towards China continuing to integrate fully into the global economy.
