Investment Managers Report Martin Hudson James Soutter Has been managing Was appointed the Companys assets assistant investment since 1994. manager in 2004.
Market Background The following table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
Small and mid sized companies produced a very positive return for the year ended 31st January Performance attribution for the year to 2005.
However, most of the gains came in the last 31st January 2005 1 Year few months of the year following a period of % consolidation after the very strong recovery in the Net asset value total return 21.8 previous year.
The first half was characterised by Benchmark total return 20.4 very low volatility with no strong themes emerging, Relative return 1.4 other than a demand for oil exploration and Analysis of relative return production stocks, as the oil price rose.
Allocation effect 0.1 The robust economic background in the UK, with Selection effect 0.3 fifty consecutive quarters of positive growth having Gearing Cash effect 1.9 been achieved, provided a positive backdrop for Management fee & other expenses 0.7 small and mid sized stocks which are more Total 1.4 sensitive to domestic economic factors than the Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data AITC.
more global FTSE 100 larger stocks.
For the year Definitions ended 31st January 2005 our small and mid cap Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company benchmark index the FTSE All-Share excluding achieved its recorded performance relative to its FTSE 100 constituents and investment trusts benchmark.
achieved a total return of 20.4% compared with Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating the return of 14.3% for the FTSE 100 Index.
assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different sectors or asset types.
Performance Selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in The Companys net asset value total return for the individual securities to a greater or lesser extent than year ended 31st January 2005 was 21.8%, which their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in was ahead of the benchmark index return of securities outside the benchmark.
However, the total return to shareholders Gearing Cash effect: Measures the impact on relative returns of the Companys net borrowings.
was 18.5% as the share price discount to net asset value rose over the year from 11.9% to 14.6%.
Management fee and other expenses: The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, The outperformance of the benchmark by 1.4% is and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
analysed in the table opposite, which shows that the biggest contributor to outperformance for the year was gearing, that is having invested borrowings in a rising stockmarket.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 3 Investment Managers Report continued The bar chart below shows the relative Burren Energy, Hardman and Melrose Resources in contributions to performance for the year of the the sector.
Our worst sector this year was software five best and five worst sectors within the and computer services which cost 1.2% relative.
The blue bars to the right show a This underperformance was a reaction to the positive contribution to performance relative to the spectacular outperformance last year a relative benchmark index and reflect a combination of both contribution of 3.8% with Gresham Computing, sector weightings and stock selection.
The orange Wolfson Microelectronics and Logica CMG being bars to the left show a negative relative the worst contributors.
stocks made a good positive contribution, with IT Hardware being a positive contributor and Amino, This shows that, despite a strong positive overall a supplier of set top boxes for internet protocol return having been achieved, last year was quite a television, producing a strong positive return tough year in terms of relative performance with within the household goods sector.
the negative sector relative contributions offsetting the positive.
Oil and gas exploration was the It is pleasing to see the strongest sector strongest sector in the stockmarket last year and contribution coming from construction and the majority of our relative underperformance building materials.
This is our biggest overweight resulted from not holding Cairn which rose to be position and accounts for around 20% of the promoted into the FTSE 100 on discovering oil in portfolio.
RMC was the largest single contributor to India.
That said, we did benefit from holding outperformance during the year and was the Sector performance contribution analysis.
Year to 31st January 2005 Top 5 0% Construction and Building Materials 1.2% Speciality and Other Finances 0.7% Household Goods and Textiles 0.6% Support Services 0.4% IT Hardware 0.3% Bottom 5 0.4% Engineering and Machinery 0.5% Leisure, Entertainment and Hotels 0.6% Media and Photography 1.0% Oil and Gas 1.2% Software and Computer Services Relative Contribution % Source: Russell Mellon Analytical Services.
4 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Managers Report continued biggest holding in the portfolio when it was taken value, 82% of the portfolio is in mid sized stocks over by Cemex.
BPB was also another strong and 18% in smaller stocks, which is close to the contributor and so was Berkeley Group which size distribution of the benchmark index.
However, decided to wind down its volume housebuilding within that mix we are overweight in very small operations and return the cash to shareholders.
In stocks, which reflects our interest in the potential addition, within the sector we received takeover of under-researched smaller growth stocks with bids for Novar, Countryside Properties and scaleable business models.
We are also overweight Aggregate Industries.
in the larger mid sized stocks, always searching for those successful companies which will eventually Activity be promoted into the FTSE 100 and always A year ago we were looking for a further steady investigating those out of favour stocks which may recovery in small and mid sized companies which be good value having been ejected from the FTSE are geared to positive economic trends.
We 100. therefore generally kept gearing in the 13% to 15% To give a measure of the level of activity within the range throughout the year.
As we have seen, this portfolio it is interesting to look at the ten largest was an important contributor to performance.
We investments, which are listed on page 12.
Of the also expected more takeover bids as confidence ten, all were held in the portfolio a year ago and increased.
This came through and last year we had three of them were in last years list of ten largest corporate activity involving twenty of our holdings.
Of last years ten largest investments, Finally, we said we expected new growth nine are still held within the portfolio and one, opportunities to emerge in the small and mid sized Corus, has been sold, having been promoted into company universe.
We researched a number of the FTSE 100. opportunities during the year and took new During this year we met or visited about 250 holdings in: Amino Technologies, Broker Network, companies.
Properly targeted company meetings CSR, Egdon Resources, E2V Holdings, Ffastfill, can help us analyse smaller growth companies, Gladstone, Hamworthy, Innovision Research and evaluate managements and resolve issues.
Our Technology, Newport Networks, Teesland, fundamental analysis of companies is aided by our Sovereign Reversions and Terrace Hill.
in-house proprietary JPMorgan Fleming screening The portfolio was kept broadly diversified across process which helps us to identify companies with all sectors and we currently hold approximately the best growth and value characteristics.
100 mid sized stocks and 80 smaller stocks.
By JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 5 Investment Managers Report continued The table shows that our portfolio is on a forecast Outlook price earnings ratio of 12.1X and a dividend yield After another year of outperformance of small and of 3.1%.
We think this is a good value.
mid sized companies, people are asking whether the larger FTSE 100 stocks now offer better value.
Our largest overweight position is in building The table below shows the aggregate of materials and construction, in particular in stockmarket forecasts for the individual companies housebuilders.
Here we believe that valuations are held within the portfolio and, for reference, we too low given the returns achieved, the outlook compare them with the corresponding figures for and the chronic undersupply of new housing.
Our largest underweight position is in retailers which both our benchmark non-FTSE 100 Index and with we believe are overvalued in the face of a tough the FTSE 100 Index.
Smaller and mid sized operating outlook.
companies are on about the same forecast price earnings ratio as FTSE 100 stocks but their We are positive on the outlook for small and mid earnings are forecast to grow at a higher rate.
Generally, they are However, FTSE 100 companies are forecast to have trading well and the UK economy remains strong.
It is small and mid sized companies which are most a higher dividend yield and dividend growth rate geared to the domestic economy.
Corporate than smaller and mid sized companies although activity has increased, both as a result of dividend cover is higher for smaller and mid sized continuing globalisation and industry companies.
Given that relative valuations are now consolidation and also because the low nominal fairly similar, stock selection will be the key cost of debt finance is enabling both private and determinant of outperformance.
12 months Forecast 12 months Forecast Forecast Forecast Earnings Forward Dividend Dividend PER Growth Yield Growth Cover x% % %x Mercantile 12.1 9.4 3.1 5.9 2.6 Non-FTSE-100 ex IT 12.9 11.0 2.9 7.0 2.6 FTSE-100 12.8 7.4 3.6 10.0 2.1 Excluding loss makers.
Source: UBS Global Research 31st January 2005.
6 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Managers Report continued leveraged deals to compete with conventional equity financing.
Last year only 23% of the mid 250 takeover deals were financed by equity, 61% being financed by debt, 8% by debt equity and 8% by cash.
Indeed, last year the size of the equity market shrunk by about 1.5% as a result of buyouts, buybacks and bids.
This is unprecedented in UK market history.
We expect more corporate activity in the current year.
Finally, we shall continue to search for new growth opportunities, which tend to emerge first in the small and mid cap universe and we should expect technology stocks to perform better in the current year.
Overall, we think that small and mid sized UK companies are good value and we shall focus on stock selection within a broadly diversified portfolio to achieve a good balance of both value and growth stocks.
Martin Hudson James Soutter 12th April 2005 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 7
