Introduction Bunzl delivers value-added distribution and outsourcing services across North America, Europe and Australasia Contents 1 Directors Report 36 Company Balance Sheet 2 Corporate Governance 37 Notes to the Company 4 Consolidated Income Statement Financial Statements 5 Consolidated Statement of 42 Statement of Directors Recognised Income and Expense Responsibilities 6 Consolidated Balance Sheet 43 Independent Auditors Report 7 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 44 Directors Remuneration Report 8 Notes 52 Five Year Review Directors Report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report and directors remuneration for the year and details of the directors share the audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary options under the Companys share option schemes and awards under undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2005. the Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 51.
Principal activities and developments The principal activity of the Group is the provision of value-added Directors indemnities distribution and outsourcing services across North America, Europe As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the and Australasia.
The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company and the Financial Review on pages 2 to 15 and 18 and 19 of the Annual Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of Review and Summary Financial Statement give details of the Groups subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the activities, developments and performance for the year and an indication Companys Articles of Association in respect of all losses arising out of or of likely future developments.
in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Results A summary of the Groups results is set out on page 1 of the Annual Review Employment policies and Summary Financial Statement.
Note 3 to the financial statements The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet sets out a segment analysis of operating results.
A financial review of the the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which year is set out on pages 18 and 19 of the Annual Review and Summary they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity.
It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered for employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes Going concern and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their working life The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that the Group has will be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable rehabilitation and training.
For this reason, the directors believe it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings As at 27 February 2006 the directors had been notified by the following Dividends shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more of the issued An interim dividend of 4.9p was paid in respect of the year and the share capital of the Company.
The notifications listed below are those directors recommend a final dividend of 10.8p per share, making a total which have been most recently received for the named shareholders.
Dividend details are given in Note 18 to the financial statements.
Subject to confirmation by the shareholders % of at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2006, the final dividend will be Date issued paid on 3 July 2006 to those shareholders on the register at the close of share of business on 5 May 2006.
Shareholder notification capital FMR Corp and Fidelity International Ltd 09.02.06 5.88 Share capital Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 21.07.05 3.99 Details of the Companys share capital, including shares issued during Lloyds TSB Group Plc 28.01.05 3.01 the year and the share consolidation which took place on 6 June 2005, are set out in Note 17 to the financial statements.
Creditor payment policy Purchase of own shares Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms During 2004 the Company purchased 13,035,000 of its own shares and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers into treasury pursuant to the shareholders authority granted at the 2004 are conducted.
It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of Annual General Meeting.
These treasury shares were cancelled on these terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance 11 May 2005.
As at 27 February 2006 the Company had not purchased with them, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms any of its own shares pursuant to the existing authority which is due to and conditions.
The number of days billings from the Companys expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
suppliers outstanding at the end of the financial year was 30 2004: 31.
The directors again propose to seek a similar authority this year.
Donations Directors During 2005, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the Group Mr B M May and Mr P W Johnson were appointed to the Board in contributed 201,000 to UK charities 2004: 200,000.
No contributions January 2006 and, being eligible, offer themselves for election at the were made for political purposes.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Mr P Heiden and Mr M J Harper resigned from the Board Annual General Meeting on 6 June 2005 following the demerger of Filtrona and Mr C P Sander The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Chartwell Suite at resigned as a director on 13 July 2005.
All of the other directors served the Hyatt Regency London The Churchill, 30 Portman Square, throughout the year.
Mr A P Dyer and Mr D M Williams retired from London W1A 4ZX on Wednesday 17 May 2006 at 11.00 am.
The notice the Board on 31 December 2005 and 31 January 2006 respectively.
convening the Meeting is set out in a separate letter from the Chairman Biographical details of the current directors are set out on page 17 of to shareholders which explains the items of special business.
the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Mr A J Habgood and Mr C A Banks retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting in Auditors accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General themselves for re-election.
Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 21 to the financial statements.
None of the directors was materially interested P N Hussey in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary Secretary undertakings during or at the end of 2005.
Information relating to the 27 February 2006 Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2005 1
