NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34 Related party transactions GUS plc and other GUS group companies are related parties of Burberry Group as GUS plc owns the majority shareholding in Burberry Group plc.
a Trading transactions and balances arising in the normal course of business The following purchases and balances have arisen from transactions between Burberry Group and other GUS group companies including recharges made and the purchase of services from other GUS group companies, all of which are wholly owned subsidiaries of GUS plc.
The services purchased by Burberry Group include treasury and cash management, tax management, insurance and insurance management, pension, human resources, employee benefit administration, vehicle hire, property advice, marketing services, credit references, distribution and warehouse facilities, and certain internal audit support.
Purchases from GUS group companies for the year to 31 March 2005 2004 Related party Related partys relationship m m Purchases from related parties GUS plc and other GUS group companies Ultimate parent company or 100% subsidiary of GUS plc 2.4 3.3 Amounts due to GUS group companies as at 31 March 2005 2004 Related party Related partys relationship m m Related party creditors GUS plc and other GUS group companies Ultimate parent company or 100% subsidiary of GUS plc 6.8 6.8 b Funding transactions and balances arising in the normal course of business Amounts have been deposited with GUS group companies in accordance with Burberrys counterparty risk policy during the year.
A total of 18.3m was deposited with GUS at 31 March 2005 2004: 15.8m.
These deposits have been made on standard commercial terms and were repaid in cash by 29 April 2005.
In addition, forward currency contracts have been undertaken with GUS group companies, which have been subject to Burberrys counterparty risk policy.
The fair value at 31 March 2005 of such hedges amounted to 0.5m 2004: 0.4m.
c Share repurchase programme As part of the Share repurchase programme, 10,212,035 Ordinary Shares were purchased by the Company from GUS, representing a total cost, including expenses, of 40.6m.
Of the total number of Ordinary Shares purchased, 9,642,005 have been cancelled and the remaining 570,030 Ordinary Shares were cancelled after the year end.
The repurchases have been carried out in accordance with the authorisation for off-market purchases approved by Shareholders at the EGM held on 20 December 2004.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 81 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Company Country of incorporation Nature of business Europe Burberry Limited England and Wales Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler, manufacturer and licensor Burberry Italy Retail Limited England and Wales Luxury goods retailer The Scotch House Limited England and Wales Luxury goods brand and licensor Woodrow-Universal Limited England and Wales Textile manufacturer Burberry France S. A. France Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Suisse S. A. Switzerland Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Italy SRL Italy Luxury goods wholesaler Burberry Deutschland GmbH Germany Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Spain S. A. Spain Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Mercader y Casadevall S. A. Spain Luxury goods retailer Burberry Spain Retail S. L. Spain Luxury goods retailer North America Burberry Limited USA Luxury goods retailer Burberry Wholesale Limited USA Luxury goods wholesaler Hampstead Properties Inc. USA Property company Burberry Realty, Inc. USA Property company Asia Pacific Burberry Asia Ltd Hong Kong Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Singapore Distribution Company Pte Ltd Singapore Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd Australia Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Korea Ltd Korea Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia Luxury goods retailer Burberry Japan KK Japan Service company Held directly by Burberry Group plc All principal subsidiary companies are wholly owned as at 31 March 2005 and operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated, with the exception of Burberry Italy Retail Limited, which operates principally in Italy.
Non-operating intermediate holding and financing companies are excluded from the above.
Burberry Group plc is 65.5% owned by GUS Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of GUS plc, which is registered in England and Wales.
The ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party is GUS plc.
Copies of GUS plc consolidated financial statements can be obtained from the Company Secretary at GUS plc, One Stanhope Gate, London, W1K 1AF.
Earnings before interest, taxation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Pro forma financial information Pro forma financial information has been extracted from the Listing Particulars of the Company, dated 12 July 2002.
The pro forma financial information has been prepared by combining the historical financial information for each of the Companies that comprise the Burberry Group.
The pro forma information relates to the financial years prior to the flotation of Burberry Group.
On flotation the Burberry Group was reorganised and a legal statutory group was formed, as a consequence statutory consolidations have been performed for the years to 31 March 2003, 2004 and 2005.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 83
