qxd 31 3 06 4:49 pm Page 16 Operating and financial review Operating review continued 16 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10569 pp007-017.
qxd 31 3 06 4:50 pm Page 17 property portfolio of the UK long term fund business was estimated to have exceeded Recent retail product innovation also includes was 15.8% above the assumption for the realistic liabilities by 842m 31 December our newly launched property trust for retail period 2004: 6.8% above the assumption.
The required Risk Capital savers and we intend to launch a value Margin RCM for the with-profits part of protected annuity and an enhanced annuity IFRS basis the fund, calculated by reassessing realistic pilot in the second half of this year.
In aggregate, Shareholder Retained Capital assets and liabilities in nancially stressed The market for bulk purchase annuities SRC increased by 516m pre-tax 2004: conditions, was 327m at 31 December 2005 is expected to grow considerably over the a reduction of 20m.
The RCM has next few years.
Legal & General has already impact of improved investment returns and fallen signicantly as a result of management established a strong position in this area, the significant increase in the net capital actions taken during 2005 to reduce the withnot just because of its financial strength, but released from the growing book of non profits part of the funds exposure to financial because it possesses key skills and systems profit business, offset partly by the increased risks.
These actions include establishing transfer to shareholders from non profit in pricing, underwriting and administration.
a facility to make a charge for guarantees business.
On a net of tax basis the new In recent months, there has been press and undertaking improved asset matching business strain on higher volumes of non comment on possible new entrants into this by product and duration.
profit business of 466m was more than market.
While there is scope for additional offset by the expected release of capital of capacity in the market, there are operational Outlook 499m from the existing book of business and reputational barriers to entry.
In 2005, we retained a leading position in and other reserve adjustments.
In overseas markets, we expect further the protection market.
The increase in the opportunities for our European businesses level of housing transactions seen at the CAPITAL and a recovery in the level of new end of 2005 is now leading to a recovery Legal & General remains one of the applications in the USA after a difficult in protection volumes.
strongest companies in its sector.
Pensions A-Day 6 April 2006 position underpins our ability to continue Our investment management business when taxation rules change has been, to grow new business volumes profitably.
has made a good start to 2006 and we will and will remain, a significant positive At Group level, the Insurance Groups continue to press ahead with initiatives to influence on volumes of pensions transfer Directive capital surplus was 2.4bn.
broaden further our product range and the business and on restructuring of employerThe total capital resources available to geographic spread of the business.
The reforms have created Legal & General Assurance Society Limited, a much simpler tax regime for those people There is growing confidence among the Groups main UK operating subsidiary, consumers in those areas of financial committed to saving for a secure future.
amounted to 8.5bn at 31 December 2005 There was much which we could services in which we excel.
This confidence 7.0bn at 31 December 2004, which support in the recent proposals from the is driven by improving equity markets and included an implicit item of 540m 2004: Pensions Commission to encourage a higher growing levels of activity in the housing 755m in respect of non profit business, level of saving among people on more market.
The UK remains a good market and exceeded the total capital requirement modest incomes.
The Governments by 4.4bn 4.0bn at 31 December 2004. in which to operate and this is clearly As at 31 December 2005, the value response to the Commission is expected demonstrated by new business trends of the assets supporting the UK with-profits in a White Paper to be issued in May 2006. in the early part of 2006.
UK market share In 2005, Legal & Generals total share of the UK life, pensions and investments market reached over 10% for the first time.
qxd 31 3 06 2:47 am Page 18 Operating and financial review profit on the EEV basis.
Operating profit Finance Directors review reects current performance by reporting the change in embedded value and excluding short term investment return uctuations and the effect of economic assumption changes.
Financial Strength Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Society, the Groups principal operating company, continues to be one of the top two highest rated European life insurers.
As at March 2006, our financial strength ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys and A. M. Best were maintained at AA, Aa1 and A respectively.
All ratings have a stable outlook.
Superior financial strength provides a source of security and confidence for inancial Reporting policyholders.
We aim to maintain a FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW This year has seen significant sufficient level of capital support to the long change in the way European listed term business to give us the investment companies report their results to Legal & General is freedom needed to provide both the shareholders.
The International committed to delivering potential for enhanced returns and the FFinancial Reporting Standards IFRS capacity to deliver profitable market share clearer, more transparent basis, adopted in 2005, is the new primary growth.
The Groups Capital Position reporting method.
IFRS will evolve over the information and to Statement on the FRS27 Life Assurance next few years.
The most significant change improving the quality basis is included within Note 2 on page 58 likely to affect Legal & General would be and this demonstrates the different sources of our disclosures.
the development of a revised IFRS for of capital held within the Group.
In 2005, we also adopted the Individual Capital Assessment ICA new European Embedded Value EEV From 1 January 2005, the Financial Services methodology to prepare our supplementary Authority FSA required insurers to hold accounts.
EEV is a principles based, rather capital on the greater of two bases.
The than a rules based, approach which we first basis Pillar 1 encompasses the rules consider a more informative method of based regulatory capital requirements accounting for long term business.
It was in the FSAs Prudential Source Book, developed by the European Chief Financial including the with-profits realistic balance Ofcers Forum, a group of leading European sheet.
The second basis Pillar 2 is the life insurers, including Legal & General.
We firms own internal assessment of its anticipate that the EEV basis of accounting capital requirements together with any will also continue to evolve in order additional amount which may be required to enhance further the supplementary by the FSA.
During 2004 and 2005, the Group made Legal & General is committed to delivering a substantial investment in systems and clearer, more transparent information and processes to enable us to perform an ICA.
to improving the quality of our disclosures.
We also enhanced our processes for risk We believe the IFRS and EEV developments management so that we will be able to verify have been an important step towards on an ongoing basis that our risks are being improving the consistency and comparability managed within the assumptions underlying of accounts of European insurers.
We anticipate that this will materially as the Chairman has mentioned, this has enhance our management of risk.
resulted in a much longer Annual Report The Group has submitted its ICA to and Accounts document this year.
the FSA for detailed discussion and review.
An important focus, as always, in our This process and its outcome are condential Operating and Financial Review is operating between the Group and the FSA.
Andrew Palmer Group Director Finance 18
