The Board of Directors AtuL GuPtA BRIAN LAVERS CBE ln MICHAEL CALVEY ln Non-executive Chairman Chief Operating Officer Non-executive Director Atul Gupta, age 46, holds degrees in Chemical Brian Lavers, age 70, led a distinguished career Mike Calvey, age 38, is Managing Partner of with Royal Dutch Shell spanning 32 years.
Engineering from Cambridge University and Baring Vostok Capital Partners, the manager of Petroleum Engineering from Heriot-Watt His appointments included Technical Director several major funds associated with investment of Petroleum Development Oman, Technical University and has worked for 20 years in in Russia and the former Soviet Union.
He has international oil and gas production operations Director of Shell UK and Chairman and been closely involved with Burren since its Managing Director of Shell Nigeria.
Brian with Charterhouse Petroleum, Petrofina and formation in 1994.
Atul joined Burren in January 1999. then became Chairman and Chief Executive of Phibro Production Inc. and joined Burren as PIERRE LASRY ALAN COLE ln Chairman in 1999.
Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Pierre Lasry, age 47, is a Managing Director of Alan Cole, age 63, was a Board member of FINIAN OSuLLIVAN the Tacoma group, which participates in oil Chief Executive Officer Christian Salvesen plc and, for eight years, Chief trading, refining, distribution and exploration, and Executive of TDG plc.
He was Non-executive Finian OSullivan, age 51, holds a degree production, primarily in West Africa.
He has 20 in geology and geophysics from University Chairman of both The Oliver Group plc and years experience in the oil and gas industry and Alldays plc, and is currently Chairman of College Galway and was responsible for creating has been with Tacoma since 1993.
Before this Finian pursued JPMorgan Fleming Income and Growth he worked with Addax and Cargill.
His current Non-executive an international career spanning 17 years in geophysics and seismic acquisition with Chevron, positions include London International Exhibition ANDREI PANNIKOV Centre Holdings and Hedaxex Limited.
He was Geophysical Systems and Olympic Oil and Gas.
Non-executive Director appointed as an independent Non-executive Andrei Pannikov, age 56, is the founder of Director in October 2003.
KEItH HENRY ln Sunfloat and is principally involved in Senior Independent Non-executive Director transportation and trading activities in Russia ANDREW ROSE Keith Henry, age 59, is a Non-executive Director and the former Soviet Union.
Prior to founding of Emerald Energy and Petroleum Geo-Services.
Chief Financial Officer Sunfloat he worked with the Russian Government Andrew Rose, age 49, holds a degree in He has served as Chief Executive of Kvaerner and was subsequently co-founder of Lukoil and Engineering and Construction, National Power, Engineering from Cambridge University, but has Urals Trading.
spent the greater part of his career in investment and Brown & Root.
He was also a Non-executive Director of Enterprise Oil and has over 30 years banking, working in advisory, capital markets and structured finance roles.
He joined Burren experience in the energy industry.
His appointment as an independent Non-executive Director took in 2001, having previously been co-head of corporate finance for Central and Eastern Europe effect as of 31 March 2005. and the Middle EastNorth Africa region at Socit Gnrale.
Senior management JOHN StANtON BRIAN tHuRLEY HYWEL JOHN Director of Shipping technical Director Company Secretary, John Stanton, age 68, is a Chartered Engineer Brian Thurley, age 54, holds a degree in geology Legal and Commercial Director and member of both the Institute of Marine from Imperial College London and has led an Hywel John, age 42, holds a degree in economics Engineers and Royal Institution of Naval international career in exploration, development and law from Cambridge University.
Before joining Burren in 1997, and new ventures in South America, Africa, Accountant, he joined Burren in 2000 following 15 he spent over 40 years in shipping, ship Central Asia, the Far East and Australia.
Brian years upstream experience in the United States management and marine projects.
joined Burren in 1996. and the United Kingdom, most recently as Finance Director of PowerGen North Sea.
18 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005 l Member of the Audit Committee n Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee 19 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005 Health, safety, environment and community During 2005 a corporate review of health, 6 Managing Contractors and Partners PRACtICE safety and environment HSE and corporate selection of contractors with acceptable In addition to implementing the above policy and social responsibility CSR issues was HSEC standards and working with partners changes, we are expanding our reporting to undertaken, resulting in these responsibilities to influence their HSEC policies and include safety and environmental statistics being combined into a Health, Safety, aspirations.
and key performance indicators KPIs, and Environment and Community HSEC 7 Audits and Inspections implementation of information concerning our community, social approach, to achieve a greater management procedures for active monitoring via the use and audit activities during 2005. focus.
A revised set of corporate HSEC of key performance indicators and regular policies, principles and standards has also external audits.
Health and safety been developed, based on the vision statement 8 Community Relations active management Our three key performance measures for accident on the page opposite.
through expertise building, consultation and statistics are: liaison with local communities.
POLICY 9 Employment Practices instigation of clear Fatal Accident Rate, determined by the Burrens policy is to conduct all its operations, employment and staff welfare procedures.
number of workplace fatal accidents in a year and to encourage its partners to conduct 10 Security maintenance of security systems divided by the number of 100 million mantheir operations, in line with the following and procedures for both assets and people.
hours worked: 10 HSEC principles: Lost Time Incident Frequency LTIF, We have embarked on a phased implementation determined by the number of Lost Time 1 Management and Responsibility of this updated approach across our operating Incidents LTIs in a year divided by the number demonstration of responsible HSEC units Turkmenistan and Egypt and are increasing of million man-hours worked: and leadership through committed line efforts to ensure that non-operated activities Lost Time Incident Severity Rating LTI SR, management.
Congo and India have appropriate systems in determined by the number of days lost 2 Identifying Hazards and Reducing Risks place.
This process has been assisted by the through LTIs divided by the number of LTIs.
ongoing evaluation of hazards and associated appointment of an HSEC co-ordinator in London, risks and recovery mechanisms e. g. via to ensure consistent implementation of the These measures have been calculated for our Environmental Impact Assessments.
corporate objectives, and an experienced Turkmenistan operations from 2004 onwards 3 Policies and Standards establishment of HSEC manager in Cairo, to handle the growing and results for 2005 covering both staff and HSEC procedures which, as a minimum, operated portfolio in Egypt.
These positions will contractors are shown below.
There have been meet local laws.
build upon the experience of our existing HSEC zero fatalities since the commencement of 4 Training and Competency provision of superintendent in Turkmenistan and the operations in Turkmenistan and we are working appropriate training to increase HSEC continuing liaison with our partners HSE through increased training to bring our LTIF and competence and local awareness.
managers in Congo and India.
LTI SR measures down to more standard industry 5 Safety Management and Emergency levels for the Former Soviet Union.
These Preparedness provision of safety, incident benchmarks have been taken from the Safety reporting, emergency response and Performance Indicators 2004 report, published contingency planning procedures.
by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers in May 2005. turkmenistan 2005 health and safety statistics Working time Man-hours 2,804,004 Fatalities 0 Gorillas and forest Lost Time Incidents LTIs 15 elephants in the OdzalaDays lost through LTIs 550 Kokoua National Park, Congo 2005 FSU industry result standard Fatal accident rate 0.0 8.0 LTI frequency 5.3 1.0 LTI severity rating 36.7 22.2 20 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005 1 Burren sponsored youth football team in Ashgabat 2 toyley, who has been head gardener in Nebit Dag for 40 years Wherever Burren operates we shall strive 3 turkmen local in national costume to protect the health and safety of our staff, 4 Conservationists in Odzala-Kokoua National Park, Congo minimise the impacts of our operations on 5 Balkorobat office staff in the snow the environment, behave ethically in all our 6 Burren employees enjoying a break in the Burun field relationships, respect human rights and 7 Boys in turkmenistan support local communities 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 21 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005 Health, safety, environment and community continued In Congo, we have supported the initiatives of the Safety Management ISM code, there were no oil spills, gas flared or vented, water abstraction field operator, Maurel & Prom M&P, to develop fatalities and no reportable incidents or violations use, and greenhouse gas GHG emissions systems of safety reporting similar to our own.
associated with our shipping operations.
mainly CO. As recommended, these KPIs 2 Their results for 2005 are: are reported by operating unit plus an allowance Environment for administrative activities, with activity data, Congo 2005 health and safety statistics As required by the European Union Accounts in the form of electricity, gas, fuel and transport Modernisation Directive, we have now collected a usage, being used as a proxy to determine Working time Man-hours 4,405,608 preliminary set of quantitative environmental data the emissions levels for the GHG KPI.
The Fatalities 1 and are reporting them this year as a baseline for following table relates solely to our activities Lost Time Incidents LTIs 67 comparative analysis from 2006 onwards.
in Turkmenistan, Egypt and London.
Africa Based on the UK Governments proposed set of As expected, Turkmenistan dominates this 2005 industry environmental KPIs for oil and gas companies, we dataset and shows minimal oil spills given the result standard have decided to report on oil and gas production, production level and no environmental fines or Fatal accident rate 2.3 6.6 LTI frequency 15.2 0.7 2005 ENVIRONMENtAL DAtA BY OPERAtING uNIt There were two other sub-contractor fatalities in 2005 but KPI Proxy measure Units Turkmenistan Egypt HQ these were non-work related.
Resource use Crude oil Gross production tonnes 818,902 n a n a These statistics include the death of a subInternal use fuel and loss tonnes n a contractor during well testing in the MBoundi 3 Natural gas Gross production 000 m 559,856 n a n a field in early 2005.
3 Internal use fuel and loss 000 m 3,285 3 In Egypt, our operations are at an early, Oil spills m 93 3 exploration stage but we intend to have a similar Gas vented flared 000 m 137,774 reporting system in place by mid-2006.
3 Water abstraction Produced with crude oil 000 m 921 n a n a 3 Water use Metered or tankered m 43,856 1,080 In India, although we are only a minority Emissions to air shareholder in HOEC, we consider it appropriate Greenhouse Electricity consumption kwh 6,233,230 63,068 11,189 to provide input to and report upon HSEC Gas emissions CO equivalent 000 kg 2,680 28 5 2 performance.
The results for 2005, show an Gas consumption kwh 120,562 excellent year with no fatalities and not a single LTI.
CO equivalent 000 kg 23 2 Fuel consumption HOEC 2005 health and safety statistics diesel tonnes 2,214 n a n a CO equivalent 000 kg 7,006 Working time Man-hours 433,605 2 Fatalities 0 Business vehicle travel Lost Time Incidents LTIs 0 fuel consumption Days lost through LTIs 0 petrol tonnes 555 16 n a diesel tonnes 1,914 n a Asia CO equivalent 000 kg 7,796 50 2 2005 industry Employee travel result standard rail person kms Fatal accident rate 0.0 1.6 air short haul person kms 915,000 4,000 168,000 LTI frequency 0.0 0.5 air long haul person kms 1,960,000 15,000 2,350,000 LTI severity rating 0.0 22.5 CO equivalent 000 kg 353 2 285 2 Total CO emissions from 2 Shipping continues to operate under the energy and transport use 000 kg 17,835 80 313 International Maritime Organisation IMO code Other that sets out internationally accepted procedures Environmental Capital costs US$000 50 related to HSE and other matters.
In this regard, Expenditure Operating costs US$000 90 we are pleased to report that during 2005 all our Fines US$000 nil nil nil vessels were certified under the International Using conversion factors advised by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Guidelines for Company Reporting on Greenhouse Gas Emissions July, 2005.
22 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005 Burren Health and Safety training Centre in the Burun field, turkmenistan penalties.
Flaring of gas produced in association OECD Convention on Combating Bribery in We employ guards at our field facilities in with oil at approximately 25% of production is International Business Transactions and, in Turkmenistan and Egypt and have established recognised as high but we are actively working particular, endorse the UK  with local police and or military.
In with other producers in the area to develop a sponsored Extractive Industries Transparency cases of security or medical emergencies, the viable scheme to export this gas.
Initiative EITI, designed to promote Company also has an international evacuation transparency over payments for, and revenues process in place.
As this is the first time that we have reported from, petroleum extraction in countries which rely such environmental data, it is difficult to draw heavily on such mineral resource development.
While governments have the prime responsibility conclusions from these figures, and to for protecting and promoting human rights, benchmark our performance against peer Throughout our countries of operation, to the best we also recognise that the private sector has companies.
Data validity should improve, with of our knowledge, no payments have been made a role in respecting human rights as part of its trends and reduction target analysis becoming to individuals, organisations or political parties contribution to a more stable and productive possible, as our reporting procedures and the whose prime function is to fund political causes business environment.
External audits Community and society Employment practices One of the key tools used to measure the HSEC Projects Burren is an equal opportunity employer, with performance of our operations is independent, Burren continues to engage actively with the local recruitment, remuneration and career progression external field audits.
communities where it operates, via both direct not influenced by race, sex, marital status or any investment and community relations projects.
We promote and support workforce In early 2005 we commissioned an , as evidenced by our extensive recognised environmental consultancy to conduct In Turkmenistan, we have contributed over recruitment of local staff in Turkmenistan a detailed HSEC audit of our field operations in $250,000 to the supply of cleaning and heavy where we now employ approximately 850 Turkmenistan.
The audit observed a number of construction vehicles for the city of Balkanabat, personnel and in Egypt.
Our stated aim is positive initiatives giving a clear commitment to where we also sponsor the National Flag Day to promote competent local personnel into ongoing improvement of HSEC performance and celebrations each year at Uzboy town.
recognised that plans were in place to address Ashgabat, we have continued our annual the majority of the outstanding action items from sponsorship of the national Saz Orchestra and In order to promote career development and the 2004 audit.
We are happy to report that the have recently supported the Ashgabat Childrens enhance competencies and job skills, we offer vast majority of the 2004 audit recommendations Invalid Sports Club.
our staff access to relevant external training have now been implemented and progress will be schemes and courses and encourage further reviewed once this years audit is In Congo, where we are not the operator, we membership of appropriate professional bodies.
consider it important to promote community As the Company grows, we shall continue to engagement via the operator, M&P.
In 2005, they encourage team performance whilst recognising In January 2006 the same environmental have continued to drill and equip water wells for individual contributions.
consultancy undertook, at Burrens request villages in the MBoundi area and allow local and with the full cooperation of the field operator, residents to consult the Company doctor and Security and human rights Maurel and Prom, an HSEC audit of operations nurse in medical emergencies.
Burren is committed to safeguard the integrity of in Congo.
The draft recommendations are the Companys reputation, personnel and assets being reviewed with M&P to assist the operator In addition, in January 2006, Burren committed through appropriate security arrangements.
in its continuing programme to develop HSEC over $80,000 to the European Union-sponsored In this regard, we are supportive of the Voluntary reporting management systems.
Ecosystemes Forestieres dAfrique Centrale Principles on Security and Human Rights which ECOFAC conservation programme in Congo, resulted from dialogue between the governments whereby an extension is planned to the Odzalaof the United States and the United Kingdom and Kokoua National Park in northern Congo, which companies in the extractive and energy sectors contains an important reserve for lowland gorillas concerning human rights and corporate social and forest elephants.
responsibility which principally involve appropriate risk assessments of the security of personnel, Business ethics local communities and assets, and the active Burren strives to conduct all its business activities monitoring and adapting of operations to meet with integrity, honesty and fairness and, in this changing political and social conditions in regard, the paying or receipt of bribes in any form countries of interest.
We support the aims of the 1997 23 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005
