OPERA TING & FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Percentage of The Main Market Since the markets launch in 1995, a total of Western European IPOs % The Main Market, our market for well-established 15.9 billion has been raised demonstrating Year ended 31 March 2005 companies, continues to be among the most the level of investor support for the market widely followed, analysed and investable and the fact that AIM is now established as 3 1 markets in the world.
Its indices, including the a mainstream asset class.
7 2 FTSE 100 index and FTSE 250 index are some 2 of the worlds most referenced.
techMARK In light of the introduction of the Prospectus 5 and techMARK mediscience offer additional Directive on 1 July 2005 and following prole for technology and healthcare issuers.
discussions with HM Treasury, the FSA and Increasing numbers of derivatives also focus the AIM community, AIMs regulatory status on the indices and equities of the Main Market.
changed on 12 October 2004 to an exchange For international prole and access to capital, regulated market.
This change preserves the 80 the Main Market remains one of the worlds unique structure of AIM and the Exchanges blue-chip markets.
exibility to choose which regulatory standards London to apply to AIM companies.
Euronext With 69 new UK issues and 13 international Deutsche Brse new issues, raising a total of 6.0 billion, this has Our ambitions for AIM include further expanding Borsa Italia been the busiest year on the Main Market since AIMs international reach with a focus on the Scandinavia 2002.
Among the highlights were Air Chinas Asia-Pacic region and also across continental SWX listing see case study, Kumho Tire becoming Europe.
The introduction of a new family of Other the first company to simultaneously dual list in AIM indices in 2005 will attract new investors London and Seoul, and Sistema, the Russian to the market and provide existing investors consumer services company that raised with greater transparency.
The new indices will $1.56 billion in February 2005 the largest ever also help us to promote AIM internationally.
Breakdown of Londons share IPO by a Russian company.
Admiral Group of Western European IPOs % was the largest UK company to list, raising The Professional Securities Market over 250 million and joining with a market The Exchange has been working with the FSA capitalisation of over 710 million.
Virgin Mobile on the development of a new professional was one of the most high prole IPOs of the year, securities market, to be launched on 1 July 2005 14 joining with a market capitalisation of 500 million to coincide with the implementation of the and raising over 137 million.
Prospectus Directive in the UK.
This initiative will ensure that issuers of debt, convertibles On the regulatory front, we continued to and depository receipts of any denomination champion the high standards and best practices can continue to list in London by following of the London market model, which ensure a exible listing regime, aimed at satisfying the efficient, transparent and attractive markets for needs of professional or institutional investors.
66 issuers and world-class regulation for investors.
The professional securities market will be We successfully lobbied against a proposed particularly attractive for non-EU issuers who AIM European requirement for mandatory financial do not produce financial information to IFRS Main Market quarterly reporting which would have undermined or an equivalent standard, as other accounting Londons regime of immediate disclosure.
standards will be acceptable without the Source: Thomson Financial, individual exchange We also helped to negotiate an exemption from requirement to re-state accounts.
IPOs exclude introductions, International Financial Reporting Standards re-admissions and transfers between markets.
IFRS for issuers of debt, convertibles and International strategy depository receipts on the Main Market see It has been a significant year for our international professional securities market, below.
strategy, which focuses on the emerging Total number of AIM companies markets of China, India and Russia.
In October As at 31 March AIM comes of age we opened our new Asia-Pacic ofce in June 2005 sees the 10th anniversary of the Hong Kong, giving the Exchange a permanent launch of AIM, now rmly established as the presence in the region and helping us target, 134 pre-eminent international growth market.
among others, Chinese privatisation deals and During the year we celebrated two significant the otations of medium to large enterprises.
993 milestones in the development of the market 68 50 in welcoming our 1,000th company currently We remain committed to the strategy of 42 724 33 655 quoted and our 100th international company.
focusing on areas of high GDP growth and 599 517 on international companies aspiring to both In terms of new admissions and the amount of the prole and access to capital that London money raised on AIM, last year was the most can provide, as well as to the high standards successful on record, with 432 companies of UK regulation and corporate governance.
joining the market 302 of which were IPOs This approach has been strongly supported AIM International and a total of 4.7 billion raised through a with the involvement of senior management in AIM UK combination of new and further issues.
our major international business development activities.
We also continue to encourage and attract other international listings: companies from Finland, Israel and Ukraine were among those joining our markets this year.
10 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Delivering for customers Broker Services In 2004, we established a new business group Record volumes on our trading to provide services that help companies to make platforms: an intense focus on customer the most of opportunities for capital raising needs feeding into new product design provided by the London Market.
IR Solutions and enhancements to existing services: brings together the existing RNS service with new initiatives to provide a comprehensive identifying services that build on the suite of financial communications and investor Exchanges expertise and technology relations services designed to help companies to improve markets.
plan and implement an effective investor relations programme.
Our aim in offering these services is to provide the same high standards of REVENUE performance and customer service at affordable prices that are the hallmark of RNS.
The Corporate Responsibility Exchange CRE 100m is an easy to use and innovative online tool which helps companies to disclose corporate 6% A Royal Debut responsibility information to their shareholders.
Her Majesty The Queen, accompanied by His Royal The system allows companies to save time Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, opened the by disclosing only once rather than completing Exchanges new building in Paternoster Square on several questionnaires and provides fund Broker Services manages the secondary 27 July 2004, thirty-two years after she had opened managers with a better tool for researching markets in securities traded on the London our previous home, the Stock Exchange Tower.
We provide and maintain The Queen also became the first person to activate The Source, the seven-storey kinetic sculpture that October 2004, CRE has close to 100 corporate the underlying electronic platforms on which dominates the new buildings atrium.
The Source not clients in its first few months.
A new fund shares, bonds, and other products are traded only represents the Exchanges centrality in world manager reporting tool is under development.
by 322 Member Firms in 29 countries worldwide.
markets, it is powered by market data.
Its 729 spheres By providing efficient, competitive access to move at the promptings of real-time data feeds.
IR Solutions has also launched a new range trading, combined with an increasingly efficient Each morning at Market Open The Source begins moving and is only still again when the market closes of Active Investor Relations ACT services market structure, we draw liquidity to our at 4:30pm.
meeting the needs of investor relations markets, attracting traders, investors and ofcers in UK and international companies.
Lord Coe, EU Commissioner Charlie McCreevy, These cover the complete lifecycle of investor Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram relations activities from identifying shareholders It was a strong year on our markets.
Several and the directors of companies making their market and targeting new investors to meeting initiatives were responsible for stimulating the debuts are among those who have activated The Source to mark the opening of the London markets.
fund managers and researching investor growth in trading volumes.
Our Capital Markets Day in of the financial year we saw a series of record December 2004 for Icelandic companies days on SETS, our automated order book for to meet London fund managers in the Media the more liquid securities, which drove up the and Business Complex at the Exchange was daily average equity trades across our markets.
a successful illustration of our role in bringing together and facilitating communications In January there was an average of 298,284 total between companies and investors.
trades per day a short-lived record before February achieved an average of 308,932 total Training and Consultancy trades per day, and then March with 323,152 Our new Training Services Division has expanded total trades per day.
This is the first time that over the last year, offering a suite of 12 courses the total average daily number of trades has and a range of workshops and conferences, topped 300,000.
In total over the year we saw covering topical areas of the capital markets.
a 16 per cent increase in the average daily These include preparing companies for life on number of trades.
The average daily value AIM, our second annual Corporate Governance traded was 18.7 billion, up 17 per cent on conference and programmes on investor last year.
Revenues in Broker Services, at relations and board effectiveness.
The high 100 million, grew by six per cent.
quality of training offered by the Exchange is derived from our position at the heart of the This strong trading performance was well worlds capital markets and the expertise of supported by our ongoing commitment to our staff and trainers.
This has led to increasing provide and further enhance our fast, efficient international demand for our courses while and robust trading systems.
For the fifth year our audience has diversied across Chairmen, running our platforms provided customers Chief Executives and Finance Directors to with uninterrupted access to our markets professionals from the broking, legal and fund see Technology, page 16.
The reliability of management communities.
We have also the Exchanges trading platforms is unmatched reached out to schools and universities to help by any other major global exchange.
explain how equity markets work.
During the year the Exchange responded to the Committee of European Securities Regulators CESR proposals in relation to the Markets in 11 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 OPERA TING & FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Monthly UK equity Financial Instruments Directive MiFID, now trading volume expected to come into force in April 2007.
MiFID aims to remove the barriers to an efficient 250 6 European single market in securities dealing.
5 We lobbied in support of the high standards of 200 post-trade transparency, broadly liberal regime 4 150 and proportionate rules that are already part of 3 the London model.
MiFID will further encourage 100 2 customers to examine the way in which they 50 conduct their business and represents an 1 opportunity for the Exchange to continue to 0 0 develop services that deliver efficient trade 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 execution on liquid markets at compelling cost.
Value billion left axis Bargains million right axis SETS: delivering for customers Since its introduction in 1997, volumes on SETS have grown every year and this year was no exception.
The average daily number The SETSmm success story of trades on SETS was 170,000, up 24 per cent When SETSmm was launched in November 2003 on the previous year.
The average daily value many predicted narrower spreads and improved traded on SETS was 3.5 billion, up 15 per cent.
Few, however, could have foreseen the Over the past five years we have seen compound extent to which SETSmm has transformed the market annual growth in bargains of 47 per cent.
18 months on and many international institutions are active in this market 23 March 2005 was a record day for SETS for the first time, helping to make midcap investing when over 254,000 trades went through the one of this years major themes.
The efficiency, value and ease of for private investors are also down as Retail Service trading offered by SETS continues to improve Providers RSPs compete at the touch price often market liquidity and drive trade volume growth.
The lower cost of trading has stimulated volumes, benefiting the institutional brokers too.
The average value of a SETS bargain this year was 21,000, a fall of five per cent.
That volumes SETSmm is a blueprint for how the Exchange can and total values are up while bargain size improve markets.
Making trading easy and costshrinks is evidence of customers increasing effective does more than facilitate markets it attracts reliance upon automated, algorithmic trading.
liquidity and so helps to create them.
It is important for our business and the quality of the market that the Exchange responds to these changes in market participants priorities and behaviour.
In April 2004 we introduced a discount scheme for volume trading on SETS, which has been well received by the market and, we believe, has further incentivised greater trading volumes.
This pricing initiative is a demonstration of how we have enhanced our product.
SETS, as well as offering efficient automated trading, continues to draw liquidity onto the order book.
Iceberg orders, introduced last year and welcomed by the market, are another, enabling traders to execute large orders through the order book, while maintaining time priority and avoiding market impact.
SETSmm improves the markets This was the first full year for SETSmm, the innovative hybrid platform that brings an automated order book to midcap securities, with support from committed market makers see case study.
In the year to 31 March, trading in SETSmm securities totalled 152.9 billion, an average daily value of 609 million.
In its first 12 months SETSmm oversaw a 14 per cent increase in the value of midcap stocks traded far outstripping the growth in other sectors of the markets.
12 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 But SETSmm has done more than simply Information Services Revenue sources grow the market: by centralising liquidity and Terminal numbers growing as market increasing transparency SETSmm has reduced conditions improve: delivering new headline spreads by more than 40 per cent and products that answer customers 8 increased volumes.
We expect this virtuous needs while diversifying revenues: circle of increased transparency, improved 15 spreads and growing trading volumes to cementing the Exchanges position continue, especially as Market Maker stock as one of the worlds leading sources coverage has increased by 20 per cent since of high-quality data and information.
We are continuing to build on the success of 87 REVENUE SETSmm.
Earlier this year, we announced the addition of Irish dual-listed stocks to SETSmm and we initiated a market-wide consultation to Data charges and others 87m determine how we could extend the coverage FTSE 15m 110m of SETSmm into Small Cap stocks, more Irish RNS 8m dual-listed stocks, and also to review the current Total 110m 9% AIM trading platform.
Working closely with customers Our revised pricing structure for SETS and the Information Services is responsible for delivering launch of SETSmm are two examples of how Exchange data, information and trading services we use our understanding of the markets and to customers in 106 countries around the world.
our customers priorities to deliver innovative At the heart of our services is the real-time data services that improve our markets.
Both of generated by our markets, core information these initiatives grew out of close consultation that fuels the global securities and investment with customers and market demand.
This data, carried on our own terminals or via third party information vendors, generates Global financial markets are in constant ux the majority of the divisions revenue.
Having as new instruments, vehicles, strategies and been in decline since 2001, professional investment trends emerge.
This year our Primary terminal numbers grew this year.
Account Managers and Product Specialists continued to develop stronger relationships It was the first full year for important initiatives with our clients.
This partnership approach such as SEDOL, our global securities identier is critical to the evolution of existing products service and the second year for Proquote, our and to the creation of new products that are trading and information system.
Both have relevant to our clients changing priorities.
performed encouragingly with SEDOL delivering Such intense customer focus helps us design approximately 1,000 licences and Proquote and deliver products that solve problems or 2,700 screens.
We have also continued to create opportunities for our customers and expand the scope of our offering, especially so maximise revenue generating opportunities in reference data.
Our resources high-quality for the Exchange.
data, world-class technology and the power of the London Stock Exchange brand enable us EUROSETS, the trading service for Dutch to design and deliver new services that answer securities, is another initiative that was customers needs.
FTSE, the joint venture designed in this way and launched last year.
indices business, increased turnover by Despite some encouraging signs, we will 15 per cent to 15.3 million, continuing an need to see increased levels of trading in the unbroken record of growth since launch nine medium term to meet our expectations.
This result reects strong sales of Global and UK Equity Index Series products We know that the success of our markets and contributions from new asset classes such depends upon our customers success.
as FTSE Hedge and FTSE Global Bonds.
This insight is a key part of our strategy, to use the centrality of our markets and the power A dynamic sales force is focusing efforts on of the London Stock Exchange brand to drive increasing product penetration within our down industry costs.
In all, over the past two existing customer base and widening that base.
years, Broker Services alone can point to Of the customers signed up by 31 March to the initiatives that have removed up to 43 million SEDOL Masterle service, 30 per cent were from our customers annual costs.
By doing first time customers to the Exchange.
It is a trend this we can attract still more trading to our we are seeing across our entire product offering.
markets and encourage more take-up of our Hedge funds, information providers and supporting services.
professional services companies are among new customers this year.
Marketing campaigns for our products won a number of awards this year, reecting our effort to engage with customers and deliver winning products.
13 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 OPERA TING & FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Technology underpins everything we offer.
The source of quality, The Exchanges corporate data warehouse trusted data and information allows us easily to mine data and create services Regulatory change is one of the factors making that are tailored to customers requirements.
high-quality reference data such as SEDOL This year we have also been consulting a priority in the securities industry.
In June 2004 with customers on the roll-out of Infolect, we became the first exchange to supply the replacement for LMIL the London Market corporate actions data in near real-time over the Information Link, due to go live in the summer SWIFT network.
The service helps customers of 2005 and set to improve both the speed improve antiquated, often paper-based and capacity of our delivery systems see processes in this area.
This year we will pilot Technology, page 16. a new counterparty data service, with the goal of offering customers accurate and up-to-date Terminal numbers pick up information on their business and trade partners.
We began the year with terminal numbers at 90,000, of which 80,000 were professional We are continuing to develop new information users.
The steady declines of the last three services wherever they can help our customers.
years continued over the summer.
In all, In April 2004 we launched a version of our between May 2001 and December 2004 Market Share service for Member Firms, we saw a 17 per cent decline in our terminal enabling investors to see which brokers are most SEDOL: accounting for success Banks and brokers, fund managers and administrators numbers.
Other market data suppliers active in trading particular stocks, indices or are some of the organisations that might be expected experienced similar falls, reecting the sectors.
The Market Reports Service, launched to use a global identier service to help power fast, performance of global securities markets in January, gives executives of listed companies accurate trading and portfolio reconciliation.
a daily email report on shareholder data, including Yet SEDOL is also gaining customers from other trading activity in their companys stock and that sectors including professional services such as accountancy.
International audit is increasingly In the autumn however terminal declines of their peers.
Company Fundamental Data, complex as new financial instruments and strategies had slowed to a rate that made it possible to launched in December and available via proliferate and the pressures of regulation continue anticipate the return of growth.
By December a raw data feed or the Exchanges website, to grow.
In this environment SEDOL can provide this was underway.
Hiring in the City of London offers a complete picture of past, present a trusted source to help identify, reconcile and value and other global financial centres began to feed and forecasted financial performance of all UK company holdings.
By the year end listed and AIM companies.
our combined terminal numbers had recovered to 95,000, a six per cent rise in the year.
Proquote growth continues Proquote, the Exchanges low-cost trading and Level One Plus, launched in June 2004, market data system, remains the UKs fastest completed our offering to customers, adding rich growing market data vendor.
Proquote ended content including named market share statistics the year with 2,700 terminals, up by 50 per cent.
showing which brokers trade most, and risk New volume customers this year included and performance measures.
We continue to Quilters and Charles Stanley, while Panmure consult with customers to develop our real-time Gordon, Shore Capital, Arbuthnot, Jefferies data offerings.
and Collins Stewart joined the service as RSPs.
SEDOL makes gains As well as growth, the service has seen The SEDOL Masterle service, launched significant enhancements.
The international in March 2004, ended the year with more version of Proquote was launched in April 2005, than 1,000 customers, many of them taking part of creating a compelling offer for buy-side advantage of multiple entity enterprise licenses rms.
The addition of new data sets improved see case study.
SEDOL helps customers Proquotes content which is due to be further address cross-border trade failure that has been enriched in May 2005 by the introduction estimated to cost the global securities industry of Clearview pre-trade analytics.
An order $4 billion every year.
In the era of automated management system for retail and institutional algorithmic trading, the risks of sub-optimal clients is another enhancement for Proquote trading caused by inaccurate data are real.
that we plan to deliver in 2005 06.
Customers have recognised in SEDOL a highquality identier from a trusted source that can RNS help their systems work more efficiently.
RNS has continued to provide the UKs leading Primary Information Provider for regulatory news SEDOL launched with 250,000 instruments disclosure and capital markets focused news which by the year end had risen to 450,000. distribution.
129,000 announcements were By 2007 we estimate that more than 1.5 million released in total during 2004 05 including instruments will be on the SEDOL Masterle.
90 per cent of important news and results The SEDOL Masterle will also carry other announcements by listed companies.
92 of the codes, enabling customers to cross-reference FTSE 100 are clients as are all major financial data.
We are currently examining expanding PR agencies.
As the longest established service SEDOLs coverage and penetration in Asia in the UK and with our unique focus on efficient where there is no single identier.
capital markets, RNS provides the certainty our customers demand in delivering their 14 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 communications to meet regulatory disclosure Derivatives Services requirements.
Our enhanced services are Core Scandinavian derivatives steady: designed to meet the same standards, whether OTC clearing service signs its first providing regulatory lings to companies customers: Covered Warrants registered with the SEC, news distribution to making progress.
key financial media in Europe or non-financial communications such as product launches to London market professionals and retail investors REVENUE through RNS Reach.
Effective capital markets depend on effective disclosure and we have been inuential in 6.8m helping to shape the European Commissions proposals for shareholder transparency in the 11% Financial Services Action Plan.
Our vision is for a European capital market in which no company or investor is disadvantaged through incomplete disclosure.
A growing number of companies Derivatives Services is responsible for the in continental Europe are anticipating these Exchanges derivatives businesses EDX Making OTC derivatives easier Tailored design to meet an investment strategy and changes and are already using RNS Reach and London and the Covered Warrants market few or no disclosure requirements are two of the complementary services which are increasingly for retail investors.
EDX London completed advantages of OTC derivatives.
Drawbacks include attractive to companies looking to improve the its first full year of trading after commencing slow, paper-based and expensive settlement: effectiveness of their financial communications.
in June 2003. without a central counterparty, OTC positions must also appear on a rms balance sheet.
EDX London worked closely with customers to design our new www.
com This year EDX added Finnish derivatives to the OTC clearing service.
Even the most complicated The Exchanges website, re-launched in products offered by three exchanges Sweden, instruments can now be fully automated, disclosure June 2004, quickly established itself as one Denmark and Norway linked to EDX.
We also requirements are minimal and pricing is competitive.
of the most popular sites for private investors, expanded our xed income coverage.
There receiving nearly eight million page impressions are now 61 members of EDX London who are per month and over 800,000 unique users.
able to trade more than 100 listed futures and News, data, tools and other information options.
The most significant by volume are come together on the site, creating a unique the contracts on the Swedish OMXS30 index educational and informative resource.
Total trade volume averaged The website is now generating revenue from 73,000 contracts every day.
advertising while playing an important role in delivering free and subscription services.
OTC clearing Part of EDX Londons strategy is to support In order to promote the site and web-based the OTC derivatives trading of our members.
services such as Fundamental Data, as well The market as a whole is focused on improving as to foster wider engagement with capital operational efficiency in processing these trades.
markets, in March we launched InvestaQUEST, It is, however, a complex industry-wide effort a national stock picking competition in with a number of initiatives to be implemented association with Barclays Stockbrokers.
Following extensive consultation than 10,000 people are now competing to pick with customers during 2004, EDX London the best performing shares on the London Stock has developed a unique OTC clearing service Exchange and win the title of Britains best that supports the International Swaps and investor and the 40,000 grand prize.
The new service offers customers central counterparty clearing of negotiated trades under EDX London and LCH.
Members can enter pan-European OTC options, futures and forwards, with the exibility offered by OTC trading, in addition to the reduced risk and processing benets of a cleared service.
Implementation has been slower than expected but these are early stages in the development of the service.
Post-trade processing in OTC equity derivatives remains inefficient and we are focused on delivering a successful solution that the market requires.
15 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 OPERA TING & FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Covered Warrants The goal is to improve existing services, enhance The work that you are doing in The market for covered warrants continues to capability to operate additional markets and conjunction with Accenture has the grow steadily, supported by improving conditions increase our product range.
Overall profit and highest level of visibility and support in underlying markets.
At 31 March there were loss technology costs for existing services inside of Microsoft.
We believe that 755 covered warrants and certicates available, can also be reduced, with a target 20 per cent in a rise of 13 per cent in the year.
There was an financial year 2007 08 while still guaranteeing the proposal including plans, solution, average of 3,864 bargains a month, worth an the reliability record of our services.
This year and design are well founded, and that average of 25 million.
Call warrants on indices, we took important steps along the Roadmap, the underlying Microsoft technology stocks and commodities are the most popular keeping the Exchange ahead of the technology will support your requirements in terms instruments but there are increasing numbers curve.
We estimate that much of the work of of performance and resilience.
of eye-catching products being offered by the the Roadmap will be completed by the end five issuers in the market.
Over 80 stockbrokers of 2006, with the last and most critical element We look forward to continuing our have now traded covered warrants.
the migration of trading services occurring successful working relationship in the following year.
and ensuring the success of your Technology Roadmap.
Introducing Infolect, the new delivery Technology system for our information services Steve Ballmer Having refreshed our internal systems using Delivering the Technology Roadmap Chief Executive officer the data warehouse that is powering so many and keeping the Exchange ahead Microsoft Corporation of our new products, this year the Technology of the technology curve: introducing Roadmap arrived at our core trading applications.
Infolect, the new delivery system for Infolect, due for live launch in the summer, our real-time information services: is the rebuilt and enhanced replacement for LMIL the London Market Information Link preparing to move our trading services and carries the Exchanges real-time market onto the next-generation platform.
data to customers faster and with much improved bandwidth capacity.
The Exchanges technology strategy is central to our aim of being the most efficient Infolect can carry exible services to customers equities exchange in the world.
Having the through 2 MB or 10 MB connections, delivering right technology does more than simply run a significant improvement in performance and our existing services, it also creates strategic a reduction in end-to-end latency.
Infolects opportunities for new products and future faster delivery is especially useful to automated moves into different business areas.
trading applications because it cuts down order slippage.
This can lead to an improved order to Our current technology platform has been trade ratio, and a reduction in missed executions successfully running trading and information that are due to out of date market data.
services for more than a decade.
During this time the systems have undergone a number Infolect offers a reliable, high performance of upgrades to ensure we continue to provide information service with the capacity to support a world-class level of service to our customers.
future market growth and handle increased We are however constantly looking at new message volumes.
The agility and exibility of technologies which can make our services the new technology also makes it easier for the more efficient, scalable and functionally richer.
Exchange to design and introduce new products and services, in response to customer demand.
The Technology Roadmap, laid out in 2003 after extensive customer consultation, is an initiative The electronic orderbooks to refresh the Exchanges technology and to In a year of fast growing trade volumes, including move services onto the most functional, agile several new record days see Broker Services, and cost-effective technology.
That means page 11 our trading platforms continued to deploying commodity hardware and nextperform well.
The automated order books generation software across our business.
SETS and SETSmm saw no outages for the fifth successive year as average daily number of trades rose 24 per cent.
Over the summer of 2005 we are investing in upgrading the existing technology currently underpinning these systems, to ensure the order books can handle greater trading volumes.
16 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 Volumes look set to continue to grow as we Growing demand for events respond to the increase in automated, algorithmic At the heart of the new event spaces is the trading.
The longer-term response, part of our 120-seat theatre, designed with webcast Technology Roadmap, involves migrating all and simultaneous translation facilities in mind.
trading on the Exchange to commodity-based This year weve seen growing demand for hardware and next-generation applications.
results presentations, product launches and Such a move will dramatically increase capacity other blue chip events see Siemens case of our trading platforms, scalability and study.
Manchester United announced their performance while maintaining the robustness results here in September: the University that an exchange business depends upon.
of Pennsylvania held a dinner in December, while in August Rexam lmed their results The design and prototype of the new platform presentation for broadcast over the web.
It is the biggest change to the Exchanges technology since the creation of No other event venue has this unique cross-over the Sequence Programme and SETS between of convenience and landmark centrality with rich 1994 and 1997.
We estimate completing the media capability.
At the announcement of WPPs testing phase by the end of 2006 and, after annual results in August, Sir Martin Sorrell gave running the new platform in parallel with the old, interviews to seven different broadcasters in phasing it in during 2007. a single morning, working around his schedule.
Siemens launches a world first To launch the SK65, the first mobile with BlackBerry Our event spaces are heavily booked through built in, Siemens needed a venue that chimed with their Working with world-class partners 2005 and were taking enquiries as far ahead phones capabilities.
Oliver Schrott Kommunikation No ambitious technology implementation project as 2007. in Cologne, one of Germanys top PR agencies, can proceed without the close collaboration suggested the London Stock Exchange.
This year we have Broadcast news 2 August 2004, 125 business, trade and lifestyle journalists from 23 countries attended presentations continued to work closely with Microsoft, Every day, global broadcasters including the and a press conference, interviews with Siemens whose.
NET architecture is at the heart of our BBC and BBC News 24, CNN, Sky News and executives and lunch at the Exchange.
To see what Technology Roadmap.
HP hardware, Cisco CNBC report on the days business and market the phones could do, journalists used them while on Systems and Accentures implementation skills news from one of four studios.
Weve seen a tour of the City of London.
all play their part in sustaining the London Stock growth in overseas broadcasters using our Exchanges position as one of the worlds most facilities, such as Al-Arabiya UAE, New Delhi TV The unique buzz of live broadcasts and cutting edge technology at the heart of Europes financial markets advanced and forward-thinking exchanges.
India, Report on Business TV Canada and made the Exchange the right place to introduce this In the day-to-day running of our systems our NTV Germany, contributing to the impressive business phone to an international audience.
valued network partner MCI continues to deliver 11,522 broadcasts delivered this year.
Media and Business Complex The new state-of-the-art facility for broadcasting and events: corporate and other events booking into 2007: international broadcasters using our studios.
The move to Paternoster Square in June 2004 transformed the Exchanges media and events business.
The new facility provides four studios for broadcasters to go out live from the City of London to the world.
A ten square metre video wall provides the backdrop in Studio One.
State-of-the-art media capability is also one of the factors now making our event spaces a key destination in the events industry.
Together The Source see case study, page 11, the studios and our event spaces are maintaining the Exchanges position as the focal point of the City.
17 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 OPERA TING & FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Financial Review with 432 new issues.
As at 31 March 2005, Derivatives Services contributed 6.8 million to the total number of companies on our markets turnover 2004: 6.1 million for the nine months Overall financial performance for increased to 2,916 2004: 2,693.
EDX London, our the year ended 31 March 2005 1,127 companies were traded on AIM, an 76 per cent owned equity derivatives business, showed further growth in turnover increase of 42 per cent 2004: 792, including traded a total of 18.3 million contracts and earnings per share and cash ows 134 international companies.
2004: 13.7 million for the nine months ended remaining strong.
Turnover for the Broker Services division Turnover increased four per cent to 259.7 million increased six per cent to 99.8 million 2004: Other income, primarily from property subletting, 2004: 250.4 million but operating profit before 94.1 million, reecting in particular another year declined from 10.7 million to 7.6 million exceptional items and goodwill amortisation of strong performance for SETS, our electronic following disposal of the Stock Exchange Tower.
reduced one per cent to 82.0 million 2004: order book.
The total number of equity bargains 82.9 million, with a ten per cent decrease for the year ended 31 March 2005 rose Expenditure in operating profit after exceptional costs of 15 per cent to 67.9 million 2004: 59.3 million, Administrative expenses excluding exceptional 6.8 million and goodwill amortisation.
Basic a daily average of 271,000 bargains 2004: items rose six per cent to 164.4 million 2004: earnings per share increased seven per cent 234,000.
Over the same period, the number 155.8 million mainly reecting the expected to 23.1p per share from 21.6p per share and of SETS bargains rose to a total of 42.8 million cost increases from higher depreciation.
adjusted basic earnings per share, before 2004: 34.7 million, reecting a 24 per cent In addition, exceptional costs of 6.8 million exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, increase to an average of 170,000 bargains were incurred for advisors fees in respect of increased 11 per cent to 23.5p per share per day 2004: 137,000.
The continued strong potential offers for the Company received in 2004: 21.2p.
Following the share consolidation growth on SETS was partly attributable to the the second half of the year.
in July 2004 associated with the special success of SETSmm which trades mid-cap dividend paid in August 2004, the weighted securities on a hybrid market structure, with an profit for the year average number of shares decreased in the average 16,000 bargains per day five months Operating profit before exceptional items and year from 293.0 million to 269.0 million.
ended 31 March 2004: 9,000. goodwill amortisation reduced one per cent to 82.0 million 2004: 82.9 million : including Turnover Information Services turnover rose nine per cent exceptional costs in respect of potential offers Issuer Services turnover decreased nine to 110.3 million 2004: 101.0 million.
This for the Company of 6.8 million and goodwill per cent to 35.2 million 2004: 38.5 million good growth was primarily attributable to amortisation, operating profit decreased ten reecting the effects of tariff reductions the new SEDOL Masterle service and rising per cent to 73.2 million 2004: 81.3 million.
following the OFTs review of our Main Market turnover from Proquote and FTSE.
As at With profit on disposal of the Stock Exchange and AIM, partly offset by significant increases 31 March 2005, the number of terminals taking Tower of 7.2 million and after net interest in new issue activity on both markets.
Total new the Exchanges real-time market data stood at received, profit before taxation at 89.1 million issues on the Exchanges markets more than 95,000 2004: 90,000, an increase of six per was slightly above last year 2004: 88.8 million.
doubled to 514 2004: 236, with new and cent.
Of this total, 83,000 terminals 2004: The taxation charge of 27.6 million is higher further issues together raising 18.0 billion 80,000 were attributable to professional users, than the standard tax rate due to certain 2004: 21.0 billion.
Growth in Main Market the first increase for over three years.
Proquote, expenses, mainly goodwill and property new issues was strong, increasing over the Exchanges provider of financial market depreciation, being disallowed.
After tax 90 per cent to 82 2004: 43, including high software and data increased the number of and minority interests, profit for the year was prole listings from China, Russia, India and installed screens at year end by 50 per cent 62.2 million 2004: 63.4 million.
AIM, our international market for smaller, to 2,700 2004: 1,800. growing companies, enjoyed a record year 18 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 Turnover from Turnover from Basic earnings per share increased seven of our 2003 04 results under IFRS in order c continuin ontinuing g oper opera ation tionss million million per cent to 23.1p per share 2004: 21.6p per to give an indication of the impact of IFRS on Ye Yea ar rss ended 31 March ended 31 March share and adjusted basic earnings per share the Exchange.
excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation rose by 11 per cent to 23.5p An indication of the unaudited impact of IFRS 260 250 per share 2004: 21.2p per share.
The Board on our 2004 05 results, is as follows: 237 216 remains committed to a progressive dividend 193 policy and, reecting confidence in the business, profit before tax under IFRS would have the Directors propose a final dividend of 5.0p been 92.2 million, three per cent higher per share which takes the total dividend for than 89.1 million under UK GAAP: the year to 7.0p per share excluding the special interim dividend paid in August 2004 IFRS basic earnings per share would have representing a 46 per cent increase over 4.8p been 24.2 pence, compared with UK GAAP per share last year and giving a total distribution basic earnings per share of 23.1 pence, five of 17.7 million 2004: 14.1 million.
per cent higher: and Operating profit for continuing Cash ow and balance sheet strength adjusted basic earnings per share, before operations before exceptional items Cash ow from operating activities before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, and goodwill amortisation million exceptional items was 100.9 million 2004: would have been 24.2 pence under IFRS, Years ended 31 March 105.4 million reecting a small increase in three per cent higher than 23.5 pence per working capital.
After capital expenditure share under UK GAAP.
83 82 81 of 40.8 million 2004: 54.2 million, initial 71 proceeds from the sale of Stock Exchange Net assets as at 31 March 2005 would have Tower of 32.3 million and the payment of the been 236.3 million under IFRS, six per cent 58 special dividend of 162.5 million in August lower compared with 251.6 million under UK 2004, there was a cash outow of 105.7 million GAAP, in part reecting the Companys decision 2004: inow 8.7 million.
on transition to IFRS to fully recognise the dened benefit pension deficit in reserves and At 31 March 2005, sterling cash resources restate retained freehold properties to fair value.
were 124.4 million 2004: 227.9 million with debt of 3.3 million 2004: 4.9 million.
A restatement of the 2004 05 results on an IFRS The Company invests the majority of its funds basis will be provided at a later date, before the Cash inow from operations before in xed term deposits with banks, for periods Interim Results announcement, in order to exceptional items million of up to one year.
provide comparative financial information for Years ended 31 March the 2005 06 financial year.
Accounting policies The Exchange complies with all current The IFRS financial information provided has been 105 UK accounting standards.
The transitional prepared on the basis of current IFRS standards 101 disclosures required by FRS 17 on Retirement and interpretations issued by the IASB.
These 82 75 75 Benets are included in the financial statements.
are subject to ongoing amendment by the IASB During the year the Exchange adopted UITF 38 and subsequent endorsement by the EU and Accounting for ESOP Trusts and UITF 17 could therefore change.
As a result, the revised Employee Share Schemes and the prior comparative amounts reported for 2004 05 year gures have been restated accordingly.
in the 2005 06 financial statements may vary As a result, as a prior year adjustment, the from those included above.
Companys shares held by the ESOP trust are now deducted from shareholders funds until Going concern they vest unconditionally in employees and the After making appropriate enquiries, the directors Adjusted basic earnings profit and loss account charge for share options are satisfied that the Company has adequate per share pence per share and awards is determined with reference to resources to continue in operation for the Years ended 31 March the fair value of shares at the date of grant.
The accounts are, therefore, The effect has been to reduce shareholders prepared on the going concern basis.
funds at 31 March 2004 by 6.4 million and 23.5 reduce profit for the financial year ended Jonathan Howell 21.2 20.8 31 March 2005 by 0.7 million 2004: reduced Director of Finance 18.3 by 0.3 million further details are included in 15.2 note 1 to the financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The key changes arising from the introduction of IFRS, which takes effect from the 2005 06 financial year, are in respect of goodwill amortisation, pensions, share-based payments, lease rentals, property depreciation and dividends.
