Board of Directors Michael Jackson 56 also Chairman of the venture Chairman capital and investment company, Michael Jackson became Elderstreet Investments Limited, Chairman of PartyGaming in which he founded prior to its May 2005.
He is Non-Executive acquisition by Dresdner Kleinwort Chairman of the FTSE 100 software Capital in 2000 and subsequent group, The Sage Group plc, which, sale back to management in during his time as a director, has 2003.
Michael is also a director grown from a capitalisation of and investor in a number of 1 million in 1983 to its current other quoted and unquoted level of over 3 billion.
Mr Jackson holds announced in February 2006 that an MA in law from Cambridge Michael would be stepping down University and qualified as a as Chairman of The Sage Group Chartered Accountant with plc from 1 August 2006.
Richard Segal 42 to a consortium led by WestLB Chief Executive Officer Bank.
During his employment with Richard Segal joined PartyGaming Rank, which spanned from 1988 to on 25 August 2004.
Before joining 2000, Richard held a number of the Group, Richard was for senior management positions, the period 1997 to 2003, chief including managing director of executive officer of Odeon Ranks Entertainment Sector.
Limited Odeon and its Prior to working for Rank, Richard successor company.
During this worked for Arthur Andersen.
time, Odeon was owned by The He holds a BA in economics Rank Group Plc Rank until from Manchester University and February 2000, when Richard led is a member of the Institute of a management buyout of Odeon Chartered Accountants of from Rank.
In March 2003, Richard England and Wales.
led the successful sale of Odeon Martin Weigold 40 Prior to this he was an assistant Group Finance Director director of Guinness Mahon Martin Weigold joined the Group Development Capital for six years on 4 January 2005.
Prior to joining, following a three year period as Martin was the chief financial a management consultant with officer of Jetix Europe NV, formerly Arthur Andersen.
Martin holds a Fox Kids Europe NV, for five years BSc in economics and accounting from its flotation on Euronext in from Bristol University and is a 1999.
Before holding this position, member of the Institute of he was the vice president of Chartered Accountants of finance of Walt Disney Television England and Wales.
International for four years and was actively involved in the launch of Disney Channels in France, Spain, Italy and Germany.
Anurag Dikshit 34 Group Operations Director Anurag Dikshit joined the Group in 1998 and is one of the original founders.
Prior to joining the Group, Anurag worked as a development engineer at CMC, systems analyst at Websci and consultant for AT&T.
He holds a Bachelor of Technology in computer science and engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology in New Delhi.
Vikrant Bhargava 33 Indian Institute of Management, Group Marketing Director Kolkata and graduated with Vikrant Bhargavas experience a Bachelor of Technology in prior to joining the Group in 2000 electrical engineering from the included positions as a credit Indian Institute of Technology in officer at the Bank of America, New Delhi.
where he was responsible for managing credit exposure and revenue for a portfolio of corporate clients, and a business analyst at British Gas in the business development division.
Vikrant has a Postgraduate Diploma in Management from the 60 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 Brian Larcombe 52 He is currently a non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior director of Smith & Nephew plc Independent Non-Executive Director and of F&C Asset Management Brian Larcombe became Deputy plc and a former chairman of the Chairman and the Senior British Venture Capital Association.
Independent Non-Executive Director of PartyGaming in May 2005.
Previously Brian had been with 3i Group plc, having served as finance director of 3i from 1992 to 1997 and as chief executive officer from 1997 until 2004.
Lars Berg 58 and from 1994 until 1999 Independent Non-Executive Director he was president and chief Lars Berg became a Non-Executive executive officer of Telia AB.
Director of PartyGaming in May Between 1970 and 1994 he held 2005.
Since August 2000, Lars various management positions has been a non-executive in the Ericsson Group.
board member of several European technology and telecommunications companies including Telefonica Moviles, Eniro, Net Insight and Ratos.
In March 1999, he joined the executive board of Mannesmann AG, Dusseldorf, Germany, as head of its Telecommunications Business, Nigel Kenny 57 Institutional Banking, Operations.
Independent Non-Executive Director Nigel is a chartered accountant, Nigel Kenny became a Nonhaving qualified with Executive Director of PartyGaming Price Waterhouse in London, in May 2005.
From 1999 until 2002, and was with Chase Manhattan Nigel was Group Executive Bank for 13 years prior to joining Director of Finance at Standard Standard Chartered.
Nigel joined Standard Chartered he has Standard Chartered in 1992 as worked in the private equity sector.
Group Head of Audit and held a number of senior positions during his tenure, including Regional General Manager for UK & Europe, Group Head of Strategy and Group Head of Corporate and Janos Libor 40 Previously he was a strategy Non-Executive Director consultant and held senior Janos Libor became a Nonpositions within Abeam Consulting, Executive Director of PartyGaming Deloitte Consulting and McKinsey in October 2005.
Janos is a working in North America and the graduate of the Sorbonne, Far East.
University of California and Harvard Business School.
Janos is Managing Director of Timber Cove, a private investment management company.
Rod Perry 60 3i executive committee in 1996 Independent Non-Executive Director with responsibility for group Rod Perry became a Nonservices and later Asia Pacific Executive Director of PartyGaming investment.
He retired from the in May 2005.
Rod had been an 3i Board in July 2005. executive director at 3i Group plc, latterly responsible for venture capital investment activities worldwide.
He joined 3i in 1985 as an industrial adviser and became Head of Information Systems in 1989.
Rod was appointed to the 61 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005
