Deliver excellent customer service Our strategy In competitive sectors, such as online gaming, delivering a high level of customer service is critical to attracting new customers and retaining existing customers.
The Group seeks innovative ways to improve further its customer service as it considers its infrastructure to be a key competitive advantage.
The Group is committed to broadening the range of convenient local payment options and accepted currencies available to customers and to providing fast processing of the pay-in and withdrawal of funds.
Provide a robust and scalable gaming platform using leading technologies Maintaining a robust and scalable gaming platform has been, and will continue to be, one of the Groups main priorities.
The Groups strategy has been to use robust protocols and operating systems, purchase proven third party technologies, recruit and retain experienced and capable technical employees, comply with security standards and have its systems tested by independent specialists to ensure gaming integrity and fairness.
The Group promotes responsible online gaming by the use of systems addressing age verification, fraud detection, customer-led controls for limiting their spend and, for casino games, playing duration, social responsibility content and sources of help.
The Group aims to continue this focus by having To be the worlds number one gaming a dedicated research and development team to keep the Groups systems at the forefront of the available technology.
company, with the most trusted brands, Create an integrated Party-branded systems platform innovative technology and outstanding In October 2005 the Group launched blackjack on PartyPoker customer service and in February 2006, launched PartyCasino as part of an integrated platform using a shared purse called PartyAccount.
To achieve this objective, the Group has established a number of The new platform enables players to use funds and transfer key business strategies: winnings across PartyPoker and PartyCasino.
Additional games will be added to the platform including PartyBingo as well as Grow the Groups poker business two new games during 2006.
PartyPoker is the worlds largest online poker room, with a highly recognised brand in its core territory, the US, and an The Board believes that offering a diverse and comprehensive increasing presence in other markets.
PartyGaming intends portfolio of games will help to attract and retain online gaming to continue to develop these brand credentials and player customers, as well as increase our share of our customers liquidity advantages as well as the Groups other key strengths overall gaming spend.
to maintain its leadership in online poker.
Acquire complementary businesses and new games Expand internationally The fragmented nature of the online gaming industry may The Group aims to improve PartyGamings global market present growth opportunities through market consolidation and position by increasing awareness of its Party brand, focusing expansion through investment and acquisition.
If appropriate initially on Europe and, in the longer term, Asia.
The Directors opportunities arise, the Directors would consider acquiring or intend to target selected territories for expansion, particularly investing in complementary businesses and new products based in the EU and other countries which have experienced recent on commercial and strategic merits.
high growth in broadband internet penetration and retail Explore the use of new technology channels e-commerce acceptance.
During 2006 the Group will be The development of new delivery and access channels also launching multi-lingual and multi-currency versions of its games presents opportunities for the Group to leverage its existing in order to broaden its international appeal.
The Group is currently considering opportunities to offer its products using wireless technology and is performing a product trial of Starluck Casino on mobile telephones within the UK.
36 PartyGaming Plc Chief Executives review Annual report 2005 Eyes down... is this your lucky day?
Responsible gaming The Group promotes responsible Not if your age online gaming by the use of systems that address age verification, fraud detection and matches any of these customer-led controls for limiting their spend.
We believe in responsible gaming.
