Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 17 Operating Review Brokerage Man Financial World volume of exchange traded Man Financial is one of the worlds largest futures and options on futures futures and options brokers, with a global in millions of contracts log scale presence and offices in New York, Chicago, 4000 London, Paris, Singapore, Sydney, Taiwan 3500 3000 and a new office in Hong Kong.
Man 2500 Financial provides intermediary and matched 2000 principal broking and other related services 1500 to a worldwide client base, which ranges 1000 from financial institutions, asset managers 500 and industrial groups, to professional traders and private clients.
86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 The calendar year 2004 marked Man Source: CFTC, BIS Note: excludes options on individual equities and Asian Kevin Davis Financials 25th anniversary in the brokerage equity indexes.
Managing Director, Man Financial business.
This year, Man Financial has achieved a record profit before tax and The major driver of volumes this year has goodwill amortisation of $145 million, an been increased competition among the increase of 21% over the previous year.
exchanges, and the resultant decrease in Brokerage accounted for about 17% of the transaction costs and increase in market Groups total pre-tax profit before goodwill access.
Eurex, Euronext and CME, now amortisation and exceptional items for the operating as public companies, have year.
Brokerages compound annual growth reduced their fees and the CBOT in rate since 2000 is over 29%.
response to Eurexs entry into the US has also reduced fees and is preparing Market growth and evolution for conversion from a mutual to a corporate The derivatives markets continued its structure.
They are all investing heavily in 25 years of growth with another year of technology, reducing transaction costs and record volumes.
The increasing sophistication increasing market access through online of users of the derivatives markets and trading products.
broadening of the customer base has been a primary influence.
The use of risk Leading market positions management in institutions and corporations The volume of business transacted through has continued to increase, driven by Man Financial on a single day has been as regulatory developments.
Balance sheet risks high as 6 million lots, comparable to a are being increasingly hedged and there has days volume on a major global derivatives also been a greater appreciation of the value exchange.
We now clear, on average, in of credit intermediation, where clearing excess of 2.5 million contracts per day and, houses act as a counterparty for exchange in addition, execute over 1 million contracts traded instruments, versus the more traditional per day.
This large pool of liquidity enables OTC market where there is bilateral credit us both to attract new clients and to recruit risk.
Another major driver of market volumes producers who can utilise these significant is the continuing growth of the asset internal flows within the organisation.
This management industry and its expanding use flow provides significant economies of of the listed derivatives markets.
Exchanges scale and market information, enhancing offer a daily settlement structure to meet our ability to react, participate and benefit demands of the hedge fund industry from the changing nature of the derivatives for price transparency.
The table overleaf shows Man managers increasingly view derivatives as Financials current rankings on the worlds an efficient source of leverage with high major futures exchanges.
levels of liquidity and low transaction costs.
Although the listed derivatives markets have grown significantly, they are still small relative to the Over the Counter OTC markets, and so have the potential for continued strong growth.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 18 Operating Review Man Financial Exchange rankings Revenue by business line The profitability of our Energy business year to 31 March 2005 As at March 2005 increased substantially this year.
The energy industry is also seeing a convergence in 1 Interest rate products: 34% 2004: 31% Exchange Location Measure Ranking 2 Equities: 12% 2004: 13% the cash and futures markets with some Eurex Europe Execution 1st 3 Forex: 11% 2004: 13% exchanges now providing a clearing Euronext LIFFE Europe Execution 1st 4 Energy Metals: 18% 2004: 15% mechanism for selected OTC products.
5 Fund clearing: 8% 2004: 7% CME US Execution 1st 6 Private clients: 13% 2004: 17% This has provided us with the opportunity CBOT USExecution 1st 7 Professional traders: 4% 2004: 4% to expand our traditional focus on industry NYMEX US Cleared 1st 7 participants to include asset managers.
IPE UK Cleared 1st 6 1 Significant recruitment in both London and LME UK Cleared 2nd New York has given added strength and SFE Australia Execution 5th breadth to our team.
The acquisition in Source: Exchange publications 5 April 2004 of our next largest competitor excludes single stock options non-member business in NYMEX execution services significantly estimated no official rankings published expanded our position there.
We have 2 4 repositioned the business from a clearing- 3 Revenue diversity driven activity to an execution-driven Revenues flow from four sources: execution business while maintaining a strong share fees, clearing fees, matched principal spreads In the financial year, all business areas of the energy clearing market.
Our focus has been on performed well.
We achieved outstanding the high margin, and higher growth, execution returns in our Interest Rate Products Our Metals business showed very strong and matched principal functions.
These business: from growth in the client base, growth for the second year in a row.
We complement our extensive clearing business, successful recruitment of producers, and have continually expanded our client base, where significant client balances, currently in the continued development of the cash market share and profits in recent years.
excess of $8 billion, accrue increased trading bond business in London and New York.
We have an 8% share of this market and interest income as global interest rates rise.
These two offices, in addition to the strong a global client base which has expanded franchises that we have in Chicago, Paris, by 14%.
This year our efforts have been Revenues by type $ million Singapore and Sydney, have achieved rewarded as the growing demand leading positions in their markets.
The generated significantly higher prices, Interest Matched principal results were achieved during a year that volatility and volumes.
Execution only had intermittent periods of subdued Clearing market activity.
Fund Clearing Services saw significant 800 growth in profits as we expanded our client 700 Our Foreign Exchange business had base.
This area also provides clearing 600 another excellent year.
We continued to services to Man Investments for many of 500 expand our client base and service its activities in these markets.
The asset 400 capabilities, as markets reached record management community is a primary focus 300 volumes.
The units in New York, London for our clearing services.
The overall growth 200 and Asia continued to bridge the cash and of the asset management community and 100 derivative markets for clients looking for its increasing use of listed derivatives 0 seamless market access.
The increase in continues to provide opportunity for more 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 electronic access to the foreign exchange growth in this business.
Source: Man database markets expanded overall market volumes.
Our Private Client business continued to Product diversity Our Institutional Equities business expand its presence, both in Europe and in Man Financial has established a leading continued to perform well, anchored by the US.
The mix of futures, equity derivatives presence in the institutional brokerage of our leading position in equity derivatives, and foreign exchange, and the continued Interest Rate Products, Foreign Exchange, including the contract for differences roll-out of electronic platforms underpinned Energy, Metals, and Equity Derivatives, whilst CFD product which is actively used this expansion.
Interest income increased maintaining a strong position in the provision by the fund management community.
We with growing client balances and increasing of execution and clearing services to the have expanded this business to provide interest rates.
Our offering in these markets professional trader and private client market.
execution services in European shares includes both an execution and clearing We enjoy strong positions in both the for institutions looking to access market service in electronic or full service form.
traditional voice-broker sector as well as the liquidity.
Revenues have increased GNI Touchs e-commerce business for the growing online sector of these markets.
significantly and we are now doing business professional trader community also had a with 65% of the top 80 institutional buyers strong year as electronic market volumes Our diversity of customers and products of European shares.
affords revenue protection in the event of a downturn in volumes in any specific market.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 19 Operating Review Focus on overheads The European financial futures markets at Brokerage has been able to grow its Eurex and Euronext are now exclusively business organically and integrate screen-traded while Chicagos CBOT and acquisitions effectively.
This has resulted CME have passed the 70% mark in screenin a significant drop in the ratio of fixed trading.
Sydney is completely electronic costs to net revenues, from 75.1% to while Singapore is well into transition phase.
By successfully As this evolution continues, Mans experience positioning itself as a technology integrator in Europe is helping to strengthen our rather than a developer, and linking together position in US markets as evidenced by industry standard products to provide our recent increases in market share.
straight through processing, we have grown without costly technology investment.
The convergence of the cash and futures The continued migration to electronic markets has been another significant markets provides continuing opportunity change in the worlds derivatives markets for cost rationalisation.
in virtually all market sectors.
This has provided an opportunity for Man Financial Managing market change and is increasingly a major focus of our Managing change in the market is a core efforts to provide value to our clients.
The competence of Man Financial, whether that cash markets in interest rates, equities, change be the evolution of the markets to energy and metals were, until recently, electronic media or the convergence of closed communities of large institutions with the cash and derivative markets.
The less well developed trading protocols and conversion of the futures markets from clearing structures where they existed.
floor-based exchanges to electronic Today cash bonds are traded electronically markets has diminished the role of the and cleared through large clearing houses passive broker while providing opportunity making them accessible to a larger range to those with an understanding of market of participants.
This allows asset managers dynamics and access to liquidity.
to take advantage of the changes in relative value between the futures and cash markets, As the worlds futures markets moved onwhich momentarily lag each other in value.
screen, first in Europe and subsequently This is equally true in the equity and foreign in the rest of the world, market liquidity exchange markets and the energy and in the most actively traded front months metals markets.
Our strong position at the of the large interest rate markets were centre of liquidity in the futures markets has increasingly self-executed by clients.
At allowed us to bridge these markets for our the same time, the large volumes in the clients.
We have strengthened significantly less liquid deferred months and options our cash market capabilities in all of these saw the liquidity on-the-screen reduce market sectors, benefiting profit margins as market participants were reluctant to and return on capital.
The gap between bid and offer prices increased creating a role for brokers who could effectively access liquidity from their own customer base.
Man Financial recognised this process and became a leader in accessing market interest within the applicable exchange regulations on behalf of large institutions and asset managers.
This position at the centre of market liquidity in many of these products continues as our client base grows, further expanding the sources of liquidity.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 20 Financial Review
