Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 9 Operating Review Asset Management Funds under management $ billion March Disposals Sales Investment Redemptions Maturities FX March 2004 movement and other 2005 0.1 4.3 3.2 0.6 0.8 12.1 17.7 Institutional 17.0 Private 25.3 21.5 investor 38.5 43.0 Total Chris Chambers Chief Executive, Man Investments Sales and distribution Network of distribution partners Man has spent two decades understanding investor requirements, identifying opportunities and developing innovative products and tailor-made solutions that cater to the varied needs of private and institutional investors.
Our structuring expertise enables us to offer a range of product types and since the launch of our earliest principal protected product in 1985, Man has established a market leadership in the design and management of structured products.
Our approach to business The regional sales offices are supported has always been guided by the needs of by teams in Dublin, London and Pfffikon investors.
Investors are assured of a high Switzerland providing product support level of disclosure of investment performance services including investor and intermediary along with comprehensive, personalised support, infrastructure services, product product reporting.
There are in excess of management including investment analysis 165,000 investors in our fund products.
and fund administration and other Private investors are predominantly high management support including legal and net worth individuals sourced through our compliance and human resources.
intermediary network of retail and private banks, insurance brokers and private asset We have continued to invest in people, managers.
Institutional investors include systems and infrastructure to provide scale pension funds, insurance companies, in response to the continued growth in funds charities and state or public corporations.
under management and the increasing range of product offering.
As part of this, a new Our sales force, which has almost enhanced website was launched at the end 300 employees, operates around the world, of 2004, offering significant improvement in with regional sales offices serving investors online service standards.
This enhancement and distributors in 128 countries.
Besides will provide faster and easier access to building and maintaining relationships with product performance reporting and provide existing and potential investors, the sales intermediaries with powerful sales support.
force is responsible for opening new markets to alternative investments and Sales in the year were a record $12.1 billion.
ensuring investors receive high standards These were spread across 44 new products of after-sales service.
Our regional sales and split $6.3 billion and $5.8 billion teams link with a well-established network between private investor and institutional of distribution partners around the world.
Traditionally our key Private investor business is conducted private investor markets have been through this extensive intermediary Western Europe excluding the UK and network, while dedicated relationship Asia Pacific including Australia and New managers coordinate institutional business.
Zealand and sales this year have broadly The combination of global awareness and continued to reflect this mix.
Institutional local insight enhances our ability to sales were predominantly in Europe as in offer suitable investment opportunities previous years.
For private investor to investors around the world supported demand, Asia Pacific was strong, most by a high level of service.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 10 Operating Review Japan has been an active region for many of our funds and partly because of continued visits.
Man places a strong emphasis on the asset management styles and we have strong sales of our joint venture or white reputation and quality of our intermediaries seen particularly strong demand from label business which were up 14% at and particular focus is given to worldwide Japanese private investors for our $2.4 billion.
These customised products are compliance and investor identification antialternative investment products, reflecting designed with another financial institution, money laundering regulations.
their low exposure to this asset class.
typically a bank, to meet the specific We expect demand in the current year to requirements for distribution to its investors.
Sales by intermediaries remain strong in this region.
The South East These are an attractive complement to our year to 31 March 2005 Asian market tends to be performance global launches both for our investors as 1 Banks: 42% 2004: 44% focused, especially Hong Kong, and we these launches tend to be tailored to local 2 IFA Brokers: 34% 2004: 28% expect demand in this region to pick up requirements, and to Man as they are less 3 Asset Managers: 15% 2004: 22% 4 Professional: 4% 2004: 3% with improving performance.
Particularly noteworthy 5 Other: 5% 2004: 3% Europe we saw some slow-down in asset were two large joint ventures in Japan 5 4 raising from private investors, in particular which raised a total of $1.1 billion.
1 Switzerland, and this was true for the whole 3 alternative industry.
This appears to reflect Open-ended sales accounted for $1.4 billion, the fact that private investors in this region down from $2.4 billion in the prior year.
are typically already well allocated These represent sales of products which are to alternatives.
Products include Man AHL Diversified plc, which offers In North America, we continue to support weekly liquidity to investors, Man Arbitrage 2 the objective of structuring attractive Strategies and Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy products within the US onshore regulatory Fund.
These products continue to be offered framework and building a distribution to investors globally and are complemented Institutional network to address a mass-affluent investor by products focused on particular markets.
Fund of funds sales to institutions were a market.
The onshore market in registered For example, during the year we launched record $5.8 billion, up 57% from the prior products has been slow to develop, but Man Hedge Diversified Ltd, our first year with RMF being our principal manager the range of opportunities to support both authorised retail hedge fund since the SFC for institutional sales.
Institutional investors private and institutional investors remains introduced new guidelines for hedge funds in often prefer to allocate to fund of funds attractive.
Hong Kong in 2002. managers who can offer access to a wide range of alternative investment styles Private investor sales We currently have active relationships with combined with investing in a large number of year to 31 March 2005 over 1,850 distribution partners in 100 underlying managers.
In this way an institution countries.
This network of professional can achieve diversification of returns with 1 Europe: 39% intermediaries includes banks, asset low volatility and correlation, and allocate 2 Asia Pacific: 42% 3 Americas: 13% managers, independent financial advisers significant assets.
Sales were assisted by a 4 Middle East: 6% 4 and other professionals and is constantly one-off opportunity to utilise capacity freed 3 being reviewed and expanded.
Asset up from a legacy product at RMF that 1 managers and banks together represent matured earlier in the year.
Sales related nearly 60% by value of our private investor to this recycling totalled some $2.4 billion, sales.
These intermediaries have been of which $1.8 billion was recycled to new increasingly keen to offer high quality investors at superior fee margins compared alternative investment products to their to the legacy product.
Overall growth in sales 2 clients from independent providers.
These was largely from the ongoing structural shift intermediaries offer Man the most efficient by institutions looking to develop exposure means of raising assets given their large to the alternative asset class.
client bases and sophisticated portfolio and Private investor investment skills.
Our net management fee margins on Private investor funds under management institutional assets under management represent around 59% of Mans total funds The regional sales and consulting teams increased from 50 basis points in 2003 to under management.
Our focus is on the work together with distribution partners to 70 basis points in 2005.
This reflects the fact mass-affluent investor, who might typically identify local investors needs and to highlight that we have recycled some maturing lower have financial investments in the range of sales and training requirements within the fee products sold historically by RMF and $1-5 million and who typically invests an partner organisation.
We provide high quality have attracted new assets at higher fees.
product literature and web-based sales Most of this margin opportunity has now tools as well as giving our partners access been captured and we anticipate current net Private investor sales can be split into three to the current thinking on investment and management fee margin on institutional assets categories: global launches, joint ventures, portfolio construction from Mans investment to remain stable in the near-term.
The increase in managers and structuring teams.
Sales and funds under management in the year from product training includes telephone and four global launches was $2.5 billion, down video-conferencing, support in holding client from $3.3 billion in the prior year, partly seminars from our regional sales executives because of lacklustre short-term performance and, where appropriate, accompanied client Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 11 Operating Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 12 Operating Review Institutional sales are often the result of direct Institutional redemptions totalled some provided by third party banks and financial relationships with the investing institution, in $2.0 billion.
Outflows in RMF amounted institutions and are valid only at the date of some cases working with consultants.
The to $1.8 billion and Glenwood redemptions the maturity of the fund.
Man has gradually majority of sales continue to be made in were $0.2 billion.
increased the life of recent fund products Europe, with the largest markets being RMFs from over nine years in 2000 to the most historically core German speaking countries.
Maturities of $3.2 billion almost entirely recent launches which have maturities However, we continue to focus on broadening relate to a series of agreements that RMF of over 12 years.
The weighted average this client base across Europe, winning had with a major institution that reached remaining life to maturity of these guaranteed mandates in new areas such as Scandinavia, their scheduled maturity at the end of products, taking into account redemptions the UK and The Netherlands.
These related to fixed-term to date and investment performance, was as interest in these products continues to agreements that RMF had entered into around nine years at the end of March develop, other strategic areas for institutional prior to its acquisition by Man.
Given the historically low levels of sales include Asia Pacific, particularly Japan, redemptions, there is considerable forward and the Middle East.
To take advantage of We have been selling private investor earnings value to be derived from Mans this growth in the institutional market, we structured products for many years, most of existing portfolio of structured products.
have recently appointed a new global head these assets being raised in closed-ended of institutional sales.
Accordingly, We innovate around our principal protection only a small proportion of total funds under structures to meet investor needs.
Features Redemptions and maturities management are currently within funds that include variable capital guarantees, which Redemption levels in private investor will be maturing over the next five years, as make provision for profits to be locked-in products in the year at 10% continued shown in the table below.
to maturity: liquidity enhancements: and the downward trend in redemptions that specialist solutions for particular markets, we have seen over recent years.
Private investor funds maturing over both in terms of product characteristics next five years for example, variable coupons and capital Private investor redemptions protection levels and in terms of structuring Funds under management as a % of private investor FUM features, often working with other financial at 31 March 2005 Year ending 31 March $m institutions to wrap products to suit Private investor redemptions 2006 337 investor needs.
During the year we 2007 480 completed an arrangement with Credit 16% 2008 568 Suisse First Boston whereby they will 2009 1,000 provide liquidity by offering secondary 2010 692 market making services to buyers and sellers of a range of our products.
This Product structuring market making initiative allows investors 12% We have focused on our product structuring in these products daily liquidity for their skills for many years and invested in people investments.
Structuring advances and and systems to maintain a leading market sophisticated financing arrangements position.
Our product structuring business enable us to offer products with increasingly 8% unit numbers over 150 employees in five diversified underlying strategies even if 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 locations with most of the staff in either they are cash intensive.
Our approach to Switzerland or London.
Their role is to creating and managing principal protected structure, arrange finance and launch structures continues to be guided by the Redemptions are influenced by a number Man products.
In addition, they manage requirement that every portfolio should of factors that include the geography of the significant parts of continuing product be able to withstand market shocks and investor, the investment holding period and operations.
They have a central role in maintain the trading capital required to performance.
Mans structured products are leading new product and new business achieve its target performance.
sold for their long-term investment potential development.
To carry out these roles, they and, whilst we do offer frequent liquidity, deal internally with sales and marketing and Funds under management we seek to discourage early redemptions.
investment management personnel, and March 2005 $ billion Many of our products carry a redemption fee also co-ordinate the relationships with 45 Nonin the event of early termination and we banks, custodians, registrars, lawyers 2.3 Hedge 40 incentivise investors to retain their investment and, where necessary, capital markets.
35 17.7 Institutional by having guarantee step-ups in many of our 18.7 RMF Fund of 21.4 products.
These allow investors to capture in For the private investor, our structured 30 Funds the product guarantee a proportion of products have been most in demand, 25 5.0 Glenwood positive investment performance.
We also and these products currently account for 20 typically pay intermediaries a component of 62% of our private investor funds under 15 Private 11.0 AHL 25.3 sales fee based on annual payments for so management.
The remaining 38% of private Investor Individual 10 19.3 Managers long as an investor remains a holder of our investor assets are held in open-ended Affiliated 5 8.3 Managers products.
This is designed to discourage products.
The bulk of our structured & other 0 intermediaries from inappropriate rapid offerings provide principal protection in the turning of client assets, reinforce the longform of capital guarantees, with a fixed life term nature of the investment proposition to maturity, monthly liquidity and increased The chart shows the split of funds under and facilitate high levels of investor servicing.
Guarantees are management by institutional and private Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 13 Operating Review investor products: by fund of funds and single investment opportunities.
Most recently, HFRI Fund of Funds Index and the structured manager: and between individual managers.
convertible arbitrage has suffered from a products, represented by Man Global lack of new issuance, and the basic version Strategies, showed a small negative return.
Private investor assets are allocated principally of this style has seen poor returns recently.
Although AHL recorded a -5.4% return for to AHL, our Affiliated Managers and to However, the dynamic nature of the industry the year to 31 March 2005, this was in line Glenwood.
These assets are predominantly has seen the development of new styles with its peers, as shown by the Stark 300 in structured product format, offering and new investment techniques, creating Index which returned -5.9%.
AHLs long-term investors exposure to a range of underlying additional capacity.
Whilst we remain track record remains well ahead of the index, styles.
Some $2 billion private investor confident that most styles have plenty of showing a compound annual growth rate of assets are also allocated to managers within additional capacity, it is an important part 17.8% since December 1990 the date of the RMF fund of funds manager content.
of Mans product offering to offer investors inception of Athena Guaranteed Futures Ltd diversification across many different compared to the Stark 300 Index which Institutional assets are managed principally investment styles and to allocate investors showed 7.6%.
We continue to believe that in fund of funds format, within RMF and to assets actively between styles.
managed futures offer an attractive style a lesser extent Glenwood.
component of products and that our funds Man Investments operates a number of largely are well-placed to continue to provide The fund of funds process allows us to independent investment management teams: attractive returns to our investors over the identify and allocate assets to a range of AHL, Glenwood, Man Global Strategies, long-term.
Glenwood seeks to provide third party managers giving access to a range and RMF.
Each of these is responsible for investment returns with low risk and little of styles and managers thus minimising the the running of their portfolios, within agreed correlation to the returns from the stock risks associated with exposure to any one.
investment guidelines and each has it own market overall.
This results in a portfolio that Whilst Mans structured products also give Investment Committee and management has a higher than industry average allocation an investor exposure to a wide range of teams.
These teams are overseen by a to highly-hedged equity long short strategies managers and styles, they are not as Supervisory Investment Committee.
and relative value strategies, and which tends diversified as a typical fund of funds.
For to avoid those areas which carry more market private investors, Man typically uses wholly Our strategy of growing the range of Affiliated risk.
In years, such as last year, where a owned or Affiliated Managers, thus ensuring Managers has continued, with alliances combination of low volatility and tighter pricing a higher level of risk management and greater with selected managers through strategic reduced the opportunity of profitable trades in oversight of investment management.
relationships, affiliations, investment capacity those areas, Glenwood will underperform agreements and joint venture structures.
relative to the industry overall which has a Investment management At 31 March 2005, Man Global Strategies higher risk tolerance both in absolute terms Funds under management in the alternative had agreements in place with 41 Affiliated and relative to the equity market.
The overall investments industry as a whole are Managers, a net increase of five since investment movement on Mans funds under allocated to a broad range of assets.
31 March 2004, comprising of 16 additions management was $0.1 billion positive.
Currently, industry assets can be allocated less 11 terminations.
The Affiliated Managers into the following broad style categories.
have a range of styles including managed Performance records futures, arbitrage, long short equities and Compound annual rate of return to Global breakdown by strategy global macro.
They are located in the US, the 31 March 2005 at 31 March 2005 UK, Australia and Singapore.
In addition, RMF 1 year to 3 years to 5 years to operates a hedge funds seeding programme 31 Mar 2005 31 Mar 2005 31 Mar 2005 Industry Man with a separate team focusing on this area: to AHL Diversified Equity Long Short 34% 10% 1 Programme -5.4% 13.8% 13.9% date, it has seeded 15 managers.
As well as Market Neutral Arbitrage 22% 29% 2 Glenwood 0.6% 1.4% 3.5% providing additional investment management Event Driven 17% 11% 3 3 Man Global Strategies -2.7% 8.5% 9.5% capacity, these initiatives allow us to offer Managed Futures 11% 34% 4 RMF 3.0% 7.2% 7.1% multi-strategy products through allocations Global Macro 10% 8% 5 5 BlueCrest 6.9% 9.2% 14.6% to both internal and affiliated managers across Other 6% 8% HFRI Fund of Funds a range of styles.
Most recently, we have 100% 100% Composite Index 4.6% 6.4% 4.0% broadened our strategy to include the taking Source: HFR, The Barclay Group World stocks 11.1% 6.9% -2.5% of equity stakes in larger and more developed World bonds 5.5% 14.5% 8.2% managers.
Last year we acquired 25% of Source: Man database, and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee Man has a deliberate focus on quantitative BlueCrest Capital Management, a manager of trading performance and past performance is not strategies and those styles that have a focused on fixed income and currencies, necessarily a guide to future results.
1 low correlation to traditional markets.
As a AHL Diversified: represented by Athena Guaranteed based in London.
result, Man has a much higher than average 2 Glenwood: represented by Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy weighting to managed futures principally The performance of Mans funds overall has Fund Limited.
3 through AHL, which accounts for around Man Global Strategies: represented by Man Multi-Strategy been lacklustre in the year, in line with the Guaranteed Limited.
Inception July 2000 so five year track one third of our assets, and a lower weighting alternative investments industry as a whole record is approximated by 4 years 8 months since inception.
4 and the managed futures subset in particular.
RMF: represented by RMF Absolute Return Strategies I dividends re-invested.
Man is overweight in the managed futures 5 BlueCrest: represented by BlueCrest Capital International For cyclical reasons, certain styles will sector, both through AHL, its largest single Limited.
Inception November 2000 so five year track record encounter short-term capacity issues.
manager, and through RMF which allocates is approximated by 4 years 4 months since inception.
The most quoted example of this is merger Note: All figures are shown net of fees and commissions, to a large number of third party managers.
arbitrage where a reduction in the number World stocks: MSCI World Stock Index total return.
World of mergers has impacted the availability of As a result, RMF slightly underperformed the bonds: Citigroup Global Government Bond Index All Maturities total return.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 14 Operating Review 1 Glenwood World World Performance of AHL Diversified Programme research have been as much a feature of 1 Portfolio stocks bonds 20 December 1990 to 31 March 2005 this managers history as refinements to its Total return 485.5% 368.6% 314.5% investment process.
AHL Diversified Programme World stocks Annualised return 10.2% 8.8% 8.1% World bonds Annualised volatility 6.1% 15.0% 6.8% Funds under management in the programmes Worst drawdown -13.7% -46.3% -7.9% 13000 increased during the year from $10.3 billion 11000 2 Sharpe ratio 0.79 0.30 0.42 to $11.0 billion.
The ability of the AHL 9000 7000 Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee programmes to manage higher levels of trading performance and past performance is not 5000 of assets whilst avoiding performance necessarily a guide to future results.
1 degradation depends on a process of Glenwood Portfolio: represented by the performance of 3000 Glenwood Partners L. P. net of all fees and commissions continuous refinement, including trading from 1 January 1987 to 31 December 1995 and Manmodel improvements, sophisticated portfolio Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund Limited from 1 January 1996. construction, the addition of new markets and Since 1 January 1996 actual trading results have been 1000 adjusted to reflect the current fee structure of the Manthe introduction of higher capacity products.
It should be noted that the fees, leverage and the exact mix of the managers Index value Log scale The AHL Diversified Programme, as have varied over time and as a result performance in any World World future product advised by Man-Glenwood GmbH will vary.
represented by the performance of Athena 1 2 AHL Diversified stocks bonds Sharpe ratio: Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free Guaranteed Futures Ltd, recorded a return rate in the appropriate currency over the period analysed.
AHL World stocks: MSCI World Stock Index total return.
World Annualised return 17.8% 8.9% 7.7% bonds: Citigroup Global Government Bond Index All saw negative returns in the three months Maturities total return.
Annualised volatility 17.0% 13.8% 6.5% to June 2004 from most sectors, particularly Worst drawdown -21.1% -46.3% -7.9% currencies and metals, although this was 2 Sharpe ratio 0.80 0.37 0.50 Glenwood has been a pioneer in providing partially offset by gains in energy and bonds Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee multi-manager fund of hedge funds thereafter.
Established short positions in the of trading performance and past performance is not portfolios that target stable risk-adjusted US currency thrived after the US dollar necessarily a guide to future results.
1 activities not correlated to other asset AHL Diversified: represented by the performance of Athena tumbled on the back of concerns over the Guaranteed Futures Limited prior to 1 October 1997, actual classes.
Glenwood has been selecting and size of the countrys budget and current trading results have been adjusted to reflect the current combining hedge funds to generate strong account deficits.
2 risk-adjusted returns since 1987, making it Sharpe ratio: Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free rate in the appropriate currency over the period analysed.
one of the most long-established fund of The longer-term performance of the AHL World stocks: MSCI World Stock Index total return.
It seeks to minimise Diversified Programme is shown in the table bonds: Citigroup Global Government Bond Index All manager, strategy and market risk by Maturities total return.
The programme has proved its ability investing across a diversified range of to outperform world stocks with controlled risk approved managers that implement AHL implements managed futures investment and, as represented by Athena Guaranteed complementary investment strategies.
These programmes are Futures Ltd, has recorded a compound Through its long-standing experience in the quantitative and primarily directional in nature, annual return of 17.8% from 20 December hedge fund industry, Glenwood has built up meaning that they seek to take advantage of 1990 to 31 March 2005.
The returns from an extensive network of industry contacts.
upward and downward price trends.
AHLs AHL have an extremely low correlation to track record, which dates back to 1983, has stock market returns over the period since Glenwood delivered a flat return in the year always been supported by a strong research inception AHL has a small negative correlation to 31 March 2005 on a risk-adjusted basis.
Sophisticated research is central to this to the MSCI World Stock Index.
Glenwood was held back by both equitymanagers ability to extend the range and 1 Performance of Glenwood Portfolio based strategies due to weakness in certain versatility of its original investment techniques.
1January 1987 to 31March 2005 sectors of the equity markets and also by In addition to a well-grounded investment 1 relative value, principally convertible bond philosophy and a dedicated team of Glenwood World stocks arbitrageurs, with most styles being investment specialists, AHL owes much World bonds relatively flat.
of its success to its robust and finely-tuned trading and implementation infrastructure.
6000 5000 Every aspect of AHLs investment and 4000 execution process is analysed in detail to identify and extract efficiency gains.
The 3000 continuity of the AHL investment philosophy 2000 and principles diversification, discipline, efficiency, rigorous risk control and ongoing 1000 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 Index value Log scale Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 15 Operating Review Performance of Man Multi-Strategy control at both the manager level and in RMF Absolute World World 1 Return Strategies stocks bonds Guaranteed Limited the disciplines within Man Global Total return 61.5% 19.5% 59.4% 15 July 2000 to 31 March 2005 Strategies itself.
Annualised return 7.4% 2.7% 7.2% Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Limited Annualised volatility 3.9% 16.0% 7.4% World stocks At 31 March 2005, Man Global Strategies World bonds Worst drawdown -7.3% -46.3% -7.9% had agreements in place with 41 Affiliated 2 Sharpe ratio 0.95 0.03 0.49 Managers, a net increase of five since the 1800 Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee 1600 beginning of the year.
Man Global Strategies of trading performance and past performance is not 1400 currently has 11 strategic alliances, 26 necessarily a guide to future results.
1200 1 capacity relationships and four others in RMF Absolute Return Strategies I is shown with dividends 1000 reinvested.
The range of 2 Sharpe ratio: Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free hedge fund styles represented in the portfolio rate in the appropriate currency over the period analysed.
includes arbitrage, directional, equity hedge, Where an investment has underperformed the risk-free rate, the Sharpe ratio will be negative.
600 long short equities and managed futures.
World stocks: MSCI World Stock Index total return.
World bonds: Citigroup Global Government Bond Index All 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Man Global Strategies constructs a number Maturities total return.
of separate products designed to target Index value USD Log scale varying levels of risk.
The manager has Man MultiRMF provides fund of hedge funds and shown a consistent ability to produce Strategy World World Guaranteed Ltd stocks bonds bespoke solutions for institutional investors returns, as shown by the first multi-manager as well as offering specialised expertise in launch Man-IP 220 in 1996 which has Total return 53.7% -8.6% 48.4% leveraged finance and convertible bonds.
generated an annualised return of 15.7% Annualised return 9.5% -1.9% 8.7% This content has been attractive to from inception to 31 March 2005.
As Annualised volatility 10.8% 15.4% 7.4% institutional investors and increasingly more managers have been sourced and Worst drawdown -11.1% -44.6% -5.7% 1 has been applied also in structured and developed, so Man Global Strategies has Sharpe ratio 0.66 n a 0.80 open-ended products directed at private been able to pass the benefits of this Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past performance is not investor channels.
Drawing on established diversification on to investors by improving necessarily a guide to future results.
relationships in the alternative investment risk-adjusted returns.
A good example of 1 Sharpe ratio: Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free community, RMFs teams are able to access such a product is Man Multi-Strategy which, rate in the appropriate currency over the period analysed.
Where an investment has underperformed the risk-free rate, high quality managers and practitioners.
as can be seen in the chart above, has the Sharpe ratio will be negative.
Because the Sharpe ratio is This managers structured investment model demonstrated its value as part of a diversified an absolute measure of risk-adjusted return, negative Sharpe can be systematically scaled to manage portfolio, generating an annualised return of ratios are shown as N A, as they can be misleading.
World increasing investment volumes and a 9.5% from inception to 31 March 2005.
Its bonds: Citigroup Global Government Bond Index All premium is placed on skill-based strategies return for the year to 31 March 2005 was Maturities total return.
that are repeatable and have a clearly -2.7%, held back by weak performance in defined source of return.
managed futures and relative value, Man Global Strategies constructs and principally convertible bond arbitrageurs.
manages hedge style and multi-strategy In addition, RMF maintains an incubator portfolios, including many of the portfolios Performance of RMF Absolute Return of hedge funds HFV with a separate team 1 for our structured products.
As a result, Strategies I focusing on this area.
At 31 March 2005, its funds under management comprise 1 July 1998 to 31 March 2005 it had agreements in place with 15 managers, allocations to both Affiliated Managers and a net increase of six managers in the year.
1 RMF Absolute Return Strategies to Mans core managers AHL, Glenwood RMF utilises a fund, with external investors, World stocks World bonds and RMF.
In the funds under management designed as a vehicle for sponsoring new chart, we have broken down the Man managers.
The investment terms usually 1600 Global Strategies products into the involve holding equity in the management 1400 constituent parts to avoid a double count.
company along with capacity-access 1200 agreements.
The situations in which it 1000 The manager sourcing activities form invests typically involve a credible senior alliances with selected managers through management team setting up a new 800 strategic relationships, affiliations, independent programme within the wellinvestment capacity agreements and joint established fide-consolidation tendency 600 venture structures.
The manager portfolio among hedge fund managers.
reflects a wide range of relative manager 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 maturities, from established managers In the year to 31 March 2005, RMF was up Index value USD Log scale through to start-up incubation projects, by 3.0%.
RMF, as represented by diversified some of which are nurtured through a multi-manager products such as RMF trader hotel concept that enables Man to Absolute Return Strategies I, slightly provide a supportive environment for the underperformed the fund of funds index early stages of managers businesses.
In all because of its higher exposure to the activities manager sourcing, due diligence, cyclically weak managed futures sector.
portfolio construction and monitoring there is a strong emphasis on risk management and on operational financial Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 16 Operating Review
