Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 45 Directors Report Directors Report The directors submit their report, re-appointment of all three directors retiring They are also subject to a review to assess together with the audited accounts for at the meeting and offering themselves their independence and to confirm that they the year ended 31 March 2005. for re-appointment on the basis that they have no other relationships that might affect are all effective directors of the Company their judgement.
The non-executive directors Principal activities and results and demonstrate the appropriate level of are appointed by the Board and stand for Man Group plc the Company is the commitment in their respective roles.
re-appointment at the first Annual General holding company for the Man group the Meeting of the Company following their Group.
A detailed review of the Groups The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive appointment.
They hold office for a three-year strategy, activities and financial performance are separate, with responsibilities clearly period, subject to the Companys Articles of is given in the Operating Review on pages divided between them.
The Chairman is able Association, whereupon they may stand for 7 to 19 and in the Financial Review on to dedicate significant time to the business re-appointment by shareholders in General pages 21 to 39.
Details of the principal and has no other material commitments Meeting.
They are entitled to a fee for their operating subsidiaries are set out on page outside Man Group.
Non-executive directors services plus reasonable out of pocket 94.
The audited accounts of the Group represent the majority of the Board.
Of the expenses incurred for Group purposes.
The Group profit seven non-executive directors, Jon Aisbitt, They are not entitled to any pension or bonus after taxation but before ordinary dividends Alison Carnwath, Dugald Eadie, Glen Moreno and cannot participate in any Man Group amounted to $608 million 2004: $552 million.
and Jonathan Nicholls are considered to share-based incentive schemes.
They are be independent non-executive directors.
not entitled to any compensation for early Annual General Meeting and dividends The Board is satisfied that there are no termination, save as may be provided for The directors recommend a final dividend relationships or circumstances which are in general law.
Non-executive directors are of 42.0 cents per ordinary share giving a likely to affect, or could appear to affect, not required to hold shares in the Company total of 66.0 cents per ordinary share for the the judgement of those directors.
The Board but are encouraged to do so.
Subject to shareholders approval at the makes this assertion having considered and executive directors held shares as at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend taken full account of the fact that Glen Moreno year-end.
will be paid on 19 July 2005 in sterling at was first appointed to the Board in 1994. the rate of 22.96 pence per share to The Board is completely satisfied that Glen During the year the Board conducted a shareholders on the register at the close of Moreno is independent in character and detailed review of the non-executive director business on 1 July 2005.
The shares will be judgement.
Given his experience, credibility fees structure taking account of individual quoted ex-dividend from 29 June 2005.
The and commitment, he makes a significant, responsibilities as well as the increased time Dividend Reinvestment Plan will be available valuable and challenging contribution to commitment required of the non-executive in respect of this dividend.
The retained both governance and strategic issues.
directors and the general increase in profit transferred to reserves amounted to Accordingly, independent non-executive responsibilities of all directors.
The Board is $408 million 2004: $400 million.
directors comprise the majority of nonbest served by attracting and retaining executives and half of the members of non-executive directors of wide and varying The Companys Annual General Meeting will the Board, excluding the Chairman.
experience to bring balance, insight and be held at 11am on 12 July 2005, at the challenge to the role.
During the year the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Glen Moreno is recognised as the senior Board concluded that the fees of nonSanctuary, Westminster, London, SW1P 3EE.
independent non-executive director and is executive directors should be increased to available to shareholders in the event that reflect this.
Further details appear in the The Board of Directors they have concerns that have not been Remuneration Report on page 50.
As at 31 March 2005, the Board comprised resolved through the normal channels with four executive directors and seven nonthe Chief Executive or Chairman.
The All directors are subject to re-appointment executive directors including the Chairman.
Chairman frequently attends meetings with at intervals of no more than three years.
There have been no changes to the Board institutional investors and always attends Any directors appointed by the Board are since that date.
Biographical details of all results presentations.
Jonathan Nicholls is subject to re-election by the shareholders at the directors are set out on page 41.
In considered to have recent and relevant the Annual General Meeting following their accordance with the Articles of Association, financial experience through his current appointment.
All directors have access to Dugald Eadie, Stanley Fink and Stephen executive role as Finance Director of the advice and services of the Company Nesbitt will retire by rotation at the Annual Hanson PLC.
The non-executive directors Secretary, Peter Clarke, who is responsible General Meeting and, being eligible, Dugald met together twice during the year without to the Board for ensuring that Board Eadie and Stanley Fink offer themselves the Chairman or executive directors procedures are followed and that there is for re-appointment.
On a separate occasion the noncompliance with applicable rules and to retire from the Board and so will not executive directors, including the Chairman, regulations.
In addition, the Board has be seeking re-appointment at the Annual met without the executive directors present.
established a procedure that enables any General Meeting.
As Glen Moreno has director to have access to independent served as a non-executive director for more Prior to their appointment, potential nonprofessional advice at the Groups expense.
than nine years, he retires annually and, executive directors are asked to confirm that being eligible, also offers himself for rethey have sufficient time available to meet appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
what is expected of them, including the The Board recommends to shareholders the membership of relevant Board committees.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 46 Directors Report Appropriate Directors and Officers liability Each Board Committee is expected to Remuneration Committee insurance is also in place.
The removal of conduct an annual self appraisal of its The Remuneration Committee is appointed the Company Secretary is a matter for the performance which includes taking the by the Board and is responsible for setting Board as a whole.
Although the Company views of the Board on the performance of remuneration for all executive directors and Secretary, Peter Clarke, is also Finance that Committee and the Chairman of the the Chairman of the Board, and agreeing the Director, the Board considers that this is relevant Committee reports to the Board on framework and policy for the remuneration appropriate given his professional the results of the process.
During the year a of directors and other members of senior qualifications and experience.
comprehensive and rigorous evaluation executive management, including pension process was conducted on the overall rights and eligibility for benefits under long-term The Board holds meetings on a regular basis, effectiveness and performance of the Board incentive schemes.
The Committee approves at least six times per year and additionally for and its committees.
This was led by the the terms of any service agreement to be specific purposes as and when required.
Chairman, using a detailed questionnaire, entered into with any executive director and During the year there were six Board the results from which were then reviewed any proposed compensation for termination.
meetings including a four day strategic and discussed collectively by the Board, The Committee is exclusively responsible for planning session attended additionally by and areas for improvement agreed and selecting and appointing any remuneration senior executives below Board level from actioned.
Additionally, the senior independent consultants who may advise the Committee.
All Board director in consultation with the rest of the The Remuneration Report, set out on pages members attended every meeting during the Board conducted a review of the 50 to 55, includes details of the Committees year, except Stanley Fink, Kevin Davis and Chairmans effectiveness and the Chairman activities, a statement of the Companys Jonathan Nicholls, who were absent for one led an individual direct assessment process.
remuneration policy and the procedures for meeting each.
To enable the Board to determining executive directors remuneration.
discharge its duties effectively, all directors The Board also conducted a detailed review The Remuneration Committee comprises five receive appropriate and timely information of the Groups system of internal controls, independent non-executive directors: Dugald with briefing papers distributed in advance of including financial, operational and compliance Eadie Chairman, Jon Aisbitt, Alison Carnwath, Board meetings.
All new directors receive an controls and risk management systems.
Glen Moreno and Jonathan Nicholls.
The appropriate introduction to their responsibilities The Board has also reviewed the implications Committee met three times during the year and the Groups operations, by way of a of the Groups adoption of International and all members were present on each detailed briefing pack and meetings with Financial Reporting Standards and changes occasion.
During the year the Committee relevant senior management.
All directors also to capital adequacy requirements under the reviewed its terms of reference.
receive regular updates on changes and Basel II framework.
developments to business, legislative, Audit and Risk Committee regulatory risk and financial matters as well as Nomination Committee The Audit and Risk Committee ARCom is details of any investor relations issues or The Nomination Committee is appointed by appointed by the Board.
It comprises the specific views of major shareholders.
the Board and is responsible for identifying, five independent non-executive directors assessing and nominating for the approval of and is chaired by Alison Carnwath.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the the Board, candidates to fill vacancies as and Jonathan Nicholls, who is a Chartered management and performance of the when they arise.
This includes consideration Accountant and Finance Director of Hanson business including the system of internal of the re-appointment of non-executive PLC, is considered to have recent and controls and corporate governance, as well directors at the conclusion of their specified relevant financial experience.
There were as the development of strategy and major term of office and the re-election by no changes to the composition of the policies.
To this end the Board has adopted shareholders of any director under the Committee during the year.
written delegated authorities which identify retirement by rotation provision of the matters specifically reserved to it for Companys Articles.
It is also responsible for The Committee has formal terms of reference decision and which also provide for a tiered considering succession planning for both the which are reviewed and approved by the approval process for decisions below Board Board and senior management positions.
Its principal oversight level, encompassing strategic, expenditure, Committee comprises all of the non-executive responsibilities cover: financial, risk and control authorities.
As part directors and accordingly has a majority of of a continuing process, the Board reviewed independent non-executive directors.
There Monitoring the integrity of the Groups these delegated authorities during the year were no changes to the composition of the financial statements.
to take account of business developments, Committee during the year.
The Board Monitoring and oversight of the external governance and regulatory change, and considers that the position of Group Chairman audit process, including the appointment, Group risk appetite.
The Board formally necessitates a leading role in the composition re-appointment or removal of the external delegates certain of its responsibilities to and balance of the Board and accordingly the auditors.
committees by way of written terms of Committee is chaired by Harvey McGrath.
Monitoring and oversight of internal audit reference.
Details of each principal committee, The Committee meets as and when required.
its membership and the terms of reference There were no meetings during the year but Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups are summarised below.
Their composition after the year-end the Committee met to internal controls and risk management and terms of reference are available on the consider the re-appointment of non-executive systems and any major risk related Groups website www.
directors at their conclusion of their terms of initiatives.
As usual, the Chair of each Committee will office and the re-election of directors under Reviewing the Groups procedures be attending the Companys Annual General the retirement by rotation provisions of the regarding whistle-blowing and its Code Meeting to answer any questions regarding Companys Articles.
All members were of Conduct.
the Committees activities and responsibilities.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 47 Directors Report ARCom met seven times during the year In addition to these regular items, ARCom external auditors: approval of key significant and all members were present at each devoted a significant amount of time to accounting policies under IFRS: review of meeting, with the exception of Glen Moreno considering the changes that will result from a report on the Groups off balance sheet who was absent for one meeting.
Peter the adoption of International Financial exposures: and a review of the adequacy of Clarke Finance Director was also present Reporting Standards IFRS and to the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements.
at all meetings and Harvey McGrath changes to the Groups risk management Chairman and Stanley Fink Chief Executive framework, including the interaction between The Chair of ARCom reported regularly to and Stephen Nesbitt were usually invited by Group Risk and Internal Audit.
The principal the Board on the Committees activities the Chair of ARCom to attend part or all of items dealt with at each meeting were: after each meeting, identifying any matters each meeting together with the Heads of in respect of which the Committee Group Risk, Internal Audit and the Group May 2004 review of key issues relating to considered that action was needed and Financial Controller.
A manager within Group the Accounts and draft annual report.
made recommendations on the steps to Risk acted as secretary to the Committee.
The external auditors were also invited to May 2004 review of key issues arising attend for part or all of each meeting.
from the external audit: the final draft annual ARCom has a key oversight role in report: the process for the effective rotation relation to the external auditors, The Chair of the Committee met separately of the external audit engagement partner for  LLP whose with the Head of Internal Audit and with the the Groups financial year ending 31 March primary relationship is with the Committee.
external auditors without any other 2005: reports in relation to the effectiveness Both ARCom and the external auditors as members of management present and of the Groups system of internal controls: a matter of professional practice maintain reported to the Committee on these key issues relating to implementation of safeguards to avoid objectivity and discussions.
The full Committee had a IFRS: and the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
independence of the auditors becoming meeting with the external auditors once compromised.
ARCom has approved a during the year without any other members July 2004 review of a report from the formal policy regarding the engagement of management present.
ARCom members external auditors on matters arising from of the external auditors in the provision received all reports prepared by Internal the audit in relation to internal controls and of non-audit services.
This policy precludes Audit together with managements review and approval of the annual plan for the external auditors from providing certain responses to any recommendation.
internal audit: review of proposed changes services including bookkeeping, financial to the risk governance framework: and a information system design and At each meeting ARCom received reports review of the Groups Code of Conduct for implementation, appraisal and valuation, and from: employees.
internal audit work and permit limited other services which are subject to low fee The Head of Internal Audit summarising October 2004 review of key issues thresholds, or which require prior approval the status of the internal audit programme relating to the interim accounts and draft from the Committee.
and any significant findings from audits interim report.
completed in the period since the last For the year non-audit fees were 36% of meeting.
November 2004 a review of the final draft audit fees.
The non-audit fees largely relate The Chair of ARCom on any relevant interim accounts and the report from the to advice and assistance given in relation to discussions with the external auditors external auditors on these: a review of the the Groups Integrated Prudential Source since the last meeting.
effect of IFRS on the Group accounts: Book and Basel II projects, to the Groups The Finance Director on any relevant review and approval of the Groups policy IFRS conversion project and to a corporate discussions between senior management for the provision of non-audit services by responsibility project.
its external auditors: an assessment of the The Group Financial Controller on updates effectiveness and independence of the During the year, the Committee assessed to the Groups financial reporting.
external auditors: the adequacy of the qualifications, expertise, resources and The Head of Group Risk on the Groups succession planning in finance, internal effectiveness of the external auditors.
This risk profile, including significant legal and audit, risk and compliance: and review of review was based on information received compliance matters, and reports on the report from Group Risk Committee from the external auditors and on responses matters discussed at the Group Risk under its new terms of reference.
to a questionnaire completed by members Committee.
of ARCom, senior management, finance December 2004 review of and internal audit functions.
The results ARCom also reviewed its forward agenda at recommendations to the Board on were reviewed at the ARCom meeting the end of each meeting.
changes to the Groups risk management in November 2004 and the principal and governance framework: review and conclusions were communicated to the ARCom has explicit authority to investigate approval of the Groups policy on employing external auditors.
any matters within its terms of reference former members of staff of its external and has access to all resources and auditors: and a review of ARComs The Head of Internal Audit reports to information that it may require for this effectiveness.
ARCom, which reviewed and approved the purpose.
It is entitled to obtain legal and annual audit plan, resources and results of other independent professional advice and January 2005 a review of the external its work.
The effectiveness of Internal Audit has the authority to approve all fees payable audit plan, approval of the terms of was assessed by ARCom during the year to such advisers.
engagement and annual audit fees for the with guidance from a self-assessment Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 48 Directors Report prepared by Internal Audit and feedback reviewed proposed changes to the Groups the Groups approach to, and required from management, and on the basis of risk management and governance standards for, risk management and internal reports received from Internal Audit, and framework prior to approval by the Board.
control were understood and that the level dialogue with the Head of Internal Audit of risk was consistent with and managed in throughout the year.
The Groups reputation is fundamental to its accordance with the Groups risk management ability to attract customers and investors in framework.
These procedures provide for ARCom implemented, during the year, a both its Brokerage and Asset Management assurance to be given at higher levels of number of proposals identified in an businesses.
The directors and senior management and, finally, to the Board.
external assessment of its effectiveness managers of the Group are therefore carried out towards the end of the 2004 committed to maintaining high standards Internal Audit provides further assurance as financial year.
It carried out a further review and a control conscious culture.
The to the operation and validity of the system of its own effectiveness in the 2005 financial Groups activities are also subject to high of internal control through its independent year based on a questionnaire designed for levels of regulatory oversight in many reviews.
Its programme was based in large this purpose.
Responses from members of jurisdictions, particularly in the UK and the part on the results of the risk identification the Committee, other directors, members of US, and significant Group resources are process and work performed included a senior management and risk, audit and allocated to ensure compliance.
This detailed examination of related key controls.
compliance functions, as well as external oversight includes obligations of regular auditors were analysed and discussed by compliance reporting, the maintenance of The Board received regular reports on all the Committee at its meeting in December minimum levels of capital and periodic audit the above items during the year and has 2004.
Areas for possible improvement were by regulators.
also undertaken a formal process to review identified and appropriate changes are the effectiveness of the system of internal being implemented.
The Boards role includes: control.
This review covered all controls including operational, financial and Corporate governance Setting the overall risk management compliance controls, and risk management The Board is committed to high standards strategy.
The effectiveness of the internal of corporate governance and supports the Developing appropriate risk management controls was considered in the context of need for clear standards to be laid down to governance arrangements and systems.
the Groups risk appetite, reports on its risk safeguard the interests of shareholders and Establishing and maintaining effective profile, reports of any losses incurred and other stakeholders.
The Board is accountable internal controls and reports from internal and external audit and to the Companys shareholders for good Ensuring that the Group maintains compliance functions.
The processes relating to both risk and The Companys shares are listed on the The key elements of each of these and the internal controls described above accord London Stock Exchange and the Company process for identifying, evaluating and with the guidance in the Internal Control: is therefore required to comply with the managing the significant risks faced by the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Group are explained in the Risk and risk Code the Turnbull guidance.
These Rules require listed companies to management section of the Financial include a statement of corporate Review included within this Annual Report.
Statement of directors responsibilities governance in their annual reports relating The directors are required by the Companies to compliance with the principles and These processes have been in place Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each provisions set out in Section 1 of the throughout the year and up to the date of financial year which give a true and fair view Combined Code on Corporate Governance this Annual Report and have been regularly of the state of affairs of the Company and describing how the Company has applied reviewed by the Board.
the Group at the end of the financial year those principles and whether or not the and of the profit or loss and cash flows of Company has complied with those The systems of internal control aim to the Group for the financial year.
The provisions throughout the year.
safeguard assets, and ensure proper directors are required to prepare the accounting records are maintained so that the Accounts on a going concern basis unless The directors consider that the Company financial information, used within the business it is not appropriate.
has complied throughout the year ended and for publication, is reliable.
The systems 31 March 2005 with the provisions of are designed to manage key risks rather than The directors, in preparing the Accounts set Section 1 of the Combined Code.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business out on pages 59 to 93, consider that the objectives, and can only provide reasonable Group has adopted appropriate accounting Internal control and not absolute assurance against material policies, consistently applied and supported The Board has overall responsibility for mis-statement or loss.
by reasonable and prudent judgements and the Groups systems of internal control estimates, and that all accounting standards and risk management and for reviewing Compliance with these systems is which they consider to be applicable have their effectiveness.
monitored by line management, regular been followed.
reporting through subsidiary boards and The Audit and Risk Committee provides Board Committees, and through the Internal The directors have responsibility for ensuring oversight and independent challenge in Audit programme.
The Board received that proper accounting records are kept relation to internal control and risk annual written confirmation from subsidiary which disclose with reasonable accuracy management systems.
During the year it directors and divisional management that the financial position of the Company and Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 49 Directors Report of the Group and which enable them to 12.76 per share.
All repurchasing was Size of shareholders by percentage of ensure that the Accounts comply with the undertaken at share prices that were issued capital number of shares Companies Act 1985.
The directors also earnings enhancing.
These transactions 1 1-100,000 9.48% 2 100,001-500,000 19.11% have general responsibility for taking such represented some 1.09% of the issued 3 500,001-1,000,000 11.8% steps as are reasonably open to them ordinary share capital at 31 March 2005.
4 1,000,001-5,000,000 24.75% to safeguard the assets of the Group As at 18 May 2005, the Company has an 5 5,000,001 and above 34.86% prevent and detect fraud and 1 and to unexpired authority from last years Annual other irregularities.
General Meeting to repurchase further shares up to a remaining maximum of 5 2 The directors are responsible for the 26,727,062 ordinary shares.
maintenance and integrity of the Group website.
The work carried out by the Resolutions relating to the Companys share auditors does not involve consideration of capital are to be proposed at the Annual 3 these matters and, accordingly, the auditors General Meeting and are set out in the accept no responsibility for any changes that Notice of Meeting.
Further details are given in 4 have occurred to the Accounts since they the accompanying letter from the Chairman.
were initially presented on the website.
It should be noted that information published Investor relations As at 18 May 2005, the Company had on the Internet is accessible in many The Company enters into a dialogue at been notified of four holdings of 3% or countries, some of which have different legal appropriate times with its institutional more, in its share capital, being that of requirements relating to the preparation and shareholders, whilst having regard to the Legal & General plc 5.02%, FMR Corp dissemination of financial statements.
UK Listing Authoritys guidance on the Group of Companies and Fidelity dissemination of price sensitive information.
International Ltd Group of Companies The directors confirm that they have The Groups non-executive Chairman 4.91%, D H Rosenblum, a former director complied with the above requirements.
frequently attends meetings with institutional of the Company 3.62%, and Putnam investors and always attends results Investment Management LLC and the Going concern presentations.
Copies of all results Putnam Advisory Company LLC 3.20%.
After making enquiries the directors have a announcements are carried in full on the reasonable expectation that the Group and Companys website www.
com Details of the directors interests in the share the Company have adequate resources to as soon as they are published, together with capital of the Company and details of continue in operational existence for the announcements required to be made in directors share options are set out in the foreseeable future and accordingly continue accordance with the UK Listing Authority Remuneration Report.
There have been no to adopt the going concern basis in Listing Rules and other investor presentation changes in the directors share interests preparing the Accounts.
The Company encourages research between 31 March 2005 and the date of coverage of its business activities by analysts this report.
Auditors and rating agencies and for this purpose  LLP have makes available the time of the Chief Employees, environment and indicated their willingness to continue in Executive and Finance Director.
In addition charitable donations office and resolutions will be proposed at to the electronic access referred to above, The Groups policies in relation to the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint the Company has made available CREST employees, and the environment, and them as auditors of the Company and to electronic proxy voting to institutional details of the Groups charitable donations authorise the directors to determine their shareholders since the 2003 Annual General in the year, are included in the Corporate remuneration for the current year.
Meeting and all shareholders have been able Responsibility Report, which immediately to electronically appoint a proxy to vote precedes the Directors Report.
Creditor payment policy on their behalf since the 2004 Annual It continues to be the Groups policy to General Meeting.
By Order of the Board honour all of its contractual commitments Peter Clarke and this includes paying suppliers according Full use is made of the Annual General Company Secretary to agreed payment terms, which are agreed Meeting to communicate with private 26 May 2005 when negotiating transactions.
The Company will continue the being a holding company, had no external practices of making available at the Annual trade creditors at 31 March 2005 or General Meeting the level of proxies lodged 31 March 2004. on each resolution, despatching the notice of the Annual General Meeting and related Share capital papers more than 20 working days before Details of movements in the share capital the meeting, and proposing each substantially of the Company are given in note 23 to the separate issue as an individual motion.
During the year, the Company It is intended that all members of the Board purchased in the market for cancellation will, as usual, attend the 2005 Annual 3,346,831 of its ordinary shares of 18 cents General Meeting and will be available to each at a total cost of 42.7 million $78.0 answer questions both during and after million, giving an average repurchase cost of the Meeting.
