Business overview Introduction Cable & Wireless is a leading international telecommunications the Carrier Services segment comprising large telecoms company with principal operations in the United Kingdom, companies that provide long distance international voice services: the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco.
Cable & Wireless mobile operators buying international voice and transport provides voice, data, internet protocol IP and mobile services services: and operators, including resellers and ISPs.
Cable & to business and residential customers as well as to fixed and Wireless objective in Carrier Services is to leverage the depth of mobile telecommunications operators and content, application its intercontinental network and advanced services to position the and internet providers.
Group as the backbone of choice for mobile and other operators.
In November 2004, management commenced a restructuring of Business overview its European operations to focus principally on Carrier Services: Cable & Wireless strategy is to exploit growing demand for broadband, IP and mobile services in markets where it can achieve the SoHo consumer segment which Cable & Wireless addresses significant scale.
As a result, Cable & Wireless intends to be the through Bulldog.
Bulldog provides high speed data and voice number one or two operator in the principal markets in which services in the UK via LLU.
To continue to achieve this as the telecommunications industry faces unprecedented changes in customer behaviour, The Groups remaining operations in the United States, Europe and technology and market structure, the Group must protect margins Asia provide international services to UK-based Enterprise and by reducing costs whilst accelerating investment to position itself for Carrier Services customers.
profitable growth in new services.
Relocation of Group Head Office During the past two years, Cable & Wireless has pursued this Consistent with the steps taken to reshape and re-focus strategy, exiting markets where it did not have a relevant position, Cable & Wireless, the Group has relocated its head office from reshaping its operations, investing for growth and streamlining the central London.
This move has combined corporate and UK central office.
functions and has resulted in a shift towards a more customer oriented, responsive culture.
Exit from US and Japan In 2005, the Group completed its exit from the United States and National T elcos Japan, two markets where it did not have sufficient scale to sustain Almost all the 34 national markets in which the National Telcos a competitive position.
To exit the US, the Group agreed, at the operate are now fully or partially liberalised and present very similar request of the purchaser, to sell its business through a Chapter 11 competitive challenges.
For this reason Cable & Wireless strategy process under the United States Bankruptcy Code.
In Japan, the across the National Telcos is based on three principles: invest in key Group conducted a competitive auction process culminating in the growth services of broadband, IP and mobile: lower costs on legacy sale of the Groups Japanese subsidiary.
services where margins are under pressure and develop sales and marketing skills.
Reshaping the UK business Following its review in 2004 of the dynamics of the UK market, In line with these principles, Cable & Wireless acquired Monaco the Group restructured its United Kingdom operations and in Telecom in June 2004.
Monaco Telecom is a fully integrated April 2005 announced a three-year plan to develop an IP-based telecommunications company.
In addition, the Group acquired Bulldog Communications Ltd Bulldog in May 2004, a UK-based In addition, the Group completed the roll out of its GSM network broadband provider specialising in local loop unbundling LLU.
across the National Telcos, improving coverage and services to Through Bulldog and its investment in a Next Generation Network, residential and business customers across 22 businesses.
The Group Cable & Wireless is in the process of redefining its position in the also launched proactive marketing initiatives to increase broadband UK telecom industry, moving away from the alternative network penetration across the National Telcos.
To effect this move, the UK is now structured around the following key customer segments: Going forward, the Group aims to take advantage of the National Telcos breadth of operations, increasing cross-business cooperation the Enterprise segment comprising businesses and institutions with and sharing knowledge and expertise across the National Telcos the biggest telecoms spend in the UK.
Cable & Wireless objective geographies to continue to improve performance.
in Enterprise is to be the partner of choice in transitioning customers to new generation, IP-based technologies: the Business segment, comprising small and medium-sized companies.
Cable & Wireless aims to be a credible, strong supplier to small and medium-sized customers through targeted sales of bundled products, including IP services: Profile
