Business overview Regulatory framework Cable & Wireless, like other international telecommunication regulatory regime.
Cable & Wireless will continue to offer providers around the world, faces various regulatory and market telecommunications services subject to obligations set forth access constraints in various countries resulting from laws, public in general conditions as dictated by the relevant electronic policies and licensing requirements.
This reflects the perception communications directive and individual member states.
of telecommunications as a public service, a history of special or exclusive rights to provide services and often, a move towards Outside the European Union, Cable & Wireless operates in liberalisation.
Generally, specialist telecommunications regulation Guernsey, the Isle of Man, Monaco, Norway, Russia and Switzerland is administered through enforcement of conditions contained in with relevant licences and authorisations.
authorisations or in operating and service licences held by the Group and its subsidiaries.
Some licences provide that, upon their termination, the relevant government may purchase, or have the option to purchase, the Most of the markets in which Cable & Wireless operates are fully property, plant and equipment of the licensee in that territory at liberalised although some are in transition to competitive markets, a fair market value.
In some cases, where the Group owns an and a few small geographies are expected to remain monopolies for operating company jointly with government, that government has the foreseeable future.
Where countries have moved to competitive the right to purchase, at specified times, the whole or part of the environments, Cable & Wireless has actively engaged with Groups shareholding in the operating company.
governments in order to facilitate an orderly transition to a fully competitive environment.
The discussions involve negotiating fair The international trend is for telecommunications liberalisation and regulatory arrangements that provide for equal treatment during the replacement of exclusive licences with non-exclusive licences the transitional period and beyond.
alongside rules governing competition between operators.
Jurisdictions that currently support monopoly provision may also In all jurisdictions where it operates, Cable & Wireless is required decide to promote competition, and Cable & Wireless anticipates to comply with regulations that affect its business.
The Group that some existing exclusive licences will not be renewed on an believes it complies in all material respects with all material exclusive basis, or that governments will seek to withdraw their regulatory obligations and where regulatory compliance issues exclusivity before the licence expires, replacing the current operating emerge it takes action to ensure compliance.
Licensing The Group is committed to participating in discussions on the Cable & Wireless provides international and domestic introduction of competition in any territory where its government telecommunications services under general authorisation regimes wishes to do so.
or licences in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
These licences are either held by Cable & Wireless itself or by local operating There is no guarantee that an agreement to provide either a entities owned either wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, by monopoly or franchised service will remain in effect for the full term Cable & Wireless.
The Group believes it has all licences material to the running of its Regulation by jurisdiction business.
It is possible that from time to time, as further products The regulatory institutions and policies of the jurisdictions in which and services are deployed or changed, additional licences or the Group operates are varied.
Where the Group identifies the need for further licences or authorisations, it intends to acquire Europe such licences.
The terms of the Groups licences vary, although The regulatory framework in member states of the European most remain in effect for a fixed period of 10 to 25 years, or for Union is harmonised by EU directives, though there are divergences an indefinite period subject to notice of termination after a specified in regulatory policy and practice between member states.
Licence fees are sometimes required, either as a member states have implemented, or are implementing, the fixed annual fee or a fee equal to a percentage of the revenue or directives of the European Union 2003 electronic communications profits arising from the licence.
This package seeks to harmonise telecommunications across the European Union, and involves the concept of Significant In 2003 the European Union established a harmonised framework Market Power to determine which operators should have prior for licensing laid out under the electronic communications directives.
obligations placed on them, on the grounds that such operators This has been transposed into national law by most of the member might exploit that market position to the detriment of competition states.
As a result these member states will no longer issue individual and therefore consumers.
This speed of adoption of the electronic telecommunications licences to companies except in exceptional communications package varies significantly across the EU and this circumstances such as the allocation of spectrum.
Therefore, for can affect the ability of the non-incumbents to compete.
Cable & Wireless, most of the telecommunications licences it holds in EU member states, including those in the UK, have been revoked and replaced by the relevant general authorisations under the new 20 21 2005 Annual Report United Kingdom Division, which would be responsible for appropriate regulated The telecommunications market in the United Kingdom is governed access to its products and assets.
by the EU communications package described above which has been transposed into national law by the Communications Act Ofcoms proposed policies in respect to the Strategic Review 2003 UK Comms Act.
The UK Comms Act sets the framework provide the industry, including Cable & Wireless, with guidance on for the regulation of telecommunications and broadcasting markets the regulators expectations for regulated solutions provided by BT.
as well as the civilian use of spectrum in the United Kingdom.
In the event that the principle of equality of access is effectively Insofar as it applies to telecommunications markets, it updates implemented in relation to BT, this will lead to an improvement in the Telecommunications Act 1984 and transposes the EU the operating environment for all industry players competing with electronic communications directives into UK law.
It also lays out BT as it will reduce the long standing, inherently advantageous the powers and duties of the industry regulator, the Office of market position that BT has held over other players as a result of Communications Ofcom.
its ownership of the near monopoly local access network assets.
Following reviews by Ofcom, BT has been designated as having Once the policy formulation stage concludes in summer of 2005, Significant Market Power in a number of markets.
BT is therefore the process will move into practical implementation of that policy required to provide cost-based interconnection for switched voice framework.
services and leased line access circuits Partial Private Circuits to providers of public electronic communications networks such as It is possible that Ofcom may decide that it does not have Cable & Wireless on non-discriminatory terms.
Such services are the power to make the required changes to the regulatory or subject to network charge controls.
The network charge controls competitive framework.
If Ofcom conclude this, they have the applying to BT are in the process of being reviewed.
It is not yet option to refer the matter to the Competition Commission under clear what form the new controls will take given that over the likely the Enterprise Act.
four-year period of the next cap BT will be migrating from legacy to next generation networks.
The Caribbean Cable & Wireless has businesses in 16 countries in the Caribbean.
Following the review of wholesale International Direct Dial IDD Whilst in the past Cable & Wireless was exclusively licensed in the markets, Cable & Wireless has a designation of Significant Market majority of these territories, nearly all are now either fully liberalised Power on wholesale IDD routes from the United Kingdom to four or are in transition to competitive markets.
Cable & Wireless is destinations:Ascension, Diego Garcia, Montserrat and Turks & engaged in ongoing dialogues with host governments and regulators Caicos.
The obligations associated with this designation are minimal.
to ensure that the regulatory environment is fair and consistent.
In addition, in common with all other providers of fixed public The regulatory frameworks in which the most significant Cable & voice networks in the United Kingdom, Cable & Wireless has been Wireless Caribbean businesses operate are described in this section.
designated as having Significant Market Power in the markets for geographic call termination on the UK network.
As this designation Cable & Wireless Jamaica operates in a fully liberalised market, has been applied to all operators, obligations are likely to be minimal regulated by the Office of Utilities Regulation.
and the Group expects that there will be little or no impact.
Cable & Wireless Barbados is now operating in a fully liberalised In early 2004, Ofcom undertook a Strategic Review of the UK market since the issuance of international licences to competitors in Telecommunications market.
This review is ongoing, with Ofcom February 2005.
The regulatory authority for fixed telecommunications due to consult on its final decisions in summer 2005.
Ofcoms in Barbados is the Fair Trading Commission.
The Ministry of Industry preliminary views, as described in its Phase 2 consultation paper and International Business regulates mobile telecommunications.
published in November 2004, are that it would seek to promote competition at the deepest level of infrastructure where effective Cable & Wireless Cayman Islands operates in a fully liberalised and sustainable.
Cable & Wireless Cayman Islands is subject to the regulation of the Information and Communications Technology Authority.
Ofcom intends to do this by introducing the concept of equality Five member states of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean of access.
This principle would be applied to the regulation of States Dominica, Grenada, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent wholesale products delivered by BT and would require BT to and the Grenadines are contracted in a single jurisdiction for provide competitors with the same or similar regulated wholesale telecommunications regulation with a regional regulator, the Eastern access products, at the same price and using the same or similar Caribbean Telecoms Authority ECTEL, and are also subject to transactional processes as provided to BTs own retail activities.
the jurisdiction of national regulators, the National Telecoms Ofcom have also publicly stated an expectation of behavioural and Regulatory Committees.
Telecommunications markets in the ECTEL organisational changes within BT to support the development of states are fully liberalised.
equality of access in products and to minimise the ongoing need for regulatory intervention.
BT has offered to set up an Access Services Profile Business overview Regulatory framework Japan Mobile and IP services were liberalised in 2001.
CTM is subject Following the sale of Cable & Wireless IDC Inc. Cable & Wireless to the regulation of the Office for the Development of UK applied for its own telecommunications registration with the Telecommunications and Information Technology.
Japanese Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications.
Cable & Wireless UK Japan branch was registered in September 2004 and Cable & Wireless acquired Monaco Telecom in June 2004 with is authorised to provide certain telecommunications services in exclusive rights to provide fixed line, mobile, IP and cable services Japan including international and domestic data services, IP access in Monaco.
Monaco Telecom is regulated by the Direction fide and leased circuits.
Telecommunications fide Monaco, which is within the Ministry of State of the Principality of Monaco.
The separation of telecommunication business licences between Type I facilities and Type II services was abolished in 2004.
Batelco, a Cable & Wireless associate company in which Telecommunication licences now are classified as notified or Cable & Wireless has a holding of 20 per cent, operates in Bahrain registered telecommunication licences.
where the market has been liberalised since July 2003.
The Telecommunications Regulatory Authority regulates Batelco.
United States Cable & Wireless Americas Operations, Inc. provides international Cable & Wireless has smaller operations and interests in other communications services to customers who require service to, countries, which are at varying stages of liberalisation.
from or through the United States.
Under US law, the Federal Communications Commission FCC regulate interstate and international telecommunications services while state commissions regulate intrastate services.
Non-dominant service providers such as CWAO are subject to a lesser degree of regulation than designated dominant service providers.
CWAO also provides information services, which generally are not regulated in the United States.
The regulated telecommunications services provided by CWAO may be classified as either common carrier or private carrier services depending upon the nature of the service offering.
As a general matter, US law requires that common carrier services be offered a upon reasonable request, b on rates, terms and classifications which are just and reasonable, c without unjust discrimination or undue preferences basis, and d pursuant to authorisation of the FCC.
Private carriers generally are not subject to these requirements, but are required to make contributions to the federal universal service fund based on international and interstate telecommunications revenues, in the same manner as common carriers.
Intrastate telecommunications services are subject to regulation by the relevant state public utility commission and may be subject to licensing requirements, tariffs, and or subsidy mechanisms.
Other markets Cable & Wireless Panama operates in a partially liberalised market.
The regulator is Ente Regulador fide Los Servicios Publicos.
Cable & Wireless Panama is a full service provider across fixed line and mobile markets for business and residential customers.
There has been increasing regulatory activity on the broadband front in 2005 with wholesale broadband services already being available and plans in place to introduce local loop unbundling.
In the area of mobile the regulator has recently sought to introduce indirect access over mobile.
CTM has an exclusive concession agreement to provide fixed national and international services until 2011, however, a review will be undertaken in 2006 to determine the way forward in 2011.
