Business overview Services Cable & Wireless 2005 Turnover by service Voice services Continuing operations Fixed voice Total turnover: 3,023 million Cable & Wireless offers domestic and international voice services to residential, corporate and other telecommunication companies and service providers.
In the UK, Cable & Wireless also provides services 5 1 to  companies who provide residential 1.
Voice telephony, but do not have their own network infrastructure.
IP The majority of fixed voice turnover is delivered over legacy 4.
Mobile platforms, using traditional copper telephone lines and 5.
2 Cable & Wireless also offers IP-based voice services, such as voice over IP VoIP.
These services can provide enhanced end Cable & Wireless provides voice, data, and IP services to business user functionality for example, providing better integration between and residential customers across the world.
The Group delivers customers own voice and data networks at reduced cost.
these services over fixed line and mobile networks.
The majority of services are delivered over traditional legacy platforms, with a small Mobile voice but growing proportion being delivered over IP-based platforms.
Cable & Wireless offers domestic and international mobile voice services to residential and business customers outside the United The term legacy platform generally refers to the existing Kingdom.
Cable & Wireless delivers voice services to mobile communications and transmission infrastructure that underpins most handsets through wireless technologies such as GSM.
telecom operator networks across the world that were deployed up until the late 1990s.
Each family of service delivered over legacy Global system for mobile communications GSM is a standard technology generally requires a proprietary platform to deliver for digital mobile telephone transmissions that allows global roaming service, resulting in multiple overlapping telecommunication and enhanced features for data transmission as compared with networks.
time division multiple access TDMA networks.
Because of the increased turnover potential associated with GSM technologies, The term internet protocol IP generally refers to a set of Cable & Wireless has been expanding its GSM networks throughout protocols or rules that govern how interconnected devices the National Telcos in recent years.
IP-based devices share data in packets, or discrete bundles of data.
IP networks allow the delivery of voice, video and Data services data over the same network, allowing simplification of network Fixed data design and operation, and supporting the delivery of new Cable & Wireless offers data services to businesses that operate integrated services.
over fixed-line networks using legacy platforms, including leased line services, and networking services based on Frame Relay and Historically, in many operations, Cable & Wireless was the asynchronous transfer mode ATM technology.
incumbent operator, focusing on voice and data services over fixed lines on legacy platforms.
Today, most markets in which Leased line services predominantly utilise a technology known Cable & Wireless operates have liberalised.
New voice and data as synchronous digital hierarchy SDH to deliver data from services delivered over mobile and IP networks are growing and point-to-point.
over time, replacing services on our fixed line networks.
Frame Relay and ATM services provide an additional layer New IP-based platforms allow Cable & Wireless to deliver new of intelligence and functionality beyond leased lines, allowing types of integrated service that blur the old boundaries between customers to build and manage complex networks across multiple voice and data fixed and mobile and deliver seamless integrated locations and to prioritise traffic flows through their network.
Cable & Wireless also offers next generation data services, such as IP virtual private networks IP-VPN and internet services that are delivered over IP-based networks.
IP-VPN allows customers to replace traditional private data networks with virtual private networks VPN which can reduce the expense and complexity of private networks, while providing enhanced services such as the bundling of voice, video and data.
18 19 2005 Annual Report Mobile data Cable & Wireless offers a range of data services for its mobile customers utilising SMS and MMS based technologies.
IP Services Cable & Wireless provides customised services to many of its large corporate customers.
Typically, these involve the development of integrated voice, data transmission and or data storage solutions that are uniquely configured for individual customers.
Increasingly, these service solutions are offered using IP-based platforms and technologies and include voice services such as VoIP and data services such as IP-VPN.
IP access solutions provide security services such as managed firewalls, intrusion detection, scanning and analysis such as email virus protection, and authentication and encryption services to control access into customers networks.
IP contact centres enable our customers to manage all contact with their customers including incoming and outbound calls, emails or web contact requests.
Bulldog and the National Telcos provide broadband services that include voice and internet access as well as dial-up narrowband internet access, that allow business and residential customers to access the internet from their business or home.
