Acquisitions Bulldog Monaco 2005 2005 m m Turnover 11 Turnover 100 Costs Costs 1 1 Outpayments and network costs 13 Outpayments and network costs 55 Staff costs 12 Staff costs 13 Other 14 Other 5 39 73 Depreciation before exceptional items 2 Depreciation before exceptional items 6 Amortisation before exceptional items 4 Amortisation before exceptional items 5 Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures and associates 1 Total operating loss before exceptional items 34 Total operating profit before exceptional items 17 Exceptional operating items Exceptional operating items Total operating loss 34 Total operating profit 17 1 1 Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of goods sold.
Cable & Wireless acquired Bulldog Communications on Cable & Wireless acquired a 55 per cent economic interest in 28 May 2004.
Monaco Telecom is the national telecom operator in Monaco and reported a total operating profit Turnover for the ten months to 31 March 2005 was 11 million, before exceptional items of 17 million.
reflecting strong demand in the SoHo Consumer small office or home office and customer market for the high speed broadband Monaco Telecoms turnover for the nine months to 31 March 2005 services offered by Bulldog.
In particular, Bulldog has seen high of 100 million was derived from the provision of domestic fixed demand for its Inter@ctive and Super@ctive products both of which line, mobile and cable TV services together with the provision of provide 4 Mbps broadband plus national and local phone calls.
mobile services in Afghanistan and Kosovo, as well as satellite and call centre services.
Outpayments and network costs of 13 million represent the costs of Bulldogs UK broadband network, including payments to Cable & International and domestic voice turnover of 17 million were Wireless UK for the utilisation of its voice and backbone network.
affected by fixed to mobile substitution within the Monaco Telecom customer base, as well as the reduction in internet dial-up as Staff costs of 12 million represent the recruitment and salary customers migrated from this service offering to the companys costs of the employee base that has grown significantly since the ADSL offering Data and IP turnover was 8 million.
turnover at 19 million was driven by an increase in both prepaid and postpaid subscribers.
Additionally, turnover of 56 million Bulldogs investment in advertising and marketing to increase its was earned from Monaco Telecoms managed service contracts brand awareness, as well as the costs of external expertise engaged in Afghanistan and Kosovo together with satellite and call centre to review and develop Bulldogs operational processes, are the most activities.
substantial components of the 14 million within other costs.
The outpayments and network costs of 55 million represent the The depreciation charge of 2 million relates to the capital costs of Monaco Telecoms domestic and international network investment being made in the expansion of Bulldogs local loop including payments to other operators for interconnect and unbundled network and associated systems.
The amortisation charge of 4 million relates to the goodwill arising The staff and other costs of 18 million represent the salary costs on the acquisition of Bulldog.
of the employee base, as well as general administrative costs.
Depreciation of 6 million relates to the domestic and international networks of Monaco.
The amortisation charge of 5 million relates to the goodwill and other intangibles recorded on the acquisition of Monaco Telecom.
