Property and network infrastructure As at 31 March 2005, Cable & Wireless and its subsidiaries leased or owned some 241 principal properties.
The majority of these properties are located in the United Kingdom, Panama and the Caribbean although the spread of properties extends across continental Europe, Asia, and islands in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans.
In addition to these properties, Cable & Wireless owns or leases in excess of 2,000 small technical sites that house equipment necessary to support its operations.
In general, Cable & Wireless technical properties enjoy the protection of telecommunications legislation, which has the aim of ensuring the continuity of Cable & Wireless networks.
The size of Cable & Wireless property portfolio has increased marginally from the last financial year primarily as a consequence of the acquisition of additional technical sites in the Caribbean for the purposes of GSM rollout.
Additional properties were also incorporated into the portfolio through the acquisition of Monaco Telecom.
A continuing rationalisation programme is still ongoing generally focusing on reducing office space to match Cable & Wireless reduced headcount and ongoing operational requirements, including the closure of the Groups London headquarters and relocation to Bracknell.
Acquisition of both office and technical sites occurs where required as referred to above.
In the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World, Cable & Wireless typically operates as the domestic incumbent, owning and operating the domestic legacy switched voice networks and associated international interconnect facilities.
Cable & Wireless also has international and domestic network facilities in the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States.
Cable & Wireless operates significant international submarine cable, and satellite systems.
Many of Cable & Wireless subsidiaries and associates also own and operate mobile networks.
Examples include Jamaica GSM and TDMA and Trinidad and Tobago GSM and TDMA in the Caribbean as well as Panama GSM and TDMA, Macau GSM, Monaco partly owns and operates GSM, owns, but does not yet operate, UMTS, the Maldives GSM and Bahrain GSM.
Cable & Wireless companies operate 20 data centres within its national and international operations offering a wide selection of web-based and hosting services.
