Corporate governance Directors report The Directors submit their report and accounts for Cable and Directors Wireless plc, together with the consolidated accounts of the Cable The following served as Directors of the Company during the year & Wireless Group of companies, for the year ended 31 March 2005. and subsequent to the year-end: The Directors corporate governance and remuneration reports are set out on pages 34 and 41 respectively.
Richard Lapthorne Francesco Caio Principal activities and business review Lord Robertson of Port Ellen Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications company.
Rob Rowley Its principal operations are in the United Kingdom, the Caribbean, George Battersby appointed 27 July 2004 Panama, Macau and Monaco.
Cable & Wireless provides voice, data Charles Herlinger and IP services to business and residential customers and wholesale Harris Jones appointed 1 December 2004 services to carriers, mobile operators and content, application and Bernard Gray internet providers.
Graham Howe Kate Nealon appointed 18 January 2005 Details of the Groups performance during the year are contained Tony Rice in the Operating and financial review on pages 59 to 65.
Kasper Rorsted Agns Touraine appointed 18 January 2005 Overseas trading branches of the Company exist in Ascension, Clive Butler appointed 1 May 2005 Diego Garcia, Falkland Islands, Singapore and St. Helena.
Kevin Loosemore resigned 1 December 2004 Dr Janet Morgan retired 22 July 2004 Share capital Details of shares issued during the year are shown in Note 23 to Biographical details for the current Directors are set out on pages the accounts.
Acquisitions and disposals In accordance with the Companys Articles, any Director appointed Details of acquisitions and disposals in the year are set out in since the last AGM is required to retire and seek election by the Business overview Recent acquisitions and disposals on pages shareholders at the next following AGM.
Battersby, Clive Butler, Harris Jones, Kate Nealon and Agns Touraine, having been appointed Directors since the 2004 AGM will retire at Results and dividends the 2005 AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
The The Groups profit for the year after taxation and minority interests unexpired portion of the service contracts for George Battersby amounted to 302 million.
and Harris Jones is disclosed on page 45.
The Board recommends a final dividend for 2005 of 2.64 pence per The Articles also require all Directors to retire every third year from Ordinary Share which subject to approval by shareholders at the when last elected by shareholders.
In view of the fact that the Board 2005 Annual General Meeting AGM, will be paid on 11 August of Directors has been reconstituted since January 2003, and to help 2005 to shareholders on the register at 8 July 2005.
The total stagger the re-election of Directors going forward, it is proposed dividend for the year is 3.8 pence per Ordinary Share.
that Francesco Caio, Bernard Gray and Tony Rice should seek re-election as Directors of the Company at the 2005 AGM The Company will offer a Scrip Dividend alternative for the final notwithstanding the fact that they were elected by shareholders at dividend payable on 11 August 2005.
Full details are contained in the 2003 AGM.
All three will then be subject to re-election at the the Scrip Dividend brochure which can be obtained from the 2008 AGM.
The unexpired portion of the service contract for Companys Registrar, from the Company Secretary or from the Francesco Caio is disclosed on page 45.
Disclosable interests The Directors have no interest in the Ordinary Shares of the Companys subsidiaries.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on page 47.
Employment policies Details of employment policies are set out in Corporate and social responsibility report Employment.
32 33 2005 Annual Report Charitable and political donations 2005 Number of Percentage of Details of charitable donations made during the year are given on Cable & Wireless Issued Ordinary Ordinary Shares Share capital page 26 in the Corporate and social responsibility report Community investment.
Shareholder The Trustees of the BT The Group does not make any political donations and has no Pension Scheme 101,950,148 4.30 intention of making donations to what are generally regarded as Legal & General Group plc 77,951,197 3.30 political parties.
As a precautionary measure and in light of the wide definitions of political organisations in The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the Act, a resolution to 2004 Number of Percentage of permit the Company to make political donations and incur political Cable & Wireless Issued Ordinary expenditure was passed at the 2004 AGM.
The purpose of the Ordinary Shares Share capital resolution was to ensure that the Company did not unintentionally Shareholder breach the Act.
That resolution is valid for a period of four years Legal & General Group plc 106,545,863 4.47 from 22 July 2004 or until the date of the 2008 AGM, if earlier.
The Trustees of the BT Pension Scheme 79,356,278 3.33 Payments to suppliers In the United Kingdom, the Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers when it enters into binding purchase contracts.
The Group 2003 Number of Percentage of seeks to abide by the payment terms agreed whenever it is satisfied Cable & Wireless Issued Ordinary that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance Ordinary Shares Share capital with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group seeks to treat all Shareholder its suppliers fairly according to a standard which deals specifically Franklin Resources, Inc. 108,105,460 4.54 with the payment of suppliers.
The Groups e-procurement FMR Corporation & Fidelity procedure which is being adopted worldwide, standardises the International Ltd. 93,127,830 3.91 procedures for procuring goods and services and the internal Legal & General Investment authorisations required to approve spending and supplier selection.
Management 80,687,822 3.39 The Company had 53 days purchases 2004 65 days purchases outstanding at 31 March 2005 based on the average daily amount The Companys major shareholders do not have different voting invoiced by suppliers during the year ended 31 March 2005. rights from other holders of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
Acquisition of own shares Related Party Transactions Following completion of the Groups exit from the US, its decision Transactions with joint ventures and associated companies to exit Japan and the realisation of cash through the sale of other All transactions with joint ventures and associated companies investments, the Board decided to return 250 million to arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees shareholders through a rolling share buyback programme.
Following for use of Cable & Wireless products and services, network and receipt of shareholder approval at the 2004 AGM, the Company access charges.
The aggregate transactions recorded by Cable & commenced the share buyback programme on 16 November 2004.
Wireless with joint ventures and associated companies, which are Between 16 November 2004 and 31 March 2005, the Company considered to be material, are disclosed below and in Notes 17, 19, acquired 60,500,000 Ordinary Shares in the Company for an 21 and 32 to the Financial statements.
This number of Ordinary Shares represents 2.53 per cent of the Companys total issued share capital Loans to joint ventures and associated companies, amounts owed as at 31 March 2005.
As at 31 March 2005 and 3 June 2005, all by joint ventures and associated companies and owed to joint Ordinary Shares purchased are held in treasury.
ventures and associated companies are set out in Note 32 to the Financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings Except for the holdings of Ordinary Shares listed below, the Transactions with Directors Directors are not aware of any person or organisation holding 3 per Except as disclosed in the Directors remuneration report, as of cent or more of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at 3 June 2005, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries was 3 June 2005, the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this a party to any material transactions, or proposed transactions, in report.
Comparative figures for 2004 and 2003 are also given.
which any Director, any other Executive Officer, any spouse or child under 18 years of age of a Director or Executive Officer had or was to have a direct or indirect material interest.
During the years ended 31 March 2003, 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2005, and as of 3 June 2005, no Director nor any other Executive Officer, nor any associate of any Director or any other Executive Officer was indebted to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors report Corporate governance Port Ellen are both Executive Deputy Chairmen.
Charles Herlinger The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and also has is Chief Financial Officer, George Battersby is Group Human a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
As such, it is Resources Director and Harris Jones is Executive Director of required to comply with the listing rules of the United Kingdom International Business.
During the year to 31 March 2005, there Listing Authority UKLA and with many of the provisions of the were seven independent Non-executive Directors, namely: Bernard Sarbanes-Oxley Act Sarbanes-Oxley as well as the New York Gray, Graham Howe, Dr Janet Morgan retired 22 July 2004, Kate Stock Exchanges corporate governance rules.
Nealon appointed 18 January 2005, Tony Rice, Kasper Rorsted and Agns Touraine appointed 18 January 2005.
Clive Butler was The Financial Services Authority requires UK listed companies to appointed as an additional Non-executive Director on 1 May 2005. disclose whether they have complied with the provisions set out The Senior Independent Director is Graham Howe who is available in section 1 of the UKLAs Combined Code on Corporate to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through Governance Combined Code and, where the provisions have the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
Companies are Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is also required to explain how they have applied the principles set inappropriate.
Full biographical details of each of the Directors are out in the Combined Code.
The Board confirms that the Company was fully compliant with all The Combined Code states that at least half the Board, excluding the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the the Chairman, should comprise Non-executive Directors determined period except as explained below.
The Statement of Directors by the Board to be independent.
The Company did not comply with responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the financial this provision for the period from 22 July 2004 to 17 January 2005. statements is set out on page 54.
During the period from 1 April 2004 to 22 July 2004 the Board The Board comprised five Executive Directors namely, Francesco Caio, Charles The Board firmly believes in good corporate governance and Herlinger, Kevin Loosemore, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen and Rob particularly that strong governance controls improve the Rowley and five Non-executive Directors, namely Bernard Gray, performance of the business and enhance shareholder value.
The Graham Howe, Dr Janet Morgan, Tony Rice and Kasper Rorsted.
Boards role includes: Dr Janet Morgan retired from the Board on 22 July 2004 at the deciding and reviewing on the strategy of the Group: conclusion of the Companys 2004 AGM, on 27 July 2004 George Battersby was appointed as an additional Executive Director and increasing shareholder value by assessing business opportunities on 1 December 2004, Harris Jones replaced Kevin Loosemore and measuring and controlling associated risks: on the Board.
ensuring compliance with legal, regulatory and corporate During the period from 22 July 2004 to 17 January 2005 the governance requirements: Nominations Committee undertook a formal and rigorous process to identify additional Non-executive candidates who possessed promoting and maintaining good corporate citizenship and high the skills, knowledge and experience required by the Company.
standards of ethical behaviour by the Groups employees: Following the conclusion of that process Kate Nealon and Agns Touraine were appointed as Non-executive Directors of the providing the Chief Executive Officer with appropriate support to Company on 18 January 2005. drive and improve the performance of the Group: The Chairmans role is to lead and manage the business of setting and monitoring challenging performance objectives and the Board of Directors in setting the strategy and delivering benchmarks for the Chief Executive Officer and the executive performance of the Group to its shareholders and other key team: stakeholders.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the performance of the Group to its shareholders and other key setting an appropriate control environment within which stakeholders.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman executive management can operate: and Chief Executive Officer has been approved by the Board of Directors and is set out in writing.
A copy of this is available from constituting subcommittees of the Board covering remuneration, the Company Secretary or the Companys website.
The Board has nominations and audit matters: and nine scheduled meetings a year concentrating on strategy, financial and business performance.
Additional Board meetings may be called the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
as required to deal with specific matters.
During the year under review there were no additional Board meetings.
The Board is chaired by Richard Lapthorne and Francesco Caio is the Chief Executive Officer.
Rob Rowley and Lord Robertson of The agendas for Board meetings are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer 34 35 2005 Annual Report and Company Secretary.
Formal minutes recording decisions of all contracts and expenditure over a certain financial limit: Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to each Director as appropriate.
If a Director objects to a particular Board membership and other senior management appointments: proposal this will be recorded in the minutes of Board or Committee meetings.
There were no such objections during the Director and senior executive remuneration: year under review.
delegation of authority: and The Board considers that all of the Non-executive Directors who served during the year ended 31 March 2005, namely Bernard Gray, corporate governance.
Graham Howe, Dr Janet Morgan retired 22 July 2004, Kate Nealon appointed 18 January 2005, Tony Rice, Kasper Rorsted and A copy of the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board is Agns Touraine appointed 18 January 2005 are independent.
The available from the Company Secretary or the Companys website.
Non-executive Directors come from diverse business backgrounds and have unique expertise covering finance, telecoms, IT and The Board has delegated the responsibility for the day-to-day government relations.
Each of the Non-executive Directors is of management of the Group to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief independent mind and character and actively contributes to the Executive Officer is supported in this by the Executive Committee, effective performance of the Board and its Committees.
The Executive Committee comprises all the Executive combination of skills and expertise materially enhances the Directors of the Company together with the Group Director judgement and overall performance of the Board.
Strategy and Business Development, the Group Director Corporate and Public Affairs, the Group General Counsel, the Group Director To enable Directors to perform their duties properly and to ensure Operations, the Group Director Sales and Marketing and the Head the effective functioning of the Board and its Committees, they are of Wholesale.
given full and timely access to all relevant information.
In addition, each of the Directors has access to the advice and services of the Additionally, specific responsibilities have been delegated to the Company Secretary.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Board has also adopted a procedure whereby Directors, Under the direction and control of the Chairman, the Board including Non-executive Directors, may, in the furtherance of their considers its performance both as a group, as individual members duties, take independent professional advice on any matter at the and its various sub-committees.
This involves regular discussions Companys expense.
between the individual Board members and external support where necessary.
On the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate induction, involving meetings with As part of the evaluation process, the Non-executive Directors other Directors, senior management and key advisers, is undertaken.
meet independently to consider management performance In addition, the new Directors are provided with appropriate and succession issues.
The independent Non-executive Directors background materials covering the business, the financial performance also appraise the Chairmans performance and review the of the Group and the legal and corporate governance environment.
relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Directors further receive appropriate ongoing briefings and to ensure that the relationship is working to promote the creation information to enable them to perform their roles both on the of shareholder value.
Board and its principal Committees, involving internal briefings and external training where appropriate.
On request, the Company is Statement from Independent Directors prepared to offer major shareholders the opportunity to meet During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Independent Directors new Non-executive Directors.
met three times, in addition to Board meetings, to formally discuss governance issues: once with the Chairman and Chief Executive The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Officer present, once with the Chairman present and once on their own.
After the third meeting, as during the previous year, Graham The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for Howe, Senior Independent Director, provided feedback to the decision including approval of matters such as: Board on the Independent Directors collective views of the following: strategy and management: the perceived quality of the relationship between the Chairman structure and capital: and the Chief Executive Officer: financial reporting and controls: the degree of openness between the Chief Executive Officer and the Board: internal controls: Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors report the visibility of checks and balances within the Executive Directors Resources Director and by the appointment of Harris Jones to team: and provide leadership to the Groups international businesses.
A Group Executive has been reconstituted to provide a formal framework for whether all questions asked by the Non-executive Directors in the Executive Directors to provide checks and balances on each the Board have been adequately addressed.
other but at the Board this role is still largely undertaken by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Independent Directors believe that the Company has an effective Board.
The Independent Directors believe that all questions asked by them in the Board have been answered in an honest and constructive During the year under review, there has been greater emphasis placed manner.
Where some uncertainty has existed around questions not on tackling real business issues rather than fire fighting on legacy capable of being fully answered, the Independent Directors believe which has led to a greater clarity of direction.
Significant progress has the answers given were appropriate to the circumstances.
also been made to create a more balanced management team both at the Board and the level below.
Challenges remain, particularly Throughout the year ended 31 March 2005, a continued period around the pace that will be required to execute the priorities of change for the Company, the significant efforts of the Board of identified for the Group.
Directors, its principal committees and the senior management team have satisfied the Independent Directors that the appropriate The Independent Directors believe that the quality of the corporate governance controls have been effective.
relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer remains a good one, characterised by mutual trust and frankness.
An annual audit of investor opinion was commissioned on behalf of The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have complementary the Board.
The audit took the form of structured interviews with skill sets creating a balanced partnership.
Their relationship continues individual, mainly institutional, investors through an independent to evolve as more of the initiative for strategic direction has now external adviser.
The report gathered opinion on strategy, transferred to the Chief Executive Officer.
operational performance, corporate governance and management capability from investors in the UK, Europe and North America.
The Independent Directors continue to be comfortable with the The non-attributable opinions, which were subsequently reported degree of openness between the Chief Executive Officer and the to the Board, gave the Board direct access to investor feedback.
The quality of papers circulated to the Board prior to meetings and the presentations made at Board meetings have improved Attendance allowing more time to be allocated to discussion and debate.
The Board requires all members to use their best endeavours to attend Board and Committee meetings and to devote sufficient During the year, the Executive team has been strengthened with time to the work of the Board to discharge their duties.
A schedule Charles Herlinger, Chief Financial Officer, being in place for the full setting out the attendance of Directors at Board and Committee year thereby improving internal procedures and financial disciplines, meetings during the year including those Directors who resigned by the appointment of George Battersby as Group Human during the year is given below.
Board Remuneration Nominations Audit meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Richard Lapthorne 994411 Francesco Caio 9944 Lord Robertson of Port Ellen 99 Rob Rowley 89 George Battersby 66 Charles Herlinger 99 Harris Jones 44 Bernard Gray 99554455 Graham Howe 99554455 Kate Nealon 221111 Tony Rice 99554455 Kasper Rorsted 99444445 Agns Touraine 2211 Kevin Loosemore 55 Janet Morgan 33221122 36 37 2005 Annual Report Until 22 February 2005, the Nominations Committee comprised Board Committees Richard Lapthorne, who chairs the Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee Francesco Caio Chief Executive Officer and any three of the The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to following independent Non-executive Directors: Bernard Gray, the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration Graham Howe, Kasper Rorsted and Tony Rice.
From 22 February and long-term incentive arrangements of the Companys Chairman, 2005 the composition of the Nominations Committee was Executive Directors and senior executives.
The Remuneration amended to Richard Lapthorne Chairman of the Committee, Committees full terms of reference are available either from the Francesco Caio Chief Executive Office, Bernard Gray, Graham Company Secretary or the Companys website.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, the membership of the The Nominations Committee met four times during the year Remuneration Committee comprised Bernard Gray Chairman, under review.
Graham Howe, Kate Nealon appointed 22 February 2005, Dr Janet Morgan resigned 22 July 2004, Tony Rice and Kasper Audit Committee Rorsted resigned 22 February 2005.
Subsequent to the year-end, The Audit Committee comprises all the independent NonClive Butler was appointed and Tony Rice resigned from the executive Directors of the Company, namely:Tony Rice Chairman, Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2005.
Clive Butler appointed 1 May 2005, Bernard Gray, Graham Howe, Dr Janet Morgan retired 22 July 2004, Kate Nealon appointed The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and 18 January 2005, Kasper Rorsted and Agns Touraine appointed Group Human Resources Director may be invited to attend and 18 January 2005.
The Companys Chairman, Richard Lapthorne, speak at meetings of the Remuneration Committee, but do not was a member of the Audit Committee until 5 May 2004 and the participate in any matter which impacts upon their own remuneration Company was not therefore compliant with the Combined Code arrangements.
Representatives from the Companys remuneration principle on the membership of Audit Committees during the consultants, New Bridge Street Consultants, attend meetings by period 1 April to 5 May 2004.
Since 5 May 2004 the Chairman and invitation.
Meetings are scheduled in February, March, May and June Executive Directors attend Audit Committee meetings by invitation each year but may be held at other times.
There were five meetings but are not members.
The Group Director of Internal Audit, Group in the year ended 31 March 2005.
General Counsel and representatives of the external auditors also attend by invitation.
Other employees of the Company may be The Remuneration Committee is authorised to engage the services invited to attend as and when required.
of external advisors as it deems necessary at the Companys expense in order to carry out its function.
The Combined Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant The Directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 53 includes financial experience.
The Board considers that there is a strong details on remuneration policy, practices and the remuneration of breadth of financial expertise across the Audit Committee and that, the Directors.
collectively, the members have the requisite skills and attributes to enable the Audit Committee to properly discharge its Nominations Committee responsibilities, so it has concluded that it will not name any single The Nominations Committee reviews the composition of, member as having such experience.
and succession to, the Board and recommends to the Board appointments of Executive and Non-executive Directors following The Audit Committee is authorised to engage the services of a formal and rigorous review process.
This involves an ongoing external advisers, as it deems necessary, at the Companys expense assessment of the overall balance and performance of the Board in order to carry out its function.
and its individual members ensuring a strong executive and independent non-executive team, taking account of existing and The Audit Committees objectives are: proposed corporate governance requirements and emerging best practice.
to assist the Company in meeting its responsibilities in ensuring an effective system of internal control and compliance and accurate The Nominations Committee in particular considers the experience external financial reporting: and and skills of individuals who may be suitable as Directors.
to assist management in conducting and reporting the effective Members of the Nominations Committee abstain when matters risk management of the Company and Groups activities.
affecting their own appointments are discussed.
The full written terms of reference of the Audit Committee are The Nominations Committees full terms of reference are available available from the Company Secretary or from the Companys either from the Company Secretary or the Companys website.
In summary the Audit Committee: The Nominations Committee is authorised to engage the services reviews the financial integrity of the financial statements of of external advisors as it deems necessary at the Companys the Company: expense in order to carry out its function.
Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors report reviews the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory half year results and Press Release and quarterly trading requirements arising from its listings in London and New York: statements: reviews material complaints regarding accounting, internal controls presentation of the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet in and auditing raised by the Companys employees: March 2005: monitors the Companys whistle-blowing procedures: Group Risk Review updates: reviews the internal audit programme and considers the the effectiveness of the employee whistle-blowing programme effectiveness of the internal audit function: and resolution of matters raised through the whistle-blowing line and other channels: makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Companys auditors: corporate governance developments in UK and US arising from the revised Combined Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 determines the level of audit fees and the scope of the audit in including regular updates on the work being undertaken in accordance with the authority given by the Companys connection with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: shareholders at every AGM: developments in accounting standards including the preparation assesses the independence of the auditors: and for adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: reviews and agrees the process of the approval of audit and nonregister of interests for Board and Senior Management: and audit services provided by the auditors.
the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and the Meetings external auditors.
The Audit Committee met five times during the year under review.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 36.
The Committee also received presentations on business continuity, fraud control, security and health and safety issues.
Prior to each meeting, the Chairman of the Audit Committee meets with the Group Director of Internal Audit, Director of Group Financial reporting Accounting Services and with the external auditors without the The Audit Committee reviews and, where necessary, challenges the presence of Executive management.
The Chairman of the Audit actions and judgements of management in relation to the interim Committee also has private meetings with the Chief Financial and full year financial statements before submission to the Board.
Officer before each Audit Committee meeting.
In addition, the Particular attention is paid to critical accounting policies and entire Committee will meet i the external auditors without practices and any changes: clarity of disclosure: compliance with the presence of management, and ii management without the accounting standards, stock exchange and other legal and regulatory presence of external auditors, at least annually.
In this, the Audit Committee is assisted by the Disclosure Committee, which is primarily responsible for identifying The Audit Committee receives the following standing reports at and considering disclosure control issues in connection with the each scheduled meeting: preparation of all releases containing material financial information.
Report of the Chief Financial Officer: Internal audit The Group monitors its internal controls through a programme of Report of the external auditors: internal audits.
The Internal Audit function is headed by the Group Director of Internal Audit who is supported by a team of auditors Report of the Group Director of Internal Audit: and based in the UK and Jamaica.
The Groups Internal Audit function has a formal charter approved by the Board that describes its Litigation Report, purpose, authority and responsibility.
Its annual audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee and reporting to the Audit In addition, during the year under review, the Audit Committee Committee is achieved through the submission and discussion considered and discussed the business set out below and made of regular formal reports as well as private meetings between recommendations to the Board where appropriate: the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Director of Internal Audit.
the full year results and Press Release together with the Annual Report and Accounts: External audit KPMG Audit Plc has acted as auditors for the Company since 1991.
The Audit Committee has established a policy which is intended to 38 39 2005 Annual Report maintain the independence of the Companys auditors when acting The Board considers that the Groups system of internal control as auditor of the Group accounts.
The policy governs the provision is appropriately designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditor and its of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable associates to the Company and its subsidiaries.
The policy clearly but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
identifies those services which are permitted, and those which are The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost prohibited from being provided by the auditor.
In addition, the policy of a control procedure should not exceed the expected benefits.
clearly sets out the procedure to be followed for the approval of Reviews of the Groups systems of internal control are undertaken all audit and non-audit services: all engagements with an expected to improve them as necessary, taking into account emerging best value in excess of 250,000 require the prior approval of the practice.
During the year and up to the date of this report Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For the year ended 31 March procedures were in place throughout the Group to ensure 2005, fees for audit and audit related services of 4.6 million, compliance with the report of the Turnbull Committee.
of which 0.3 million related to the prior year, were approved by the Audit Committee.
During the year, fees for non-audit work Using a common risk management framework, each principal of 1.5 million were approved.
The non-audit work mainly comprised business and functional unit identifies risks that could impede the tax compliance services.
achievement of their objectives and records them in a Risk Register.
For each significant risk, line managers document an overview of the Annual General Meeting risk, consider the effectiveness of the current mitigating controls in The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at place and identify any improvement actions required.
In addition the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre on 22 July 2005. Business to this, the Groups Executive Directors monitor all significant risks at the Companys AGM will cover the Annual Report and Accounts, through a structure of Risk Review Boards in each of the major Directors Remuneration Report, final dividend, election re-election business units.
The Risk Review Boards comprise the Chief Executive of Directors, re-appointment of the auditors and authorisation for Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other relevant senior executives the Directors to set the auditors fees.
Special business will cover of the business unit.
A schedule of the Groups risks, which covers amendments to the rules of the Incentive Plan and Deferred Short significant operational, financial and strategic risks, is reviewed by the Term Incentive Plan, a share buy back authority, an increase in the Audit Committee.
cap on total fees to Directors and amendments to the Articles of Association.
The past few years have been transitional ones for the Group, with the Company making a number of acquisitions and disposals and Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out in having undergone a number of restructurings.
As with all acquisitions the Chairmans Letter and Notice of AGM.
At the AGM, a business or reorganisations, the Company has dedicated resource to embed review is presented to shareholders by the Chief Executive processes and controls across its businesses consistent with the Officer.
All Directors including the Chairman of the Audit and standards acceptable to the Group.
Over the last year this has been Remuneration Committees attend and are available to answer supported by the roll-out of a Financial Controls Toolkit to reinforce shareholders questions.
All resolutions at the AGM are taken on a the standardisation of financial controls across the Group.
Business poll, in accordance with best practice.
Results are announced to the units are now required to sign off compliance with the requirements London Stock Exchange and published on the Companys website.
of the Financial Controls Toolkit on an annual basis.
Apart from the AGM, the Company communicates with its A control self-assessment exercise is conducted annually shareholders by way of the Annual Report and Accounts or the to complement the work of Group Internal Audit, the risk Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements.
The Companys management framework and the external auditors.
This exercise website contains investor relations material including results requires management to assess the effectiveness of their presentations, dividends and share capital history.
Additionally, the fundamental operating controls over all aspects of their operations, Company communicates with its institutional shareholders via in addition to the financial controls covered by the Financial regular analyst briefings throughout the year but particularly at the Controls Toolkit.
Group Internal Audit considers the results of time of the interim and year-end results.
The Company clearly this exercise in planning their work for the forthcoming year.
recognises the importance of maintaining a regular dialogue with shareholders to ensure that the Companys strategy and At the end of the financial year, the finance and general management performance are understood.
of operating units are required to sign a letter of representation to confirm that their financial reporting is based on sound data, that they Internal control and risk management are fully aware of their responsibility to operate internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control systems and that their results are properly stated in accordance with and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
The Board Group and statutory requirements.
Additionally, a structure has been has adopted a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the developed to assess the Groups corporate social responsibility significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the guidance including social, environmental and ethical matters and this is covered of the Turnbull Committee on Internal Control.
in Corporate governance Corporate and social responsibility report on page 26.
Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors report These procedures reflect the Groups commitment to ensuring it has policies in place that ensure high standards of integrity and transparency throughout its operations.
Further, when these procedures detect unauthorised management practices, the Group is committed to the correction of such events.
The Group is also committed to analysing its internal controls to make them more robust and further limit the risk of such incidents.
The Board believes such action properly reflects the Groups commitment to financial discipline and integrity at all levels.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within joint ventures and associates rests, on the whole, with the senior management of those operations.
Cable & Wireless monitors its investments and exerts influence through Board representation.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new and enhanced standards of corporate governance, and business and financial disclosure, apply to US public companies and non-US companies, including the Company, with securities registered in the United States.
Where applicable the Group has developed policies and procedures to enable it to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Group also has ongoing programmes in place, relating in particular to section 404, to enable it to comply with provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that will come into force in the future.
Going concern After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial statements on pages 97 to 144.
By order of the Board of Directors.
Andrew S Garard Company Secretary 3 June 2005 40 41 2005 Annual Report
