Operating and financial review Legal proceedings Class action litigation against Cable and Wireless plc settlement.
The Court of Appeals accordingly referred the case back Between December 2002 and February 2003, ten shareholder class to the District Court on 21 March 2005, for consideration of the action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for settlement agreement.
The District Court granted preliminary the Eastern District of Virginia naming Cable and Wireless plc and approval of the settlement by order dated 13 May 2005.
The several of its officers and directors as defendants.
settlement is currently the subject of a formal notice period that will expire on 22 July 2005.
Assuming the conditions of the agreement In March 2003, the Court consolidated all the cases into one action, are met, the final approval of the Court to the settlement is styled as In re Cable and Wireless plc Securities Litigation, Civil expected shortly after the end of the notice period.
Claim against the Minister of Finance and In May 2003, the lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint that Economy, Panama alleged violations of certain sections of the Securities and Exchange On 16 December 2002, a complaint was filed by two Panamanian Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder.
A central lawyers exercising a public action at the Third Chamber of the allegation was that the defendants made false and misleading Supreme Court of Justice of Panama questioning the law governing statements about the Companys financial condition by failing to and rules of Public Bid No.
06 96 won by INTEL, S. A. now disclose on a timely basis the existence of a tax indemnity and a Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A..
Complaints filed at the Third ratings trigger to place money in escrow until any liability which Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice must be filed against the Company may have had under the tax indemnity was finally the public officer who enacted the relevant regulation or act.
The indemnity and ratings trigger appeared in an complaint was filed against the Minister of Finance and Economy in agreement reached in 1999 between the Company and Deutsche Panama specifically alleging that the Operating Agreement executed Telekom for the sale of the Companys interest in the mobile between Cable and Wireless CALA Management Services Limited telephone company that operated under the name One2One.
and INTEL, S. A. now Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. as part of the privatisation agreements was null and void ab initio, on the grounds In addition to the allegations relating to the tax indemnity, the that it had not been published in the Official Gazette in Panama.
consolidated complaint also alleged that the defendants made false and misleading statements by: 1 failing to disclose certain lease The Operating Agreement enables Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. liability commitments and 2 improperly recognising revenue to use the technical and management know-how of Cable and received from sales of capacity to other carriers.
Wireless CALA Management Services Limited to fulfil more effectively its obligations under the concession granted to it by The plaintiffs sought unspecified money damages in their complaints.
the Government of Panama to install, operate and exploit telecommunication services in Panama.
Cable & Wireless Panama, The Company and the individual defendants filed motions to dismiss S. A. due to its close interest in the outcome of the complaint, the class action complaint, which were heard on 31 October 2003. requested recognition by the Court and permission to participate In March 2004 the Court issued orders granting the Companys in the proceedings.
and the individual defendants motions to dismiss the complaint but denying the defendants motion to dismiss the claims of foreign On 21 March 2003, the Court permitted the claim to proceed.
non-US purchasers for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.
On Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. filed an appeal against the admission 4 May 2004 and 5 June 2004, the Court issued memoranda opinions of the claim to proceed, however the Court confirmed its decision with regard to its previous orders.
On 15 June 2004, the Court to permit the claim to proceed on 17 March 2004. entered judgement for the Company and the individual defendants consistent with its March 2004 orders and memoranda opinions.
As required by Panamanian law, the Administrations General Attorney has provided an opinion to the Court in defence of the On 16 April 2004, plaintiffs filed an appeal of the District Courts law or regulation, which is the subject of the complaint.
The decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
On Administrations General Attorney has opined that the Operating 3 May 2004, defendants filed a notice of cross-appeal with respect Agreement complied with all the requirements established by the to the District Courts order denying their motion to dismiss the law and by the rules of Public Bid No.
06 96 and was countersigned claims of foreign non-US purchasers for lack of subject matter by the General Comptroller acting with due authorisation.
While the case was pending on appeal, on 7 January 2005, the parties reached a preliminary agreement to settle the On 1 April 2005, Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. tendered its complaint on the basis of the defendants making a payment of response to the claim and submitted evidence for consideration US$7 million 3.7 million to the plaintiff class with the support of by the Court.
Admission of evidence before the Court is currently the Companys insurers in full and final settlement of the complaint.
The plaintiff has requested that the effect of the Operating Agreement be suspended temporarily an issue which the Court On 1 March 2005, the parties filed a stipulation with the Court of rejected on 10 March 2005.
Appeals requesting that the Court of Appeals remand the case to the District Court for the limited purpose of considering the parties Performance Operating and financial review Legal proceedings The proceedings are ongoing, pending submission of evidence.
Arbitration between PT Cable, Inc. Cable and Wireless plc, Cable & Wireless IDC, Inc. and others Panamanian counsel considers this claim to be without merit and PT Cable, Inc. PT Cable the US end owner of NPC Cable System none of Cable and Wireless plc, Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. or spanning from the United States to Japan, initiated an ICC arbitration Cable and Wireless CALA Management Services Limited is proceeding against Cable and Wireless plc, Japan Telecom IDC, Inc. party to the complaint.
If the complaint were to be successful, the IDC and other users of capacity on that system for unpaid concession under which Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. operates operations and maintenance fees with respect to the US end.
However the Operating Agreement could Cable & Wireless and all 14 other US end owners counter-claimed be declared null and void and then the complainants could file a against PT Cable for overcharging operation and maintenance fees.
complaint against Cable and Wireless CALA Management Services PT Cable then cross-claimed against Cable & Wireless and IDC in Limited requiring the return of all management fees collected under their capacity as maintenance authorities and alleges that Cable & the agreement since its execution on 20 May 1997.
This would Wireless and IDC should be liable to contribute to any damages amount to approximately 60 million.
In the event that this the Arbitrator may award against PT Cable.
complaint should be successful, Cable & Wireless and its subsidiaries intend to vigorously pursue any legal recourse available to them.
Potential exposure of PT Cable is between US$13 million 6.9 million and US$33 million 17.6 million.
PT Cables counterTelecarrier Inc. vs. Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. claim against Cable & Wireless and IDC is for an unquantified On 5 May 2004, Telecarrier Inc. lodged a claim in the Sixth Circuit proportion of that amount.
Civil Court of Panama alleging non-compliance by Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A.
Cable & Wireless Panama with the Interconnection PT Cable failed to pay its arbitration filing fees and earlier this year Agreement between the parties in connection with the invoicing was placed into Chapter 7 liquidation proceedings.
The arbitration and collection process.
Telecarrier Inc. requested the Court to order is therefore currently stayed.
the continued provision of a pre-determined billing and charging process and to prevent Cable & Wireless Panama from using an On 28 January 2005, AT&T Corp and Alascom, Inc.
They also claimed US$18 million 9.6 million filed a Request for Arbitration before the ICC against Cable and damages and costs.
Wireless plc and IDC Respondents relating to the Respondents alleged duties as Founding Signatories and Maintenance Authorities On 9 September 2004, Cable & Wireless Panama submitted a under the Construction and Maintenance Agreement for the NPC.
defence to the claim and on 30 December 2004, the parties The Claimants allege breach of contract, fraud, breaches of fiduciary presented a petition for suspension of the process for a period of duty and similar claims against the Respondents in connection with 45 days to allow them to negotiate with each other.
In a resolution alleged overcharging of operations and maintenance fees by PT dated 30 December 2004, the Court admitted the petition and Cable.
The complaint is for unquantified damages.
The Companys negotiations with the plaintiff were initiated.
Suspension of the US Counsel has advised that, in their opinion, all of the Claimants process has subsequently been extended before the Court while claims are weak.
The Company has filed its Answer to the Request negotiations continue.
for Arbitration and arbitrators are currently being selected.
In a separate action, on 25 August 2004, Cable & Wireless Panama As far as quantum of damages is concerned, AT&Ts claim is lodged a claim against Telecarrier Inc. in the Seventeenth Circuit duplicative of the counter-claim by PT Cable in the first arbitration Civil Court of Panama claiming unjustified enrichment by Telecarrier above save that AT&T has claimed punitive damages.
Inc. through the use of Cable & Wireless Panamas fixed telephone Therefore Cable & Wireless believes its exposure remains within network to allow the rerouting of traffic for internet public use.
the parameters of the estimate set out above.
Cable & Wireless Panama is claiming US$14 million 7.5 million.
Cable & Wireless will continue to vigorously defend its position in The claim was admitted by the Court on 2 September 2004. each of the arbitration proceedings brought against it.
On 23 December 2004, the parties agreed to suspend the process for a period of 30 days to allow for a period of negotiation a move endorsed by the Court on 23 December 2004.
Suspension of the process has subsequently been extended before the Court while negotiations continue.
94 95 2005 Annual Report Pender Insurance Limited Australia-Japan Cable Limited AJC, a policyholder of Pender Insurance Limited Pender has brought proceedings in London against Pender and Cable & Wireless.
AJC claims that it is entitled to insurance cover for loss of revenue following damage caused to an undersea cable by a cargo vessel.
It also claims that, if it does not have such cover, Pender or Cable & Wireless is liable for its losses because of representations made to AJC that it was entitled to such insurance cover.
The claim is for US$92 million 49 million.
Pender and Cable & Wireless have been advised by legal council that the claim is unmeritorious and accordingly are defending it vigorously.
Certain of Penders re-insurers of the AJC risk have instituted proceedings seeking a declaration that they are entitled to avoid their obligations.
Pender is also vigorously defending these proceedings.
On 3 June 2005, QBE International Insurance Limited QBE issued Pender with a request for arbitration on account of insurance premium payments of 36 million allegedly outstanding.
Pender has received advice that this claim is substantially without merit and intends to defend it vigorously.
Pender has also been advised that, in the unlikely event of QBE recovering any funds as a result of this claim, it would be contractually obliged to pass such funds less a small fee under retrocession arrangements to Messenger Insurance PCC Limited Messenger, one of the defendants to the proceedings brought by Pender and Cable and Wireless plc described on page 91.
Pender has been advised that, given the strength of its misfeasance claims against Messenger, it would have a strong chance of recovering any such sums paid by QBE to Messenger arising out of the subject matter of the arbitration request.
Other litigation From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, investigations or reviews.
Other than the above, there are no pending claims, proceedings, investigations or reviews against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, which the Company believes will, if determined adversely to the Group, have a material adverse effect on the Groups liquidity or operations.
