Operating and financial review Disclosures about market risk Credit risk Where it is deemed appropriate the Group will undertake hedges Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group.
In addition, counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
overseas subsidiaries are generally financed in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency The counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups denominated borrowings.
financial instruments are entities rated A1 short-term and or AAlong-term by Standard and Poors or equivalent by Moodys As at 31 March 2005, the Group had in place net forward foreign and or Fitch.
The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored exchange contracts amounting to 17 million, being 23 million on an ongoing basis.
The types of instrument used for investment of bought and 6 million sold in the same currency against sterling.
funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved by the Consequently, there is no material exposure to movements in Board with limits on the exposure to any one counterparty.
exchange rates on these instruments.
Interest rate risk The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates The Group is exposed to movements of interest rates on its debt, of exchange ruling during the year.
Overseas earnings are cash balances and derivative instruments.
The treasury function predominantly in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
seeks to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate In broad terms, based on the 2005 mix of profits, if the average exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as sterling : US dollar rate for the year had been 5 cents higher, the appropriate.
There were no derivatives in place as at 31 March 2005 effect would have been to reduce the reported operating profit to manage the interest rate exposure on the Groups investments before exceptional items by approximately 8 million.
does not undertake profit translation hedging activities.
The Group has net floating rate investments of 2,020 million As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from 2,166 million of investments less 146 million of debt hence, foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of a 50 basis point decrease in average interest rates to which the overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to Group is exposed predominantly sterling would reduce net match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value interest income by approximately 10 million, impacting both of foreign investments.
Currently there are no external foreign earnings and cash flow.
By way of illustration, between 31 March currency liabilities matched against the carrying value of foreign 2004 and 31 March 2005 sterling 3 month LIBOR increased from investments.
approximately 4.36 per cent to 4.98 per cent.
The Group currently does not undertake any hedges of long-term A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact currency trading flows.
upon the fair value of the Groups fixed rate debt.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity, hence the exposure to fair value loss has not been modelled.
Exchange rate risk Cable & Wireless trades in some 80 countries and much of its turnover is from international traffic flows settled in major currencies, principally US dollars.
In addition, many of the currencies of the countries in which Cable & Wireless operates are linked, directly or indirectly, to the US dollar.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to foreign currency payments, dividend income from foreign subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term.
