Directors Report The Directors present the annual report and financial statements its assets and the on-going expenses are less than 2% of the of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year net assets.
Results and dividends Principal activity and business review The consolidated profit for the year was 262,101,000 2004: The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Its 10,063,000, as restated of which 5,642,000 2004: principal activity is portfolio investment and that of its two 4,899,000 is the revenue profit.
The results for the Group are subsidiary undertakings, Merrill Lynch Gold Limited and World set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 29.
Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment dealing.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of A review of the business is given in the Investment Managers 1.80p per share and have also declared a special dividend of Report and the Chairmans Statement.
1.00p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005 2004: 1.75p and 0.75p respectively.
The dividends will be paid on Status of the Company 24 March 2006 to shareholders on the register of members at In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its close of business on 24 February 2006.
The cost of the dividends affairs during the year under review, and subsequently, so as to amount to 4,712,000. qualify as an investment trust for the purposes of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ICTA.
The last Share capital accounting period for which the Company has been treated as Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 16 on approved as an investment trust by the Inland Revenue was for page 41. the year ended 31 December 2004.
It is the Companys intention to continue to seek approval under section 842 of Derivative transactions ICTA.
Details of the Groups derivative transactions are given in the Investment Managers Report on page 11 and in note 20 on The Company is an investment company and can take pages 43 and 44. advantage of section 265 of the Companies Act 1985 which allows an investment company to disregard losses on the capital Directors account when paying dividends out of the revenue account.
The Directors of the Company on 31 December 2005, all of whom held office at any time during the year under review, and The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the their interests in the ordinary shares of the Company, are shown provisions of ICTA.
The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks and As reported in the interim report, Mr A E Buxton retired as a shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
Continuation of the Company 1 January 2005 31 December 2005 As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for P S Wilmot-Sitwell 45,000 54,000 the continuance of the Company is proposed at each Annual I C S Barby 5,000 5,000 General Meeting.
O A G Baring C A M Buchan 20,000 20,000 Going concern A W Lea appointed The financial statements of the Company have been produced 29 July 2005 5,000 on a going concern basis.
The Directors believe that this is the G H Sage 10,000 10,000 most appropriate basis as the continuation vote, being an annual event, is considered to be a routine item, and the majority of the Companys assets are readily realisable quoted All of the holdings of the Directors are beneficial.
The Company is able to meet all of its liabilities from these holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
18 Directors Report continued In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, physical metals.
The financial instruments held by the Company Mr Wilmot-Sitwell will retire by rotation but will not offer are detailed in note 20.
No material change will be made to the himself for re-election.
Mr Wilmot-Sitwell will be retiring as objective without shareholder approval.
Chairman and a Director of the Company at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 17 March 2006, as While the Company may hold shares in other listed investment he will have attained the age of 70 by that date and this would companies including investment trusts, the Board has agreed be in accordance with the Companys established practice.
The that the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross Board has agreed that Mr Lea will succeed Mr Wilmot-Sitwell assets in other UK listed investment companies.
Investment management and administration Mr A W Lea, having been appointed as a Director on 29 July Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Limited MLIM is the 2005, retires and offers himself for election in accordance with Investment Manager of the Company under a contract the Articles of Association.
He brings to the Board his extensive terminable on six months notice.
During the year the Directors knowledge of the mining sector, as well as wider corporate considered a submission by the Investment Manager for an finance and commercial experience.
His election is annual increase in the annual management charge.
taken into account the long-term investment performance, the competitor position, and other similar funds managed by None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
MLIMs Natural Resources Team, the management fee was increased from 0.95% to 1.25% per annum of gross assets Directors remuneration report with effect from 1 May 2005.
The value of any investment in The Directors remuneration report is set out on page 22.
An MLIM managed funds is excluded when calculating the ordinary resolution to approve this report will be put to management fee.
members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
No Directors entitlement to remuneration is conditional upon the No penalty on termination of the investment management resolution being approved.
contract would be payable by the Company in the event that six months written notice is given to MLIM.
There are no provisions Substantial share interests relating to payment of fees in lieu of notice.
The Company has been advised that the following shareholders owned 3% or more of the ordinary shares of the Company on Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Services Limited 3 February 2006.
MLIMGS acts as the secretary and administrator of the Company and receives an annual fee of 0.05% of gross assets.
The Bank of New York Europe Limited BNYE is the custodian Number of % of Issued Ordinary of the Companys assets.
The BNYE fee is payable at rates Ordinary Shares Share Capital depending on the number of trades effected and location of Lazard Asset Management 11,381,032 6.8 securities held.
The custodian agreement is subject to six Legal & General Investment months notice by either party.
Management Limited 7,083,390 4.2 Merrill Lynch Investment Both MLIM and MLIMGS are subsidiaries of Merrill Lynch & Co. Managers Limited 6,806,463 4.0 Inc. Reed Elsevier Ltd Pension Scheme 5,700,000 3.4 Appointment of the Investment Manager The Board keeps the resources and performance of the 0.4% held on behalf of clients.
3.0% held on behalf of discretionary clients and 1.0% held on behalf of non-discretionary clients Investment Manager under review, and a review of the terms of and staff.
the contract is undertaken annually.
Investment policy The Companys investment objective is to maximise total returns The Board believes that the continuing appointment of the to shareholders through a worldwide portfolio of mining and Investment Manager, on the terms disclosed above, is in the metal securities.
Up to 10% of the assets may be invested in interests of all shareholders.
The specialist nature of the Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 19 Directors Report continued Companys investment remit is, in the Boards view, best served of goods and services are generally paid within 30 days of the by the Natural Resources Team at MLIM, who have a proven date of any invoice.
The Company has no trade creditors.
track record in successfully investing in the mining sector.
Share Repurchases Gearing policy A total of 98,490,586 ordinary shares have been purchased and The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing cancelled up to 9 February 2006, although no shares have been can add value from time to time.
This gearing typically is in the bought back since October 2002.
The latest authority to form of an overdraft or short-term facility, which can be repaid purchase ordinary shares for cancellation was granted to the at any time.
The level and benefit of gearing is discussed and Directors on 17 March 2005 and expires on 16 September agreed with the Board regularly.
The Directors considered it was unnecessary to buy back any shares in 2005 as there was continuing demand for the The Investment Manager generally aims to be fully invested.
The Companys shares in the market, and the discount at which the gearing limit is currently 15% of the Companys net assets.
shares traded to their underlying Net Asset Value remained narrow compared with historic levels and the investment trust Voting policy sector as a whole.
The Directors are proposing that their The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys authority to buy back shares be renewed at the forthcoming portfolio has been delegated to the Investment Manager.
However, the consent of the Chairman of the Board is sought prior to the Investment Manager voting against incumbent Although the Investment Manager initiates the buy backs, the management in respect of any stock held in the portfolio.
policy and parameters are set by the Board and reviewed at regular intervals.
The Company intends to raise the cash needed The Investment Managers voting policy states: to finance the purchase of ordinary shares either by selling securities in the Companys portfolio or by short-term We will vote in favour of proposals which we expect to borrowing.
enhance shareholder value and on routine issues where we are generally supportive of a companys management: Treasury Shares The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares We will vote against proposals which we believe may damage Regulations came into force on 1 December 2003 and allow shareholders rights or economic interests: in these situations companies to hold shares acquired by market purchase as we would normally have raised our concerns with treasury shares, rather than having to cancel them.
Up to 10% management in advance: of the issued shares may be held in treasury and may be subsequently cancelled or sold for cash in the market.
This We will abstain on proposals which we feel unable to support would give the Company the ability to reissue shares quickly but believe it would be against our clients interests to oppose and cost efficiently, thereby improving liquidity and providing publicly: and the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
In all situations the economic interests of our clients will be paramount.
The Board currently intends only to authorise the sale of shares from treasury at prices at or above the prevailing net asset value Donations per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
This should result in a The Company made no political or charitable donations during positive overall effect on shareholders if shares are bought back the year.
at a discount and then sold at a price at or above the net asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
Payment of suppliers It is the policy of the Company and its subsidiaries to settle all In the interests of all shareholders, the Board will keep the investment transactions in accordance with the terms and matter of treasury shares under review.
conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
Suppliers 20 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting Auditor Resolutions relating to the following items of special business The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has indicated its willingness to will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
continue in office and resolutions proposing its reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its remuneration for Resolution 7 Continuation of the Company as an investment the ensuing year will be submitted at the Annual General trust: Meeting.
The resolution to be proposed will seek shareholders authority that the Company shall continue in being as an investment By order of the Board trust.
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Services Limited Secretary Resolution 8 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights: 9 February 2006 By law, Directors require specific authority from shareholders before allotting new shares or selling shares out of treasury for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Resolution 8 empowers the Directors to allot new shares for cash or to sell shares which are held by the Company in treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 420,747 which is equivalent to 8,414,945 ordinary shares of 5p each and 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Unless renewed, this authority will expire on 16 September 2007.
Resolution 9 Authority to buy back shares: The resolution to be proposed will seek to renew the authority granted to Directors enabling the Company to purchase its own shares.
Purchases of ordinary shares will only be made through the market for cash at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Value per ordinary share.
Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the maximum price which can be paid is 5% above the average of the market values of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
In making purchases, the Company will deal only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors are seeking authority to purchase up to 25,228,000 ordinary shares being 14.99% of the issued share capital.
Such authority will expire on 16 September 2007.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 21
