Directors Peter S Wilmot-Sitwell Colin A M Buchan Chairman Aged 51, was appointed to the Board in July 2001.
He was Aged 70, has been the Chairman of the Company since its Global Head of Equities at UBS Warburg before his retirement in launch in December 1993.
He was executive chairman of March 2001.
He is a non-executive director of Standard Life S. G. Warburg Securities until his retirement in 1994 and has Investments, National Westminster Bank plc, The Royal Bank of been a non executive director of several quoted companies.
Scotland plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, The Fettes Foundation and The Royal Scottish National Orchestra.
Ian C S Barby Aged 61, was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
He is Anthony W Lea non-executive chairman of Ecofin Water and Power Aged 57, was appointed to the Board in July 2005.
He was the Opportunities plc and INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller finance director of Anglo American plc in London from 1999 to Companies Investment Trust plc, and a non-executive director of 2005, one of the worlds leading mining and natural resources Pantheon International Participations PLC and Schroder Income companies.
He was also a non-executive director of AngloGold Growth Fund PLC.
He was managing director of Merrill Lynch Ashanti Limited, the worlds second largest gold producer, and Investment Managers Investment Trusts division until June fide Beers Investments SA.
Gordon H Sage Oliver A G Baring Aged 58, was appointed to the Board in July 2001.
He was an Aged 61, was appointed to the Board on 4 November 2004.
He executive director of Rio Tinto plc until his retirement early in is chairman of First Africa Ltd and holds non executive 2001 and is deputy chairman of ERM Holdings Limited, an chairmanships of Ridge Mining plc formerly Cluff Mining plc environmental consulting concern.
He is also a director of and Mwana Africa plc as well as directorships in Robert Fox Balfour Beatty plc.
Limited, Tilley International plc and Tiedemann Trust Company.
All the Directors are non-executive.
Independent Director and a member of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 17
