Investment Managers Report Portfolio Performance Index sterling terms Change 01 01 05 to 31 12 05 As set out in the Chairmans Statement, we are pleased to report that the Company enjoyed a very good second half MSCI World Index 20.3% performance and finished the year with the shares standing at FTSE 100 Index 16.7% an all-time high.
For the year ended December 2005 the HSBC Global Mining Index 55.3% Companys net asset value NAV and share price with net Gold Sub Index 44.6% income reinvested rose by 63.9% and 63% respectively.
In Base Metals Sub Index 36.6% capital only terms the NAV rose by 62.4% and the share price Diversified Mining Sub Index 64.8% by 61.2%.
This compares with the HSBC Global Mining Index Gold Bullion 30.8% sterling terms which rose by 55.3% capital only and 58.6% MG Base Metals Basket Index 39.8% with income reinvested.
This performance is the second best annual return since the The favourable moves in commodity and mining share prices inception of the Company in 1993, narrowly beating the return occurred despite a sizeable rebound in the value of the dollar.
of 2003 and second only to the recovery year of 1999 when This strengthening of the dollar in 2005 came as a surprise for mining equities bounced back strongly in the aftermath of the many investors, as currency market commentators had started Asian crisis.
out the year almost universally bearish.
In 2004 the dollar had come under pressure due to deep seated concerns about the Mining Share Overview sustainability of the United States large current account deficit.
The global economic backdrop was positive in 2005 with However, a monthly diet of interest rate rises from the Federal lacklustre economic activity in core Europe more than Reserve resuscitated the dollar and encouraged investors to offset by continuing robust growth in China and the USA, the shrug off the persistent negatives.
two most important commodity consuming countries in the world.
Despite headwinds from a stronger dollar, a high oil As commodities are priced in dollars one might have expected price and the ongoing political and military problems in Iraq the dollar strength to translate into weaker metal prices.
This self Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index MSCI World evidently did not occur and commodity prices have, for now at Index ended 2005 up 20.3% in sterling terms and 23.9% in least, decoupled somewhat from currency markets.
Currency effects have again been important for investors that this fide-coupling has two main causes: in world equities and a US dollar based investor will have found the returns from the MSCI World Index less appealing at 7.6%.
commodity markets in general are favourably balanced from a supply demand perspective and are characterised by modest In comparison with world equities the mining sector had an inventories, keeping market conditions tight even better year, continuing the record of sustained outperformance which commenced in 2000.
The mining sector there has been an increase in investor demand for has now fully retraced the underperformance suffered during commodities as an asset class the second half of the 1990s when it was impacted by the twin effects of the Asian crisis and the technology boom.
All of the This latter point may prove to be particularly important.
Over main sub-sectors of the mining industry comfortably beat the most of the last two decades large institutional investors such as broad market in 2005, with the year finishing on an all-time pension funds and insurance companies have allocated only very high.
modest sums to the commodity markets.
If, as seems possible, we are in the midst of an upsurge of investor interest in commodities then this has positive implications for the strength and duration of the current cycle.
Evidence of this changing pattern of asset allocation can be seen in the charts overleaf which illustrate the fund flows into commodity index funds, principally the Goldman Sachs Commodity Index GSCI, and the aggregate holdings of gold in the bullion Exchange Traded Funds.
Although by these measures investment in commodities Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 5 Investment Managers Report continued has never been higher it should be remembered that such sums companies in the sector.
Furthermore the anticipated flood of still represent only a tiny part of the global capital markets.
new supply for the most part failed to materialise with many new projects subject to delay, encouraging analysts to the view Investment in Commodity Index Funds of the cycle being stronger for longer.
The net result, especially in the second half of the year, was a pronounced upward momentum in share prices, although price earnings multiples have remained static, as earnings have risen equally fast.
While the year as a whole was satisfyingly positive, we should not forget that this is and will always be a volatile sector.
As is usual, we saw episodic changes in sentiment which led to violent movements in the markets.
Interestingly, 2005 saw a virtually exact repetition of the market patterns seen in 2004, with a spring sell-off starting and finishing on almost the same day.
We think that these unsettling spring sell-offs were caused by analysts trying to second guess the peak of the commodity cycle.
It has been a characteristic of this cycle that commodity analysts Source: Macquarie Research.
have been consistently too pessimistic and are on the look out for its demise.
The period between the disclosure of strong year Growth in ETFs troy ounces end Q1 corporate results and the onset of seasonally weak 12,000,000 summer markets is when the stockmarket is the most vulnerable to this something which we might easily see again in 2006.
10,000,000 Our strategy has been to look through these market gyrations.
8,000,000 As we have stated in previous reports, we have leaned towards the super cycle idea and chosen a sanguine view of the 6,000,000 potential returns achievable from mining equities.
As a result, for virtually the whole of 2005 we maintained a relatively 4,000,000 aggressive portfolio stance, including the use of tactical gearing.
It was only at the very end of 2005, with markets at all time 2,000,000 highs, that we felt inclined to be more cautious and repaid most of the Companys bank overdraft.
0 Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec 03 03 03 03 04 04 04 04 05 05 05 05 A particular focus of the portfolio has been on those companies Source: www.
that are best placed to benefit from the changing shape of global demand.
The largest portfolio investments are in The inflows into commodity funds such as the GSCI have helped companies which produce the metals and minerals that China to silence the debate we referred to in the Companys interim needs to import to satisfy its economic growth requirements.
report, namely is this a normal cycle or a super cycle?
These are commodities like iron ore, coal, copper, zinc, alumina, Following on from yet another year of strong Chinese demand it platinum, gold and even diamonds.
Our top ten holdings is now clear even to the most sceptical commentator that the produce a combination of these materials, and this strategy massive growth in Chinas share of global commodity demand is together with our tactical gearing has helped generate out a trend which is both persistent and self reinforcing.
For many performance against our benchmark index.
commodities, Chinas own domestic productive capacity is unlikely to be able to keep up with this growth, implying The table opposite shows the price movements US dollar terms ongoing import requirements.
With each passing month of high of some of the metals and minerals that are most important to prices and stubborn demand strength, analysts were forced to the Companys portfolio.
Not surprisingly, the favourable pricing revise upwards their earnings expectations for the major 6 Investment Managers Report continued environment showed through in some good earnings numbers equities stems from their seeming inability to translate the for the leading companies in the mining industry.
Despite higher gold price into higher earnings and dividends.
Costs mounting pressure on production costs, many of the companies seem to have risen in lock-step with revenues: put simply, the in the portfolio will have achieved record earnings for the year economics of the gold sector have not been sufficiently and will also be making record returns to shareholders.
attractive in comparison with other parts of the mining industry.
Nonetheless gold remains an important element in the portfolio.
Price Change Change We have been pleased by the recovery in 2005 of the two South 31 12 05 12 month Average 04 03 African producers in the portfolio Harmony Gold Mining 1.6% Gold US$ troy oz 512.55 17.0% 8.7% of the portfolio and Gold Fields 2.7%.
Harmony rose 64.7% Platinum US$ troy oz 964.00 12.0% 6.1% during the year in sterling terms and Gold Fields rose 59.8%, Nickel US$ tonne 13,377.50 12.0% 6.5% making these two of the best performing major gold shares in the world.
Both of these companies have benefited from the Copper Cents lb 2.08 39.8% 28.5% sharp rise in the rand denominated gold price during the year Aluminium US$ tonne 2284.75 16.4% 10.7% and, in addition, have been helped by the cessation of hostilities Zinc US$ tonne 1914.75 50.8% 31.9% between the two companies following the failure of Harmonys Iron ore lump US$ tonne 80.00 71.5% 71.5% bid for Gold Fields.
We voted the Companys shares against this Coking Coal hard transaction as we were unconvinced of the argument that US$ tonne 125.00 119.3% 119.3% shareholder value would be created.
Gold and precious commodities Gold equities performed well in 2005 as a whole, although the The largest gold holding in the portfolio, Minas Buenaventura first half of the year was weak.
In absolute terms gold did well 4.0% of the portfolio, had a difficult year from a political rising by 30.8% in sterling, its best year since 1979.
In US dollar perspective local villagers have campaigned against mining but terms gold touched $540.90 oz, its highest level since 1980. performed very well operationally rising 41.5% over the year.
The best performing major gold share in 2005 was the Chinese Golds good performance came despite a rebound in the value of company, Zijin Mining.
We have taken profits in the stock and the dollar and a steady tightening of US monetary policy: factors no longer hold the shares.
which would normally suppress the price.
The key to golds positive returns was the continuation of favourable supply demand Platinum remained steadily firm in 2005 and in December balances.
Global mine output has been stagnant for several years surpassed $1000 oz for the first time.
This strength can be due to a lack of exploration success while jewellery demand is attributed to continuing slow ramp-up of production in South robust and investment demand is surging.
With Central Bank Africa together with buoyant demand from the autocatalyst sellers sidelined by the Central Bank Gold Agreement this creates market.
There are signs that the jewellery industry is resistant to an environment of upwards pricing pressure, especially given the paying such highly elevated prices for metal and switching to strength of other commodities.
In our view the main catalyst which cheaper palladium but in view of the new regulations for diesel sparked off the increase in investment demand was the non vote catalysts coming into force most analysts believe that the by the French in their Constitutional Referendum.
This highlighted market will remain favourably balanced.
The Companys the risks present in the global currency markets and set back the portfolio currently holds three platinum equities: Impala aspirations of the European Central Banks which have been Platinum 4.5% of the portfolio, Aquarius Platinum 0.6% and making the case for the Euro as a core reserve asset.
Furthermore, we recently acquired a small holding in Ridge Mining 0.2%.
with oil prices high, there has been more than a whiff of incipient These companies have assets based in South Africa and have inflation in global capital markets.
thus benefited from the somewhat weaker tone to the rand in 2005.
The South African platinum companies have also mostly Despite the positive tone to the gold market, investment in gold benefited from a sharp increase in so-called by-product revenues shares has again not been a major feature of the portfolio especially Rhodium up by 125.6% in 2005 US$ terms and strategy in 2005.
At the year ended 2004 gold exposure in the Palladium up by 37.5% in US dollar terms.
We expect strong portfolio stood at 11.3% and at the end of 2005 it stood at earnings momentum to continue into 2006 as platinum has 9.3%.
This unenthusiastic stance towards the major gold moved to fresh all-time highs in January.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 7 Investment Managers Report continued The diamond market was rather dull in 2005 with fide Beers Copper continued its strong run in 2005, starting the year at implementing two price rises during the year of 3% each.
Our $1.49 lb and finishing at $2.08 lb for a year on year gain of largest diamond equity holding remains Aber Diamond 3.2% of 39.8%.
The average for the year exceeded the average for 2004 the portfolio which owns a 40% stake in the Diavik mine in by 28.5%.
The price strength resulted from a combination of Canada with Rio Tinto holding 60%.
This mine continues to good underlying demand, especially in China, and supply deliver on its promise and Aber has now begun paying strong disruptions.
The most visible production side problem came dividends to shareholders although the lacklustre diamond market from a series of strikes at Asarco and Grupo Mexico.
However, backdrop meant that the shares stagnated for much of the year.
throughout much of the year, copper markets were also buoyed by a smelter bottleneck which constrained supply of refined Base Metals metal to the market and therefore led to a much tighter copper Base metals had another excellent year with requirements from market than most analysts predicted.
Towards the end of 2005, China again underpinning demand.
Overall, inventories in copper surged to an all time high of $2.10 lb, spurred on by London Metal Exchange LME warehouses remained low news of a Chinese rogue trader who had accumulated a sour reflecting broadly satisfactory supply and demand trends.
For all short position in copper.
In 2005, in addition to the high of the base metals, inventories are close to levels where we copper price, many copper mining companies also received a would normally expect to see price strength and volatility.
The boost from by-product molybdenum which averaged $32.70 lb MG Base Metals Index, which represents a basket of metals, during the year, its highest average ever, confounding pundits rose by 25.0% during the year and the average price was up who expected much lower prices.
nearly 18% in comparison with the average for 2004.
After a disappointing performance in 2004, base metal equities roared First Quantum Minerals 3.3% of the portfolio had another into life in 2005, with the base metals sub index of the HSBC excellent year with the shares rising by 129.1% in sterling Global Mining Index up by 36.6% in sterling terms.
First Quantum has successfully commissioned the Kansanshi copper mine in Zambia and also enjoyed continuing Nickel proved to be one of the weakest metals in 2005, exploration success on its extensive exploration properties on declining from US$6.90 lb to US$6.07 lb over the course of the the border between the DRC and Zambia.
Nickel was impacted by deterioration in demand from the dividends at First Quantum are now rising at a rapid rate and stainless steel industry which has been suffering from the legacy the shares were one of the most important contributors to of over investment in new capacity.
Most analysts expect the portfolio returns during the year.
growth in world demand to catch up in 2006, so a better year is in prospect.
Even though the nickel price was lower, it still Another exceptional performer was Oxiana 1.0% of the surpassed the bearish expectations of many analysts and as a portfolio which rose by 83.9% in sterling terms.
Oxiana result nickel equities finished the year higher.
The main nickel successfully commissioned its Sepon copper mine in Laos and producers in the Companys portfolio are Inco 1.3% of the also acquired the Golden Grove mine and Prominent Hill portfolio which posted a rise of 32.5% sterling terms, prospect in Australia at favourable prices.
Falconbridge 6.3% which rose 40.2%, and Eramet 0.7% of the portfolio which rose 18.8%.
Most other copper equities in the portfolio such as Antofagasta 1.7% of the portfolio, Southern Peru Copper 1.1%, Jiangxi At the time of writing we still await the outcome of Incos agreed Copper 1.1% and Amerigo Resources 1.3% reported bid for Falconbridge.
This deal, if successful, would reinforce excellent earnings and sharp share price gains.
Even Palabora Incos leadership position in the market and in addition has the Mining 1.0%, the perennial laggard, rose in 2005 having potential to unlock considerable operating synergies in the begun to show signs of operational turnaround.
In October we Sudbury basin as well as New Caledonia where Falconbridge is bought shares in the flotation of Kazakhyms, a Kazakh copper planning the development of the Koniambo project.
At the year mining company.
end, nickel exposure in the portfolio including Falconbridge stood at 8.5% compared to 8.9% at the end of 2004.
Thanks to the strong cash flows, dividend flow from copper companies picked up sharply in 2005.
Southern Peru more than In the portfolio breakdown we have reclassified Falconbridge as diversified doubled its payout, having tripled it in 2004 and is currently following its merger with Noranda.
trading on a historic dividend yield of 9.5%.
Freeport McMoRan 8 Investment Managers Report continued also lifted its total dividend by over 100% paying seven separate share price rising by 207.7% over the year sterling terms.
This dividends instead of the usual four.
Cerro Verde, a Peruvian exceptionally strong performance made Zinifex one of the most copper mining company, paid a dividend which exceeded the important contributors to capital returns in the portfolio.
book cost of stock added to the portfolio as recently as 2003.
At the year end copper exposure in the portfolio was about Tin was a disappointing metal during the year with the price 12.8%, compared with 9.9% at the end of 2004. falling by 15.1% in US dollar terms.
Our investment in the Peruvian tin miner Minsur 0.7% of the portfolio was therefore In the Companys interim report we expressed the view that one of the few shares in the portfolio which delivered negative there was limited downside risk for aluminium and this proved returns, a result compounded towards the end of the year by to be correct.
The second half of the year saw the aluminium worries in the local Peruvian market about the outlook for price rise by 16.4%, spurred on by falling inventories and elections in 2006.
Bluestone Tin, an Australian development energy price related production cuts.
This strength seems set to company also struggled in the poor pricing environment, and continue through 2006.
Despite this, aluminium shares did not we sold the bulk of the holding in this company.
really perform, and market leader Alcoa continued to lag badly, rising by only 5.3% in sterling over the year.
The reason why Energy Commodities aluminium shares have tended to disappoint is related to the Given the strong oil price it is perhaps not surprising that high cost of energy as a component of their production cost.
As excepting seaborne thermal coal where the portfolio has no a result of this, the positive effects of the higher metal price exposure apart from through the UK Diversified stocks see have been offset by escalating input costs.
below other energy commodities also did well during 2005.
Uranium was particularly buoyant, rising from $20.70 lb at the At current price levels Alcoa is, in our view, an increasingly start of the year to $36.25 lb at the end.
The main uranium attractive investment and over the year we slowly increased the holdings in the fund are the Canadian listed stocks Uranium size of the holding.
Alcoas fourth quarter earnings release Participation 0.5% of the portfolio and Cameco 1.4% of the showed a steadily strengthening balance sheet and moderating portfolio.
Towards the end of the year we initiated a small cost inflation.
Furthermore, the positive effects of higher position in the Australian uranium miner Energy Resources aluminium prices only appear with a lag, a factor which will help 0.2% of the portfolio.
We like the outlook for uranium as returns in the first half of 2006. there is every chance that a shortage will develop in the coming years.
Having demonised uranium and nuclear power for many The best performing aluminium share in the portfolio was the years, the politicians in the developed world are now beginning Australian company Alumina 3.8% of the portfolio which rose to comprehend that nuclear will have to play a major role if by 30.7%.
Alumina is not quite so vulnerable to higher raw carbon dioxide emissions are to be reduced.
materials costs and has the benefit of a robust alumina price.
We like Alumina because of its high quality long life assets and The high oil price has also encouraged utilities to maximise their its dominant market position: it is well placed to grow into the coal burn, as this is for many companies by far the cheapest expanding demand from smelters.
In the USA thermal coal contract prices have been rising in exposure to aluminium alumina closed the year at 5.9% line with natural gas prices and this has been reflected by a compared to 8.9% at the end of 2004. sizeable positive re-rating of the domestic coal producers.
Peabody Energy 1.2% of the portfolio rose by 127.8% during The other base metals continued to do well with lead going to a the year sterling terms and this strength caused us to trim back 26 year high of US$1,157 tonne and zinc moving to a 16 year the holding and lock in some profits.
The stronger performance of zinc is particularly encouraging as inventories are declining steadily and In June 2005 we participated in the flotation of Shenhua China is set to remain a net importer for the medium-term.
This Energy, Chinas largest domestic coal miner 1.0% of the suggests that zinc might see another sizeable deficit of supply in portfolio.
We like Shenhua because of its dominant reserve comparison with demand in 2006.
If this occurs then we expect position one of the largest in the world and its access to that zinc prices could remain buoyant.
The Australian miner transport infrastructure.
Shenhua is poised to grow its business Zinifex 3.2% of the portfolio was the biggest beneficiary of the at a rapid rate in future years as Chinas economy grows and the higher zinc price, with a maiden dividend declared and the Government discourages small scale coal mining.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 9 Investment Managers Report continued Another result of the high oil price has been increased interest other parts of its mining business with better long term growth in the Canadian oil sands industry.
We have initiated a small potential.
Rio Tinto 8.7% of the portfolio benefited from holding in the Canadian Oil Sands Trust.
strong pricing across virtually all of the product range.
Rio also enjoyed something of a bounce back from 2004, which had Diversified mining companies and industrial commodities been adversely impacted by one-off problems such as the pit The UK listed diversified mining companies had a superb year, slippage at Grasberg copper-gold mine and inclement weather buoyed up by record breaking bulk commodity prices and in Australia.
As we predicted this time last year, Rio Tinto strong base metals markets.
Robust demand from the Chinese implemented a major capital return in 2005, buying back nearly steel industry was again the reason why iron ore and coking $1 billion of stock and increasing its dividend.
coal moved higher with record price rises achieved by producers.
Although thermal and metallurgical coal are likely to be weaker Poorest performer amongst the UK Diversifieds was Xstrata this year there is every indication that the iron ore market will which rose by only 45.9%.
Although operationally Xstrata had strengthen further in 2006 and more records seem set to be a good year in 2005, the shares have been held back by a broken.
perception that the company needs to do a corporate deal and that this deal might not be accretive to shareholder value.
The best performing UK listed stock was Vedanta Resources, the Certainly Xstrata is developing a reputation as a jilted bride only sizeable quoted mining company with significant exposure having had its hostile bid for WMC Resources trumped by BHP to the fast growing Indian economy, which more than doubled Billiton and now seeing its plans for a business combination in sterling terms.
Vedanta Resources 2.4% of the portfolio with Falconbridge torpedoed by Incos friendly bid for that developed its business across a broad front in 2005, finally company.
As we have mentioned to you in previous reports, we commissioning its Tuticorin copper smelter and giving the go had built up a sizeable holding in Falconbridge and the fide facto ahead for the Orissa alumina project.
Vedantas share price auction for this asset made it one of the largest contributors to performance after its December 2003 listing was initially the portfolio returns in 2005. lacklustre and the strong returns in 2005 could therefore be seen as a catch-up with the UK investors beginning to better The large portfolio position in Teck Cominco 5.0% of the understand the nature of the company.
Towards the end of portfolio paid off handsomely in 2005.
Teck Cominco enjoyed 2005 we began to take some profits and reduced the size of the the benefit of the sharply higher base metals prices especially holding in Vedanta.
zinc and copper as well as the buoyant coking coal price.
As a result, Tecks balance sheet is now exceptionally strong and we BHP Billiton 5.5% of the portfolio had another excellent year anticipate that it will either engage in a significant acquisition or and achieved record earnings and cash flow.
The company had a further increase its dividend, which it doubled in 2005. perfect product mix and was able to take advantage of stronger iron ore, coal, base metals and oil gas markets.
BHP Billiton has CVRD as the worlds premier iron ore producer is also in the led the way in demonstrating commitment to shareholder value sweet spot of this commodity cycle and the company enjoyed by returning $1.78 billion through a stock buyback and $1.4 an excellent year with the share price rising by 66.3%.
The shares rose by 55.5% in sterling meant that CVRD was not only the largest single investment in terms during the year.
BHP also completed the purchase of WMC the portfolio 10.2% but also the biggest contributor to the Resources, with its cash bid topping that made by Xstrata.
So far, positive shareholder returns.
CVRD though is not just about BHP is likely to be pleased by its purchase as the nickel, copper movements in the iron ore price.
We like the company because and uranium prices have exceeded expectations.
of its superb ore reserve position and its growth potential outside iron ore.
Indeed we believe that CVRD has perhaps the Anglo American and Rio Tinto, the laggards in the UK group strongest new project pipeline of any company in the mining during 2004, performed much better in 2005 rising by 60.6% sector.
Its strong cash generation has enabled it to both grow and 73.2% in sterling terms respectively.
Anglo American 2.9% strongly and make big dividend payments, hence our heavy of the portfolio performed particularly well in the light of a weighting in the stock.
strategic review presented to the market in the latter part of the year.
This review will ultimately see the company reducing its In the last Annual report we mentioned that Iluka, the Australian gold and pulp paper exposure and refocus attention on the minerals sands company had made a zircon exploration 10 Investment Managers Report continued discovery, known as Jacinth, in South Australia.
Subsequent work For the fifth year running we expect China to be a key theme in has confirmed the promise of this discovery and materially adds the commodity markets.
Although economists often question to Ilukas production profile and valuation.
As a result, Ilukas the economic growth assumptions for China there is little doubt share price enjoyed a re-rating in 2005 rising by 30.4%.
that its rank in the global economy will continue to increase.
There is a possibility that China will enter the market as a Derivatives activity strategic buyer of commodities as a part of its reserves The Group sometimes trades in derivatives options contracts, diversification strategy.
with virtually all of the activity focused on selling either puts or calls in order to generate option premium revenues.
These The other key market for commodities will be the USA where positions, which are always small in comparison with the total despite the interest rate rises of 2005 growth remains robust.
If, size of the Group, usually have the effect of obliging us to buy or as seems possible, the US dollar weakens in 2006 then this will sell stock or futures at levels which we believe are attractive.
At help to reinforce the positive trend of headline commodity 31 December the Group had minimal open derivatives positions.
prices, perhaps attracting fresh investment demand from institutional investors.
Gearing At 31 December, the Group was utilising just 4.9 million of its We expect to see a continuation of the uptrend in gold.
Net gearing is equivalent to 0.7% supply is likely to remain stagnant while investment demand is of net asset value and peaked at 8.4% during the year.
The year growing and net Central Bank sales may even decline.
This is a end gearing, which can be repaid at any time, is significantly good environment for gold especially if the dollar weakens again lower than the typical levels during 2005 and this reduction and the Federal Reserve decides that it has raised rates enough.
reflects the strong gains achieved in the portfolio during the fourth quarter.
The main risks to this rosy scenario in the short-term are either economic deceleration especially in China and the USA or an Outlook and Strategy for 2006 external shock to the global economy such as one might see if At the interim stage last year we argued that 2005 would be bird flu was to take hold or there were a major terrorist another record year for the mining industry and this has proved atrocity.
These uncertainties always help to create the volatility to be the case.
2006 has started off well and commodity price characteristic of the sector.
averages so far this year point to more records being broken in due course.
Our portfolio strategy at the start of 2006 is three pronged: Scarcity of capital equipment, together with skills shortages and 1 Fully invested portfolio.
Continuing emphasis on companies higher funding requirements, have delayed the supply-side with strong cash flow and the potential to lift returns to response to higher commodity prices that many analysts shareholders through higher dividends and share buy backs.
As a result, we believe that global economic growth in 2006 will be sufficiently robust to ensure that supply demand 2 Continuing emphasis on companies producing those balances in the metals and minerals markets remain favourable, commodities in short supply in China i. e. iron ore and base with positive implications for the duration and magnitude of the metals.
If we are right about the pricing environment then most companies in the portfolio will see cash 3 Tactical use of gearing.
accumulate on the balance sheet at a quicker rate than it can be deployed on new projects.
Given that balance sheets had While we are not brave enough to predict that returns in 2006 already strengthened markedly during 2005 there is a likelihood will match the very strong out-turn of 2005, we would not be that these strong cash flows will translate into another year of surprised to see the mining sector continue its outperformance higher dividends and more share buy backs.
There is also the against broader global equities.
possibility of additional corporate activity providing further support for the market as, despite the price rises in mining Graham Birch & Evy Hambro equities, the cash flow multiples remain modest.
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Limited 9 February 2006 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 11
