Board of Directors and Group Secretary 12 7 8 10 9 4 1.
John Sunderl Sunderland, and, 60 60 Chairman of Thames Water 1998-2000 5.
Bob Stack, 55 ack, 55 Chief Executive Officer of Williams plc 1994-2000 Ch Chairman airman Chie Chief f Human R Human Re esour sourc ces Offic es Officer er Board Committee membership: Term of office: Appointed as Chairman in May 2003.
Term of office: Appointed to the Board in May 1996.
Audit Committee John was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or Bob was last re-elected in 2005 and is not retiring or Remuneration Committee standing for re-election in 2006. standing for re-election in 2006.
Nomination Committee Skills and experience: John has 38 years of experience Skills and experience: Bob has wide international Human Resources expertise.
Bob joined Cadbury working within the Cadbury Schweppes Group in the 3.
Todd odd Stitz Stitzer er, 54 54 UK and overseas on both the confectionery and Beverages in the US in 1990 as Vice-President, Human Chie Chief f E Ex xecutive Offic ecutive Officer er Resources for the global beverages business.
In 1992 beverage side of the business.
John has held senior Term of office: Appointed to the Board in March 2000. leadership roles within the Company, including being he moved to the UK as Group Director of Strategic Appointed CEO in May 2003.
Todd was last re-elected Human Resources Management, being appointed to the CEO from 1996 to 2003.
Johns experience, together in 2003 and is retiring by rotation and standing for rewith his roles in key trade and business organisations, is Board as Chief Human Resources Officer in 1996. election in 2006.
Bobs responsibilities also include corporate and invaluable to the business and makes him ideally placed to chair the Board as it seeks to create enhanced external affairs and corporate communications.
Skills and experience: Todd joined Cadbury Schweppes shareowner value.
North America in 1983 as assistant general counsel Other directorships and offices: and has gained extensive international experience in Other directorships and offices: Non-executive director of J Sainsbury plc President of the Confederation of British Industry senior legal, marketing, sales strategy development and Visiting Professor at Henley Management College general management roles within the Company.
Todds Non-executive director of The Rank Group plc Board Committee membership: Non-executive director of Barclays PLC business leadership, legal and commercial expertise Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee make him well placed to lead the organisation as it Director of the Financial Reporting Council Advisory Board member of CVC Capital Partners delivers on its commitment to deliver superior 6.
Dr Wolf Wolfg gang Ber ang Bernd ndt, 63 t, 63 shareowner performance.
Todd was President & CEO Advisory Board member of Ian Jones & Partners Independent Non-E Independent Non-Ex xecutive Dir ecutive Direc ect to or r Leadership council member of Young Enterprise of Dr Pepper Seven Up, Inc. between 1997 and 2000 and Chief Strategy Officer between March 2000 and Term of office: Appointed to the Board in January Board Committee membership: 2002.
Wolfgang was last re-elected in 2005 and is May 2003.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee not retiring or standing for re-election in 2006.
Other directorships and offices: Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee Non-executive director of Diageo plc Skills and experience: Wolfgangs broad range of executive and operational experience gained over a 2.
Roger oger Carr Carr, 59, 59 Board Committee membership: career managing consumer goods companies enables D Deputy Ch eputy Chairman and Senior Independent airman and Senior Independent Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee him to contribute significantly to the Board.
Non-E Non-Ex xecutive Dir ecutive Direc ect to or r 4.
Ken Hanna, 52 en Hanna, 52 Other directorships and offices: Term of office: Appointed to the Board in January Non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Group plc Chie Chief f F Financi inancial Offic al Officer er 2001 and Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive director of GfK AG Non-Executive Director since May 2003.
Roger was Term of office: Appointed to the Board in April 2004.
Board member of the Institute for the Future Ken was last re-elected in 2004 and is retiring by last re-elected in 2004 and is retiring by rotation and President Global Fabric & Home Care sector of The standing for re-election in 2006. rotation and standing for re-election in 2006.
Procter & Gamble Co 1998-2001 Skills and experience: Ken has a broad range of Skills and experience: Rogers experience as both a Board Committee membership: Chairman and Chief Executive of other FTSE 100 experience gained whilst working as the Group Finance Audit Committee Director of United Distillers plc 1993-1997 and the companies enables him to provide highly valued advice Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee and support to the executive management team of the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director of Remuneration Committee Dalgety plc 1997-1999.
In addition, Kens focus on Company.
He is responsible for consulting with major UK shareowners on matters of corporate governance.
consumer goods while an Operating Partner at the 7.
Riick Br ck Braddock, 64 addock, 64 private equity firm Compass Partners 1999-2004 Other directorships and offices: Independent Non-E Independent Non-Ex xecutive Dir ecutive Direc ect to or r makes him particularly qualified to lead the Cadbury Non-executive Chairman of Centrica plc Schweppes finance function.
Term of office: Appointed to the Board in June 1997.
Non-executive Chairman of Mitchells & Butlers plc Rick was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or Other directorships and offices: Senior Adviser to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. Ltd standing for re-election in 2006.
Non-executive director of Inchcape plc Fellow of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufacturers and Commerce Board Committee membership: Chairman of Chubb plc 2000-2002 None 38 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 1 3 511 2 6 Skills and experience: Rick brings to the Board a broad Other directorships and offices: President of the National Federation of range of consumer, marketing and management Chairman of the Nottingham Building Society Consumer Groups experience across several sectors.
His business Finance director of The Boots Company plc President of the Institute of Trading Standards experience in North America benefits the Group, 1990-2002 Member of the Council of the Foundation for especially with regards to its significant businesses in Science and Technology Board Committee membership: that region.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Board Committee membership: Other directorships and offices: Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee Chairman of the Corporate and Social Non-executive director of Eastman Kodak Company Remuneration Committee Responsibility Committee Non-executive director of Marriott International, Inc 10.
Hester Blanks, 53 Non-executive director of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts Independent Non-Executive Director Group Secretary Chairman of MidOcean Partners Term of office: Appointed to the Board in September Term of office: Appointed Group Secretary on Board Committee membership: 2004.
Rosemary was last re-elected in 2005 and is 1 July 2005.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee not retiring or standing for re-election in 2006.
Skills and experience: Hester started her career in Audit Committee Skills and experience: Rosemary brings a wealth of Cadbury Schweppes as a lawyer in 1984, having financial reporting and corporate governance expertise previously worked at Clifford Turner in London.
Lord Patten, 61 to the Board and its committees gained during her became Board Secretary to Coca-Cola & Schweppes Independent Non-Executive Director corporate career and participation in key external Beverages in 1987 and then held a variety of senior Term of office: Appointed to the Board on 1 July organisations.
legal roles within the business, latterly in 2003 being 2005.
Lord Patten is standing for re-election in 2006 appointed as Legal Director Group.
Other directorships and offices: at the first Annual General Meeting since his Finance Director of Ladbrokes plc appointment.
Sanjiv Ahuja, 49 Group Finance Director of Bradford & Bingley plc Skills and experience: Lord Pattens distinguished 1999-2005 Independent Non-Executive Director career in public office enables him to brings a great Member of the Financial Reporting Council Term of office: Appointed to the Board with effect from deal of experience and expertise to the Board, Member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Sanjiv will stand for re-election in 2007. especially in the area of international relations, which is Member of the Main Committee of The Hundred Skills and experience: Sanjiv has wide ranging valuable to a Group that has a presence in almost every Group of Finance Directors international experience from some of the largest country in the world.
Council member of The University of Warwick consumer-facing industries in the world and a strong Other directorships and offices: Board Committee membership: information technology background.
Chancellor of Oxford University Audit Committee Other directorships and offices: Chancellor of Newcastle University Remuneration Committee Chief Executive Officer of Orange SA Advisor Board member of Bridgepoint Capital Ltd Member of France Telecom's Group Management European Commissioner for External Relations 11.
Baroness Wilcox, 65 Committee 1999-2004 Independent Non-Executive Director Non-executive director of Mobistar SA Governor of Hong Kong 19921997 Term of office: Appointed to the Board in March 1997.
Non-executive director of Williams Sonoma, Inc. Board Committee membership: Baroness Wilcox was last re-elected in 2005 and is Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee standing for annual re-election in 2006 having been a Board member for over nine years.
David Thompson, 63 Skills and experience: Her breadth of experience as Independent Non-Executive Director a retail entrepreneur, with consumer groups, and as a Term of office: Appointed to the Board in March 1998. working peer in the House of Lords, allows her to David was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or contribute extensively on commercial, human resource standing for re-election in 2006. and CSR matters.
Skills and experience: David has considerable financial Other directorships and offices: and retail experience, enabling him to provide a Non-executive director of Carpetright plc significant contribution to the Board and Audit Non-executive director of Johnson Services PLC 13 Committee.
Member of the House of Lords Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 39
