Strategy review todd stitzer describes how investment, innovation and execution helped us deliver OUR best sales growth in a decade In 2005, sales in both our confectionery and beverage businesses grew strongly at 6%.
We completed the Adams acquisition integration ahead of schedule with financial benefits ahead of plan.
We disposed of Europe Beverages swiftly and at a good price, freeing up resources to invest in our higher growth businesses.
As we celebrated the 100th anniversary of Cadbury Dairy Milk, we acquired Green & Blacks, the UKs fastest growing premium chocolate brand.
We were also delighted to receive the Todd Stitzer Chief Executive Officer Quality of Management award from Management Today.
6 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 2004 2007 Goals 2005 Priorities Deliver superior shareowner performance Deliver annual contract 1 Execute Fuel for Growth and focus on Free Cash Flow Profitably and significantly increase Invest, innovate and execute 2 global confectionery share Execute Smart Variety Profitably secure and grow regional Invest, innovate and execute 3 beverages share Strengthen US non-carbonates and route to market Ensure our capabilities are best in class Rollout Building Commercial Capabilities 4 Refine Supply Chain disciplines Reinforce reputation with employees Motivate, develop & reward our people 5 and society Continue high Corporate and Social Responsibility standards In October 2003, we set our strategic We are using cost savings from the Fuel goals for 2004 2007.
Each goal has two for Growth programme, which currently priorities.
Our goals are unlikely to change stand at a cumulative 180 million, to from year to year but the priorities will, invest in growth initiatives across the according to our business needs and the Group.
We made significant investments market environment.
The goals provide to strengthen our innovation pipeline, our a small number of clear and achievable science and technology, commercial and objectives for our senior managers against salesforce capabilities, our information which they report and are incentivised.
systems and our understanding of consumers.
We believe we can consistently deliver These investments enhance our ability to superior shareowner performance by execute in our markets.
We have already seen profitably growing our competitively benefits in 2005, with our confectionery Invest advantaged global confectionery and and our beverages businesses both growing regional beverage businesses: by ensuring sales by 6%.
In confectionery, we gained that our team and its capabilities are best share in 16 out of our top 20 markets.
in class: and by ensuring we have strong In beverages, we grew our market share relationships with our employees and the in US carbonates for the second year in communities in which we do business.
a row, and improved the performance Innovate of our US non-carbonated beverages.
In 2004, our priorities were focused on: reducing our cost base: integrating Adams: In the following pages we describe how and investing in innovation and systems we delivered against our goals in 2005 capabilities.
In 2005, the focus of our by investment in growth, increasingly Execute priorities moved firmly towards growth.
systematic and successful innovation and outstanding execution in the marketplace.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 7 Strategy review Goal 1 3 1 2 4 5 DELIVER SUPERIOR SHAREOWNER PERFORMANCE 2005 Priorities Deliver annual contract budget Execute Fuel for Growth and focus on Free Cash Flow Our overarching goal is to deliver In order to deliver superior business consistently superior shareowner returns, performance we have focused on: driven by superior business performance.
accelerating the rate of profitable revenue growth: reducing costs: improving our We measure shareowner performance by capabilities: and allocating capital to those looking at the total returns on our shares brands, businesses and markets which have share price growth plus the value of superior growth and returns.
Our returns are measured against a broad group of our When we announced our goals and priorities international fast moving consumer group for 2004 to 2007 we also announced peers.
This group includes our major financial goal ranges all on a constant Steve Driver confectionery and beverage competitors.
currency basis for three simple business President Global Supply Chain left metrics.
Delivery of these financial goal Ken Hanna Following another good performance in ranges is the key to achieving performance Chief Financial Officer right 2005, we have now delivered top quartile in line with our annual contract budget : returns for our shareowners for both 2005 Grow revenues by 3% 5% every year and for the two year period 2004 and excluding acquisitions and disposals 2005.
In 2005, our return of 23% compared to 13% for the peer group.
Improve margins by 50 to 75 basis points For 2004 and 2005, our return of 57% each year compares with 35% for the peer group Generate free cash flow of 1.5 billion as a whole.
Deliver superior shareowner performance Peer group average TSR performance % 2004 and 2005 financial performance over 2004 and 2005 against our goal ranges Hester Blanks Goal ranges 2004 2005 % Quartile 1 Quartile 2 Quartile 3 Quartile 4 20042007 52 weeks Group Secretary left 120 Revenue growth 3 5% pa 5% 6% Hank Udow Chief Legal Officer right 100 Underlying 50 75 50 30 Cadbury Schweppes operating bps pa bps bps 80 TSR 57% margin growth 60 Free cash flow 1.5bn 265m 450m 40 generation 20 at constant exchange rates: excluding Europe Beverages 0 includes Europe Beverages and at 2003 exchange rates -20 Source: Datastream 8 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Invest Innovate Execute Making the most of Swedish Fish Swedish Fish, one our most important US sugar confectionery products, is a great example of how we have managed to reduce complexity, increase available capacity, lower working capital and reduce operating costs and keep customers happy.
Two years ago we were producing fourteen different sizes of fish, some only marginally different from others.
By reducing this to four, we have simplified and automated our manufacturing processes.
Whats more, the brand is more popular than ever, with sales up over 8% in 2005.
In 2005, we saw a further acceleration in Our Fuel for Growth cost saving programme Delivering Fuel for Growth our rate of revenue growth.
Revenues grew is on track, with 90 million of cost savings by 6%, above the top end of our goal delivered in 2005.
This brings the cumulative 2003 2004 2005 range.
Our confectionery and beverages savings from the programme to 180 Factories closed sold 6 3 6 businesses both contributed to this million since it began in mid 2003.
As a Headcount reduced 1,000 1,100 1,900 increased momentum, driven by our higher result, our cost base has become more Gross cost savings 20m 70m 90m growth investment, and the commitment competitive, and we have reinvested a All figures are annual and exclude Europe Beverages Excludes 13 Europe Beverages factories sold in 2006 of our people to execute our strategies significant proportion of the savings in our in the market place.
businesses, as we said we would do when we launched our four-year strategy.
In the two years following the Adams Revenue growth 2003 to 2005 acquisition, we focused on integrating We are making cost savings in many areas, the business, growing organically and 2003 2004 2005 including factory closures, reorganisations reducing debt.
Group 2% 5% 6% and headcount reductions, and also in Of which: a large number of efficiency initiatives With the Adams integration largely Confectionery 3% 6% 6% throughout the Group.
These initiatives completed and consistent with our Beverages 1% 4% 6% are reducing complexity, increasing our Managing for Value philosophy adopted Continuing businesses excluding Europe Beverages available capacity, reducing working capital, in 1997, early in 2005 we increased our and improving our ability to execute our focus on the allocation of capital in the We increased margins in 2005 by 30 basis business, activities.
They span a wide range Groups businesses to invest in the most points, despite a challenging external cost of areas and include: attractive growth opportunities and drive environment, particularly in the second half value creation for our shareowners.
creating shared business service centres, of the year in oil, transport and packaging such as the one in Plano, Texas which costs.
We chose not to sacrifice our growth A key development was the announcement supports Americas Beverages and investment and, as a result, our margin of the sale of Europe Beverages for Americas Confectionery in handling growth year-on-year was not within our 1.26 billion which was completed in finance and HR transactional services goal range.
February 2006. and consumer and customer support: We are well on track to deliver on our rationalising production, such as the We have also announced our intention to free cash flow goal range.
Free cash transfers of Halls production from sell other small non-core brands, businesses flow increased significantly in 2005, Manchester, UK, to Canada, and Canadian and assets.
The funds raised from these benefiting from the Groups improved gum production to our more efficient disposals will be reinvested in the business, trading performance and our increased Mexican factory, to increase our either via strategic capital investment or focus on improving our working capital manufacturing scale: and bolt-on acquisitions.
maximising marketing and trade spend effectiveness for example, our US We continued to invest significant sums beverages and confectionery businesses in marketing, growth and execution have partnered on media buying and capabilities, despite the external cost consolidated advertising with a single increases.
In 2005, our investments in supplier.
growth and execution capabilities increased by 75 million.
We believe that these investments will strengthen our ability to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 9 Strategy review Goal 2 3 5 1 2 4 PROFITABLY and SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE OUR GLOBAL CONFECTIONERY SHARE 2005 Priorities Invest, innovate and execute Execute Smart Variety The ambition behind our second goal is to worlds top 50 confectionery markets.
grow our share of the global confectionery Our overall leadership in confectionery is market both organically and by acquisition.
underpinned by our number one position in We are making excellent progress through sugar, our number two position in gum and investing in our business and delivering our number four position in chocolate.
Integrating Adams, the largest acquisition Before we bought Adams in 2003, we were the Group has ever made, was one of our the fourth largest confectionery company two confectionery priorities in 2004. with a global share of 6.6%.
Our purchase Following the successful business transition of Adams increased our share by around from Pfizers shared services in the US in Jim Chambers one half, giving us the second largest share late 2004 and Canada in early 2005, the President Americas Confectionery left globally.
Over the last two years, our share main integration is now complete.
The Todd Stitzer has increased further, with Euromonitors business is now fully integrated at the Chief Executive Officer right recently published data for 2004 giving us commercial, supply chain and back office clear leadership of the global confectionery levels.
At the time of the acquisition, we market with a share of 10.0%.
said that through the combination of an improvement in the performance of the Global confectionery market shares base business and cost and revenue Excluding Including Adams Adams synergies, the returns from the Adams 2003 2003 2004 business would cover its cost of capital Cadbury Schweppes 6.6% 9.6% 10.0% by 2006.
Nearly three years on, Adams Mars 9.6% 9.6% 9.2% continues to exceed our expectations.
Nestle 7.7% 7.7% 7.8% The top line is ahead of the acquisition Hershey 6.1% 6.1% 5.8% case, margins are significantly improved Wrigley 4.6% 4.6% 4.9% and we exceeded our cost of capital in Kraft 4.8% 4.8% 4.9% 2005, one year ahead of schedule.
Matt Shattock Source: Euromonitor 2004 President Europe, Middle East and Africa left Now that we are number one in global With the Adams integration successfully Nick Fell President Global Commercial Strategy right confectionery, our aim is to increase the achieved, the focus of our activities in gap between ourselves and our competitors.
2005 has moved to growth, with our We believe we can do this because no priorities being to invest, innovate and other company has the same breadth and execute and to continue to drive Smart strength of product participation and Variety.
The Smart Variety growth initiative geographic footprint.
We compete strongly recognises that our business model is based across all three confectionery categories of on our diverse range of strong local and chocolate, sugar and gum and are number regional brands.
Smart Variety is a one or number two in around half of the commercial discipline which provides 10 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Invest Innovate Execute Innovating to win with Centre-Filled Gum Centre-filled gum is an innovative new chewing gum format a pellet gum with a liquid centre which enables us to combine different flavours and textures in a single piece of gum.
It's technologically complex and difficult to make with all our confectionery regions collaborating on its development.
Using Smart Variety, we launched it across multiple markets in 2005 with different flavours tailored to local market needs and under the local brand champions as Trident Splash in Greece, Canada and the US, as Hollywood Sweet Gum in France and as Stimorol Fusion in Switzerland, Benelux and Sweden.
The results today are outstanding with shares of 12% in France, 6% in Greece, 10% in Sweden and 7% in Canada.
We will be launching the product in more markets in 2006. us with the decision rules and processes In the gum category, our Trident, Dentyne markets of Australia, the UK and Ireland.
to leverage the combination of our broad and Hollywood brands had another strong In 2006, the transfer of technology from product range, geographic reach, routes year.
Again, innovation was the key and Australia to the UK will enable us to add to market and manufacturing capabilities included: in packaging, innovative resealable filled moulded products to the Cadbury Dairy across these brands.
packs for Trident and Dentyne: new flavours Milk range, including a Creme Egg variant.
such as Trident Tropical Twist and, in centreOur strong presence in all three filled gum, peppermint with vanilla, and Growth in chocolate has also benefited confectionery categories combined with strawberry with lime: and new formats, from sales of premium chocolate products our focus on executing our priorities helped including centre-filled gum and a soft-slab in the UK.
We have used innovation to add drive revenue growth in confectionery in variant to our Dentyne Ice range.
The premium products to the Cadbury brand, 2005 of 6%, with our business in emerging Trident brand grew 21%.
We also launched through products such as: Cadbury Delight, markets growing at 12%.
Dentyne into the Malaysian market, a premium Easter Egg: Snaps, our wafer where we achieved a 17% market share.
chocolate sharing product: and luxury Innovation on our core brands played a key In addition, the reformulation of our Dirol versions of Roses and Flake.
We also role in driving growth.
We also saw strong and Stimorol brands helped drive sales bought out the majority share in growth in each individual category.
In the growth of over 30% in Russia.
Green & Blacks, which performed strongly UK, this growth was particularly creditable with sales up nearly 50% year-on-year.
given the disruptive effect of the In chocolate, we continue to drive growth implementation of our new IT system.
through the success of our Cadbury Dairy We are supporting our confectionery Milk brand.
Our re-launch of this 100 year innovation and Smart Variety programmes Core brand sales growth in 2005 old brand has been at the heart of the with significant investment in new Science reinvigoration of our core confectionery & Technology and manufacturing facilities.
Trident 21% business over the last two years.
Weve In the last quarter of 2005, we opened our Halls 9% created a chocolate masterbrand which global gum centre of excellence in the US Cadbury Dairy Milk 7% leverages Cadburys unique chocolate at Hanover Park, New Jersey at a cost of Dentyne 5% heritage and ownership of moulded $40 million: announced investments chocolate in the UK and Commonwealth totalling 100 million in a new gum plant In sugar confectionery, our Halls brand markets.
This has helped redefine the in Poland and an expansion of our existing grew sales 9% in 2005, benefiting from market and bring the battle for consumers gum facility in Puebla, Mexico: and began growth in the EMEA region where we onto the ground we invented and where investments in a new Bournvita plant at continue to broaden its distribution by we are the strongest.
Badi, India and a 40 million expansion using our existing route to market.
of chocolate capacity at Bournville, UK.
We also continued to reinvigorate Cadbury Dairy Milk sales were 7% ahead Halls performance in its core North in 2005, building on the growth in 2003 American markets and drive growth in and 2004 as we successfully rolled out the developing markets.
masterbranding concept into two new markets, Canada and South Africa, and extended product ranges in existing Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 11 Strategy review Goal 3 3 5 1 2 4 PROFITABLY SECURE AND GROW OUR REGIONAL BEVERAGES SHARE 2005 Priorities Invest, innovate and execute Strengthen US non-carbonates and route to market Our beverages goal reflects our aim to Dr Pepper, our biggest CSD brand, which focus on those markets where we have was the only major CSD brand in the US strong competitively advantaged positions to grow.
and to secure and then grow our shares in those markets.
In our beverages Market share growth in US CSDs businesses, our focus in 2004 was to integrate the businesses, both to reap bps 2003 2004 2005 the synergy benefits of recent acquisitions, 40 and to leverage scale.
30 20 Our priorities in 2005 moved from 10 Ken Hanna integration to innovating, investing and 0 Chief Financial Officer left executing around our core brands in both -10 Gil Cassagne the Americas and Australia to further -20 President Americas Beverages right realise the benefits of our significant -30 positions as the tenth largest and fourth -40 largest food suppliers to the grocery trade -50 respectively in their markets.
In addition, specifically in the US, our second priority Dr Peppers performance was driven by was to strengthen our non-carbonated the success of Cherry Vanilla Dr Pepper, soft drinks non-CSD business and our the first of our innovative Soda Fountain route-to-market.
Classic flavours, which draw on the soda fountain taste heritage.
We launched In 2005, our beverages business grew Cherry Vanilla in October 2004 in revenues by 6%, a significant increase on Dr Peppers heartland markets 11 southern the 4% revenue growth in 2004, with US states and we rolled out diet Cherry strong results seen in both markets.
We Vanilla nationally in January 2005.
David Macnair grew our share in the US carbonated soft Chief Science & Technology Officer left drinks CSD market for the second year Cherry Vanilla has been particularly Rajiv Wahi President Asia Pacific right in a row, and in the second half saw a successful in bringing new customers to significant improvement in the performance the Dr Pepper franchise, with four out of of our non-carbonates business.
In Australia, the five top selling areas for diet Cherry we maintained market share while Vanilla being outside Dr Peppers historical rationalising non-core products.
In 2005, our CSD business gained 40 basis Part of Dr Peppers success in 2005, points of market share in the US led by particularly in non-heartland markets, has outstanding 6% volume growth from been driven by greater alignment with 12 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Invest Innovate Execute Innovative Well-Being Beverages The Plus concept capitalises on health and well-being trends by offering versions of our beverage brands fortified with vitamins and minerals.
The concept was first launched through 7 UP Plus, a diet carbonated drink with fruit flavours, sweetened with Splenda and fortified with calcium.
Using Smart Variety, we have now employed the Plus concept in our Motts juice drinks to provide lower calorie, fortified versions of our regular juices, branded Motts Plus and Motts Plus for Kids.
Dr Peppers bottling partners, both in the In non-CSDs, we focused on the In Mexico, part of the Americas Beverages cola and independent bottling systems.
revitalisation of our Core Four brands of region, we have delivered outstanding Progress in 2005 has included Dr Peppers Motts, Clamato, Snapple and Hawaiian growth for several years as we have increased participation in bottlers core Punch, which account for over 65% of continued to focus on our core brands, promotional activities, and greater non-CSD sales.
principally Peafiel, Squirt and Aguafiel.
alignment of our commercial, financial and We extended our Peafiel mineral water operational plans.
Core Four non-CSD brands volume brand into the CSD segment through and sales growth innovative sparkling flavoured mineral water Dr Pepper volume growth products such as Peafiel Twist and Peafiel 2004 2005 % Volume Sales Volume Sales Naturel.
In Aguafiel, we successfully launched a 10 litre product through our % 2003 2004 2005 6 10 joint venture with San Benedetto.
In CSDs, 5 we grew our market share by 20 basis 4 8 points in 2005, and in non-CSDs by 3 6 30 basis points.
2 4 1 2 In Australia, where our beverage business 0 is a full system business and integrated 0 We increased the frequency of Snapple with our confectionery business, we have -2 advertising and Motts returned to leveraged our position as the fourth -4 television advertising.
We addressed the largest food supplier to the grocery trade.
price-value relationship of Motts relative We have focused on developing our most Heartland states to private label and, in addition, we advantaged brands, fide-emphasising nonNon Heartland states launched a number of innovative products.
core products, and simplifying our price These included, in the Motts range, a Light structure.
Investment in innovation has also Dr Pepper has also been successful in product and the fortified Plus and Plus generated growth.
We relaunched our winning new fountain business in 2005, for Kids products.
This Plus concept is Spring Valley Stills range, adding innovative both with new accounts, such as Arbys, and highlighted in the case study above.
products such as an Iced Tea drink, a by increasing participation with existing flavoured water Twist and the Vibe range customers such as McDonalds and Sonic.
We also improved our execution by of fruit and vegetable blends.
We also rationalising the number of product lines launched a number of innovations in The Dr Pepper fountain volume growth within our non-CSD business, reducing Natural Beverage Company range of drinks.
resources focused on non-core brands like % 2003 2004 2005 Elements and discontinuing some products such as Snapple-a-Day.
6 5 Larry Young was appointed as CEO and 4 President of Dr Pepper Seven Up Bottling 3 Group, Inc DPSUBG, our 45% owned 2 bottling associate, in May 2005.
Larry 1 brings significant management experience 0 in the bottling business.
Since his -1 appointment, we have further strengthened -2 our co-operation with DPSUBG in areas -3 such as sales, procurement and distribution.
-4 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 13 Strategy review Goal 4 3 5 1 2 4 ENSURE OUR CAPABILITIES ARE BEST IN CLASS 2005 Priorities Roll-out Building Commercial Capabilities Refine Supply Chain disciplines Our fourth goal reflects the need to have to hone our people and systems capabilities.
the best people, systems and structure to In 2005, our focus moved to rolling out enable us to deliver our commercial agenda.
our Group-wide Building Commercial Capabilities BCC programme and refining Since acquiring Adams in 2003, we have our supply chain disciplines.
We have integrated our businesses more thoroughly In early July, our new UK IT system went and restructured into operating regions and live.
It is designed to lead to substantial global functions.
We have introduced efficiencies in our UK business, across the enhanced common global processes and supply chain, including working capital and systems, improved our efficiency, and to improved customer service.
Nick Fell upgraded the quality of our team through President Global Commercial Strategy left internal training and external recruitment.
Innovation continued to be a key driver David Macnair This transformation is delivering benefits in of our growth in 2005.
In 2003, innovation Chief Science & Technology Officer right terms of our increased market scale, higher accounted for around 6% of total sales.
investment and focus on our core brands.
In 2004 it grew to 9% and in 2005 it has increased further to 10%.
In 2004, We are continuing to enhance our we introduced a rigorous innovation teams capability, and we have brought in management process, which enabled us significant new expertise and experience to take a common approach to innovation into the business from outside.
25% of decision making based on strict financial and the top 160 managers and five of the commercial criteria.
Building on this process, twelve members of the Chief Executives in 2005, we put in place a new software Committee CEC are new to the business tool which facilitates the sharing and rollsince 2003.
This year, CEC members Jim out of new innovations across the business.
Chambers, President of Americas Confectionery, joined us from Rmy As a result, we now have a multi-year Jim Chambers Amrique where he was President, and innovation pipeline which is being President Americas Confectionery left Steve Driver, most recently Head of Global systematically filled through our investment Steve Driver President Global Supply Chain right Supply for the Quest division of ICI, was in consumer insights, and in science and appointed President of Global Supply technology expertise.
We also promoted excellence Science & Technology include developing internally with the appointment of Hank our beverages research centre in the US: Udow as Chief Legal Officer and Hester opening our Science & Technology centre Blanks as Group Secretary.
in Singapore for the Asia Pacific region: and our Hanover Park, New Jersey In 2004, our two priorities in support of investment, highlighted in the case study this goal were to ratchet up innovation and on the page opposite.
14 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Invest Innovate Execute Investing in Science & Technology We have recently invested $40 million in a new Science & Technology facility in New Jersey in the US, near to our Americas Confectionery headquarters.
The facility opened in November 2005 with all our Americas Confectionery Science & Technology employees moving under the same roof for the first time since the Adams acquisition.
The new laboratory has been constructed specifically for our requirements and will house pilot plant facilities for gums and sugar confectionery as well as state of the art analytical, packaging and product development laboratories with dedicated insight and sensory guidance facilities.
It will also be the global centre of excellence for chewing gum and mints.
This new facility will help us do three things better: customise flavours to local trends: and support local market tests: and rapidly adapt global technologies.
Our BCC programme gives us standardised In sales and operations planning, we address key areas of risk, and we also tools and processes and a single common concentrated on embedding the five step significantly improved our ability to language for launching and developing our planning process we launched throughout systematically track product quality.
We are training both sales and the business in 2004.
The process is now 2005, as part of the Fuel for Growth marketing colleagues in BCC, which is used in 90% of the business, helping us in programme, we achieved cost savings fostering a more fully integrated approach reducing service level interruptions and in key areas of our supply chain including between these two disciplines.
They are inventory levels, and enhancing the procurement savings and factory now working closer together on product efficiency of product launches.
As a We also formed a logistics and customer result, we have been able to evaluate Consistently good product quality is critical operations leadership team to reduce and co-ordinate where best to direct to our business.
In 2005, we upgraded costs in distribution and warehousing.
promotional spend: either in trade our processes to achieve a Group-wide promotion or in advertising.
Overall, standardised approach to quality.
Over 90% we believe BCC will allow us to deliver of our manufacturing sites are now using more predictable and disciplined revenue a hazard analysis process to identify and growth, and leverage the advantages of sharing learnings between markets.
BCC takes as its foundation our global consumer segmentation study which has A global Science & Technology function now covered 38 markets.
Based on its findings, BCC provides a framework for determining where we should best participate, how we can win profitably in these markets, and how we can best influence consumer behaviour through best-in-class advertising, store merchandising and execution, and product quality.
In 2005, over 1,000 sales and marketing leaders were trained in BCC.
Our second priority in 2005 was to refine our supply chain disciplines.
In 2005, we made further improvements in areas such as production planning, quality control and safety and environmental standards in order to enhance our efficiency, reduce risk and Our Science & Technology locations improve our working capital management.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 15 Strategy review Goal 5 3 5 1 2 4 Reinforce reputation with employees and society 2005 priorities Motivate, develop and reward our people Continue high Corporate and Social Responsibility Standards An engaged and committed workforce and Our reputation and our Corporate and high standards of corporate and social Social Responsibility CSR agenda is responsibility are vital to business success paramount and a report on its progress and the creation of shareowner value.
We and potential future challenges is tabled pay particular attention to the motivation, at the Main Board.
In 2006, reputation reward and development of our team, and management will be built into the formal to the stewardship of the communities in business risk management process and will which we do business.
We invest, innovate be audited annually.
and execute with excellence as much in this area as in any other of our business.
On page 19 we explain our approach to people management and report on our Matt Shattock We believe our heritage as a business global climate survey.
President Europe, Middle East and Africa left rooted in social responsibility is a Rajiv Wahi competitive advantage and uniquely We believe in growing our business both President Asia Pacific centre motivating to our employees.
In 2005, we profitability and responsibly.
CSR is central Hester Blanks Group Secretary right were proud once again to gain external to all we do and we work to high standards.
recognition around the world for the way Verification of CSR was made a priority in we conduct our business and as an 2005 and in 2006 we will produce our excellent employer.
We received awards third CSR report.
across our regions recognising Cadbury Schweppes as a good place to work, and Our Board-level Corporate and Social we were especially pleased to win the UKs Responsibility Committee reviewed pre-eminent award for HR excellence.
progress on all our five pillars of CSR: Other awards recognised the quality of our human rights and employment standards: management team, our excellence as a supplier, our status as a respected company, ethical sourcing and procurement: our contribution to the communities in consumer and food marketing issues: which we operate and our high Bob Stack environmental standards.
environmental, health and safety: and Chief Human Resources Officer left community investment.
Hank Udow Chief Legal Officer right Our approach to diversity and inclusiveness has continued to develop over the 11 years since the launch of our global Equal Employment Opportunities & Diversity Cadbury Schweppes plc - Winner 2005, Policy.
A new global inclusiveness and Quality of Management 16 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Invest Innovate Execute Our response to consumer health concerns Cadbury Schweppes has been Portion sizes: a broader range Community: improving supporting improvements in of smaller portion options information, education and understanding the importance activity for consumer health Labelling: a new global labelling of balance in consumption and standard informed by consumer Business partners: engaging lifestyle as a key factor in comment business partners and suppliers addressing the complex issue of in the issues Vending: none in primary schools rising obesity.
Here we outline our and only by request in secondary Employees: increasing our own twelve point plan that guided our schools.
In the US school vending employee health and well-being contribution during 2005. only after school hours programmes Innovation: providing more choice, Consumer insight: research to build Science: investing in science to lower calorie options, new a reliable and shared fact-base build the global knowledge bank sweeteners, added functionality, about health concerns fortification benefits Other stakeholders: working with Education: supporting promotion governments, campaigners, Marketing: a global marketing code of physical activity and responsible shareowners and customers of practice we do not advertise consumption to children under eight where they are the majority audience diversity steering group was created in 2005 The Group operates an integrated EHS Our Business Principles and is putting in place a framework to Policy and standards based upon both ISO ethical business practices ensure the organisation is more inclusive 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
This improves respecting the environment and communities and increases diversity in its current and our ability to deliver against our KPIs.
In in which we operate potential workforce.
The proportion of 2006 we are launching a safety campaign ensuring equal employment opportunities women in the executive population of across the business to improve safety valuing diversity in the workplace approximately 160 was 13% in 2005 practices in all work activity.
providing healthy and safe working 2004: 13%: 2003 11%.
environments Community investment continued to grow respecting human rights and trading ethically We created and filled the position of a new around the world, with a series of new or ethical sourcing director in 2005.
Over the enhanced programmes being put in place.
We also employ a financial Code of Ethics next three years, we are undertaking a that applies to our Chief Executive Officer review of our supply chain, working closely The Groups performance in external and senior financial officers.
Both the Code with our suppliers to further implement our CSR ratings: of Ethics and Our Business Principles are Ethical Sourcing Standards.
These Standards available on our website, Dow Jones Sustainability World Index.
were communicated to over 90% of our www.
com Our score continues to rise: 66% in 2003: priority suppliers and over 200 71% in 2004: 73% in 2005: procurement employees within the Group We have put in place training programmes were trained in them during 2005.
We We are included in the FTSE4Good and to ensure employees understand and comply continued to play an active part in the FTSE4Good Supply Chain Labour with legal requirements such as workplace industry-wide initiative to promote Standards: practices, competition law, health and safety responsible practices in cocoa farming and environmental compliance.
UKs Business in the Community Index.
We remain a Our score continues to rise: 83% in 2003: signatory to the UN Global Compact and The Company operates a Speaking Up 87% in 2004: 89% in 2005: are a participant of the Roundtable for programme which enables employees to Sustainable Palm Oil.
The Carbon Disclosure project included report in confidence any breach of Group Cadbury Schweppes in their Climate policy or other fraudulent or criminal activity.
Our food issues strategy group, led by Leadership Index for the second year Any serious matters are brought to the Chief Executive Officer, Todd Stitzer, running.
attention of the Audit Committee.
The drives our global strategy in this area and programme is audited annually.
ensures we are innovating and investing The Board expects the highest standards of throughout the business in light of the corporate governance as well as compliance changing role of food in public health.
Our Business Principles are signed by managers to A twelve-point plan has been developed confirm they understand them and operate and is now being executed across the world.
Compliance with this process is This is highlighted in the case study above.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 17 2006 outlook In 2006, we expect to continue our good progress IN deliverING sustainable profitable growth 2004 2007 Goals 2006 Priorities Deliver superior shareowner performance Deliver annual contract 1 Extract Fuel for Growth and focus on Free Cash Flow Profitably and significantly increase Invest, innovate and execute 2 global confectionery share Leverage Smart Variety Profitably secure and grow regional Invest, innovate and execute 3 beverages share Strengthen non carbonated drinks and route to market Ensure our capabilities are best in class Embed core processes to improve business planning 4 Focus on Supply Chain and transform IT Nurture the trust of our colleagues and the Deepen talent pool and increase diversity and inclusiveness 5 communities in which we do business Continue high Corporate and Social Responsibility standards through our actions and our brands In 2006, we expect to deliver results within Free cash flow and capital efficiency will be We will further strengthen our processes in our financial goal ranges for revenue, a priority in 2006, with particular emphasis our functions and regions in 2006, and will margin growth and free cash flow.
on continuing to improve our working particularly focus on streamlining processes capital performance.
The flexibility provided within our Supply Chain function, and on Given our focus on innovation and marketby the sale of Europe Beverages and enhancing our IT capabilities.
Together place execution, we expect continued good disposals of other non-core assets will these will improve our business planning, sales momentum.
enable us to further strengthen our enhance our forecasting, improve our speed confectionery and beverage platforms to market with new products, and our Commodity costs remain challenging, with through strategic capital investments and working capital performance.
oil prices staying high and sweetener and bolt-on acquisitions.
aluminium prices increasing sharply in For 2006, we have refined our fifth goal, recent months.
We expect to more than Although the external environment is likely building on our existing strong reputation offset these increases through a to remain challenging, we will continue to with our employees and society to focus combination of pricing and cost reduction increase investment behind long-term on creating a cohesive and talented initiatives but margin progress will be growth, particularly around our innovation workforce, with the emphasis on weighted towards the second half.
pipeline, and we will seek to leverage our encouraging inclusiveness and increasing wide product range, broad geographic the diversity of our people.
We will Margins are expected to benefit from reach, strong routes to market and continue to work to our high standards of increased Fuel for Growth cost savings.
manufacturing capabilities through Smart corporate and social responsibility both in We are now more than half way through Variety.
In beverages, we will seek to the way we conduct our business and in the Fuel for Growth programme.
With consolidate on the stronger performance our products and the way we sell them.
savings of over 180 million already made, in the second half of 2005 in our nonour focus will be on extracting the balance carbonated portfolio, and continue the of the projected total savings of 360 momentum in our carbonated drinks million over the next two years.
business through innovation and through greater alignment with our bottling partners.
18 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005
