Directors Report Directors Biographies 28 General 30 Dividends 30 Directors 31 Substantial shareholdings 31 Policy on payment to suppliers 31 Going concern 31 Contents Inside Front Cover Index 182 Glossary Inside Back Cover Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 27 Directors Report Directors Biographies superior shareowner performance.
Todd was President & CEO of Dr Pepper Seven Up, Inc. between 1997 and 2000 and John Sunderland, 60 Chief Strategy Officer between March 2000 and May 2003.
Chairman Other directorships and offices: Term of office: Appointed as Chairman in May 2003.
Non-executive director of Diageo plc John was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or Board Committee membership: standing for re-election in 2006.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee Skills and experience: John has 38 years of experience working within the Cadbury Schweppes Group in the UK and Ken Hanna, 52 overseas on both the confectionery and beverage side of the Chief Financial Officer business.
John has held senior leadership roles within the Term of office: Appointed to the Board in April 2004.
Ken Company, including being CEO from 1996 to 2003.
John's was last re-elected in 2004 and is retiring by rotation and experience, together with his roles in key trade and business standing for re-election in 2006. organisations, is invaluable to the business and makes him ideally placed to chair the Board as it seeks to create enhanced Skills and experience: Ken has a broad range of experience shareowner value.
gained while working as the Group Finance Director of United Distillers plc 1993-1997 and the Chief Executive Officer Other directorships and offices: and Group Finance Director of Dalgety plc 1997-1999.
President of the Confederation of British Industry In addition, Ken's focus on consumer goods while an Operating Non-executive director of The Rank Group plc Partner at the private equity firm Compass Partners 1999- Non-executive director of Barclays PLC 2004 makes him particularly qualified to lead the Cadbury Director of the Financial Reporting Council Schweppes finance function.
Advisory Board member of CVC Capital Partners Advisory Board member of Ian Jones & Partners Other directorships and offices: Leadership council member of Young Enterprise Non-executive director of Inchcape plc Board Committee membership: Board Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination Committee None Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee Bob Stack, 55 Roger Carr, 59 Chief Human Resources Officer Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Term of office: Appointed to the Board in May 1996.
Director Bob was last re-elected in 2005 and is not retiring or standing Term of office: Appointed to the Board in January 2001 and for re-election in 2006.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Skills and experience: Bob has wide international Human Director since May 2003.
Roger was last re-elected in 2004 Resources expertise.
Bob joined Cadbury Beverages in the US and is retiring by rotation and standing for re-election in 2006. in 1990 as Vice-President, Human Resources for the global Skills and experience: Roger's experience as both a Chairman beverages business.
In 1992 he moved to the UK as Group and Chief Executive of other FTSE 100 companies enables him Director of Strategic Human Resources Management, being to provide highly valued advice and support to the executive appointed to the Board as Chief Human Resources Officer in management team of the Company.
Bob's responsibilities also include corporate and external consulting with major UK shareowners on matters of corporate affairs and corporate communications.
Other directorships and offices: Other directorships and offices: Non-executive director of J Sainsbury plc Non-executive Chairman of Centrica plc Visiting Professor at Henley Management College Non-executive Chairman of Mitchells & Butlers plc Board Committee membership: Senior Adviser to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. Ltd Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee Fellow of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufacturers and Commerce Dr Wolfgang Berndt, 63 Chairman of Chubb plc 2000-2002 Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of Thames Water 1998-2000 Chief Executive Officer of Williams plc 1994-2000 Term of office: Appointed to the Board in January 2002.
Wolfgang was last re-elected in 2005 and is not retiring or Board Committee membership: standing for re-election in 2006.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Skills and experience: Wolfgang's broad range of executive Nomination Committee and operational experience gained over a career managing consumer goods companies enables him to contribute Todd Stitzer, 54 significantly to the Board.
Chief Executive Officer Other directorships and offices: Term of office: Appointed to the Board in March 2000.
Non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Group plc Appointed CEO in May 2003.
Todd was last re-elected in 2003 Non-executive director of GfK AG and is retiring by rotation and standing for re-election in 2006.
Board member of the Institute for the Future President Global Fabric & Home Care sector of The Procter Skills and experience: Todd joined Cadbury Schweppes North & Gamble Co 1998-2001 America in 1983 as assistant general counsel and has gained extensive international experience in senior legal, marketing, Board Committee membership: sales, strategy development and general management roles Audit Committee within the Company.
Todd's business leadership, legal and Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee commercial expertise make him well placed to lead the Remuneration Committee organisation as it delivers on its commitment to deliver 28 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Rick Braddock, 64 Other directorships and offices: Independent Non-Executive Director Finance Director of Ladbrokes plc Group Finance Director of Bradford & Bingley plc Term of office: Appointed to the Board in June 1997.
1999-2005 Rick was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or standing Member of the Financial Reporting Council for re-election in 2006.
Member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel Skills and experience: Rick brings to the Board a broad range Member of the Main Committee of The Hundred Group of of consumer, marketing and management experience across Finance Directors several sectors.
His business experience in North America Council member of The University of Warwick benefits the Group, especially with regards to its significant Board Committee membership: businesses in that region.
Audit Committee Other directorships and offices: Remuneration Committee Non-executive director of Eastman Kodak Company Non-executive director of Marriott International, Inc Baroness Wilcox, 65 Non-executive director of the Lincoln Center for the Independent Non-Executive Director Performing Arts Term of office: Appointed to the Board in March 1997.
Chairman of MidOcean Partners Baroness Wilcox was last re-elected in 2005 and is standing Board Committee membership: for annual re-election in 2006 having been a Board member Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for over nine years.
Audit Committee Skills and experience: Baroness Wilcoxs breadth of experience as a retail entrepreneur, with consumer groups, and Lord Patten, 61 as a working peer in the House of Lords, allows her to Independent Non-Executive Director contribute extensively on commercial, human resource and CSR Term of office: Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2005. matters.
Lord Patten is standing for re-election in 2006 at the first Other directorships and offices: Annual General Meeting since his appointment.
Non-executive director of Carpetright plc Skills and experience: Lord Patten's distinguished career in Non-executive director of Johnson Services PLC public office enables him to bring a great deal of experience Member of the House of Lords and expertise to the Board, especially in the area of President of the National Federation of Consumer Groups international relations, which is valuable to a Group that has President of the Institute of Trading Standards a presence in almost every country in the world.
Member of the Council of the Foundation for Science and Technology Other directorships and offices: Chancellor of Oxford University Board Committee membership: Chancellor of Newcastle University Chairman of the Corporate and Social Responsibility Advisor Board member of Bridgepoint Capital Ltd Committee European Commissioner for External Relations 1999-2004 Governor of Hong Kong 1992-1997 Sanjiv Ahuja, 49 Independent Non-Executive Director Board Committee membership: Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee Term of office: Appointed to the Board with effect from 19 May 2006.
Sanjiv will stand for re-election in 2007.
David Thompson, 63 Skills and experience: Sanjiv Ahuja has wide ranging Independent Non-Executive Director international experience from some of the largest consumerTerm of office: Appointed to the Board in March 1998. facing industries in the world and a strong information David was last re-elected in 2004 and is not retiring or technology background.
Other directorships and offices: Skills and experience: David has considerable financial Chief Executive Officer of Orange SA and retail experience, enabling him to provide a significant Member of France Telecoms Group Management Committee contribution to the Board and Audit Committee.
Non-executive director of Mobistar SA Non-executive director of Williams Sonoma, Inc. Other directorships and offices: Chairman of the Nottingham Building Society Hester Blanks, 53 Finance director of The Boots Company plc 1990-2002 Group Secretary Board Committee membership: Term of office: Appointed Group Secretary on 1 July 2005.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee Skills and experience: Hester started her career in Cadbury Remuneration Committee Schweppes as a lawyer in 1984, having previously worked at Clifford Turner in London.
She became Board Secretary to Rosemary Thorne, 54 Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages in 1987 and then held a Independent Non-Executive Director variety of senior legal roles within the business, latterly in 2003 being appointed as Legal Director Group.
Term of office: Appointed to the Board in September 2004.
Rosemary was last re-elected in 2005 and is not retiring or standing for re-election in 2006.
Skills and experience: Rosemary brings a wealth of financial reporting and corporate governance expertise to the Board and its committees gained during her corporate career and participation in key external organisations.
Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 29 Directors Report General Corporate and Social Responsibility The Directors present their Report together with the audited Details of our Corporate and Social Responsibility activities Financial Statements for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2006 are given in the Description of Business on pages 21 to 23. the period.
We also publish a separate CSR report every other year.
Copies are available from our website, www.
com, Principal activities or from the Group Secretary.
Our principal activities are detailed in the Description of Business on page 3.
The operating companies principally Employees affecting our profit or net assets in the period are listed in Details of our employees, including numbers by geographical Note 36 to the Financial Statements.
region, together with statements of policy about programmes for learning and development, employee involvement, equal Business review employment opportunities and diversity, disabled persons and The Chairmans Statement, the Strategy Review, and the pensions are given in the Description of Business on pages 20 Summary Financial Review and Financial Statements, which and 21. appear in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005, report on the development and performance of our Charitable and political contributions business during the period, our position at the period end and Details of our charitable contributions are given in the the early part of 2006 and our likely future development.
Description of Business on page 23.
Acquisitions and disposals are detailed in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 63 to 64.
We continue to invest In 2005, neither the Company, nor any of its subsidiaries, made in research and development and details are given in the any donation to any registered party or other EU political Description of Business on page 15. organisation, incurred any EU political expenditure or made any contribution to a non-EU political party, each as defined in the Revenue and Profit Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Revenue during the period amounted to 6,508 million 2004: 6,085 million.
Profit before taxation amounted to Environment 843 million 2004: 642 million.
Details of our environment policy are set out in the Description of Business on page 23.
Legal proceedings The Company and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number Auditors of legal proceedings incidental to their operations.
The outcome The Companys auditors are Deloitte & Touche LLP, who are of such proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, is willing to continue in office and resolutions for their not expected to have a material effect upon the results of our re-appointment and to authorise the Directors to determine operations or financial position.
their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Events after the Balance Sheet date Note 6 in the Financial Statements states the auditors fees, On 2 February 2006, we completed the disposal of our Europe both for audit and non-audit work.
Beverages business for a total consideration of 1.26 billion.
Dividends Financial instruments The Directors recommend a final dividend of 9.00 pence per Information on our use of financial instruments, our financial ordinary share 2004: 8.70p to be paid on 26 May 2006 to risk management objectives and policies, and our exposure ordinary shareowners on the register on 28 April 2006. to credit and liquidity risks, are described in the Operating and Financial Review.
Our exposure to cash flow and price An interim dividend of 4.00 pence was paid on 14 October risks are described in Notes 27 and 28 to the Financial 2005, which makes a total of 13 pence per ordinary share Statements respectively.
Share capital Changes in our share capital are detailed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
At the 2006 Annual General Meeting, renewal will be sought of the authorities: a for the Directors to allot relevant securities and to allot equity securities for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis, shareowners having approved similar resolutions annually since 1982: and b for the Company to purchase its own shares as and if appropriate, shareowners having approved a similar resolution annually since 1998.
The Directors have no present intention to issue shares in the Company for cash other than in connection with its share option and incentive schemes.
The authority to purchase shares has not been used since 1999.
30 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Directors Substantial shareholdings The names of our Directors, together with biographical details, At the date of this Report we have been notified, in are set out on pages 28 and 29. accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2006, of the Company: Roger Carr, Ken Hanna and Todd Stitzer will retire by rotation Number of shares Interest in in accordance with Article 90 of the Articles of Association, in which there issued share and, being eligible, will each offer themselves for is an interest capital % re-appointment.
Todd Stitzer and Ken Hanna both have service Franklin Resources, Inc. 103,078,079 4.95 contracts with the Company which are terminable at any time Barclays PLC 62,644,317 3.01 by the Company giving one years notice, and which terminate Legal & General automatically at the normal retirement age of 60 years.
Investment Management 61,686,656 3.00 Baroness Wilcox will also retire and offer herself for reelection, having been on the Board for more than nine years.
Policy on payment to suppliers Under the Combined Code A7.2 a director who has been on We adhere to the Better Payment Practice Guide.
Details of the board of a company for nine years or more is subject to how to obtain a copy of the Guide are on the inside back cover.
Our policy is, when agreeing the conditions of each transaction, Lord Patten will also retire and offer himself for re-appointment to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of in accordance with Article 89 of the Articles of Association, payment and to abide by, and settle in accordance with, these having been appointed as an independent Non-Executive terms.
As Cadbury Schweppes plc is a parent company, it has Director since the last Annual General Meeting on 1 July 2005. no trade creditors.
The explanatory notes to the Notice of Meeting set out why Going concern the Board believes that these Directors should be re-elected.
On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, we have a reasonable expectation that the Company Further information on payments on termination of Directors has adequate resources to continue in operational existence service contracts is set out in the Directors Remuneration for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider that it is Report.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Directors responsibilities The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the By order of the Board Financial Statements is set out on page 86.
The statement by the auditors on corporate governance matters is contained in Hester Blanks their report on pages 86 and 87.
Group Secretary Directors share interests 13 March 2006 The interests of Directors holding office during the period in the share capital of the Company at the beginning of the period, 3 January 2005 or date of appointment if later, and the end of the period, 1 January 2006, are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 55.
Directors indemnities Since February 2005, we have granted indemnities to each of the Directors, two members of our senior management and the Group Secretary to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or company secretary as the case may be or employees of the Company or of one or more of its subsidiaries or associates.
Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 31 This page has been left blank intentionally 32 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005
