Description of Business Our business 1 Introduction 2 Origins and portfolio development 2 The business today 3 Goals and Priorities 6 Organisation structure and management 9 Regions 11 Functions 14 Production assets 18 Market environment 19 Competition 19 Industry trends 19 Consumers and customers 19 Raw materials and suppliers 20 Capabilities 20 Employees 20 People capabilities 21 Corporate and Social Responsibility 21 Risk factors 24 Forward-looking statements 25 Comparative statements 25 Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 1 Description of Business Our business Over the last 25 years we have significantly changed our Introduction geographic and product participation within the confectionery Our principal businesses are confectionery and non-alcoholic and beverages markets, mainly through a programme of beverages.
We have the largest share of the global acquisitions and disposals.
confectionery market with broad participation across all categories and by geography.
In beverages, we have strong We have extended and strengthened our position in certain regional presences in North America and Australia.
markets and categories where we believed we could generate faster growth at higher margins, and exited other markets and In this section, we describe our continuing operations, categories where we felt we had no sustainable competitive therefore unless specifically stated otherwise, commentary advantage and where a sale created value for our shareowners.
and financials given in this section exclude Europe Beverages, which was sold on 2 February 2006.
The most significant strategic moves over this period have been: 1986 and 1987 sale of the food & beverage and health & Origins and portfolio development household divisions Our origins date back to the founding of Schweppes, a mineral 1995 purchase of Dr Pepper Seven Up, a carbonated soft water business, by Jacob Schweppe in 1783, and the opening drinks business mainly in the US of a shop which sold cocoa products, by John Cadbury in 1824.
1997 sale of Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages, a soft The two businesses were merged in 1969 to create Cadbury drink bottling operation, in the UK Schweppes plc.
Many of our key brands are long established, 1999 sale of beverage brands in approximately 160 having been launched in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, markets around the world most notably Cadbury Dairy Milk, Dr Pepper and Halls.
2000 purchase of Snapple, a non-carbonated premium beverages business mainly in the US Confectionery Brands 2003 purchase of the Adams confectionery business, a gum and medicated sugar confectionery business with Brand Product Date Launched strong positions in North, Central and South America 2006 sale of Europe Beverages Cadbury Cocoa Powder 1824 Bassetts Sugar Confectionery 1842 On 2 February 2006, we announced that we had completed Maynards Sugar Confectionery 1880 the sale of the Europe Beverages business.
Following the Halls Cough Tablets Cough Drop 1893 disposal of Europe Beverages, we have four regional Dentyne Chewing Gum 1899 operating units: Americas Beverages: Americas Confectionery: Cadbury Dairy Milk Milk Chocolate Bar 1905 Europe Middle East and Africa EMEA, which sells Chiclets Sugar-coated Gum 1914 predominantly confectionery: and Asia Pacific, selling both Clorets Breath Freshener 1951 beverages and confectionery see page 11.
Stimorol Chewing Gum 1956 Trident Sugar-free Gum 1962 We announced in October 2005 that we intend to dispose Bubblicious Bubble Gum 1977 of a number of small non-core businesses and brands over Sour Patch Kids Sugar Confectionery 1985 the next two years with estimated proceeds of between 250 million and 300 million.
In 2005, we sold Holland Beverages Brands House Cooking Wines, with Grandmas Molasses following in early 2006.
The combined proceeds were 37 million.
Brand Product Date Launched On 8 February 2006, we announced that we intend to sell Schweppes Carbonated Water 1783 Bromor Foods, our South African beverages business.
Motts Apple Juice 1842 Schweppes Tonic Water Quinine-based Carbonated Drink 1870 Dr Pepper Carbonated Soft Drink 1885 7 UP Carbonated Soft Drink 1929 Hawaiian Punch Non-carbonated Soft Drink 1937 Clamato Tomato-based Drink 1969 Snapple Non-carbonated Soft Drink 1972 2 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 The business today At the time of acquisition, Adams had a significant market Confectionery presence and operations in North, Central and South America Our confectionery strategy is to significantly grow our share which accounted for 75% of its sales.
Key markets outside the of the global confectionery market through organic growth Americas were the UK, Greece, Egypt, Japan and Thailand.
and acquisition and by participating in the three categories Adams sales were focused on a small number of global and of chocolate, sugar confectionery and gum.
In 2004, we had regional brands, mainly in the gum and medicated sugar the number one share of the global confectionery market confectionery categories.
With a number two share of the source: Euromonitor, having substantially grown share through worldwide gum market, the acquisition added the Trident, expansion both geographically and in product participation.
Dentyne Dentyne Ice, Chiclets and Bubbas range of gum and We believe that our strong positions in confectionery markets, bubblegum brands to the Group.
Halls is the number one by both geography and category, provide us with a robust sugar brand and the leading medicated brand worldwide platform for future growth.
Our growth to date has been both organic and through We now have the largest share of the global confectionery acquisition, notably Wedel in Poland 1999, Hollywood in market at 10%, an increase of 40 basis points over the previous France 2000, Dandy in Scandinavia 2002 and Adams 2003. year source: Euromonitor 2004.
This compares with a market share of 5.3% in 2001. source: Euromonitor The US$4.2 billion 2.7 billion acquisition of Adams in 2003 transformed our position in the confectionery market worldWe have strong positions in many of the worlds important wide.
With turnover of around $2 billion on acquisition, a global confectionery markets: number one or two market shares in market share of 24.7% in gum, a focus on the important 24 of the top 50 see table overleaf, and a leading market markets of North and Latin America and a strong position in share in all of our geographic regions.
the growing markets of medicated confectionery, Adams significantly increased our confectionery scale, product range and geographic reach.
Main Confectionery Acquisitions and Disposals 1999 2006 Acquired Disposed: Date Company Country Percent Holding Consideration Description Comments Feb-99 Wedel Poland Acquired 100% 49 million The number one chocolate brand in Poland at the time of acquisition Aug-00 Hollywood France Acquired 100% Not disclosed The number one chewing gum business in France Feb-02 Cadbury India India Share increased 111 million Buy-out of the minority shares.
By the from 49% to 94% end of 2005, our shareholding had reached 97.4% May-02 Kent Turkey Acquired 65% US$95 million Turkeys leading sugar confectionery company Sept-02 Dandy Denmark Acquired 100% 222 million Fourth largest chewing gum company worldwide at the time of acquisition with key markets in Scandinavia, Switzerland and Russia Mar-03 Adams US Acquired 100% US$4.2 billion Second largest chewing gum business worldwide Sept-04 Moirs South Africa Disposed 100% ZAR152 South African foods division million May-05 Green & UK Share increased Not disclosed Leading UK producer of luxury organic Blacks from 5% to 100% chocolate Feb-06 Cadbury Nigeria Share increased 19.7 million Nigerias leading sugar confectionery, Nigeria from 46% to 50.02% chewing gum and food beverages company We have also agreed to make the acquisitions shown in the table below.
The acquisitions are expected to be completed in the first half of 2006.
Acquired: Company Country Percent Holding Consideration Description Comments Kent Turkey Share increase Approximately Turkeys leading sugar confectionery from 65% to 95% 55 million company Dan Products Botswana 100% 33 million Sells chewing gum in South Africa under the Stimorol and Dirol brands Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 3 Description of Business Number of No.
2 Positions in the Top 50 Confectionery Markets by Geography Cadbury Schweppes Nestl Kraft Mars Wrigley Hershey No.
2 Position 8 10 5631 Total Confectionery 24 16 10 8 8 2 Source: Euromonitor 2004 Our confectionery turnover is generated from products global confectionery market and our shares in each of these spanning the full range of the market: chocolate, sugar and three categories.
The table below shows our leading market share in the Market Share in the Global Confectionery Market US dollar share Global Confectionery Market Chocolate Sugar Gum Cadbury Schweppes 10.0% 7.8% 6.9% 26.0% Mars 9.2% 15.2% 3.1% 0.2% Nestl 7.8% 12.3% 3.6% Hershey 5.8% 8.4% 3.1% 1.7% Wrigley 4.9% 0.3% 36.0% Kraft 4.9% 7.3% 2.7% 0.5% Source: Euromonitor 2004 The table below shows the change in percentage contributions nearly 90% of our confectionery turnover was generated in to our confectionery turnover on both a product and a EMEA and Asia Pacific, particularly in the UK and Australia.
In 1997, around In 2005 EMEA accounted for just over half and the Americas 70% of our confectionery turnover was generated by just over a quarter, as compared with just over 10% in 1997. chocolate: in 2005 this figure was around 45%, with 29% generated by gum, and 26% by other sugar products.
In 1997, Sales Contribution by Product Sales Contribution by Geography 100% 100% 80% 80% 60% 60% 40% 40% 20% 20% 0% 0% 1997 2005 1997 2005 Sugar Gum Chocolate Asia Pacific EMEA Americas We have 67 2004: 68 manufacturing facilities.
Further Our brands have regional or local strengths, with the exception details of these facilities are provided on page 18.
Our main of Halls, which is sold in every one of our regions.
Details of our confectionery brands are Cadbury, Bassetts, Dentyne, Halls, main confectionery brands by region can be found on pages 12 Hollywood, Stimorol, Dirol, Trebor, Trident and Wedel.
4 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Beverages Europe Beverages business.
The sale for 1.85 billion was Our beverages strategy is to focus on strong regional beverages completed on 2 February 2006. businesses.
The business is concentrated in two regions: the Americas and Australia.
In the Americas we operate a geographically cohesive business in the US, Mexico and Canada, entirely within the North In 1999, we sold our beverages businesses in around 160 America Free Trade Agreement NAFTA region, which countries to focus on those regions where we had or could generates high returns and cash flow.
We have increased the build a sustained competitive advantage.
The sale of our scale of our operations and expanded our brand portfolio, Continental European businesses was prevented by competition particularly in the non-carbonated sector of the beverages authorities, so we resolved instead to retain and build them market, through the acquisition of Snapple in the US 2000, through the acquisitions of La Casera, Orangina and Apollinaris the Orangina brand globally 2001, and Squirt in Mexico & Schweppes.
Following the sale of Europe Beverages, we sell the Orangina brand under licence in the US and licence our US In 2005, we concluded that growth and returns could be non-carbonated brands in Europe.
better increased through continued focus and investment in our advantaged global confectionery business and American In Australia, the acquisition of the Pepsi Lion Nathan joint and Australian regional beverages operations rather than by venture significantly strengthened our number two position in further investment in Europe Beverages.
Therefore, we decided the Australian soft drinks market, both increasing our it would be in the best interests of our shareowners to sell the manufacturing scale and broadening our brand portfolio.
Main Beverages Acquisitions and Disposals 2000 2006 Acquired Disposed: Date Company Country Percent Holding Consideration Description Comments Oct-00 Pepsi Lion Australia Acquired 100% Not disclosed Acquired the bottling and franchise Nathan rights to Pepsis brands in Australia Oct-00 Snapple US Acquired 100% 1.2 billion Leading US premium non-carbonated beverages business.
Main brands were Snapple, RC Cola and Mistic Jul-01 La Casera Spain Acquired 100% 65 million Spains third largest soft drinks producer Oct-01 Orangina France Acquired 100% 445 million Soft drink brands in Continental Europe, North America and Australia Feb-02 Squirt Mexico Acquired 100% Not disclosed Acquisition of the Squirt brand in Mexico.
We already owned the Squirt brand in the US Nov-02 Apollinaris & Germany Share increased 115 million Buy-out of the remaining 72% interest Schweppes from 28% to 100% in our German associate Feb-06Europe France, Disposed 1.85 billion Sale of our remaining Europe Beverages Spain and 100% 1.26 billion Beverages businesses Germany In the Americas, the combination of our three North American and confectionery businesses make us the 10th largest food businesses Dr Pepper Seven Up, Motts and Snapple into supplier to the US grocery trade.
Similarly in Australia, our a single cohesive unit is enabling us to better leverage our combined confectionery and full system beverages businesses powerful soft drinks brand portfolio, both flavoured carbonated make us the fourth largest supplier of food products to the including Dr Pepper, 7 UP, Sunkist and A&W and nongrocery trade.
carbonated including Snapple and Motts.
In 2005 we grew our share of the US carbonated soft drinks market, the worlds Details of our main beverage brands by region can be found on largest, by 40 basis points to 17%.
Together, our US beverages pages 11 to 13.
Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 5 Description of Business Goals and Priorities 2005 Goals and Priorities 20047 Goals 2005 Priorities 1 Deliver superior shareowner performance 1 Deliver annual contract 2 Execute Fuel for Growth and focus on Free Cash Flow 2 Profitably and significantly increase global 3 Invest, innovate and execute confectionery share 4 Execute Smart Variety 3 Profitably secure and grow regional beverages share 5 Invest, innovate and execute 6 Strengthen non carbonated drinks and route to market 4 Ensure our capabilities are best in class 7 Roll-out Building Commercial Capabilities 8 Refine Supply Chain disciplines 5 Reinforce reputation with employees and society 9 Motivate, develop and reward our people 10 Continue high Corporate and Social Responsibility standards In October 2003, we set our strategic goals for the 180 million.
Delivery of the remainder will provide further 2004 2007 period.
Each goal has two priorities.
While our support for the achievement of our margin growth goal in goals are unlikely to change from year to year, the priorities 2006 and 2007. may, depending on prevailing business needs and the market environment.
The goals provide a small number of clear and In 2005, we invested an additional 75 million in growth and achievable objectives against which our senior managers report capability related initiatives, including innovation, information and are incentivised.
technology, science and technology, commercial and sales force capabilities and the understanding of our customers.
We believe we can consistently deliver superior shareowner performance by profitably growing our global confectionery In order to achieve our free cash flow goal of 1.5 billion and regional beverages businesses: by ensuring that our team between 2004 and 2007, we are focused on both driving and its capabilities are best in class: and by ensuring that we profitable growth and optimising allocation of our capital.
have strong relationships with our employees and the Our free cash flow in 2005 was 404 million 2004: communities in which we do business.
The free cash flow goal is measured at constant 2003 exchange rates.
On this basis, the cumulative free Goal one cash flow generated since 2004 is 715 million and was Our first goal and overarching objective is to deliver superior 450 million in 2005.
In 2006, we will continue to implement shareowner returns.
Performance in respect of this goal is programmes to reduce working capital and increase capital measured by comparing our Total Shareowner Return TSR efficiency, specifically targeting improvements in receivables against a set of 28 international fast moving consumer goods and inventory.
As part of this goal, we are also targeting FMCG peers.
In 2005 our TSR of 23% was in the top quartile proceeds of approximately 100 million from the sale of of these peers.
We believe there is a direct link over time between superior We are also seeking opportunities to realise cash flow through business performance and superior shareowner returns.
We the sale of smaller non-core businesses.
These disposals, which measure our annual performance based on three key business are not included in our free cash flow target, are expected to performance indicators sales, margins and cash flow within raise 250 300 million by the end of 2007. set goal ranges.
We introduced Managing for Value MFV to the Group in Revenue growth in our base business of between 3% and 5% 1997.
Value Based Management remains fundamental to our per annum at constant exchange rates strategic and operational processes.
It enables us to identify the Underlying operating margin growth of between 50 and 75 generators of economic profit, and thus sustainable long-term basis points per annum at constant exchange rates value growth, within our business: develop and implement Free cash flow totalling 1.5 billion over the four year period strategies that create and sustain the most value: and monitor to 2007 at constant exchange rates performance against forecasts.
Economic profit is achieved when post-tax operating profit exceeds the cost of the capital The Fuel for Growth programme was designed to reduce our used.
Economic profit is widely used in Cadbury Schweppes in, direct and indirect cost base by 400 million per annum by 2007. for example, assessing products, customers, marketing and Following the sale of Europe Beverages, which accounted asset spend, and setting targets and incentive programmes for for approximately 10% of the Group, the targeted savings our businesses.
under the Fuel for Growth initiative have been reduced to 360 million.
So far, we have realised cost savings of 6 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 In support of delivering superior performance for our in the US, our key priorities were improving the performance shareowners, a high proportion of senior managers of our non-carbonated brands and strengthening our route compensation is based on MFV principles, with performance to market.
targets on incentive plans set to align their interests with those of shareowners.
We give details of these performance targets In 2005 we continued to build our share in the US carbonated on pages 43 to 49.
Executive Directors and senior managers soft drinks market, driven by the launch of innovative products, are also required to meet a share ownership requirement: such as Dr Pepper Cherry Vanilla, and continued growth in our details of this requirement are given on page 44. diet range.
We improved the performance of non-carbonated soft drinks through increased investment and enhanced Goal two innovation in our four key brands of Snapple, Motts, Hawaiian The second goal is to profitably and significantly increase our Punch and Clamato.
We set out details of our Americas global confectionery share.
We aim to continue to grow our Beverages business and its financial performance on page 68 share of the global confectionery market to widen the gap and of our Australian beverage business on page 69. between us and our competitors.
In May 2005 a new CEO was appointed at Dr Pepper Our Adams business is now fully integrated and continues to Seven Up Bottling Group, our largest bottling partner in exceed our expectations.
The top line is ahead of the acquisition the US.
Together, we made progress on key initiatives such case, margins are significantly improved and we exceeded our as joint buying and further consolidation of the independent cost of capital in 2005, one year ahead of schedule.
The increase in our share of the global confectionery market In Australia, we have also obtained significant operational from 9.6% in 2003 to 10.0% in 2004, giving us market share and commercial benefits by integrating the beverages and leadership Source: Euromonitor 2004, was driven by the confectionery businesses making us the fourth largest supplier combination of our Smart Variety initiative, and higher to the grocery trade.
investment and an increased focus on innovation and market place execution.
Goal four Our fourth goal is to ensure our capabilities are best in class, The Smart Variety growth initiative recognises that our by recruiting new and developing existing employees, and by business model is based on our diverse range of strong local developing world-class processes and systems.
In particular, we and regional brands.
Smart Variety is a commercial discipline have sought to build and improve our capabilities in innovation, which provides us with the decision rules and processes to consumer insights, sales and marketing, science & technology, leverage the combination of our broad product range, sales and operations planning S&OP and systems.
Since 2003, geographic reach, routes to market and manufacturing we have recruited externally over 25% of our 160 most senior capabilities.
employees worldwide, many from other leading consumer products companies.
Details of changes to the Board and Chief In 2005, we continued to innovate and share our products and Executives Committee are given on pages 9 and 10. technologies across regions, under our Smart Variety growth initiative.
An example of this approach was our roll-out of the Product innovation is an important growth driver in the Cadbury Dairy Milk master branding strategy in Canada and beverages and confectionery markets.
We have set an internal South Africa, following successful launches in Australia, the UK ambition of generating 15% of sales from innovation by 2007 and Ireland in previous years.
A key innovation in 2005, and and have put in place processes and capabilities to support its a further example of Smart Variety, was centre-filled pellet achievement.
We have made appointments in senior innovation gum, which we launched in multiple markets in Europe and roles at Group and regional level.
We have also created global in North America.
Further details of the performance of our platforms, and a stage and gate process and a knowledge confectionery businesses are set out on pages 68 to 70. management system to support innovation.
Our product innovation is managed and driven through our central and Goal three regional Commercial Strategy and Science & Technology Our third goal is to profitably secure and grow our regional functions.
We provide further details on both these functions beverages share across our businesses in the Americas and on pages 14 and 15.
Over the last two years, our primary focus has been on strengthening these businesses through reorganising Our innovation to sales ratio has increased from 6% in 2003 operating and management structures and concentrating to 9% in 2004 and 10% in 2005.
We divide our innovation resources on a selection of advantaged brands.
into three different types: brand renovation changes to existing brands: breakthrough innovation changes bringing a Our beverages business in North America now operates greater differentiation from existing products, and breakout under a single, integrated management structure enabling it innovation creation of an entirely new category of product.
to generate significant cost savings and to leverage its scale We include brand renovation in our definition for two years with customers and suppliers.
from the date of launch, and breakthrough or breakout innovation for four years.
In 2005 we shifted our focus in beverages toward increasing innovation and improving market-place execution.
Specifically Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 7 Description of Business In 2004, we undertook a major global consumer segmentation We believe that the strong roots of the Cadbury heritage are a study and in 2005 we launched the Building Commercial competitive advantage.
Our priorities are to motivate, reward Capabilities BCC development programme.
Together, these and develop our employees and maintain our high Corporate give employees a common method of analysing consumer and Social Responsibility standards.
Details of our policies, demand, and common tools and processes for developing and developments in 2005, are set out on pages 21 to 23. commercial programmes.
We spent approximately 7 million We believe our interaction with employees, communities and on BCC in 2005.
In Supply Chain, we launched initiatives to the environment is critical to business success.
improve production planning, quality control and safety and environmental standards.
We are committed to achieving high standards of business integrity, ethics and professionalism across all our activities.
We give further information on the segmentation study We support the highest standards of corporate governance, and BCC programme under the description of the Global and have a financial Code of Ethics that applies to our Chief Commercial function on page 14, and we set out supply chain Executive Officer and senior financial officers.
All executive initiatives on page 14 under the description of that function.
members of our Board, CEC and Global Leadership Team sign the Cadbury Schweppes Business Principles.
Both the Code and Goal five Business Principles are available on the Groups website Our fifth and final goal in 2005 was to reinforce our www.
reputation with employees and society.
We take the engagement and commitment of our employees seriously and For the full corporate governance report and an outline of are strongly committed to the stewardship of the communities the Board of Directors remit, composition and activities see where we operate.
2006 Goals and Priorities 20047 Goals 2006 Priorities 1 Deliver superior shareowner performance 1 Deliver annual contract 2 Extract Fuel for Growth and focus on Free Cash Flow 2 Profitably and significantly increase global 3 Invest, innovate and execute confectionery share 4 Leverage Smart Variety 3 Profitably secure and grow regional beverages share 5 Invest, innovate and execute 6 Strengthen non carbonated drinks and route to market 4 Ensure our capabilities are best in class 7 Embed core processes to improve business planning 8 Focus on Supply Chain and transform IT 5 Nurture the trust of our colleagues and the 9 Deepen talent pool and increase diversity and communities in which we do business inclusiveness 10 Continue high Corporate and Social Responsibility standards through our actions and our brands In 2006, our goals remain largely unchanged.
We have refined Having rolled out our Building Commercial Capabilities our fifth goal, building on our existing strong reputation with programme to much of the Group in 2005, in 2006 we will our employees and society, to focus on creating a cohesive and concentrate on embedding this and other core processes in the talented workforce, through encouraging inclusiveness and Group, and on improving our business planning in areas such as increasing the diversity of our people.
We will continue to work Sales and Operations Planning and Logistics and Customer to our high standards of corporate and social responsibility both Operations.
Achieving this will require further changes to our in the way we conduct our business, and in our products and supply chain and IT capabilities, which will be our eighth priority the way we sell them.
We have also altered selected priorities.
Our overarching We will publish our third corporate and social responsibility objective of superior shareowner performance is supported by report in 2006.
While maintaining our focus on this area continued execution of these goals and priorities.
we have altered our priorities to ensure that CSR is embedded both in our products and brands, and also in the way in which Our Fuel for Growth and Smart Variety programmes are we interact with the communities in which we operate and now embedded within our processes, and our priority in do business.
2006 is to deliver the maximum benefits for our shareowners by extracting Fuel for Growth benefits and leveraging Smart Variety.
8 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Organisation structure and management Board of Directors and Chief Executives Committee Regions and functions The Board is responsible for our overall management and We are organised into four business segments which we call performance, and the approval of our long-term objectives and regions, and six global functions, as depicted in the chart below.
We sold the Europe Beverages region on 2 February 2006.
The Chief Executives Committee CEC, which includes the Each region is focused on commercial operations in its leader of each region and function, reports to the Board and is geographical and product area, and also maintains teams responsible for the day-to-day management of our operations from each of the six functions.
The four regions are: Americas and the implementation of strategy.
This team is responsible to Beverages: Americas Confectionery: Europe, Middle East and the Board for driving high level performance of our growth, Africa: and Asia Pacific.
The functions are Global Supply Chain, Global Commercial, The CEC develops global commercial strategy, and addresses Science & Technology, Human Resources, Finance and supply chain and major operating issues arising in the normal Information Technology, and Legal.
Since July 2005, course of business.
This includes reviewing the regions and responsibility for company secretarial matters has been functions performance contracts: and determining necessary separated from the legal function.
Each function has a small action relating to financial policy, targets, results and forecasts.
central team based at Group Headquarters, and regional It approves some capital and development expenditures presences which are coordinated by the central team.
according to authorities delegated by the Board: reports to the Board on the Groups sources and uses of funds, cash position This structure enables us to focus on delivering our commercial and capital structure: and reviews the structure and policy of agenda and top-line growth, and allows the functions to Group borrowings.
The CEC evaluates foreign exchange, develop and drive global strategies and processes towards best interest rate and other risk management policies, and submits in class performance, while remaining closely aligned to the an annual risk management report to the Board.
It also regions commercial interests.
reviews proposed acquisitions and disposals, joint ventures and partnerships before submission to the Board, and reviews A description of the regions begins on page 11 and of the and approves legal and human resources matters.
Functions Regions Global Supply Chain Americas Beverages Matthew Litobarski Gil Cassagne to 30 Sept 2005 Steve Driver from 31 Oct 2005 Global Commercial Nick Fell John Sunderland Chairman Americas Confectionery Matt Shattock to 28 Feb 2005 Todd Stitzer Chief Executive Jim Chambers from 12 Sep 2005 Science & Technology Officer David Macnair Ken Hanna Chief Financial Officer Bob Stack Chief Human Resources Officer Human Resources Bob Stack Europe, Middle East and Africa Andy Cosslett to 31 Jan 2005 Matt Shattock from 1 March 2005 Finance and Information Group Secretary Technology Mike Clark to 30 June 2005 Ken Hanna Hester Blanks from 1 July 2005 Legal Mike Clark to 30 June 2005 Asia Pacific Henry Udow from 1 July 2005 Rajiv Wahi Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 9 Description of Business Changes to the composition of the Board and CEC in 2005 Steve Driver was appointed President, Global Supply Chain In 2005 there were a number of changes to the Board and following Matthew Litobarskis retirement.
Steve joined us senior management of the Group.
from ICI, where he led the North American Supply Chain function, prior to which he held roles with Unilever, Changes to senior management in 2005 were as follows: Bestfoods, CPC, Smithkline Beecham and Nabisco: John Sunderland became Non-Executive Chairman on Following Mike Clarks retirement as Chief Legal Officer and 25 August, having previously been Executive Chairman: Group Secretary, Henry Hank Udow was appointed Chief Legal Officer.
Hank joined the Group in 1987, and was Matt Shattock moved from President, Americas most recently Group M&A Director.
Also on Mike Clarks Confectionery, to President, Europe, Middle East and Africa: retirement, Hester Blanks was appointed Group Secretary.
Hester joined the Group in 1984 and was most recently Jim Chambers joined us as President, Americas Legal Director, Group.
Jim was previously President, Rmy Amrique, prior to which he was CEO of Paxonix, President and CEO of Netgrocer.
com, Group President US business and e-commerce at IRI, and held senior roles at Nabisco: 10 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Regions The following charts show the relative size of the Groups regions.
Market share information, except where otherwise indicated is sourced from latest available information from IRI or Nielsen for 2005.
1 Revenue by Region Underlying Profit from Operations Americas Beverages Americas Beverages 13% 18% 27% Americas Confectionery Americas Confectionery EMEA EMEA 44% 28% Asia Pacific Asia Pacific 36% 19% 15% 1 For an explanation of underlying profit from operations and a reconciliation to profit from operations see page 58.
In 2005, 60% of our revenue came from confectionery and 40% from beverages.
On the same basis, the Americas regions accounted for 46% of revenue, EMEA 36% and Asia Pacific 18%.
Developing markets accounted for 23% of revenue, with developed markets accounting for the remainder.
Americas Beverages 2005 % of Group Total 2005 % of Group Total Revenue 1,781m 27% No of employees 6,605 12% Profit from operations 537m 46% Operating Assets 494m 24% 1 Underlying Profit from operations 524m 44% No of factories 11 Operating Margin 30.1% Underlying Operating Margin 29.4% Main markets: US, Canada, Mexico Main brands: Dr Pepper, Snapple, Motts, Hawaiian Punch, Peafiel, Clamato, 7 UP, Yoo-Hoo, A&W, Sunkist, Diet Rite, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Nantucket Nectars 1 For an explanation of underlying profit from operations and a reconciliation to profit from operations see page 58.
The Americas Beverages region comprises operations in the are primarily manufactured and distributed through third party US, Canada and Mexico.
The principal products of the business bottling and canning operations.
These source beverage are carbonated and still soft drinks.
concentrate from Americas Beverages, which operates as a licensor.
Around half of our North American CSD volumes In carbonated soft drinks CSDs, Americas Beverages are distributed by companies in which our competitors have a participates mainly in the flavours non-cola segment, where significant stake.
The remainder is distributed through we own the number one or number two brands in most independent bottlers including Dr Pepper Seven Up Bottling categories in which we compete.
Americas Beverages has a Group DPSUBG, in which we have a 45% equity interest.
17% share of the US CSD market, the worlds largest.
Its main DPSUBG is the largest independent bottler in the United CSD brands are Dr Pepper the seventh largest US CSD brand, States, and distributes around 24% of our carbonated soft drink with a 7% share and 7 UP.
We own 7 UP in the United States volumes.
DPSUBG operates primarily in Texas, California, and and Puerto Rico only.
Other important brands include Canada other Western and Midwestern states of the United States.
Dry, A&W and Sunkist, which is a licensed product.
Diet drinks The processes and operations of the independently-owned account for approximately 25% of CSD volume.
In still drinks, bottlers and canners are monitored to ensure high product Americas Beverages competes in ready to drink teas, juice and standards.
We also provide marketing, technical and juice drinks.
Our still beverage brands include Snapple, manufacturing support.
The still beverage brands are Hawaiian Punch, Motts, Clamato and Yoo-Hoo.
manufactured and distributed by both Group-owned and independent companies.
In Mexico the worlds second largest CSD market we are the third largest beverages company with 6% of the Mexican In Mexico, we manufacture and sell our products either CSD market, and an 18% share of the non-cola market.
through third party bottlers, as with US carbonated soft drinks, Our main brands in Mexico are Peafiel, Squirt, Crush and or through company-owned bottling operations.
Peafiel is the leading brand in the mineral water of our volume in Mexico is manufactured and distributed by sector, with a 36% market share.
Squirt is the number two third party bottlers.
The balance, and the majority of our grapefruit CSD.
brands, are manufactured by group-owned bottling operations.
Our beverage products are distributed through a number of different routes to market.
In North America, the CSD brands Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 11 Description of Business Americas Confectionery 2005 % of Group Total 2005 % of Group Total Revenue 1,228m 19% No of employees 14,175 26% Profit from operations 153m 13% Operating Assets 340m 17% 1 Underlying Profit from operations 172m 15% No of factories 11 Operating Margin 12.4% Underlying Operating Margin 14% Main markets: US, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Colombia Main brands: Trident, Halls, Dentyne, Bubbas, Clorets, Chiclets, Cadbury, Swedish Fish, Sour Patch Kids, Beldent, Bazooka, Mantecol 1 For an explanation of underlying profit from operations and a reconciliation to operating profit see page 58.
Our business in this region was significantly expanded In Latin America, we have the leading overall confectionery following the acquisition of Adams in March 2003.
Over 75% market share at 17%, Source: Euromonitor 2004 more than of the Adams business was based in the Americas.
Americas double that of our nearest competitor.
We have a 64% share Confectionery operates businesses in all the regions major of the Latin American gum market, and leading market shares countries including the US, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina in gum in Mexico, Brazil, Venezuela, Argentina and Colombia.
Almost 60% of sales are in the US and Canada, We also have the leading share of the fragmented sugar with the remainder in Mexico and Latin America.
confectionery market at 8%, and a number one or number two position in individual markets Source: Euromonitor 2004.
In the US, the worlds largest confectionery market, we have We have a broad-reaching distribution infrastructure in Latin the second largest market share in gum at 24%, mainly through America which enables us to supply a highly fragmented the Trident and Dentyne brands, and the leading share at 54% customer base of small shops and kiosks.
In Mexico, we have in cough cold confectionery through Halls.
We are also the a share of over 65% of the gum market and 8% of the sugar largest confectionery company in Canada, the worlds 12th market.
Other brands sold in the Americas include Clorets, largest confectionery market, with an overall 21% market share Swedish Fish, Sour Patch Kids, Beldent, Bazooka and Mantecol.
and leading market positions in gum, sugar and cough confectionery, and a top three position in chocolate.
Five We have manufacturing facilities in Canada, the US, Mexico, brands, Trident, Dentyne, Cadbury Dairy Milk, Caramilk and Argentina, Brazil and Colombia.
Mr. Big, account for nearly 60% of sales.
Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA 2005 % of Group Total 2005 % of Group Total Revenue 2,333m 36% No of employees 21,666 39% Profit from operations 334m 29% Operating Assets 846m 41% 1 Underlying Profit from operations 336m 28% No of factories 41 Operating Margin 14.3% Underlying Operating Margin 14.4% Main markets: UK, France, Poland, Spain, Russia, Turkey, Greece, Egypt, South Africa, Nigeria, Scandinavia Main brands: Cadbury, Hollywood, Halls, Wedel, Bassetts, Trident, Dirol, Stimorol, Kent, Poulain, Trebor, Maynards, Green & Blacks, Bim Bim, Chiclets 1 For an explanation of underlying profit from operations and a reconciliation to operating profit see page 58.
The EMEA region includes all of our confectionery interests in confectionery.
France is our largest operating unit and we have the European including Russian, African and Middle Eastern the leading position in the French confectionery market the confectionery markets.
worlds fifth largest with a 17% share.
We have a 55% share of the French gum market, principally under the Hollywood Cadbury Trebor Bassett CTB in the UK is our largest brand.
We also have 19% of the sugar confectionery market confectionery business in EMEA.
We have a leading 30% share main brands: La Pie Qui Chante and Carambar, and sell in the UK, the worlds second largest confectionery market.
chocolate, mainly under the Poulain brand.
We also sell gum CTBs products are chocolate and sugar confectionery, under under the Trident brand in Spain, Portugal and Greece and brand names including Cadbury, Trebor, Bassett, Maynards, and Stimorol and V6 in Denmark, Belgium and Sweden.
In 2005 we acquired the fast-growing Green & Blacks confectionery brands include Halls in Spain, Greece and Italy.
brand of luxury organic chocolate.
We sell chocolate under the Wedel and Cadbury brands in Poland, where we have a 18% market share, and also operate In Continental Europe, where our main markets are France, in the Netherlands and Switzerland.
Iberia and Poland, we primarily sell gum and sugar 12 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Outside Continental Europe, our main markets in the EMEA For the purposes of these accounts Cadbury Nigeria is reported region are Russia, Turkey, and markets in Africa and the Middle as an associate.
Our Nigerian business sells sugar confectionery, East.
In Russia, we have a 28% share of the gum market gum and food beverages with market shares of 46%, 14% and through the Dirol brand, and we also sell medicated sugar 33% respectively.
Its lead brands include Tom Tom, the biggest confectionery under the Halls brand and chocolate under the selling candy in Africa, Bournvita, and Bubba bubble gum.
We have the leading share of Turkeys sugar We also operate in Morocco, Lebanon, United Arab Emirates, confectionery market at 62%, with brands including Kent, Ghana and Kenya.
In Egypt, we sell products under the Missbon, Olips and Jelibon, and a top three position in gum Cadbury, Bim Bim and Chiclets brand names and have a 44% under the brands Relax, Toybox and Nazar 14% share.
In South Africa we sell confectionery products sell chocolate under the Grand Chocolates and Bonibon brands.
under the Cadbury and Halls brand names with a 44% and 19% market share respectively.
We are the leading confectionery company in Africa and the Middle East.
Our main confectionery operations are in Egypt, On 8 February 2006, we announced that we had agreed to South Africa, and Nigeria where we have number one market buy Dan Products, which sells chewing gum business in South shares.
On 20 February 2006, we announced that we Africa, for 33 million.
had increased our shareholding in Cadbury Nigeria to 50.02%.
Asia Pacific 2005 % of Group Total 2005 % of Group Total Revenue 1,157m 18% No of employees 12,624 23% Profit from operations 143m 12% Operating Assets 379m 18% 1 Underlying Profit from operations 157m 13% No of factories 25 Operating Margin 12.3% Underlying Operating Margin 13.5% Main markets: Australia, New Zealand, India, Japan, Thailand, China Main confectionery brands: Cadbury, Halls, Trident, Clorets, Bournvita Main beverage and food brands: Schweppes, Cottees Australia only 1 For an explanation of underlying profit from operations and a reconciliation to operating profit see page 58.
This region comprises our confectionery operations principally Our other significant markets in this region include India, in Australia, New Zealand, India, Japan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Japan and Thailand.
Our Indian business has a leading presence Thailand and China, and Schweppes Cottees, an Australian in chocolate with a 71% market share, and also sells sugar beverages and foods business.
Our Japanese business sells mainly gum under the Recaldent and Clorets brands, and has a number two Australia and New Zealand are our largest markets in the region.
market position with a 17% market share.
We also have leading Australia is the 11th largest confectionery market in the world.
market shares in Thailand in gum and sugar confectionery at We are the leading company in the Australian confectionery 59% and 32% respectively, and top three positions in chocolate, market, with the number one position in chocolate with a 55% sugar confectionery and gum in China.
market share, and a strong presence in sugar confectionery.
Our main chocolate brand in Australia is Cadbury.
Our The Malaysian business is a prime example of Smart Variety, Australian beverages businesss products are sold under the with the successful introduction of chocolate products from Schweppes, Cottees, Solo, Spring Valley, Sunkist and Wave Australia and New Zealand helping to take us to a leadership brand names.
Schweppes Cottees also has a license to position in chocolate, with a market share of 24%.
In gum, we manufacture, sell and distribute Pepsi, Red Bull, 7 UP, Mountain have introduced Dentyne from Thailand, adding 9% to our Dew and Gatorade.
In Australia, we both manufacture, share of the gum market during 2005. distribute and market our own products and manufacture concentrate and bottle product for other manufacturers.
In We have manufacturing facilities in Australia, New Zealand, New Zealand, our brands include Cadbury and Moro, and we India, Japan, Thailand, China and Singapore.
have a number one position in the confectionery market with a 43% share.
Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 13 Description of Business Functions GSC continued to progress environmental initiatives in 2005, Global Supply Chain supporting the achievement of a 4% improvement in The role of Global Supply Chain GSC is to ensure the supply of environmental Key Performance Indicators or KPIs by 2008. product to satisfy our customers expectations whether manufactured by us or by a third party.
GSCs role GSC continues to seek improvements to its health and safety encompasses the supply of raw and packaging materials, and performance: in 2005 it initiated Group-wide environmental, planning, manufacturing, distribution and customer services.
health and safety EHS standards, management systems and GSC is responsible for managing both the fixed assets of over specific safety training programmes, and implemented a global 100 manufacturing facilities and over 250 warehouses, and EHS data collection system.
In 2006, we will start to focus on working capital.
Behavioural-Based Safety and Driver Safety programmes.
GSCs structure enables shared accountability at the regional Global Commercial level for results and strategy execution day-to-day, while The role of Global Commercial GC is to enable higher sales ensuring that cross-regional and step-change supply growth from the regions and business units than they could opportunities are pursued at the functional level.
The function otherwise generate on a stand-alone basis.
GC has a central is led centrally by the President, GSC, and regionally by the and regional structure, with a central team managing teams four regional heads of supply chain.
Key functional activities drawn from all parts of the Group.
Its activities focus on: are managed centrally and operate on a global basis.
They are focused on Strategy and Process Improvement: Best Practice creating a winning strategy for each category in which Implementation: Quality, Environment, Health and Safety we participate management QEHS : Global Procurement: and Ethical Sourcing.
creating global solutions for markets to win locally creating a pipeline of innovation In 2005, as part of the Fuel for Growth programme, GSCs coordinating the management of key international customers cost saving agenda included procurement savings in raw creating world-class commercial capabilities materials, packaging and non-production spend, as well as factory efficiency and reconfiguration.
In 2005, we completed our consumer segmentation study in 38 key markets.
This study provides a common and aligned Other efficiency initiatives in 2005 included implementation of segmentation of markets based on over 80,000 consumer a five step Sales and Operations Planning S&OP process, and interviews as a foundation for superior insights into consumer the formation of a global Logistics and Customer Operations behaviour.
S&OP, which has now been implemented in 90% of our businesses, aims to reduce service Our Building Commercial Capabilities programme has been level interruptions and inventory levels, and enhance the created on the foundation of the consumer segmentation efficiency of product launches.
The L&CO leadership team will programme.
Over 1000 sales and marketing leaders were identify opportunities to improve our distribution and trained in 2005, and a further 1500 employees will be trained warehouse costs and processes.
The programme is designed to give us an integrated sales and marketing process, with a single commercial language In 2005, GSC implemented a number of processes to ensure and common tools and processes for developing commercial that we have a standardised approach to quality.
our sites are now using Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point HACCP processes to identify and address key areas The consumer segmentation programme and development of a of risk in relation to quality.
Also in 2005, the Quality consistent research methodology have also helped increase our Management System began tracking the implementation of success in developing winning ideas to populate our innovation the Global Cadbury Schweppes Quality Standards.
This, along with adoption of a proprietary software tool for project management and a common process for A Group-wide approach to supplier quality was implemented innovation decision-making and resource-allocation, has through a standardised Supplier Quality Management Process dramatically increased our innovation capability.
In 2005, we and a global database holding supplier details.
Our ethical continued to progress towards our overall innovation goal, sourcing initiatives aim to help protect, sustain and enhance delivering 10% revenue innovation, driven by the successful our brand reputation.
We have so far had discussions on introduction of a number of new differentiated products.
this topic with over 90% of our most important suppliers.
These included in Americas Beverages, Dr Pepper Cherry Our Ethical Sourcing Standards ESS have been incorporated Vanilla, 7 UP Plus and Motts Plus: in Americas Confectionery, as an integral element into all purchase orders, contracts and Trident Splash, Trident Fusion, Dentyne Soft Chew and pre-qualification documents, and over 200 employees in innovations in the Halls sugar confectionery range, such as Halls procurement have received ESS training.
Max: and in the EMEA region, Cadbury Snaps and Trident Splash.
We have a strong innovation pipeline for 2006.
14 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 GC has also identified certain key international customers We made a number of key appointments to strengthen our whose commercial agenda can be supported by an international global and regional capabilities in 2005, including a Managing approach and who can help drive our growth agenda.
A Global Director and a Senior Research Director at the Reading facility, Sales Team and an International Customer Leadership Team a Director of the EMEA region, a Global Process Technology have established value added relationships with these customers.
Director and a People Capability Director.
Overall headcount was over 600 at the end of 2005.
Science and Technology Science and Technology S&T leads our technical innovation In 2005 we developed and approved Global Food Position programme.
S&T sets and communicates our global technical Papers which are now being cascaded down the organisation.
priorities, establishes and co-ordinates our science agenda, and We developed, agreed and distributed global labelling facilitates global knowledge management and best-practice standards across the Group, and implemented them in all major transfer.
It prioritises with the regional teams and funds markets.
We formed an External Nutrition Advisory Board in technology developments which underpin our innovation the US which is expected to operate globally from the second agenda, including longer-term globally-applicable development quarter of 2006. programmes.
It co-ordinates nutrition initiatives as a key element of our food policy.
Together with Group Legal, it also We began a review of our intellectual property assets in creates a strategy for our intellectual property assets.
Our rate of new filings also increased with the development of our innovation agenda with over 30 filings The function is led by a Chief Science and Technology Officer, relating to gum and sugar confectionery alone in 2005. supported by Science and Technology heads in each region and heads of the Global Science Centre, of Scientific Affairs, and Human Resources of Process Technology.
The S&T teams in each of our business The role of Human Resources HR is to improve our regions have primary responsibility for developing and performance by enhancing the effectiveness of our day-to-day executing the innovation programmes.
This includes prioritising working practices, the capability of our people and the quality and resourcing all regionally-driven product packaging and of their output.
It is also responsible for ensuring that the process development activities.
working environment at Cadbury Schweppes reflects our core purpose and values, and enhances our culture.
HR supports We use our own S&T facilities as well as those of suppliers.
the business in delivering its goals by putting in place the right Our major Science and Technology facilities are at Reading, UK: people for the right job: by helping develop and support the Hanover Park, New Jersey, USA: and Trumbull, Connecticut, most effective organisational strategies and structures: and by USA.
The Reading facility provides science and technology attracting, retaining and developing employees and rewarding support to the Group both globally and to the EMEA region the right behaviours and outcomes.
and also supplies third parties as an External Science Business.
Hanover Park serves Americas Confectionery.
Trumbull serves The HR function is organised to ensure delivery of our people the Americas Beverages region.
We also have several smaller strategy.
The HR leadership team combines regional HR facilities around the world which support local business units, generalist business partners and central worldwide functional such as those at Bournville, UK: in South Africa: in Paris, France: experts.
The team leads the development of best practice, in Melbourne, Australia: and in India.
the coordination and ownership of global processes and the strategy for service delivery.
In the central team are We upgraded our S&T assets in 2005 with a new 120,000 heads of specific areas including remuneration and benefits, square foot facility including pilot plant capabilities, completed organisational effectiveness, resourcing and talent at Hanover, New Jersey in November 2005 at a cost of development.
The regional HR directors are responsible for $40 million.
We also began building a new facility in Singapore employee and organisational strategies for their region, and the for the Asia Pacific region, to focus on chewing gum and other management of resources to deliver maximum benefit.
All the confectionery, and made improvements at existing sites such as HR processes are supported by a set of minimum standards Trumbull and Reading.
which are binding on all regions and business units.
In 2005, we strengthened S&Ts global agenda by establishing Corporate Communication and External Affairs also report to a Global Science Centre at Reading and a Centre of Excellence the Chief Human Resources Officer, and are therefore within for Global Gum Technology at Hanover Park.
Our Global the HR organisation.
The purpose of these two departments Science Centres research team agenda is organised around is to protect and promote our reputation for being values-led, three broad technology platforms: ingredients and taste: consumer-informed and commercially astute.
Organised on the process and product forms: and nutritional science.
The role same principle of regional generalist leaders and central of the Global Gum Technology centre is to provide technical specialist experts, the departments have global accountability leadership and support for the gum business globally.
In for internal communication and change management addition, we signed a multi-year technical collaboration communication: driving the CSR strategy within the business: agreement with Senomyx to develop unique and proprietary public relations including corporate, financial and brand public flavour platforms for gum globally.
relations : issue and incident management and communication: Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 15 Description of Business our corporate websites: and UK, European Union and US Following the appointment of a new Chief Information Officer, public affairs.
we have significantly reorganised the IT function.
IT is now a global organisation, and has been changed from a Finance geographically-led to a functionally-led structure.
The role of Finance is focused on a strong business partnership with the commercial operators of the Group, In 2006, Finances emphasis will remain on its role in providing while maintaining a robust financial control environment.
strong business partnership to drive the delivery of the The function sets low cost, IT-enabled common internal Groups targets.
This will be supported by a financial training processes and standards for financial reporting and control, and programme designed to underpin our Building Commercial ensures high quality external reporting which complies with all Capabilities programme.
We will also continue to prepare applicable laws and regulations.
It is responsible for setting our for reporting on our compliance with Section 404 of the annual contracts or budgets, for developing our longer-term Sarbanes Oxley internal control requirements in early 2007. strategy and strategy platforms and for managing acquisitions and disposals.
It seeks to act as a business partner and Legal and Secretariat commercial adviser to the regions and other functions in Legal and Secretariat work with and support the regions and achieving our goals and priorities.
It is also responsible for other functions by taking responsibility for a broad range of external financial and other regulatory reporting and for legal activities.
These include corporate governance matters: managing our communications and relationship with the compliance with US and UK securities regulation and investment community around the world.
legislation: intellectual property: mergers and acquisitions: litigation management: general contract work and incident The Finance function is led by the Chief Financial Officer.
It comprises a central team, and units in each of the regions and business units.
The central team comprises a number of In each region, a team headed by a regional general counsel specialist groups which manage their respective areas on a works as a proactive business partner to achieve our Group-wide basis, including financial control, financial planning commercial objectives in a legal and ethical way.
The general & analysis, tax, treasury, strategy including mergers & counsels report both to the regional managing director or acquisitions, risk management, investor relations and IT.
president and to our Chief Legal Officer, who has a small central team to provide support on general corporate matters.
Key recent priorities have included the implementation of new These teams work closely with the businesses, structuring, regulations and accounting standards, preparation for the drafting and negotiating contracts with suppliers and implementation of additional Sarbanes Oxley requirements, customers, and advising management on matters such as food major upgrades to our information systems, and the law, competition law, health and safety, and environmental development of more rigorous capital allocation decision rules.
In the event of litigation, our legal teams work both to bring it to a satisfactory conclusion and, with management, on In 2004 and 2005, we continued to strengthen our finance compliance activities designed to minimise the risk of further processes, systems and reporting metrics.
We installed major legal actions being brought against us.
new information systems in many of our major business units including Dr Pepper Seven Up, Cadbury Trebor Bassett and in Since July 2005, responsibility for company secretarial matters our confectionery businesses throughout the Americas region.
has been separated from the legal function.
We now have a In addition, we embedded new working capital and budgeting dedicated Group Secretary who, together with a centralised performance indicators into our management reporting.
Group Secretariat department, is responsible for ensuring that each of our companies complies with all relevant corporate In mid-2004, we created a shared business service governance legislation and regulation.
The department also environment in Dallas the regional head office of Americas supports the Board and Committees of Cadbury Schweppes Beverages to provide back-office services for our beverages plc, manages the relationship with our share registrar and ADR and confectionery operations across North America.
In 2005, depository, and ensures compliance with UK and US this improved the effectiveness of processes and reduced requirements related to the listing of the Company's shares on back-office costs.
the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
We also remain focused on the use of capital within Cadbury The Intellectual Property department is part of the Legal and Schweppes, ensuring the prioritisation of our capital resources Secretariat function.
As described above, it works with the as well as the freeing up of underperforming capital.
This can Science & Technology function to manage our intellectual be seen in our management of working capital in 2005 and our property portfolio, including defending our rights against disposal of non-core businesses, brands and surplus properties.
16 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 We own a large number of registered trade marks, copyrights, Senior management in the Legal and Secretariat function patents, designs and domain names throughout the world.
We communicate on a regular basis to ensure a consistent and also possess many licences, along with substantial know-how, proactive approach to legal matters and to further enhance the trade secrets and technology relating to our products and the support offered to the business.
When necessary, external legal processes for their production, packaging and marketing, and support and advice is provided by leading law firms.
In 2005 the design and operation of processes and equipment used key legal achievements included preparation for the disposal of in our businesses.
3.2 billion has been included in the the Europe Beverages business, responding to changes in UK Groups balance sheet at 1 January 2006 to reflect the cost corporate governance requirements, increasing protection of of intellectual property acquired since 1985.
For further our patents and strengthening resources in developing markets information on our policy regarding the amortisation of the in the Asia Pacific region, and in the Americas, handling the cost of brands see Note 1 to the Financial Statements on page 97. contractual and leasing arrangements for key new properties for Americas Confectionery, and working with the business to strengthen the route to market for Americas Beverages.
Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 17 Description of Business Production assets The Company owns all the production facilities apart from nine which are leased: five in Europe, Middle East and Africa, two in Confectionery Beverages Total Asia Pacific, one in Americas Confectionery and one in Americas Beverages.
Americas Beverages 11 11 Americas Confectionery 11 11 All the facilities are considered to be in good condition, EMEA 38 3 41 adequate for their purpose and suitably utilised according to Asia Pacific 18 7 25 the individual nature and requirements of the relevant Sub Total 67 21 88 operations.
We have a continuing programme of improving and replacing property when appropriate, to meet the needs Europe Beverages 13 13 of the individual operations.
Total 67 34 101 The table below details our material properties, representing those sites with the most significant unmitigated loss Properties exposures.
All are manufacturing facilities and are owned As of 1 January 2006 the Group had a total of 101 by the Group except where indicated.
These properties manufacturing plants and bottling facilities, of which 41 were have a capacity utilisation in the range of 33 100%.
located in Europe, Middle East and Africa: 11 in Americas Confectionery: 11 in Americas Beverages: 25 in Asia Pacific: and 13 in Europe Beverages.
Of these, 67 are engaged in the manufacture of confectionery products and 34 are engaged in the manufacture and bottling of beverage products.
As indicated in the above table, 13 facilities owned at 1 January 2006 were subsequently sold with the Europe Beverages business.
Material properties Location Principal products Area in '000 sq ft Production capacity in '000 tonnes Bournville, UK part leasehold Chocolate Confectionery 1,766 236 Somerdale, UK Chocolate Confectionery 933 106 Aspers, Pa. USA Beverages 620 737 Ringwood, Australia Chocolate Confectionery 610 39 Williamson, NY, USA Beverages 578 492 Rockford, Ill. USA Gum Confectionery 536 61 Sheffield, UK Sugar Confectionery 503 85 Coolock, Ireland Chocolate Confectionery 488 99 Puebla, Mexico Gum Confectionery 408 109 Chirk, UK Confectionery Feedstocks 261 73 Bauru, Brazil Sugar and Gum Confectionery 217 72 Overland, St. Louis, Miss.
USA Beverages, Concentrates 199 161 Carcagente, Spain Beverages 130 19 Marlbrook, UK Confectionery Feedstocks 132 110 Rathmore, Ireland Confectionery Feedstocks 106 55 Dublin, Ireland leasehold Gumbase 80 23 in millions of litres discontinued operation 18 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Market environment region: Russia, Poland, Turkey, Egypt and South Africa in the Competition EMEA region: and India and Thailand in the Asia Pacific region.
The confectionery and soft drinks industries are highly Value % total market 2004 Vs 2003 % competitive: our brands compete with those of many other multi-national, national and regional companies and private Chocolate 53.8% 4.1% label suppliers in various markets.
We compete actively in terms Sugar sweets candied 32.8% 2.4% of quality, taste and price of products and seek to develop and Medicated 3.1% 2.1% enhance brand recognition through the introduction of Gum 13.4% 6.5% new products and packaging, and extensive advertising and Sugar 4.7% 1.9% promotional programmes.
Sugar free 8.7% 9.1% Total confectionery $121.6bn 3.9% We are the worlds leading confectionery group by sales value see table below.
Chocolate confectionery is primarily a Source: Euromonitor 2004 branded market.
Four groups account for around 44% of the world market, each with market share built on regional Our main beverages market is the US.
According to AC Nielsen, strengths.
Our 7.8% chocolate share is built on strong the US refreshment beverages market, which includes nonpositions in the UK, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand and India.
alcoholic carbonated and non-carbonated soft drinks, The sugar confectionery market is significantly more grew by 2% in volume and 6% in value in 2005.
Carbonated fragmented, with a greater presence of local and regional soft drinks CSDs volumes have been flat or declining in recent brands and private label products, but our 6.9% share makes us years and fell by 3% in 2005.
The decline has been attributed global market leader.
Gum is also a branded market.
It is more to a combination of above inflation pricing and consumers global in nature with brands and products more consistent switching to non-carbonated products, primarily sports drinks across geographies.
Two groups account for approximately 62% and bottled water.
Within the carbonated market, products of the global total: our number two position is built on strong sweetened with sugar regular declined 5% in 2005 while market shares in the Americas, parts of Continental Europe, those sweetened with low calorie sweeteners diet grew Japan and Thailand.
We have six out of the top 10 non-cola diet 2004 $ Share Total Chocolate Sugar Gum CSDs in the US, including Diet Dr Pepper, Diet A&W, Diet Sunkist and Diet Rite.
In 2005 diet CSDs accounted for 24% of Cadbury Schweppes 10.0% 7.8% 6.9% 26.0% our US CSD sales and grew by 4%.
We do not participate in the Mars 9.2% 15.2% 3.1% 0.2% sports drinks market in the US and have only a small presence Nestl 7.8% 12.3% 3.6% in the bottled water market.
The non-CSD categories in which Hershey 5.8% 8.4% 3.1% 1.7% we participate grew by 2% in volume in 2005.
Kraft 4.9% 7.3% 2.7% 0.5% Volumes % total market 2005 Vs 2004 % Wrigley 4.9% 0.3% 36.0% Carbonated soft drinks 53% 3 % Source: Euromonitor 2004 Regular 35% 5 % Diet 18% 1% The soft drinks industry includes a number of brand owners Non carbonated 45% 9% which act as licensors of branded products.
Through Water 21% 17% Dr Pepper Seven Up, we are the third largest carbonated soft Isotonics Energy 5% 25% drinks group in the US by sales volume.
In Australia, we are the 100% Juice 9% 2 % second largest beverages company and the fourth largest Juice Drinks 10% 1 % supplier of edible products to the grocery trade.
Other 2% 0% Total 100% 2% Industry trends Both the confectionery and beverages markets in which we Source: AC Nielsen December 2005 operate are growing.
The main drivers are population growth and increased consumer wealth particularly in developing Many of our businesses are seasonal.
Their seasonality is markets, and product innovation, affecting both developed and primarily influenced either by the weather, or by religious developing markets.
Within the Group, our businesses have different seasonal cycles throughout the year depending on According to Euromonitor the global confectionery market their geographical location and the timing of festivals and grew in value by 3.9% in 2004.
It forecasts a similar rate of holidays, which also may vary from year to year.
For the growth continuing for the foreseeable future.
Within the Group as a whole, the second half of the year is typically the overall confectionery market, chocolate grew at 4.1% in 2004, larger half.
In gum, consumers are switching from sugared to sugar-free products.
70% of our Consumers and customers gum is sugar-free.
Our products are primarily impulse products and are sold to the consumer through many different outlets, ranging from Overall, developing markets are growing faster than developed.
grocery stores to petrol station kiosks and fountain equipment Around 30% of our confectionery sales are generated in at leisure, food and entertainment venues.
In many markets, developing markets around the world.
Our key developing sales to the large multiple grocery trade accounts for less than markets are Mexico and Brazil in the Americas Confectionery Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 19 Description of Business 50% of sales.
No single customer accounts for more than 10% In 2004 we commenced the Fuel for Growth headcount of our revenue in any period presented.
reduction programme, which targeted a 10% reduction over the period 20042007.
In 2004 we changed our We have a variety of programmes in place to ensure that measurement of headcount to include contractors.
We track consumer insights are built into our commercial strategy.
the Fuel for Growth headcount reduction by the number of These are described in more detail in the description of the employed individuals who leave the business.
In 2004 this Global Commercial function on page 14 of this document.
Raw materials and suppliers People strategy We use a wide range of raw materials in manufacturing our We publish a people strategy in support of our business products, the main ones being cocoa beans, sugar and other strategy and our annual five goals and 10 priorities.
Our people sweeteners including polyols and artificial sweeteners such as strategy aims to link our organisational capabilities with aspartame, dairy products including milk, and fruit and nuts.
the value we seek to create for our shareowners.
It embraces four areas: We buy our raw materials from about 40,000 suppliers around the world.
No single supplier accounts for more than 10% of getting the right people and putting in place the right our raw material purchases.
We developed a Human Rights and organisation designs Ethical Trading HRET policy in 2000.
Further details are attracting, retaining and developing the right range of talent provided on page 22. building stimulating and attractive workplaces and atmospheres We seek to minimise the impact of price fluctuations and rewarding the right performance outcomes and behaviours ensure security of supply by entering into forward agreements and long-term contracts wherever available.
Performance measurement and management We measure the impact of our people strategy and the We import cocoa beans from West Africa and the Far East.
contribution employees make to our business through a twoWest Africa accounts for over 60% of world production.
We buy cocoa beans and cocoa butter from a range of suppliers, and try to minimise the effect of cocoa price Individual performance is reviewed by an employees line movements and secure our future requirements by entering manager at the half year and year-end and measured against into forward and future contracts.
the attainment of clearly specified objectives.
These objectives are set at the start of the year through a formal meeting with We purchase most of our sugar at prices essentially set by the line manager and are documented and signed.
Managers the European Union or maintained by various national are also reviewed against the behaviours we describe in governments through quotas and duties.
Only a relatively our global leadership imperatives: Accountable, Adaptable, small proportion is purchased at fluctuating world prices.
Aggressive, Forward Thinking, Motivating, Collaborative, We have not experienced difficulty in obtaining adequate Growing People and Living our Values.
The individual is rated supplies of sugar for our operations, and do not anticipate any on performance and rewarded accordingly.
We operate this future difficulties, given the many available sources.
We also have a separate process to identify the potential of our managers to Capabilities grow into new roles and this is conducted on an annual basis.
Employees The average employee headcount Our ability to gain the engagement and earn the commitment of our people is also measured.
We use a climate survey 2005 2004 2003 tool which has proved a direct correlation between the performance of a business and the level of engagement of Americas Beverages 6,605 6,774 7,020 its employees the discretionary effort an employee will give.
Americas Confectionery 14,175 14,002 13,672 The climate survey was undertaken with the most senior EMEA 21,660 21,549 22,611 10,000 managers globally in 2004 and then rolled out to all Asia Pacific 12,624 12,436 12,480 employees in 2005.
Nearly 90% of respondents around the world are proud to work for Cadbury Schweppes, know what is expected Total 58,581 58,442 59,534 of them and constantly try to find ways of working better.
The areas where we can improve are particularly related to The average employee headcount in the UK in 2005 was enabling people to achieve more: for the business, themselves 7,460, 2004: 7,468 2003: 7,409. and for their communities.
Our new Passion for People programme described below will help train our managers in For the purposes of this table, an employee is defined as a the required skills, and help the business reinforce its distinctive single individual not a full time equivalent in the business workplace environment.
employed by us on a full time or part time basis or as a contractor to the business.
20 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 People capabilities consistent with our Group-wide Equal Employment Learning and development Opportunities and Diversity Policy.
Our People Strategy sets out our commitment to ensuring all employees realise their full potential.
In 2005, Group-wide Health and well-being learning and development activity focused on rolling out our We provide a number of health and well-being programmes Building Commercial Capabilities programme with 1000 for employees at business unit level, ranging from employee managers taking part.
The aim of the programme is to improve nutrition and health education through to whole-family health commercial decision-making, and marketing and sales expertise management schemes.
The programmes include the provision by defining a common Cadbury Schweppes way of marketing of nutrition-focused on-site cafeterias: hygiene and health and selling.
We have also developed a bespoke Cadbury management education: subsidised activity facilities on or Schweppes people management training programme called off-site: organised sporting and social activities: and a range of Passion for People for roll-out starting in 2006.
The training courses and counselling on matters such as work-life seeks to teach newcomers our particular approach to managing management, relaxation and stress management, managing people and refresh it with existing employees.
weight change and reducing smoking or drinking.
A large number of business units have medical facilities for basic health Employee communication and involvement and safety requirements.
In addition many offer employees Employee communication and engagement continued to grow medicals of one kind or another to give an indication of fitness in 2005 with all areas of the business introducing enhanced to work.
Guiding principles for such employee wellbeing communication structures and programmes.
Through our schemes were introduced in 2005 following a review in 2004, subsidiaries, we have successfully entered into numerous to inform their further development and the introduction of collective bargaining agreements.
Our management has no new facilities and programmes.
reason to believe that it would not be able to renegotiate any such agreements on satisfactory terms.
Pensions The Group seeks to offer retirement benefits to employees in Employee share ownership line with local competitive market practice, as well as being Share ownership among all our employees is actively encouraged.
consistent with guiding principles established by the Group's Employees in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, International Employee Benefits Action Group IEBAG.
Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain, and the UK and US have access to all-employee share plan IEBAG consists of senior representatives from Finance, arrangements which involve participation on favourable terms.
Treasury, Risk Management and HR including one main board Overall, around 40% of all eligible employees choose to member, the Chief Human Resources Officer, and was participate, and invitations to participate are generally established to review and oversee governance across the communicated each year.
Groups UK and overseas retirement and related benefit arrangements and provide a structure to approve and facilitate Details of stock option plans available to employees are changes to such arrangements in the areas of governance, provided in Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
The stock plan design, financing, and accounting.
option schemes are being reviewed in 2006, but the principle of employee share ownership will continue.
During 2005, IEBAG has been involved in the Groups responses to changes in international accounting standards, Equal employment opportunities, benefits redesign arising from UK Pensions Simplification diversity and inclusiveness and the implications of the UK Pension Act 2004.
In addition, Diversity plays a crucial role in enabling us to stay relevant IEBAG has considered changes impacting its retirement and to customers and consumers.
Our objective is to employ related benefit arrangements outside the UK, in particular in regardless of race, colour, ethnic or national origin, gender, countries affected by the integration of the Adams businesses.
sexual orientation, age, religion, marital status or disability.
Such arrangements are a mixture of defined benefit and This objective is embedded in our Group-wide Equal defined contribution plans.
Employment Opportunities and Diversity Policy.
The Board and the Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR Committee Details on Group pension arrangements are provided in Note monitors procedures and progress and we use training, 25 to the Financial Statements.
workshops, induction, and in some cases Diversity Committees, to ensure that we share best practice and celebrate diversity.
Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR A newly formed global diversity and inclusiveness team, led by Cadbury Schweppes believes that corporate social responsibility a member of the Chief Executive's Committee is steering the is an integral part of being an effective, value-creating business.
development of new policies and activities to increase We seek to always manage the business in a way that is both awareness and focus on workforce diversity and workplace profitable and responsible and adds value to shareowners and inclusiveness.
We track and monitor gender diversity within to the wider society.
This commitment is explicitly stated as one management, the executive population and across the total of our businesses five goals: nurture the trust of colleagues workplace, and the range of nationalities at senior levels.
People with disabilities To sustain our success in different and changing markets and We employ people with disabilities, though not all are formally diverse cultures, the Board of Cadbury Schweppes is registered as disabled in UK terms.
If an employee becomes committed to achieving superior levels of business integrity, disabled, we aim wherever possible to offer an alternative job, ethics and professionalism, working to high international with retraining if necessary.
Training, career development and standards of corporate and social responsibility and corporate promotion opportunities for people with disabilities are governance across all its activities.
The Board has approved a Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 21 Description of Business Financial Code of Ethics that applies to the Chief Executive is led by a group of senior managers who regularly assess Officer and senior financial officers in the Group.
members of the Board, the CEC and the Global Leadership Team are expected to sign Cadbury Schweppes Business Principles.
Ethical sourcing and sustainability are two key drivers of our This expectation also extends to the whole management Global Supply Chain.
Ethical Sourcing Standards for the Group population of the business, with all managers being asked to based on the learning from pilot studies completed in five confirm annually that they and their teams have seen the countries China, Ghana, Indonesia, Mexico and Turkey, were Business Principles and will abide by them.
The roll-out of a put in place in 2002.
These standards are being underpinned confidential, all employee Speaking Up helpline in most with a system for supplier evaluation, training for employees languages was completed in 2005, which enables employees to and a programme of engagement with our suppliers.
In 2005, report concerns of breaches of our business principles.
Both the a new ethical sourcing director was recruited to manage the Code and Business Principles are available on the Group's implementation of these standards.
For the full corporate governance report and an outline of the Board of Directors In 2005, we continued to play a leading role in the multiremit, composition and activities see pages 27 to 39. stakeholder alliance of the International Cocoa Initiative.
We played a significant advocacy role with others in our sector Our CSR activities involve an active engagement programme to promote responsible labour practices and to stimulate more with stakeholders to both inform policy and resource allocation, prosperous and sustainable cocoa farming, working with and to assess the effectiveness and appropriateness of activities farmers.
Having achieved a target for developing certification undertaken.
We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact and in 2005, this process is beginning to review farming activities endorse its ideals.
Our CSR strategy and policy is directed and in West Africa.
There is strong support from Governments assessed by a Board-level CSR Committee, established in 2001 in Ghana and Cote DIvoire, although progress in the latter and chaired by non-executive director Lady Judith Wilcox.
is hindered by the current civil and military unrest.
Green and The terms of reference for the Board-level CSR committee are Black's, our organic Fair-tradebusiness, set up new farmer available to view on the investor centre page of the Group's cooperatives in Belize, with support from other parts of website, www.
Alternatively, they are Cadbury Schweppes.
With 1.5 million smallholder farmers available in hard copy format from the Group Secretary.
in West Africa, only a fraction of whom are engaged in Fair-trade infrastructure, we focus on maximising ethical The CSR committee oversees an agenda covering five trade by working broadly on the root causes of poverty in activity areas: these areas through education and technological development.
Farmer field schools have helped over 25,000 farmer families, Human rights and employment standards: both increasing awareness of acceptable labour practices and Ethical sourcing and procurement: generating increases in farmer family incomes.
Marketing Food and Consumer issues: Environment, health and safety: Cadbury Schweppes is a member of the Roundtable for Community.
In 2005, we put in place plans for independent auditing In recent World Trade Organisation WTO trade talks, we verification and assurance of three areas of CSR activity added our voice to calls for freer access to European Union and we will continue to build on, and extend, the processes.
markets by developing world commodity suppliers.
These are environment, health and safety: ethical sourcing: and internal signed commitment to our business principles.
Cadbury Schweppes has had an equal opportunity and diversity policy since 1993 and also has HIV Aids global guidelines.
Our 2006, and third bi-annual, CSR report will outline our A global employee climate survey was launched in 2004 and activities in all these areas and will be assured by our rolled-out to all employees in 2005 to help the business assess independent CSR auditors Deloitte and Touche LLP.
This report, the commitment and engagement to the business of its which includes a mapping to GRI Global Reporting Initiative employees, and in particular the opportunities to embrace CSR guidelines, is to be published in early summer and will be in their everyday work and as part of personal development.
accessible via our website www.
The most recent results show that whilst the considerable majority does feel that they get these opportunities, over 30% Human rights and employment standards, and do not and that is an area for focus and improvement in 2006.
Ethical sourcing and procurement: Two programmes, working better together a cultural and Our Human Rights and Ethical Trading HRET policy has been organisational transformation programme, and Passion for developed taking into account international standards such as People focused on the fundamental management skills needed the International Labour Organisation conventions, the UN to be successful at Cadbury Schweppes, will support this Declaration of Human Rights, and OECD guidelines as well improvement.
as cultural and industry best practice from our local markets.
Adopted by the Main Board in 2000, it covers core labour Marketing Food and Consumer issues rights and dignity at work: health and safety in the workplace: Our strategy in this area is led by our Food Issues Strategy fair remuneration: diversity and respect for differences and Group, which is chaired by Todd Stitzer, Chief Executive Officer, opportunity for development.
and has the Group's most senior leaders in commercial strategy, science and technology, corporate social responsibility, legal The HRET policy is there to guide to all Cadbury Schweppes' and human resources among its membership.
This group drives business units, as well as our suppliers and the business the global strategy and plans to ensure that we are innovating, strategy in this area.
The review of the effectiveness of policy investing and managing our business to keep abreast of, 22 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 understand and meet the needs of consumers with respect to against publicly available targets in the key areas of energy use, the way we develop, produce and market our products.
water use and greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2005 we rolled out a 12 Point Action Plan in response to Local legislative requirements for health and safety reporting consumer health concerns, embracing a global marketing code vary considerably across the world.
To enable us to publish a of advertising, including special reference to children, and an consolidated set of Group health and safety data, key extensive series of policies on matters related to food and its performance indicators KPIs have been defined which all sites content.
With the aim of contributing to the development of must report against on a globally consistent basis.
The one core sustainable solutions to obesity and poor lifestyles.
In 2005 we KPI that we have selected is Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate undertook global consumer research studies into food, health, LTIFR per 200,000 man-hours.
In 2005, we introduced a diet, nutrition and obesity, covering developing and developed new global EHS data reporting system to facilitate collation of countries, and have made these studies available to all EHS KPIs.
These studies build on work undertaken in 2004 and 2003.
We are supporting with untied and unbranded Safety is a key area of focus for the Group and in 2006 we are funds primary scientific research in this area.
launching a safety campaign to improve safety practices across our business.
The critical aim of this programme is to ensure Building CSR into our brands is a top priority in 2006, covering that we operate to the same global standards in all of our areas such as labelling, consumer information, ethical sourcing, businesses.
responsible advertising and cause related marketing, and an emphasis on innovation of affordable nutrition through treats Our EHS performance data and targets are published on our for developing markets such as in Southern Africa.
website and will be available in our CSR report.
We have an active engagement with the World Health Community Organisation and NGOs on matters of importance to We aim to create prosperous, educated, sustainable and healthy consumers as it relates to our products and their lives, and have communities in the countries and cultures in which we operate.
been commended for our productive approaches.
More detail Our Growing Community Value around the World strategy on our activities in this area can be found on our website: guides our businesses in how they can contribute to and assist www.
With a focus on education and enterprise, health and welfare and the environment, we develop targeted Environment, health and safety programmes for local communities, often involving commercial Our Environment, Health and Safety EHS Steering Group, sponsorship, significant employee engagement through direct chaired by Chris Orchard, Director of Business Risk involvement or secondment, and help with facilities, as well Management and made up of senior managers in the business, as direct financial support.
In 2005 the value of Cadbury oversees our integrated EHS policy and standards.
The Schweppes' contribution to non-profit causes totalled standards are based on both ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
9.8m, just over 1% of our pre-tax profit, paid in respect of Our EHS policy deals with environmental issues related to the the following charitable purposes: education and enterprise manufacturing of our products, protecting bio-diversity and the 2.74m, environment 0.72m, health and welfare 5.36m, eco-systems from which we source raw materials, the and other 0.98m.
management of our supply chain and the distribution, sale and consumption of our products.
Sustainable agriculture is an Our people are always a critical component of our community important opportunity for us, as well as for the farming programmes.
In recognition of the importance we place on communities we work with.
For example, biodiversity is also a their role in our community investment, our biannual key farming concern.
In 2005, we partnered with the Chairman's Award recognises outstanding examples of Earthwatch organisation in an innovative programme in Ghana employee community involvement and rewards individuals or whereby Cadbury Schweppes colleagues worked with teams from any part of the business.
89 nominations were Ghanaian scientists and farmers on the nature and role of received for the 2005 6 award.
Commercial sustainability of high quality cocoa beans demands both environmental and External Ratings social sustainability.
In support of the latter in 2005, our Our CSR performance is rated on by various external company and its local partners built the 300th well in rural organisation's indices.
These include: Ghana part of its on going programme of providing fresh water locally for farming communities, which has a direct Dow Jones Sustainability World Index.
In 2005, we were impact on health and welfare, rural development and scored at 73%, up from 71% in 2004. educational opportunities.
FTSE4Good and FTSE4Good Supply Chain Labour Standards Criteria.
We are included in these indices, which measure All of our manufacturing sites are audited on a rolling performance of companies that meet globally recognised programme by the Group EHS Assurance Department and CSR and supply chain labour standards.
areas for improvement are identified.
Some sites are also The Carbon Disclosure project included Cadbury Schweppes externally audited and certified to one or more of the in their Climate Leadership Index for the second year internationally recognised standards, such as ISO 14001 or running.
UK's Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
We continue to invest in systems, processes and facilities to improve our EHS performance, which is measured and tracked Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 23 Description of Business Risk factors Intellectual property Our business, financial condition, results of our operations or We and our major competitors have substantial intellectual share price could be materially adversely affected by any or all property rights and interests which could potentially come into of the following risks, or by others that we cannot identify.
If any patent infringement or other intellectual In addition to the following risk factors we face certain market property claims against us are successful, we may, among other risks that are discussed under the headings Treasury Risk things be enjoined from, or required to cease, the development, Management, Liquidity Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Currency Risk, manufacture, use and sale of products that infringe others Fair Value Analysis, Commodities and Credit Risk on pages patent rights: be required to expend significant resources to 72 to 74. redesign our products so that they do not infringe others' patent rights, which may not be possible: and or be required to Competition and demand obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property, which may Both the beverages and confectionery industries are highly not be available on acceptable terms, or even at all.
In our major markets, we compete with other the risk that intellectual property litigation against us could multinational corporations which have significant financial significantly disrupt our business, divert management's resources to respond to and develop the markets in which both attention, and consume financial resources.
These resources may be applied to change areas of focus or to increase investments in marketing or new Legislation and regulation products.
This could cause our sales or margins to decrease in Production, distribution and sale of many of our products are these markets.
Furthermore, consumer tastes are susceptible subject to governmental regulation regarding the production, to change.
If we are unable to respond successfully to rapid sale, safety, labelling and composition ingredients of such changes in consumer preferences, our sales or margins in products in the various countries and governmental regions in individual markets could be materially adversely affected.
In addition, the manufacture of many of our products, and other activities, in various markets is subject to Contamination governmental regulation relating to the discharge of materials Despite safety measures adopted by the Group, our products into the environment, and the reclamation and re-cycling of could become contaminated.
We use many ingredients in packaging waste.
At all times we are subject to employment manufacturing beverages and confectionery, which increases and health and safety legislation in those countries in which we the risk of contamination, either accidental or malicious.
we believe that incidents of this type are generally localised, any contamination may be expensive to remedy, and could Our operations are also subject to the risks and uncertainties cause delays in manufacturing and adverse effects on our inherent in doing business in numerous countries.
A number reputation and financial condition.
of countries in which we operate maintain controls on the repatriation of earnings and capital.
We are subject to Dependence on business partners substantial government regulation that may change A significant part of our CSD business in the US is conducted dramatically as a result of political, economic or social events.
through licensing arrangements with independent bottlers, in Such changes may be wide-ranging and cover cross-border some of which our major competitors have substantial equity trading, taxation, employment practices and environment, interests.
These bottlers may come under pressure to replace health and safety issues, and involve actions such as product our brands with competitor products, and although we would recalls, seizure of products and other sanctions.
be able to re-licence these brands, such a change could adversely affect volumes and profit, particularly in the short Manufacturing and logistics term.
There is also a greater concentration of our customer Our manufacturing and distribution facilities could be disrupted base around the world, due to consolidation of the retail for reasons beyond our control, such as extremes of weather, trade.
Pricing pressures from customers in countries with fire, supplies of material or services, systems failure, workforce concentrated retail trades, could adversely impact our sales actions or environmental issues.
Any significant manufacturing or margins.
In addition, inappropriate action by or an incident or logistical disruptions could affect our ability to make and sell at a licensee partner involving our brands could impact the products which could cause revenues to decline.
reputation of Cadbury Schweppes brands or the Group as a whole.
We are in the third year of our four year Fuel for Growth programme, which includes significant restructuring of our Information technology manufacturing and distribution facilities.
While this is carefully We depend on accurate, timely information and numerical data and sensitively planned, major unforeseen difficulties could from key software applications to aid day-to-day decision nevertheless reduce our revenues and earnings.
We have continued to implement our new SAP based IT system, with successful launches in 2004 in our carbonated Raw materials soft drinks business in the US, Cadbury Adams in Japan, and Our profitability depends to some extent upon the cost of raw Cadbury in Ireland.
In 2005 we implemented it in Great Britain materials from around the world, which exposes us to price both in Cadbury Trebor Bassett and the Group HQ.
Key items such as cocoa, milk, sugar Any disruption caused by a failure of this new system or similar packaging materials and energy are subject to potentially applications, of underlying equipment or of communication significant fluctuations in price and availability.
While we take networks, for whatever reason, could delay or otherwise measures to protect against the short-term impact of these impact day-to-day decision making, or cause us material fluctuations, there can be no assurance that any shortfalls will financial losses.
24 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 be recovered.
A failure to recover higher costs or shortfalls in Forward-looking statements availability could decrease our profitability.
Forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Retirement benefits US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are made throughout We have various retirement benefit schemes which are funded this Report, including in the Description of Business Risk via investments in equities, bonds and other external assets.
Factors, the Operating and Financial Review, the Report of The scheme liabilities reflect the latest salary levels.
The values the Directors and the Directors Remuneration Report.
of such assets are dependent on, among other things, the These forward-looking statements are based on a number performance of the equity and debt markets, which are volatile.
of assumptions made by Cadbury Schweppes management Any shortfall in our funding obligations may require significant concerning future events and information currently available additional funding from the employing entities.
You should not rely unduly on these forwardlooking statements, which are not a guarantee of performance Role of food in public health and are subject to a number of uncertainties and other facts, Many countries face rising obesity levels due to an imbalance many of which are outside of the Groups control, and could between energy consumed in food and expended through cause actual events to differ materially from those implicit in activity.
The reasons for the changes in society that have those statements.
Although Cadbury Schweppes believes the occurred and for some individuals having a greater inclination expectations reflected in those forward-looking statements are to obesity are multifaceted and complex.
There are, however, reasonable, it cannot assure you that these expectations will risks associated with the possibility of government action prove to be correct.
In addition to those factors described against the food industry, such as levying additional taxes on or under Risk Factors, other important factors that could cause restricting the advertising of certain product types.
This could actual results to differ materially from our expectations include increase our tax burden or make it harder for us to market our international economic and political conditions: changes in laws, products, reducing sales and or profits.
Also, consumer tastes regulations, and accounting standards: distributor and licensee may change rapidly for health-related reasons, and if we are relationships and actions: effectiveness of spending and unable to respond our sales or margins could decline.
marketing programmes: and unusual weather patterns.
Although the Group believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, it cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
Comparative statements In this Report, Cadbury Schweppes makes certain statements with respect to its market position, or its products or brands market positions, by comparison with third parties or their products or brands.
These statements are based on independent sources, such as Euromonitor and AC Nielsen, and are accurate to the best of the knowledge and belief of Cadbury Schweppes.
Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 25 This page has been left blank intentionally 26 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005
