MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Carnival The Carnival ship Oriana stopping off at the Italian island of Elba.
United Kingdom After pausing for breath for a few months of Englands interest rate rises appear to in the previous year, we were net sellers of at the start of the Companys year the have cooled the housing market, so far UK equities, taking 19m out of the FTSE World UK index continued the without causing a collapse, and reined in market.
Notable sales included Prudential, upward trend seen since the lows of early retail sales.
The risk remains a more following the disappointing rights issue, 2003.
The index returned a healthy 10.6% marked slowdown although by far the most British American Tobacco and part of our while disappointingly our portfolio, which likely outcome is continued steady growth, large holding in Vodafone.
As a result the returned 9.5%, lagged the market for the albeit at a slower rate than in recent years.
proportion of the fund invested in the UK first time in seven years.
Over five years we Signs of a more severe downturn in the fell to 18.8% from 21.4%.
remain ahead of the market with a return of retail sector during the early months of 12.7% compared to the market return of 2005 have probably been exaggerated Looking forward we expect another year of 7.5%.
The continued strong market by one-off factors.
These developments decent corporate earnings improvement in performance was a result of sustained suggest to us that the UK is close to, or at the UK, albeit at a slower rate than in earnings growth combined with a the top of, the interest rate cycle although, 2004, with a little over 10% likely.
Aggregate market unless there is a surprisingly rapid market continues to offer relatively secure earnings rose over 12% during the deterioration in consumer spending, growth and a reasonable valuation which calendar year 2004. significant interest rate cuts over the next should combine to produce acceptable year remain unlikely.
returns over the next 12 months.
We The economic environment has remained continue to invest in companies with secure supportive, with the UKs unparalleled Turnover in the portfolio remained low, and visible long term growth prospects period of economic expansion continuing.
reflecting the continued good operational which are likely to make good progress The main cause for concern has been performance of most of our holdings.
As profit inflationary pressures created by the Notable new names in the portfolio include growth for the corporate sector as a whole sustained strength of UK consumer Hilton, the betting and hotels company, slows, the sustained progress of our spending and the potential for instability if and Signet, the jewellery retailer with companies should become more highly there were a house price crash.
The Bank operations in the US and UK.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Porsche Porsches latest 911 sports car, the 997.
Continental Europe In the year under review the European New investments during the year were historically elevated levels, suggesting that index rose by over 10% in sterling terms.
First, the current conditions for business may be The Companys European stocks did Company bought three investment holding unsustainably good.
As ever, the future is slightly worse than this, rising by about 9%.
companies: Investor, Wendel and GBL.
All uncertain, particularly in view of the three have large stakes in a limited number political difficulties being experienced by a There were three notable features to the of companies, and exert some influence on number of national governments, the lack years performance.
Long term returns of enthusiasm for labour market reform rebounded strongly from its depressed have been excellent: their tax status is being shown by many electorates and the levels in the wake of its politically inspired favourable: and yet they trade at a rejection of the proposed constitution by the takeover of Aventis.
We believe it remains substantial discount to our assessment of French and Dutch.
Our approach remains attractive given its innovative drug pipeline.
The second area of significant to invest in companies that consistently earn Second, the retail bank holdings did well, investment was in two Scandinavian banks, more than their cost of capital, are especially Allied Irish Banks and Danske Danske Bank and Handelsbanken.
Both managed by people that understand Bank.
As noted below, we made additions have low risk loan books, disciplined shareholder value, and are valued during the year as we think valuations fail management, and attractive dividend reasonably.
to take account of the durable profitability yields.
Finally, the industrial conglomerate, ABB, announced Recent results from our big holdings are disappointing news about its cost-cutting encouraging, with strong cash flows a plan and the resignation of its finance feature, and mid teens growth in annual director: we sold this holding.
However, the outlook may be sold Nokia owing to doubts about the less promising.
Near term, business value of its R&D and scale advantages confidence surveys are deteriorating.
over emerging, low cost Asian competitors.
Longer term, corporate profit share is at 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Walgreen This Walgreen drugstore in Libertyville, Illinois, is one of the companys 4,800 locations throughout the United States and Puerto Rico.
North America In the year under review the S&P 500 rose Canadian company with greater exposure have long admired the companys low cost by 6.3%.
However, this gain was more than to natural gas production.
We continue to operating model and the catalyst for offset by weakness in the dollar and the believe that the markets expectations for investing was a material reduction of stock index return in sterling terms was 1.3%.
medium to long term energy prices are too option grants to employees.
Fastenal is a The Companys North American stocks did low.
leading distributor of industrial supplies.
We better than this producing a return of 10.0% like managements entrepreneurial approach We also saw strong returns from our two in sterling.
Underlying economic and and we believe that the business has the largest individual stock holdings, Golden corporate profits growth in North America opportunity to grow its market share from a West, the niche mortgage bank, and remained robust, but investors feared a loss low base for many years to come.
Markel Moodys, the bond rating agency.
These of momentum as the Federal Reserve started insures risks in a wide variety of niche returns were underpinned by strong its rate tightening cycle and energy prices markets.
The company has an excellent operating results.
underwriting and investment record and we continued to take share within the mortgage were particularly attracted by the high level The main positive contributor to performance lending market and it produced profits of employee ownership in the business.
was the large weighting in energy stocks.
growth of 16% in calendar year 2004 and The North American economic and Over the twelve months the West Texas 15% in the first quarter of 2005.
Moodys corporate profits backdrop remains positive, Intermediate WTI oil price rose from $38.5 remains an excellent franchise and to $50 and the North American gas price although we expect a continued moderation underlying strength in the bond market rose from $5.9 to $6.7.
This provided a in growth rates towards longer term trends.
enabled a profit uplift of 26% in calendar favourable background for holdings in the Given these conditions we feel that the year 2004 and 23% in the first quarter of stockmarket is reasonably valued.
There Canadian oil sands company, Suncor, the 2005. continue to be many opportunities to invest oil major ConocoPhillips and the gas stocks EOG and Burlington.
Towards the end of We made few changes to the Companys in attractively valued growth companies in the year, we halved the holding in Suncor in North American holdings during the year, North America.
We have confidence in the although small positions were taken in three operational strengths of our holdings and response to some concern about the new stocks: Dell, Fastenal and Markel.
Dell believe that the market does not fully companys ability to control costs, appreciate their long term growth prospects.
reinvesting the proceeds in Encana, another is the worlds leading PC manufacturer.
We THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Inpex The central processing unit in Inpexs Attaka oil field.
Japan The Japanese equity market produced a A year ago we saw signs that deflation in companies that will be able to make an negative total return of almost 4% in the Japan was coming to an end.
Many important contribution to the portfolio.
Our period under review, following the indicators such as office vacancy and rental confidence in Canon still holds strong, and exceptional gains achieved during the rates have improved, whilst developments in we bought a new holding in Nidec which previous year.
The yen was also weak the oil market have added to optimism that dominates the manufacture of motors for hard against the pound and this meant that the price rises will again become the norm.
Also in a global context, most of decline in sterling terms was 6.1%.
Our However new sources of deflation, notably the Japanese car manufacturers go from portfolio did better than this, falling by just telecom tariffs, have so far capped any strength to strength.
Our current preference is 4.3%, but the exposure to Japanese progress on this front.
As a consequence, for Nissan where management stands out as equities was nonetheless unhelpful for zero interest rates are likely to continue for being single-minded about delivering high performance.
at least the next twelve months.
During the period under review we reduced The economy at last appears to be Following extensive restructuring across the portfolios investment in Japanese equities, settling into a normal cycle.
The rate of Japan, managements confidence in the seeing better investment opportunities in other growth certainly slowed during the visibility and sustainability of their profit markets.
This had the effect of reducing the period, largely the result of an inventory streams is improving.
And now that the number of Japanese holdings by five.
Sales correction in the technology sector.
rebuilding of balance sheets has been were concentrated in the technology area.
However this correction seems to have accomplished, the issue of returning free cash Here we concluded that some of the run its course, and there are flow to shareholders is attracting increased holdings had seen a deterioration in their encouraging signs that end demand is attention.
This means that rising dividends competitive position, and were therefore picking up.
Many companies have and share buybacks are likely to become likely to experience intolerable price deflation announced higher capital expenditure more commonplace.
We are therefore and or loss of market share.
They are also prepared to hire particularly optimistic about the positive Alps Electric, Brother, Kyocera and Rohm.
extra workers, and any such tightening contribution that cash-rich companies such as However, we continue to believe that Japan in the labour market can only be good Keyence, Japan Tobacco, and Promise can for domestic consumption.
is home to a number of globally competitive make to the portfolio.
18 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Westfield Westfield Bondi Junction in Sydneys eastern suburbs, which was completed last December.
Asia Pacific and Other Emerging Markets In the year under review the Companys in a variety of ways, most notably by down, but there has been an encouraging holdings in these regions made a positive contributing to disinflation in the prices of shift in the mix of growth from investment in contribution to performance, primarily as a manufactured goods and inflation in the industries suffering from overcapacity and result of our investments in oil companies in prices of commodities such as oil, iron ore speculative development towards China, Brazil and South Africa.
The largest and basic materials like steel and investment in removing bottlenecks and single holding remains the Baillie Gifford chemicals.
The impact on Asian and other broadening the base of consumers.
It Pacific Fund, to which we made a small emerging market economies and markets remains a difficult balancing act but so far reduction during the year.
The Pacific Fund has been particularly significant and the results are better than expected.
returned 8.9% but our direct holdings broadly positive for companies quoted in performed considerably better and our such countries.
Manufacturing companies We added to our oil industry exposure overall return from our Asia Pacific in places such as Taiwan have been able through an addition to Petrobras, a investments was 15.9%.
Our investments in to reduce costs by relocating operations to Brazilian oil company with a rising Other Emerging Markets returned 35.0%.
China, commodity producers from South production profile, and the purchase of The FTSE World Asia Pacific ex Japan America to South East Asia have gained Sasol, a South African company with an index and the FTSE All World All Emerging from higher prices and demand and expanding non-conventional oils business.
Markets index returned 13.6% and 13.7% consumers in all countries have benefited Additions were also made in Australia with respectively in sterling terms.
While these from low prices.
Given its significance, the purchases of Westfield Holdings, a indices are not strictly comparable with our attempts of the Chinese authorities to slow property real estate investment trust, and classification of investments as Asia Pacific their overheating economy without ANZ Bank.
We also took a holding in a or Emerging Markets, they give a triggering a hard landing have been new fund investing in the Indian reasonable indication of relative watched with great interest over the last pharmaceutical industry.
We have sold our performance.
Net investment in Asia Pacific year.
Sentiment, and with it share prices, holding in BATs Malaysian subsidiary as and Emerging Markets for the year has fluctuated, sometimes quite wildly as we feel that increasing restrictions on amounted to 17.2m.
investors attempted to interpret the signals tobacco sales and consumption coupled emerging from China.
So far the Chinese The rapid expansion of the Chinese with large tax increases will adversely economy has shown little sign of slowing economy has affected the global economy affect its premium brand sales.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19
