DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their After payment of the dividend the Corporate Governance Annual Report together with the results of the accumulated revenue balance is increased by The Board is committed to achieving and Company for the year to 30 April 2005.
111,000 to 17,209,000. demonstrating high standards of corporate governance.
This statement outlines how the Review of Activities Status principles of The Combined Code which During the year under review the Company was published in July 2003 were applied The Company is an investment company has followed the normal activities of an throughout the financial year.
within the meaning of section 266 of the investment trust company.
A review of the Companies Act 1985. main features of the year is contained in the The Board Chairmans Statement and in the Managers The Board has overall responsibility for the The Company carries on business as an Portfolio Review on the preceding pages.
It has a number of investment trust.
In the opinion of the matters reserved for its approval including Directors, the Company conducts its affairs so Dividends strategy, investment policy, currency as to enable it to obtain approval by the Inland Revenue as an investment trust hedging, gearing, treasury matters, dividend The Board recommends a final dividend of under section 842 of the Income and and corporate governance policy.
A 1.20p per ordinary share which, together Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The Company separate strategy session is held annually.
with the interim already paid, makes a total was approved as an investment trust for the The Board also reviews the financial of 1.70p for the year.
year ended 30 April 2004, subject to matters statements, investment transactions, revenue that may arise from any subsequent enquiry budgets and performance.
Full and timely If approved, the recommended final dividend by the Inland Revenue into the Companys tax information is provided to the Board to on the ordinary shares will be paid on return.
The Company will continue to seek enable the Board to function effectively and 5 August 2005 to shareholders on the approval under section 842 of the Income to allow Directors to discharge their register at the close of business on 15 July and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
26 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Attendance at Meetings Audit Board Committee Number of meetings 62 Sir Charles Nunneley 62 CC Ferguson 62 JGD Ferguson 62 EM Harley 62 Lord Howell 11 DCP McDougall 62 Lord Howell retired from the Board on 3 August 2004.
The executive responsibility for investment considered by the Board to be independent Performance Evaluation management has been delegated to the of the Managers and free of any business or An appraisal of the Chairman and each Companys Managers and Secretaries, other relationship which could interfere with Director and a performance evaluation and Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a the exercise of their independent judgement.
review of the Board as a whole and its Audit Board comprised entirely of non-executive Committee was carried out during the year.
Mr McDougall was a senior partner of Baillie Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
The performance of each Director was Gifford & Co until he retired on 30 April appraised by the Chairman and the Sir Charles Nunneley, who was appointed 1999 and is a director of Pacific Horizon Chairmans appraisal was led by Mr DCP Chairman in 1996, will retire from the Board Investment Trust PLC which is managed by McDougall, the Senior Independent Director.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Baillie Gifford & Co. Mr McDougall and The appraisals and evaluations considered, and Mr Ferguson will succeed him as Mr Ferguson are both directors of The amongst other criteria, the balance of skills of Chairman.
The Board the Board, the contribution of individual believes that this does not affect the As the Board is comprised entirely of nonDirectors and the overall effectiveness of the independence of either Mr McDougall or executive directors, a nomination committee Board.
The performance of each Director, the Mr Ferguson and they are both considered to and remuneration committee are considered Chairman, the Board and its Audit Committee be independent in character and judgement.
The appointment of new continues to be effective and each Director Their skills and experience add significantly to Directors is considered by the Board as a and the Chairman remain committed to the the strength of the Board.
whole and the Board conducts an annual Company.
A review of the Chairmans and review of its composition having regard to the Sir Charles Nunneley has served on the other Directors commitments was carried out present and future needs of the Company.
Board for more than nine years.
The Board and the Board is satisfied that they are Directors fees are considered by the Board takes the view that his independence has not capable of devoting sufficient time to the as a whole within the limits approved by been compromised by his length of service.
The Companys policy on The Senior Independent Director is Mr DCP remuneration is set out in the Directors Terms of Appointment and Re-elections McDougall.
Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32. Letters which specify the terms of appointment, are issued to new Directors.
The The Directors believe that the Board has a Meetings letters of appointment are available for balance of skills and experience which There is an annual cycle of Board meetings inspection on request.
enable it to provide effective strategic which is designed to address, in a systematic leadership and proper governance of the way, overall strategy, review of investment Under the provisions of the Companys Company.
Information about the Directors, policy, investment performance, marketing, Articles of Association, a Director appointed including their relevant experience, can be revenue budgets, dividend policy and during the year is required to retire and seek found on pages 9 and 10. communication with shareholders.
The Board election by shareholders at the next Annual considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to There is an agreed procedure for Directors to General Meeting.
The Articles also require discharge its duties effectively.
The number of seek independent professional advice if that Directors retire by rotation and submit meetings of the Board and the Audit necessary at the Companys expense.
The themselves for re-election at least once every Committee held during the year and the Company also maintains Directors and three years.
The Board has resolved further attendance of the individual Directors at those Officers Liability insurance.
that Directors who have served for more than meetings is shown in the table above.
With nine years offer themselves for re-election Independence of Directors the exception of Lord Howell, all of the annually.
The Board is of the view that length The Board currently comprises five Directors Directors attended the Annual General of service will not necessarily compromise the all of whom are non-executive and are Meeting.
independence or contribution of Directors of THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 DIRECTORS REPORT an investment trust company, where continuity Management Agreement.
The Board further action is required to manage the risks and experience can add significantly to the acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise identified.
The Board confirms that these strength of the Board.
No limit has therefore and control the discharge by the Managers procedures have been in place throughout the been imposed on the overall length of service and Secretaries of their obligations.
Companys financial year, are operating of any of the Directors or Chairman.
effectively and continue to be in place up to Baillie Gifford & Co is responsible for the the date of approval of this Report.
Mr JGD Ferguson retires by rotation at the design, implementation and maintenance of forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, control policies and procedures to safeguard Internal Audit being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
the assets of the Company and to manage its The Board carries out an annual review of the affairs properly.
This responsibility also need for an internal audit function.
The Board extends to maintaining effective operational Induction and Training continues to believe that the compliance and and compliance controls and risk New Directors are provided with an induction internal control systems and the internal audit management.
programme which is tailored to the particular function in place within the Investment circumstances of the appointee.
Directors The Companys investments are segregated Managers provide sufficient assurance that a receive other relevant training as necessary.
from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and its sound system of internal control, which other clients through the appointment of The safeguards shareholders investment and the Bank of New York as independent custodian Internal Controls and Risk Management Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal of the Companys investments.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility audit function, specific to the Company, is for the Companys system of internal controls therefore considered unnecessary.
The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk of internal controls is designed to manage Accountability and Audit provide the Board with regular reports on rather than eliminate risk and can only The respective responsibilities of the Directors Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring provide reasonable but not absolute and the Auditors in connection with the programmes.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts assurance against material misstatement or Financial Statements are set out on pages an annual review of its system of internal loss.
The Directors confirm that they have 33 and 34. controls which is documented within an reviewed the effectiveness of the system and internal controls report.
This report is The accounts have been prepared on the they have procedures in place to ensure independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & going concern basis as it is the Directors regular future reviews.
Cos auditors and a copy is submitted to the opinion that the Company will continue in Board.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing operational existence for the foreseeable process for identifying, evaluating and future.
A detailed risk map is prepared which managing the significant risks faced by the identifies the significant risks faced by the An Audit Committee has been established in Company in accordance with the guidance Company and the key controls to manage compliance with the Combined Code Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on these risks are confirmed as in place and consisting of all Directors.
Its authority and the Combined Code.
duties are clearly defined within its written The practical measures to ensure compliance terms of reference which are available on These procedures ensure that consideration is with regulation and company law, and to request.
The Chairman of the Board, who is given regularly to the nature and extent of the a Chartered Accountant, is Chairman of the provide effective and efficient operations and risks facing the Company and that they are Audit Committee in view of his extensive and investment management, have been being actively monitored.
Where changes in relevant financial experience.
The committees delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, risk have been identified during the year they responsibilities include: Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the also provide a mechanism to assess whether 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Interests Nature Ordinary 5p shares held at Name of interest 30 April 2005 30 April 2004 Sir Charles Nunneley Beneficial 10,000 10,000 CC Ferguson Beneficial 29,265 29,265 JGD Ferguson Beneficial 10,000 10,000 EM Harley Beneficial 10,000 10,000 DCP McDougall Beneficial 1,375,000 1,375,000 The Directors at the end of the year under review, and their interests in the Company, were as shown above.
There have been no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 15 June 2005. arrangements on an ongoing basis and a monitoring and reviewing the integrity of Voting Policy and Socially Responsible formal review is conducted annually.
The Investment the financial statements, the internal Board considers, amongst others, the The Company has given discretionary voting financial controls and the independence, following topics in its review: the quality of powers to the Managers, Baillie Gifford & objectivity and effectiveness of the external the personnel assigned to handle the Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions auditors: Companys affairs: the investment process which they consider may damage making recommendations to the Board in and the results achieved to date: the shareholders rights or economic interests.
relation to the appointment of the external administrative services provided by the Baillie Gifford & Co give due weight to what auditors and approving the remuneration Secretaries and the marketing efforts they consider to be socially responsible and terms of their engagement: undertaken by the Managers.
Following the investment when making investment decisions, most recent review it is the opinion of the but their overriding objective is to produce developing and implementing policy on the Directors that the continuing appointment of good investment returns for shareholders.
The engagement of the external auditors to Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on the Managers policy has been reviewed and supply non-audit services: terms agreed, is in the interests of endorsed by the Board.
reviewing the arrangements in place within shareholders as a whole due to the strength Baillie Gifford & Co whereby their staff of the investment management team, the Compliance Managers commitment to the investment trust may, in confidence, raise concerns about Subject to the special circumstances of the sector and the quality of the secretarial and possible improprieties in matters of financial Company as an investment trust, the administrative functions.
reporting or other matters insofar as they Company has complied with the provisions of may affect the Company: The Combined Code during the financial year except that neither a Remuneration nor a reviewing the terms of the Investment Relations with Shareholders Nomination Committee has been established Management Agreement: and The Board places great importance on and no limit has been imposed on the overall communication with shareholders.
The considering annually whether there is a length of service of Directors.
These decisions Companys Managers meet regularly with need for the Company to have its own are explained above.
institutional shareholders and report internal audit function.
shareholders views to the Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with Investment Manager Directors shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders An Investment Management Agreement Information about the Directors, including wishing to communicate with any members between the Company and Baillie Gifford & their relevant experience, can be found on of the Board may do so by writing to them Co sets out the matters over which the pages 9 and 10. at the address on the back cover.
The Managers have authority in accordance with Companys Annual General Meeting the policies and directions of, and subject to Lord Howell retired from the Board on provides a forum for communication with all restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The 3 August 2004. shareholders and the Board announces the Management Agreement is terminable on not level of proxies lodged.
The notice period for Sir Charles Nunneley will retire from the Board less than 12 months notice.
Details of the fee the Annual General Meeting is at least at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual arrangements with Baillie Gifford & Co are twenty working days.
shown on page 41. potential investors may obtain up-to-date The Board considers the Companys information on the Company from the JGD Ferguson retires by rotation and offers investment management and secretarial Managers website, www.
Following formal THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 DIRECTORS REPORT Substantial Holdings No.
of ordinary Name 5p shares held % of issue Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 15,586,706 5.36 U. S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Plan 12,820,000 4.41 Barclays PLC 11,750,033 4.04 The Standard Life Assurance Company 10,942,365 3.76 Legal and General Investment Management Limited 9,071,665 3.12 The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 15 June 2005 in compliance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985. performance evaluation, his performance reducing the issued share capital see note Auditors continues to be effective and he remains 15 on page 46.
As a result of such Resolutions to reappoint committed to the Company.
He has a wealth purchases since April 1999, the net asset  LLP as auditors to the of financial services and investment trust value per share of the Company is Company and to authorise the Directors to experience which adds significantly to the approximately 4.1% higher now than it would determine their remuneration will be proposed strength of the Board.
The Board therefore otherwise have been.
The Directors are seeking shareholders By order of the Board approval at the Annual General Meeting to Repurchase of Shares renew the authority to purchase up to BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in The Companys buy-back authority was last Managers and Secretaries issue at the date of passing of the resolution, renewed at the AGM on 3 August 2004 in 17 June 2005 such authority to expire at the Annual General respect of 43,674,158 shares of 5p each Meeting of the Company to be held in equivalent to 14.99% of its then issued share respect of the year ending 30 April 2006 or capital.
During the year to 30 April 2005 1 February 2007, whichever is the earlier.
the Company bought back 3,000,000 Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing ordinary shares nominal value 150,000 : Authority of the Financial Services Authority, on the London Stock Exchange for the maximum price that may be paid on the cancellation.
The total consideration for these exercise of the authority must not exceed shares was 4,859,000.
Between 1 May 105% of the average of the middle market 2005 and the date of this report the quotations for the shares over the five Company bought back a further 495,000 business days immediately preceding the date ordinary shares nominal value 24,750 for of purchase.
The minimum price that may be cancellation.
The total consideration for these paid will be 5p per share.
Purchases of shares was 954,000. shares will be made within guidelines The principal reasons for share buy-backs are: established, from time to time, by the Board.
Your attention is drawn to Resolution 7 in the i to enhance net asset value for continuing Notice of Annual General Meeting.
shareholders by purchasing shares at a discount to the prevailing net asset value: Creditor Payment Policy ii to address any imbalance between the supply of and the demand for Monks It is the Companys payment policy to obtain shares that results in a discount of the the best terms for all business.
In general, the quoted market price to the published net Company agrees with its suppliers the terms asset value per share.
on which business will take place and it is its Shares are purchased at a price after policy to abide by these terms.
The Company allowing for costs below the net asset value had no trade creditors at either 30 April and subsequently cancelled, thereby 2004 or 30 April 2005.
