DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Directors and Management Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management firm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have been involved in investment management since 1908.
Directors Building Society, Edinburgh Fund Trust plc and Merrill Lynch Greater Europe Sir Charles Nunneley Managers and The National Trust.
Her current nonexecutive appointments also include the CC Ferguson Chartered Accountants Compensation Scheme and the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
JGD Ferguson Charles Nunneley, who is 69, was appointed a Director in 1977, became Chairman in 1996 and is Chairman of the Carol Ferguson, who is 58, was appointed Audit Committee.
He is also chairman of a Director in 2003.
A qualified Chartered JP Morgan Fleming Income & Capital Accountant, she began her investment Investment Trust plc.
After qualifying as a career with Ivory & Sime, an Edinburgh Chartered Accountant he spent his working life from 1962 to 1996 at Robert Fleming, fund management group.
Thereafter, she where he was in charge of investment moved to Wood Mackenzie, stockbrokers, James Ferguson, who is 57, was appointed management operations and was group becoming a partner in 1984.
He is chairman of deputy chairman.
He has held a number of recent position was as Finance Director for Value and Income Trust plc and The Scottish Timney Fowler, a textiles company.
She is a Oriental Smaller Companies Trust Plc and a other senior positions inside and outside the non-executive director and chairs the audit director of The Independent Investment Trust financial services industry, and has been committees of the Dental Practice Board, PLC, Northern 3 VCT Plc, Edinburgh U. S. chairman of the Investment Management Gartmore Smaller Companies Investment Tracker Trust, Audax Properties PLC and Regulatory Organisation, Nationwide THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 9 DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Lloyds TSB Scotland PLC.
He joined Stewart DCP McDougall 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Ivory in 1970, becoming chairman and Gifford, WS, which had been involved in chief executive in 1989 and retiring in investment management since 1908.
He is a former deputy chairman of Baillie Gifford are one of the largest the Association of Investment Trust investment trust managers in the UK and Companies and is a former member of the currently manage eight investment trusts.
Executive Committee of the Fund Managers Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts and Association.
Open Ended Investment Companies, together with investment portfolios on EM Harley behalf of pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK Douglas McDougall, who is 61, was and overseas.
Funds under the appointed a Director in 1999 and is the management or advice of Baillie Gifford Senior Independent Director.
He is total around 34 billion.
Based in chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust Edinburgh, they are one of the leading plc, The Law Debenture Corporation plc, privately owned investment management The Independent Investment Trust PLC and firms in the UK, with 30 partners and a Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust plc.
He is a staff of over 400. director of Stramongate Assets PLC, Herald Investment Trust plc and Pacific Horizon The manager of Monks portfolio is Investment Trust PLC.
From 1969 to 1999 Richard Burns, a joint senior partner and he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co chief investment officer of Baillie Gifford.
Edward Harley, who is 45, was appointed and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior Following his retiral on 30 April 2006, a Director in 2003.
He joined Cazenove partner and chief investment officer.
He is Gerald Smith will become the manager.
He a former chairman of the Investment He is the head of Baillie Giffords Asian has considerable experience of overseas Management Regulatory Organisation, the and Emerging Markets team and is a markets, having worked in New York and Fund Managers Association and the member of Baillie Giffords Investment latterly with responsibility for the firms Association of Investment Trust Companies.
Stock selection is business in Latin America, S. E. Asia primarily the responsibility of specialist All Directors are members of the Audit and Australia.
He is currently a director at teams covering all the regions of the Committee.
Cazenove Fund Management and is world.
deputy president of the Historic Houses Managers and Secretaries Association.
He is also involved with the Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and charitable sector both as a trustee and as a Monks is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, regulated by the Financial Services member of investment committees.
an investment management firm formed in Authority.
