Investment Managers Review Background We were also fortunate to have increased our The UK equity market performed well during the weighting in RMC just prior to the company being year to 30 June 2005.
Buoyant economic growth in taken over at a very attractive 42% premium to the China, South East Asia and the US lent support to the prevailing share price.
broader global economy, while domestic demand in the UK remained relatively firm on the back of low Pleasingly, our holdings in the Transport sector, interest rates and inflation and full employment.
namely P&O and the bus company Arriva, performed well, rising by 36% and 33% respectively.
Another Despite the impact of higher commodity costs, decision that was beneficial to the portfolio was the through a combination of successful hedging and switch from Scottish & Southern Energy into tight cost control, overall levels of corporate Scottish Power.
Since adding to the latter in early profitability were good, with many companies December at 3.92, the shares have risen by 28% electing to return excess capital to shareholders following the companys decision to sell its either through share buy-backs or higher dividend underperforming US subsidiary, PacifiCorp.
Our investment in First Choice Holidays has also Against this background of robust profitability, the worked well since we initiated a position during early market was given a further boost by a wave of August 2004.
Since then, the management has corporate activity at the turn of the year.
Bid successfully delivered on its strategic objectives and rumours were rife and the accompanying takeover the shares have responded well, rising 55% through speculation helped create a fairly exuberant market to the end of June.
We managed to avoid some areas of the market that The main negative over the period was the retail did not perform well, notably pharmaceuticals.
Our sector where sales failed to rebound in the New Year exposure to this sector has been relatively modest following a poor Christmas trading season.
This cast for some time as both GlaxoSmithKline and a pall over other areas of the market that are reliant AstraZeneca have faced very strong headwinds in the on consumer spending and served to temper some of form of tougher regulation, patent challenges and a the enthusiasm that had been in evidence during the weak US dollar.
Not surprisingly, these factors put early weeks of January.
pressure on the share price of both companies, particularly AstraZenecas, which fell by 30% during With a more cautious consumer and signs that the 2004.
The stock hit a low point in December and at housing market has cooled considerably, the market that juncture we felt it was beginning to show some has now turned its attention to the prospect of lower long term value, so we initiated a position in the interest rates in the second half of 2005. portfolio.
Performance Unfortunately we did not manage to avoid every The Company delivered satisfactory performance area that performed poorly and the biggest drag on during the year to 30 June 2005, generating a total performance came from our exposure to the General return of 23.6%.
This was 4.9% ahead of the FTSE Retail sector.
While most of these stocks have been All-Share which rose by 18.7% over the year.
hit by the slowdown in consumer activity, we continue to see interesting opportunities for the long There were a number of factors that benefited our term investor.
At a time when oil prices have been rising strongly, we benefited both from good exposure to the sector and a preference for Royal Dutch Shell over its main rival BP.
Murray Income Trust PLC 15 Investment Managers Review continued Attribution Analysis 1 year added to our existing positions in RMC and Scottish Net Asset Value total return for year per Power.
Ordinary share 23.6% FTSE All-Share Index total return 18.7% We also added to our holding of BBA, which raised Relative return 4.9% our weighting in the Transport sector and to GlaxoSmithKline, which further increased our Analysis of relative return Stock selection exposure to Pharmaceuticals.
Resources 0.2% Basic Industries 0.5% The Leisure & Hotels sector saw some activity with General Industrials 0.1% our holding in Intercontinental Hotels being Cyclical Services 1.1% consolidated into Millennium & Copthorne and Non-Cyclical Services 0.1% Hilton, which we believe are more attractive long Utilities 0.2% Total stock selection 2.0% term investments.
Asset allocation 2.8% Gearing cash effect 0.8% In the Utilities sector, which is an important area of Management fees & other expenses 1.0% the market for many income oriented portfolios, our Share buybacks 0.3% United Utilities holding was switched into Kelda Total 4.9% Group.
Combined with the Scottish & Sources: Russell Data Services AAM FTSE Notes: Selection effect measures the effect of security Southern Scottish Power switch, we believe each of selection within each asset category.
Allocation effect these new positions offer more attractive long term measures the impact of over or underweighting each asset value and dividend growth.
category, relative to the benchmark weights.
Gearing cash effect measures the impact on relative returns of net Other new holdings included Friends Provident in the borrowings.
Management fees & other expenses these reduce Life Assurance sector, Cobham, which is a small, fast total assets and therefore reduce performance.
It is calculated by dividing expenses incurred during the year by average total assets growing aerospace and defence company, GKN, less liabilities.
Share buybacks measures the impact of the which manufactures components for the automobile Company buying back and cancelling its own shares.
and aerospace industries and Mothercare, where a new management team are in the process of Portfolio Activity restructuring the business.
We said in last years annual report that owing to the Trusts benchmark change portfolio turnover was Another area of the portfolio to see a meaningful likely to be higher in the forthcoming year.
This change in exposure was the Food & Drug Retail indeed proved to be the case and the main changes sector, where we currently have no exposure at all.
After a period of strong performance, our holding in Greggs was sold for a profit.
We also took the As part of the portfolio reorganisation we reduced decision to sell out of Sainsbury due to the reduction our exposure to the Oil & Gas and Financial sectors in its dividend.
principally through scaling back our positions in BP and HSBC.
After a meeting with the management of FKI we had sufficient concerns about the underlying operating The proceeds from these sales were used to add momentum of the business that we thought it some new names to the portfolio and increase the prudent to exit our holding in that stock.
We sold out weighting of existing positions where we hold a high of our position in ICI after a good run on the basis degree of conviction that the shares offer compelling that we felt it was no longer attractively valued.
Indeed, at the time of sale, the companys dividend yield had actually fallen below that of the market, As mentioned above, we initiated new holdings in something that is highly unusual for such a cyclical P&O, First Choice Holidays and AstraZeneca and company.
We also sold a small holding in Pearson.
16 Murray Income Trust PLC It can be seen that we have been quite active over Indeed, the outlook for corporate profits remains the past 12 months, more so than in previous years.
reasonably healthy, with market expectations set for As a result, the Managers feel that the new, 7% growth in 2005.
While this may seem restructured portfolio is now positioned to deliver disappointing when compared to last years low good sustainable long term capital and dividend double digit rate, it is still respectable and should growth.
ensure another year of real dividend growth.
Income The Bank of England is likely to be satisfied that its Since its lows in March 2003, the UK market has tighter monetary policy appears to be working.
enjoyed two years of strong growth on the back of a Providing inflation remains under control, we believe recovery in global economic conditions and there is scope further to reduce base rates if need be corporate profitability.
As a result, company balance before the end of the year.
sheets have been strengthened and we believe the general financial condition of UK companies to be The main wildcards in our outlook are the price of oil much healthier than it was a few years ago.
and the level of unemployment.
Although interest rates have risen they are still fairly low relative to These developments have culminated in a period of recent history, which makes the financing of debt good dividend growth and share buyback activity as affordable for most people provided they remain in many companies have elected to return cash to employment.
Any meaningful rise in unemployment shareholders.
In the light of the health of corporate would obviously alter this dynamic and heighten the balance sheets, the Managers are confident that UK risk of a deeper economic slowdown.
plc will have the wherewithal to maintain a respectable pace of dividend growth during the Most companies have thus far been successful in current financial year.
absorbing the impact of higher oil and other commodity costs.
Should this change, we are likely to see either lower levels of profitability or higher It can be seen from the Statement of Total Return inflation as rising commodity costs are passed that income from investments was slightly lower in the year to 30 June 2005.
As a result, the Companys through to end markets or a combination of the two.
earnings per share grew by a little over 2%, In summary, we expect the UK economy to enter a compared with low double digit growth for the period of slower growth but avoid the recession that market as a whole.
This was largely a function of some of the more bearish commentators are receiving the final payment from Royal Bank of predicting.
Inflation should remain low, which will Scotland Additional Value Shares in the period to 30 give scope for lower interest rates later in the year.
Your Managers are focused on finding securities that Outlook offer the potential for solid long term earnings and Evidence suggests that higher interest rates are dividend growth and are confident of continuing to finally beginning to have an impact on credit find such opportunities for the portfolio in the sensitive areas of the economy.
House price inflation coming year.
has moderated and news from the high street suggests consumers are not spending as freely.
Gary McAleese & Anne Richards The confluence of these factors is likely to mean that Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited economic growth moderates somewhat over the Investment Manager next six to twelve months.
That said, it is important 13 September 2005 to note that we are not forecasting a recession.
