Your Board All the Directors are non-executive and are members of the Management Engagement Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Further details regarding the Board and its Committees are included in the Directors Report on pages 24 to 27 and in the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 30 to 35.
Length of service is stated as at the balance sheet date.
Patrick Gifford BA Chairman Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 60 Length of Service: 5 years 11 months Experience and other public company directorships: Patrick Gifford was previously a director of Robert Fleming Holdings and chairman of Fleming Investment Trust Management.
He is chairman of Martin Currie Pacific Trust and Vtesse Networks.
He is also a director of AlphaGen Aldebaran Fund Ltd, BFS UK Dual Return Investment Trust, J P Morgan Fleming Russian Securities, Merrill Lynch Asset Allocator and Tapestry Investment Company PCC Ltd. Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 14,640 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2005 16,358 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2005 Board Meetings: 5 Audit Committee: 2 Management Engagement Committee: 1 Nomination Committee: 2 Adrian Coats MA, ACA, FCT Chairman of Audit Committee Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 50 Length of Service: 6 years 5 months as a Director, including 2 years as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Experience and other public company directorships: Adrian Coats is director of treasury for Scottish Power, a director of a number of companies in the Scottish Power Group, a Trustee of the Scottish Power Pension Scheme and a member of PacifiCorps pension investment committee.
He was formerly a director of Grand Metropolitan Finance and chairman of the Scottish Branch of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 5,000 Ordinary shares, Non-Beneficial 10,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2005 15,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2005 Board Meetings: 5 Audit Committee: 2 Management Engagement Committee: 1 Nomination Committee: 2 Murray Income Trust PLC 3 Your Board continued Marian Glen MA LLB Status: Non-Executive Director Age: 45 Length of Service: 2 years and 4 months Experience and other public company directorships: Marian Glen is head of Funds and Financial Services at Shepherd Wedderburn solicitors.
She is also a director of a number of companies in the Shepherd Wedderburn group but is not a director of any other public company.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: Shepherd Wedderburn have provided legal advice to companies within the Aberdeen Asset Management group Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Nil Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2005 13,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2005 Board Meetings: 5 Audit Committee: 2 Management Engagement Committee: 1 Nomination Committee: 2 Neil Honebon MA Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 51 Length of Service: Not appointed until 4 August 2005 Experience and other public company directorships: Neil Honebon is a Director of Fleming Family and Partners Asset Management, where he is responsible for the management of investment portfolios for the Fleming family and for other clients.
He has over 25 years experience in investment analysis and research and, while previously at Flemings, he was Head of Global Research and deputy chair of the asset allocation committee.
He is also a director of Avior, Volantis and Octanis, three hedge funds within Gartmores AlphaGen range.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 5,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2005 nil Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2005 None, not appointed until 4 August 2005 4 Murray Income Trust PLC Sir David Trippier RD DL Status: Non-Executive Director Age: 59 Length of Service: 9 years 8 months Experience and other public company directorships: Sir David was elected to Parliament in 1979 and held a number of Ministerial posts.
He is chairman of WH Ireland & Co Stockbrokers and Murray VCT.
He is also a director of ITV Granada Television and Nord Anglia Education.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: Chairman of Murray VCT which until 6 April 2005 was managed by a company within the Aberdeen Group.
Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 2,006 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2005 13,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2005 Board Meetings: 5 Audit Committee: 2 Management Engagement Committee: 1 Nomination Committee: 1 Humphrey van der Klugt BSC HONS, FCA Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 51 Length of Service: 1 year 2 months Experience and other public company directorships: Humphrey van der Klugt was, until his retirement in January 2004, an executive director of Schroder Investment Management Limited.
In a twenty two year career at Schroders, he was a member of the Group Investment and Asset Allocation Committees: and as a UK equity manager, he was directly responsible for 3 billion of funds under management, including the Schroder UK Equity and Schroder Income Funds.
He is currently chairman of the Supervisory Board of Schroder Exempt Property Unit Trust.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 5,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2005 13,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2005 Board Meetings: 5 Audit Committee: 2 Management Engagement Committee: 1 Nomination Committee: 2 Director who is retiring by rotation and does not seek re-election.
Director who is retiring by rotation and offers himself for re-election for a further period of three years.
Director who will offer herself for re-election annually see Statement of Corporate Governance on page 30.
Director who is standing for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following his appointment.
