The Investment Process Philosophy and Style Country selection is driven overall by short and medium Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a term estimates of macroeconomics, politics and liquidity, sound structure.
The Aberdeen Asset Management Group and the market implications of those.
AAM has as its primary objective in managing Murray International Trust the delivery of consistent Stock Selection outperformance against the benchmark based on the The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
for portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Working closely with the relevant underlying desks in each To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
However, to meet the different performance Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is objectives mandated for specific funds, there is built in constructed by each of the specialist country desks.
list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each desk, which are then used as the investment universe.
If a Key decisions are implemented consistently across all stock no longer meets the criteria to be included on the funds and portfolio risk limits are set and closely Buy List, it is sold within 30 days.
This process enables the monitored.
A continuous watch is kept over critical factors investment manager to better reflect top down themes that influence investment decisions, so that when views that emerge from the global equity strategy and change, action is taken swiftly and decisively to reposition investment themes meetings that take place monthly.
Risk Controls Asset Allocation Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to Strategy Committee, and after consultation with relevant ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their AAM area specialists, the investment manager of Murray mandate.
International Trust, Bruce Stout, recommends asset allocation to the Board.
There is a strong top down As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio influence to establish the economic overview and to investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to identify potential investment themes.
The approach is risk from movements in foreign exchange rates and highly focussed and portfolios are tightly constructed to changes in interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by provide the greatest scope for outperformance within the strict adherence to parameters set for portfolio agreed risk parameters.
The foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of forward currency contracts.
Interest For Murray International Trust, regional allocation of funds rate risk lies with the portfolio holdings of fixed income in line with guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy securities and on-call deposits.
A detailed risk profile of the Committee is the first stage of the portfolio construction Company is given in Note 20 to the financial statements process.
At this stage, house views on specific global on pages 60 to 64. sectors are also taken into account.
Established themes and trends are considered within the process of country allocation, which is also influenced by analysis of key data covering macroeconomic and monetary factors, value and performance.
