Your Board The Board of Directors, all of whom are non-executive and are independent of the Manager, supervises the management of Murray International Trust and looks after the interests of Shareholders.
John Trott Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Director Relevant experience and other directorships: He was formerly chairman of The Standard Life Assurance Company and The Brunner Investment Trust plc.
Length of Service: He was appointed a Director on 23 October 2000 and Chairman on 6 November 2002.
Age: 68 Committee member: Management Engagement Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee Chairman and Audit Committee until 24 February 2005.
Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 15,000 Ordinary shares Lady Balfour of Burleigh Independent Non-Executive Director Relevant experience and other directorships: She taught politics and modern history at Oxford University, before moving to the Central Policy Review Staff in the Cabinet Office.
She has worked for governments in many countries and for a number of public companies.
Her other current directorships are The Scottish American Investment Trust plc: The Scottish Oriental Smaller Companies Trust plc: The Nuclear Liabilities Fund Limited and Stagecoach plc.
Length of Service: She was appointed a Director on 30 September 2003.
Age: 60 Committee member: Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 1,300 Ordinary shares Murray International Trust PLC 3 Your Board continued David Benson Independent Non-Executive Director Relevant experience and other directorships: He is a senior adviser to Fleming Family Partners.
He is is also a non-executive director of Daniel Thwaites plc and chairman of the Trustees of the Edward James Foundation.
He is also a director of Dover Corporation in the USA.
He was formerly vice-chairman of Kleinwort Benson Group Plc and chairman of Charter Pan European Trust PLC.
Length of Service: He was appointed a Director on 25 October 1999.
Age: 68 Committee member: Management Engagement Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee from 24 February 2005.
Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 4,000 Ordinary shares James Best Independent Non-Executive Director Relevant experience and other directorships: He is a partner of Arkios Ltd, a London merchant bank.
He has worked in financial markets for 30 years in New York, Singapore and London.
He was formerly a Managing Director of UBS and of CSFB in Singapore.
Length of Service: Appointed on 30 June 2005 Age: 58 Committee member: Management Engagement Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee Employment by the Manager: None.
Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 15,200 Ordinary shares 4 Murray International Trust PLC Fred Shedden Independent Non-Executive Director Relevant experience and other directorships: He is a former senior partner of McGrigor Donald now McGrigors.
He is chairman of Halladale Group plc and is a non-executive director of The Equitable Life Assurance Society and Iomart Group plc.
He was formerly chairman of Martin Currie Japan Investment Trust plc.
He is also a Governor of Glasgow School of Art and a board member of the Glasgow Housing Association Limited.
Length of Service: He was appointed a Director on 23 October 2000.
Age: 61 Committee member: Audit Committee Chairman, Management Engagement Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 3,758 Ordinary shares Murray International Trust PLC 5
