Investment Managers Report relating to the fixed interest portfolio, net of borrowing Background and hedging costs, 170 basis points.
Within asset The year under review witnessed some extremely strong allocation, contributions come from our significant returns from international equity markets, the third underweighting of the United States, but for the third consecutive year of positive gains.
These were achieved consecutive year there were also material contributions against a backdrop of some fairly challenging macrofrom overweight positions in Europe and Latin America.
economic conditions, none more so than in the UK and US.
Stock Selection within most regions was good relative to Higher energy costs began to put upward pressure on benchmarks, particularly so in Asia and Latin America.
inflation, providing an uncomfortable environment for policymakers.
The US response was to maintain its steady tightening of monetary policy, resulting in eight USA consecutive rate hikes throughout the year.
The UK held Nowhere in the world was the disconnect between steady on base rates until the summer, but widespread economic fundamentals and investor expectations more economic weakness demanded a token quarter-point cut pronounced than in the United States.
Unperturbed by the in August.
The restraining tax on consumption of higher relentless rise in domestic interest rates, US consumers energy prices and higher interest rates had little impact on continued to borrow and spend beyond their means US growth as credit-fuelled spending continued unabated.
throughout 2005, with scant regard to the long term The effects on the UK were more pronounced.
Leverage in the household, government and growth fell to the lowest level for over a decade, causing external sectors reached record proportions.
Asset quality pain and profit warnings in the retail sector.
The deteriorated as loan defaults increased.
Most worrying of divergence between debtor nations and savings nations all, domestic savings disappeared as over extended continued to widen, with further deteriorations in current consumers struggled to finance higher debt-servicing costs.
account and fiscal deficits in the UK and US.
Conversely, Both the government and trade sectors were just as bad.
in the developing world trade surpluses, foreign exchange Military spending in the Middle East more than offset rising reserves and domestic savings significantly expanded, tax revenues, widening the fiscal deficit to over 4% of GDP.
allowing stable, internal financing of domestic economic Record trade deficits with China and the Far East produced growth.
The ever-decreasing dependency on foreign a current account deficit of over 6% of GDP, a dangerously capital in Asia and Emerging markets is extremely high level for such a leveraged economy.
As if to further important for more balanced global economic growth in highlight the emerging uncompetitiveness of the US, the future, the positive effects of which should not be thousands of high-skilled jobs continued to be exported ignored nor underestimated.
With policy options fearful of, and constrained by, such imbalances and debt dependency, the process of Despite higher growth, inflation and interest rates, equity rectifying such structural economic imbalances is likely to markets produced well above average returns.
For the be slow and painful.
Realistically a prolonged period of third consecutive year, Latin America provided the below trend economic growth combined with a lower strongest returns in sterling terms, up 65.8%.
Japan and dollar seems increasingly likely.
Whether the politicians Asia ex Japan produced exceptional gains up 39.7% and are willing to endure it is another question.
Whilst market returns from the US and UK were above average, on a relative basis they lagged The FTSE World US Index managed to rise only 8.7% over behind all other global regions.
the year, but sterling weakness increased this return to 18.9%.
For the second consecutive year, energy was the Performance best performing sector, closely followed by metals and The Net Asset Value Total Return for the year to 31 mining companies.
Interest rate sensitive sectors, such as December 2005 with net dividends reinvested was 31.0% mortgage financing and consumer discretionary, struggled compared with a return on the benchmark index of 23.4%.
to make any progress at all.
The overall portfolio stance of being significantly underweight the US market continued A full attribution analysis is given on page 22 which details to be advantageous, a trend which has been in place now the various influences on the performance of the portfolio.
At the stock level, the focus remained on It is pleasing to note that each of the main drivers of quality, with higher yielding companies such as Reynolds performance contributed positively to the overall results American and Altria favoured for their defensive for the year.
In summary, of the 1070 basis points before characteristics.
The current level of exposure and defensive expenses of performance above the index, asset allocation portfolio stance will be maintained for the time being.
contributed 780, stock selection 120, and structural effects Murray International Trust PLC 19 Investment Managers Report continued UK integrated world intensified the pressure on core European The logic of the investment world is seldom pure and economies to restructure and deregulate.
This in turn rarely simple and nowhere was this more evident than in continued to depress employment and real income growth, the UK.
Despite a sharp deterioration in macro-economic key ingredients urgently required to boost public fundamentals, investors shrugged off prevailing economic confidence and re-ignite consumption.
In their absence, woes and enthusiastically drove the market higher.
the major economies crawled along well below historical Although in International terms the FTSE return of 21.0% growth rates.
With each month that passed, uninspiring was at the lower end of regional performance, within an economic statistics served to reinforce the mood of historical context it was well above average and totally apathy.
Consequently expectations continued to be contradicted trends in the real economy.
In response to deflated to the point where disappointment became the last years monetary tightening, economic activity slowed norm.
From an investment viewpoint, this made the sharply in 2005.
Constrained by rising mortgage markets very interesting indeed.
Incongruous as it might payments, higher utility bills and increasing petrol prices, seem with the economic landscape, European companies consumer spending contracted, causing a collapse in retail excelled in delivering profits and dividends to shareholders.
sales to twenty year lows.
UK house price inflation fell Fully aware of the tough prevailing economic conditions, from peaks above 20% to almost zero, further impacting stringent capital discipline and rigid cost containment has already fragile consumer confidence.
The UK current for some time enabled many European corporates to account deficit was negatively impacted by rising oil deliver earnings in excess of expectations.
This continued imports and by year end represented the largest imbalance throughout the period.
Superior returns were achieved by since records began.
This combined to reduce UK focusing on high quality companies with a clear strategy of economic growth to a twelve year low, and put further returning value to shareholders.
In Denmark, Danske Bank pressure on already strained fiscal finances.
How the performed exceptionally well, as did Deutsche Postbank in government addresses its ever-widening fiscal deficit will Germany and ING in Holland.
Unfortunately the hidden be interesting to observe in the coming year.
Our main value of many European companies did not escape the concerns for the UK are the likely deterioration in the attention of corporate raiders and private equity firms.
labour market that eventually accompanies such Core holdings in RAS, Electrabel, Union Fenosa and TDC conditions and the consequential impact this will have on Corp were all subject to takeover activity and hence asset quality given the enormous indebtedness prevalent divested from the portfolio.
However replacements that throughout the economy.
Should international investors emerged, such as Portugal Telecom and Public Power, have take fright and lose confidence in Sterling, the currency all the characteristics required to add value in the future.
would be likely to experience an unpleasant devaluation.
Conventional wisdom may continue to shun unfashionable The portfolio response to such fundamentals was a further Europe, but valuations relative to low expectations, remain reduction of total UK asset exposure.
The number of very attractive.
For this reason, the portfolio will maintain individual holdings were cut from forty one to twenty nine its overweight exposure.
and further emphasis was put on high quality companies in sectors deemed less vulnerable to credit-sensitive Japan economic activity.
With the exception of the recently The prevailing mood of pessimism which had plagued the purchased holding in Morrisons, the portfolio has no Japanese economy for more than a decade was abruptly exposure to retailers or homebuilders, preferring the challenged over the period.
Politically, the surprisingly greater visibility of earnings and dividend growth from large majority of Koizumis landslide election victory in Insurance, Tobacco, Telecom and Utility companies.
Such September gave the Prime Minister and reformed LDP defensive positioning towards the UK market will be party a powerful mandate for change and reform.
With maintained until such times as sustainable, economic the party purged of conservative factions that have long improvements emerge.
wielded a disproportionate amount of strength and influence, the way forward should see an end to the huge Europe subsidies and policies that traditionally favour farmers and At the beginning of 2005 it was virtually impossible to put specific interest groups, such as postal workers.
Not forward a positive macro-economic case for Europe.
surprisingly, such positive political developments fuelled Twelve months later and nothing much has changed.
The investors optimism, but it was the tangible improvements central issue of competitiveness within an increasingly in macro-economic fundamentals that prompted 20 Murray International Trust PLC increasingly positive sentiment.
Solid balance sheets and increased broadened out from its previously narrow dependency on commitment to returning cash to shareholders was a exports as the impact of domestic activity gathered common feature amongst large holdings such as momentum.
The labour market improved, real incomes Petrochina, Taiwan Mobile, Bharat Petroleum, Tenaris and began to rise and positive growth in bank lending Petrobras.
These companies remain at very attractive suggested a return of consumer confidence.
For the first valuations, and will continue to be core holdings within the time in over fifteen years Japan experienced rising land overall portfolio.
prices, and as core CPI inflation edged towards positive territory, even the biggest sceptics grudgingly Outlook acknowledged the end to deflation was in sight.
Whilst It is the Managers belief that the next twelve months are such political and economic developments were likely to prove extremely interesting for the world impressive, it was the Japanese corporate sector that economy.
Domestic economic activity in the UK and US actually surprised most on the upside.
With diminishing has, for some considerable time now, been almost totally pressure from over-leveraged alleviating cash flow from funded by debt.
Higher interest rates will increasingly debt servicing obligations, cash on company balance sheets constrain credit-fuelled consumption in both economies, as expanded markedly, prompting dividends to be raised well will pressure from declining real income growth, higher above expectations.
Indeed the Japanese market enjoyed energy costs, rising utility bills and cut-throat global the distinction of having the highest dividend growth rate competition for jobs.
Against this backdrop, high of all global markets in 2005.
The Japanese stock market expectations are unlikely to be met.
In Europe, where return of 39.7% was testimony to improving company valuations remain much more attractive, many fundamentals and greatly enhanced portfolio performance.
investment opportunities still exist in out of favour sectors For the coming year we expect strong corporate such as Telecoms and Banks.
As the Japanese economic profitability to be supportive of equity valuations and we recovery gathers momentum, significant scope exists for will maintain our domestically orientated focus within the domestic companies to generate superior profit growth portfolio.
that is not reflected in current valuations.
Cash-rich balance sheets can also provide dividend growth in excess Asia and Emerging Markets of most conservative expectations.
The case for Asia and It was another year of positive progress for Asia and the Emerging World stays as compelling as ever, where, Emerging Markets as the asset class continued to display despite huge savings, structural investment and sovereign evolving maturity within a global context.
Reduced debt upgrades, most equity markets remain attractively sensitivity to global monetary tightening from previous priced.
Global diversification will become increasingly cycles remained evident, with the 200 basis point rise in important as US growth slows and Japan recovers, so the US Fed Funds rate barely registering a blip on growth flexibility of the Companys investment mandate to invest momentum.
Surplus savings in the household, external anywhere in the world will be actively utilised.
Above all, and government sectors have undoubtedly reduced many the Manager will continue to focus on total return by countries dependency on foreign capital and, most investing in high quality companies that can deliver robust importantly, have given domestic policymakers the earnings growth and internally financed, above average autonomy to continue with appropriate domestic dividends.
Equity market returns will do well to match economic agendas.
Unhindered by international events those of 2005, but through international diversification, and interruptions to investor confidence, growth in the significant scope still exists to add value and deliver solid emerging world remained strong, and markets moved relative returns.
higher, supported by excellent corporate profits and dividend growth.
Indeed expanding opportunities to achieve exposure to high growth markets, whilst simultaneously securing above average yields, was the Bruce Stout most pleasing aspect of the companys Asian and Emerging 10 March 2006 Investment Manager Murray International Trust PLC 21
