30 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 10 2 8 11 9 3 1 6 4 5 7 31 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 1 Sir Bill Gammell, Chief Executive 53 6 Norman Murray, Non-Executive Chairman 58 Sir Bill Gammell holds a BA in Economics and Accountancy Norman Murray was appointed an independent from Stirling University.
He founded Cairn and was appointed non-executive director of Cairn in 1999 and Chairman in Chief Executive on its initial listing in 1988.
He qualified as a CA and has been involved in every 25 years experience in the international oil and gas industry.
aspect of the venture capital industry for over 25 years.
He He is Chairman of the Scottish Institute of Sport Foundation, was a co-founder and former Chairman of Morgan Grenfell a director of the Scottish Institute of Sport and a director of Private Equity Limited and was also a director of Morgan Artemis AiM VCT plc.
In the 2006 New Year Honours List Grenfell Asset Management Limited and a non-executive he was awarded a Knighthood for services to industry director of Bristow Helicopter Group Limited.
Chairman of the British Venture Capital Association and is currently a Vice-President of the Institute of Chartered 2 Dr Mike Watts, Exploration Director 50 Accountants of Scotland and a non-executive director of Dr Mike Watts holds a BSc Hons and PhD in Geology from Greene King PLC and Robert Wiseman Dairies plc.
He began his career in 1980 with Shell International and subsequently worked for Burmah Oil 7 Hamish Grossart, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 48 Exploration and Premier Oil.
In 1991 he became Managing Hamish Grossart was appointed an independent Director of Holland Sea Search Holding N. V. HSSH, where non-executive director of Cairn in 1994 and became he developed an acreage strategy for South Asia.
HSSH was Deputy Chairman in 1996.
He has 20 years experience on acquired by Cairn in 1995 and Mike transferred to Cairn after public company boards in a wide range of industries, both completion of the acquisition.
He was also closely associated in an executive and non-executive capacity.
He is currently with Cairns acquisition of Command Petroleum Limited in also Deputy Chairman of British Polythene Industries PLC, 1996.
He was appointed an executive director of Cairn in Chairman of Indigo Vision Group plc, and a director of 1997.
He is the executive director with delegated Artemis Investment Management Limited.
responsibility for providing assurance to the Board on health, safety, environment, community and human rights matters.
8 Ed Story, Non-Executive Director 62 Ed Story was appointed an independent non-executive 3 Kevin Hart, Finance Director 37 director of Cairn in 1997.
He is President, Chief Executive Kevin Hart holds a BSc Hons in Physics and Natural Philosophy and founder of SOCO International plc and has over 35 years from Edinburgh University.
Prior to joining Cairn as Finance experience in the international oil and gas industry.
He also Director in 1998, he spent nine years in London working in serves as the Honorary Consul of Mongolia in Houston.
investment banking where he was a senior associate director with Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, specialising in oil and gas 9 Todd Hunt, Non-Executive Director 53 sector mergers and acquisitions.
Kevin is also a non-executive Todd Hunt was appointed an independent non-executive director of Glasgow Income Trust PLC.
He is the executive director of Cairn in 2003.
He is President and joint owner director with delegated responsibility for employee matters.
of Atropos Exploration Company and Atropos Production Company based in Dallas, Texas.
He has over 30 years 4 Malcolm Thoms, Group General Manager 50 experience in the oil and gas industry.
Malcolm Thoms holds a BSc Hons in Physics from Edinburgh University and an MBA from Heriot-Watt University.
He 10 Mark Tyndall, Non-Executive Director 48 started his career as a field engineer with Schlumberger and Mark Tyndall was appointed an independent non-executive subsequently became manager of their businesses in Qatar director of Cairn in 2003.
He is Chief Executive of Artemis and Brunei.
He joined Cairn in 1989 where he held a number Investment Management Limited and a director of Standard of senior management positions prior to his appointment as Life European Private Equity Trust PLC and Micadant Plc.
Malcolm is also a non-executive director of Revus Energy AS.
11 Andrew Shilston, Non-Executive Director 50 Andrew Shilston was appointed an independent 5 Phil Tracy, Engineering & Operations Director 55 non-executive director of Cairn in 2004.
He is a Chartered Phil Tracy holds an MSc in Petroleum Engineering from Accountant and has been Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc Imperial College and a BSc in Chemical Engineering from since 2003.
Prior to that he was the Finance Director of Leeds University.
He is a Chartered Engineer with over 30 Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 to 2002.
He has over 20 years years experience in the international oil and gas industry.
experience in the oil and gas industry.
He originally joined Cairn in 1988 and served as an executive director from 1989 until 1999.
He subsequently became managing director of Providence Resources P. l. c. before re-joining Cairn in 2002 as Chairman of Cairn Energy India Pty Limited.
He was appointed Engineering & Operations director in 2004.
Phil is also a non-executive director of Vienco Oil & Gas Limited.
