Our business in 2005 Our economic capital position continued to strengthen in 2005 as the Group further developed its economic capital programme Group results continued payments.
Consequently the adjusted investments that are immediately available to Senior debt gearing % embedded value per share calculation is repay debt and derivative assets relating to based upon the Companys total number of swaps associated with senior debt, so as to 5.2% shares in issue, including shares in issue to reflect debt valued on effective currency and BEE scheme beneficiaries.
Total gearing is similarly 5.2 based, but includes hybrid capital instruments 11.4 Capital position strengthened in readiness within debt.
for Skandia acquisition Our economic capital position continued to Highlights 2005 2004 strengthen in 2005 as the Group further Total gearing % developed its economic capital programme, Senior debt gearing 5.2% 11.4% with our estimate of available financial Total gearing 14.6% 17.1% 14.6% resources now significantly in excess of the capital required to meet the Groups target A 14.6 In March 2005 the Group issued 350 million credit rating.
17.1 of Tier 1 Perpetual Preferred Callable Securities.
In May 2005 the Groups $636 million of The Group is in compliance with the Financial outstanding 3.625% Convertible Bonds Groups Directive capital requirements, which matured and were repaid in full at par value.
apply to all EU-based financial conglomerates.
In November the Group issued 500 million of Upper Tier 2 Perpetual Preferred Callable Taxation Securities, followed by a further issue of The Groups effective tax rate of 25% based 300 million of lower Tier 2 Perpetual on the tax charge excluding income tax Preferred Callable Securities in January 2006 attributable to policyholder returns as a as part of the public debt raising associated proportion of adjusted operating profit for the with the Skandia acquisition.
year ended 31 December 2005 decreased from 26% for the corresponding period in The Groups gearing level remains comfortably 2004.
This was primarily as a result of the within our target range, with senior debt 1% reduction in the South African corporate gearing of 5.2% 11.4% at 31 December tax rate.
2004 and total gearing, including hybrid capital, of 14.6% 17.1% at 31 December Dividend 2004.
Hybrid capital excludes hybrid debt The directors of Old Mutual plc are from banking activities and includes the recommending a final dividend for the year $750 million of Guaranteed Cumulative ended 31 December 2005 of 3.65p per share Perpetual Preferred Securities issued during making a total of 5.5p per share for the year, 2003 that are reported as part of minority an increase of 5% over 2004.
The indicative interests and the 350 million and Rand equivalent of this final dividend is 39.8c 500 million of Perpetual Securities issued in making a total of 60.3c for the year, an 2005, which are both reported as part of increase of 3%.
The record date for this dividend payment is Senior debt gearing is defined as senior debt the close of business on Friday, 21 April 2006 over total debt plus Adjusted EV on an EEV for all the Exchanges where the Companys basis.
Senior debt excludes debt from banking shares are listed.
The last day to trade cumactivities and is net of cash and short-term dividend on the JSE and on the Namibian, Old Mutual plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 EV split by line of business 2005 EV split by line of business 2004 1.
Other 3% Zimbabwe and Malawi Stock Exchanges will Business Review has been expanded to be Wednesday, 12 April 2006 and on the incorporate detailed profiles of each of our key London and Stockholm Stock Exchanges, businesses, including a description of the Tuesday, 18 April 2006.
The shares will trade businesss principal products, customers, ex-dividend from the opening of business on business processes and major markets, the Thursday, 13 April 2006 on the JSE and the external environment in which it operates and Namibian, Zimbabwe and Malawi Stock principal risks and uncertainties.
Exchanges, and from the opening of business on Wednesday, 19 April 2006 on the London This additional information is intended to and Stockholm Stock Exchanges.
provide a context to the analysis of our performance and financial position and Shareholders on the South African, Zimbabwe transition towards compliance with the new and Malawi branch registers and the Business Review requirements under the Namibian section of the principal register will European Union Accounts Modernisation be paid the local currency equivalents of the Directive, requiring companies to provide an dividend under the dividend access trust enhanced directors report from April 2006. arrangements established in each country.
Going forward, our Business Review will Shareholders who hold their shares through continue to evolve as we further enhance the VPC AB, the Swedish nominee, will be paid information provided, integrate the Skandia the equivalent of the dividend in Swedish businesses during 2006 and keep up with Kronor SEK.
Local currency equivalents of market developments.
the dividend for all five territories will be determined by the Company using exchange Change in role rates prevailing at close of business on I move to my role as Chief Executive of Tuesday, 28 March 2006 and will be Skandia, confident in the knowledge that announced by the Company on Wednesday, management action taken across all our 29 March 2006. businesses has created a platform for long-term sustainable growth.
Share certificates may not be dematerialised or rematerialised on the South African branch I would like to take this opportunity to thank register between Thursday, 13 April and management and employees in each of our Friday, 21 April 2006, both dates inclusive, businesses for their support during my five and transfers between the registers may not years as Group Finance Director of Old Mutual.
take place during that period.
Richard Hoskins takes over as Acting Group Finance Director from 1 March, and I look The final dividend is subject to approval at the forward to working with him in my new role.
Annual General Meeting of Old Mutual plc, which is to be held in London on Wednesday, Julian Roberts 10 May 2006.
Subject to being so approved, Group Finance Director the final dividend will be paid on Wednesday, 27 February 2006 31 May 2006.
New Business Review structure Our aim is continuously to enhance the usefulness and transparency of the information we provide externally.
In doing so, the current Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 Our business in 2005 Africa Rand life assurance sales Funds under management 12% R480bn Old Mutual plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The Group has substantial life assurance, asset management, banking and general insurance businesses in southern Africa, principally in South Africa, Namibia, Malawi and Kenya Overview STRONG GROWTH IN PROFIT AND SALES Highlights m 2005 2004 % Change Adjusted operating profit 1,049 825 27% Life assurance sales APE including OMI 341 299 14% Funds under management bn 44 39 13% Highlights Rm 2005 2004 % Change Adjusted operating profit 12,136 9,719 25% Life assurance sales APE including OMI 3,947 3,536 12% Funds under management Rbn 480 421 14% Our life assurance business is the largest in Benefits emerging from BEE transactions South Africa and provides wealth protection The BEE transactions were implemented and wealth creation products to individuals in August 2005 following approval by and enterprises.
A wide range of savings shareholders of Old Mutual, Nedbank and products and funds, including unit-linked Mutual & Federal, and confirmation of a funds are offered by the asset management related scheme of arrangement by the business to both third party and insurance UK High Court.
Our banking business is conducted by implemented in accordance with the detailed one of South Africas top four banks, Nedbank, proposals described in circulars sent to the with the general insurance business conducted companies respective shareholders earlier in by Mutual & Federal.
Both companies are 2005 the Companys own circular was dated South African listed subsidiaries of the Group.
27 May 2005 and will ultimately result in the introduction of direct black ownership of Our aim in South Africa is to be the preferred 12.75% of the value of Old Mutuals South financial provider to every economically active African businesses, with a total value of black home and business.
We see significant shareholding of R7.1 billion at the time of opportunities for further growth through implementation.
cross-selling and bringing offerings more closely together.
As previously discussed, the adjusted operating profit impact is calculated after tax Performance and minority interests, and reflects the dilutive Adjusted operating profit for the African impact on earnings as a result of our reduced Our aim in South Africa is to be the preferred financial businesses has increased by 25% from stake in Mutual & Federal and the decrease in provider to every economically active home and business.
R9,719 million to R12,136 million in 2005, the long-term investment return at OMSA due We see significant opportunities for further growth by principally driven by the significant increase in to additional Nedbank shares held to maintain cross-selling and bringing offerings more closely together.
Nedbanks results as the momentum of the our controlling interest.
OMSA delivered good growth in life and unit The cost impact of these arrangements trust sales, with life sales on an Annual on adjusted operating profit and profit Premium Equivalent APE basis up 12% and attributable to equity holders is a decrease of unit trust sales up 87% on the prior year.
The R172 million and R776 million respectively.
increase in funds under management of 14% to R480 billion at 31 December 2005 reflects The businesses are already experiencing the impact of buoyant markets offset by tangible benefits from these transactions, with significant fund outflows in OMSA.
the Nedbank Eyethu scheme attracting over Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 Our business in 2005 South Africa a strongly growing economy GDP growth 5.5-6.0% 2005 2004 Strong equity markets GDP growth 5.0% 4.5% Inflation 3.9% 4.3% Inflation within 3-6% target JSE All Share 01 01 12,784 10,511 Improving credit ratings 1,500 jobs every working day Black middle income market increased by a factor of five in the last six years Total black disposable income now greater than white Africa: Overview continued 47,000 retail client participants with a total Outlook opportunities.
Despite aggressive cutting of value invested of R741 million market value The South African economy is in a growth premium rates by competitors, Mutual & at investment date of R987 million, making it phase, with strong equity markets, Rand Federal remains committed to responsible the largest retail share scheme by value ever stability and a low inflationary and interest underwriting standards, with market share not in South Africa.
The Nedbank corporate rate environment.
Our businesses continue to being pursued indiscriminately at the expense scheme involved 76 black corporate and benefit from these conditions, with OMSAs of profitability.
The working and Mutual & Federals 2005 results reflecting relationships with the strategic Black Business the substantial growth in the JSE during the Going forward, Old Mutual is well placed to Partners BBPs, namely the Brimstone year, while Nedbank profited from the positive deliver cross-sales growth in its African consortium, the Wiphold consortium and Aka credit environment through lower impairment businesses and to bring its product offerings Capital, are progressing well, with numerous levels and increased retail advances growth more closely together to serve the growing deals having been introduced by these following higher levels of consumer spending.
black middle market and small business partners to the Group.
The life assurance industry in South Africa is At Mutual & Federal the focus has been on facing significant pressure on margins and the acceleration of transformation within the costs, increased competition and pressure company, with BBPs having been active in from regulatory and consumer bodies.
At drafting a Transformation Strategy and related OMSA we will continue to address these action plans.
challenges by driving sales volume increases through our investments in distribution, OMSAs BEE transaction, worth approximately ensuring we have appropriate products that R3.4 billion, saw a broad range of black deliver good value and containing costs to stakeholders acquire direct ownership at that enable improvements in value for money for time worth 13.48% of the value of Old customers.
Going forward, the business will Mutuals South African business, excluding also focus on stabilising the net client cash the value of Nedbank and Mutual & Federal.
In October 2005, more than 11,000 staff members received their offer to participate in Management actions taken at Nedbank have the Old Mutual South Africa Broad-Based moved the business into the next stage of its Scheme, thus making them owners of shares turnaround, with the majority of the strategic in Old Mutual plc.
recovery benefits planned for 2005 now firmly in place.
Nedbank has become more outwardSignificant progress has been made in the looking, with the focus shifting to building a establishment of the Black Distributors Trust sustainable business through the delivery of one of the key broad-based elements of the world-class service.
The business is seeking to transaction.
This will be officially launched in improve innovation and deliver quality March 2006, with some 150 beneficiaries in transactional banking growth, with a view to the first year.
The Old Mutual Education Trust optimising risk and capital management and has five participating trade unions, with the first creating profitable asset growth.
bursaries funded by this trust to be awarded to participating union members and their Although conditions remain conducive to beneficiaries during 2006, for studies maintaining underwriting profitability, the commencing in 2007.
Transformation has pressure on rates is likely to continue to have been a central pillar of the OMSA business an impact on Mutual & Federal, with the strategy, with significant strides having been ongoing softening of the short-term insurance made in all areas of transformation including cycle.
Our focus is on continuing to grow our employment equity, skills development, share of the short-term insurance market and procurement and social responsibility.
The on delivering unit growth through the relationship with the strategic BBPs provides maintenance of superior levels of client further impetus to our transformation initiatives.
service, whilst undertaking further product development to exploit current market Old Mutual plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 OMSA good progress on business objectives Action Progress PFA & Broker Grow sales forces: Combined sales force up 10%: Improve broker service Service standards being met Sales Grow bancassurance Bancassurance sales up 92% Investment Improve investment Continued strong performance performance over both one and three years Net cash Improve net cash flows Impacted by PIC industry withdrawals flows and OMAM rebalancing Costs Prepare for low interest Administration split from distribution in rate environment 2004: Retail per policy maintenance costs reduced Old Mutual South Africa OMSA LIFE ASSURANCE & ASSET MANAGEMENT Our key Individual Business product offerings Asset management Our South African life and asset management include Greenlight, a flexible and Old Mutual Asset Managers South Africa business has at its core the largest distribution comprehensive range of life, disability, and OMAM SA, is South Africas largest capability in the South African industry, using future-needs cover.
Flexible healthcare institutional asset manager.
OMAM SA s a combination of tied agents, independent schemes for individuals are offered under the vision in South Africa is to be the countrys financial advisers, bank distribution, corporate Oxygen brand and a range of retirement preferred multi-national asset manager, advisers and direct distribution to ensure that savings plans, annuities and income products offering domestic and international investment the business appears in front of a full spectrum provided through the Max Investment Frontiers services to the institutional market.
OMSAs investment and and Galaxy product range.
Our Group risk products, as well as its strong links with Schemes business offers savings and funeral SYmmETRY Multi-Manager, a division of our other African businesses, allows the cover products to the low-income segment.
OMSA, creates customised portfolios for business to be uniquely positioned to meet institutional investors blending best of breed the full array of client needs.
The business is We introduced our successful Max asset managers across multiple asset classes, supported by strong branding and a proven Investments product range towards the end of using sophisticated portfolio construction reputation for prudent and effective long-term 2004, an investment product range with methods.
The portfolios aim to maximise investment returns.
This was returns whilst controlling risk and diversifying enhanced at the end of 2005 with the launch managers.
Business profile of the Max Income product range at the end The breadth of this business, incorporating of 2005.
Through Old Mutual Bank, we The Old Mutual Unit Trusts business sells a life, health and disability assurance, provide banking and life assurance products.
range of diversified unit trusts to individual investment management and banking in the Low premium risk and savings products are and institutional investors, distributed through retail, group and corporate markets, combined offered through the Group Schemes division.
direct marketing channels as well as brokers, with the strength of our brands, positions us Old Mutual advisers and other individuals well to extract maximum value from our large The Group Business consists primarily of the qualified to give investment advice.
number of strong client relationships in both Employee Benefits division and Old Mutual the retail and institutional sectors.
The Employee Benefits business Our Old Mutual Properties business provides is a primary supplier of group retirement property management and property related Distribution is a core strength of the business savings schemes and group life and disability asset management services to the properties and through the productive and growing tied insurance to retirement funds established by within OMSA.
distribution force in the high, middle and low employer organisations for the benefit of their income markets, as well as our relationships employees and by trade unions for the benefit Old Mutual Specialised Finance OMSFIN is with independent brokers means that we are of their members.
active in corporate advisory, corporate lending, well positioned for future growth.
securities lending and in structured products.
Group Assurance products comprise life cover Life assurance to employees in the event of death, funeral Old Mutual Investment Services operates as a The Individual Life Business contains a cover and funeral support service, and a full linked investment service provider, offering number of different business segments, range of disability solutions.
Investment clients open-architecture investment products marketing investment and insurance products products offered through Group Business are for discretionary, pre-retirement and postto the individual retail market including life, flexed depending on the investors retirement savings.
disability and health insurance, retirement requirements.
These include smoothed bonus annuities, savings and investment products.
portfolios, structured solutions and marketMarket environment Old Mutual has been the most successful of linked funds, multi-manager portfolios and The South African economy is strong, with the South African insurers in offering products annuity products.
The Healthcare business prudent fiscal management ensuring healthy across all major market segments.
We offers administration to both commercial and sustainable growth over the past few years.
distribute our products through brokers, corporate healthcare schemes.
A redistribution of wealth from white to black personal financial advisers PFAs, a salaried has seen a new generation of consumers sales force in Group Schemes, tied agents and enter the marketplace which has made it an direct distribution channels.
To serve this market the traditional advisor-lead life assurance model is changing with new channels such as bancassurance growing strongly and market Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 Our business in 2005 Highlights Rm 2005 2004 % Change Life assurance 3,819 3,754 2% Long-term investment return LTIR 1,453 1,668 13% Asset management 801 542 48% Adjusted operating profit 6,073 5,964 2% Return on Allocated Capital 25% 27% EV adjusted operating profit after tax 4,648 5,350 13% Embedded Value 30,944 26,386 17% Adjusted return on Embedded Value 17.6% 20.9% Life assurance sales APE including OMI 3,932 3,519 12% Unit trust sales 9,348 5,004 87% Value of new business excluding OMI 614 698 12% Life new business margin excluding OMI 16% 21% SA client funds under management Rbn 362 312 16% Includes income from associated undertakings Africa: OMSA continued linked products slowly gaining ground over equity markets whilst guaranteed annuity increasing numbers of Personal Financial traditional life-wrapped products.
OMSAs options are subject to declining interest rates.
Advisers and Group Schemes Advisers to relatively strong performance in bringing black For fixed annuities, market risks are managed remain the clear market leader in distribution.
management and front line staff into the by investing, where possible in fixed interest This advantage, coupled with strong business, and the recent BEE transactions securities with a duration closely investment performance from 2004, helped ensure that we are well positioned to capture corresponding to those liabilities.
Market risks push unit trust sales up 87% for 2005, whilst a large share in the new South African on policies where the terms and conditions leading product development Max marketplace.
are guaranteed in advance and the investment Investments and Max Income contributed to risk is carried by the shareholders, principally good Individual Life sales in our core life Risk management reside in the guaranteed non-profit annuity market, with APE up 10%.
It was pleasing to Creating long-term shareholder and customer book, which is closely matched with gilts and see our bancassurance efforts in both Old value is the Companys overriding business semi-gilts.
Other non-profit policies are also Mutual Bank and through Nedbank objective and the business derives its suitably matched through comprehensive continuing to bear fruit in 2005.
Betterapproach to risk management and control investment guidelines.
Market risks on withcoordinated and resourced approaches to from a value perspective.
As a result the profit policies, where investment risk is distribution in the corporate sales environment business manages a broad range of risk shared, are minimised by appropriate bonus saw Group Business life sales up 16%.
categories and specifically includes Strategic declaration practices.
Risk and Enterprise Risk Management.
Solid underlying earnings growth Equity price risk and interest rate risk on the Overall earnings have shown a small increase The Company operates a risk management value of securities are modelled by the to R6,073 million from R5,964 million in framework which contains a robust risk Groups risk-based capital practices, which 2004, with a significant increase in Asset governance structure, risk appetites require sufficient capital to be held in excess Management profits and modest growth in established at Company level, Group-wide risk of the statutory minimum to allow the Group Life Assurance profits being offset by a 13% policies, and methodologies that focus risk to manage significant equity exposures.
Credit reduction in the LTIR.
identification, risk assessment, risk response, risk is monitored by the businesss Credit action control plans, monitoring and reporting.
Committee, which has established appropriate Life Assurance profits showed modest growth exposure limits.
of 2% to R3,819 million from R3,754 million Whilst the incidence of HIV AIDS infection in in 2004, largely as a result of the cost of southern Africa is high as the illness reaches The exposure of OMSAs asset management initiatives undertaken to improve value for the expected peak of the infection curve, the businesses to market fluctuations gives rise to money of our products for customers.
The potential risk is well managed with the potential impacts on revenue levels, which are major items within this are a charge of business achieving positive experience a function of the value of client portfolios.
R716 million in respect of the industry-wide variances due to highly effective product Investment risk is principally borne by the response to the challenge of early termination pricing.
The business also conducts HIV and client.
Compliance risks faced by these values for retirement annuities and other tests for lives insured above certain businesses are monitored and reviewed by endowment policies.
Other significant items values and offers reduced premiums for those compliance and risk committees established impacting on profit included an increase of willing to undergo regular testing.
The risk of loss of key R115 million in the share-based payments employees is managed by the use of charge to R270 million, driven by the increase Underwriting risk, in line with other life appropriate remuneration policies including in our share price and the impact of our assurers, is managed through strictly long-term incentive schemes aligned with continuing investment in distribution.
controlled underwriting principles governing shareholder value targets, and by competition product repricing procedures and authority restrictions in employment agreements.
These items were largely offset by the positive limits and through careful consideration of impact of basis changes.
Whilst our strategy of actual and prospective mortality, morbidity Performance investing in distribution has increased and expense experience.
Markets rose significantly during the year acquisition costs temporarily, we have at the driving demand for investment products same time been successful in reducing unit The life assurance business, offers minimum across the industry, despite some negative maintenance costs for retail policies.
This guaranteed investment returns on certain publicity from the Pension Funds Adjudicator success has allowed us to reduce our valuation products and guaranteed annuity options on a rulings.
OMSA significantly strengthened its assumptions in this area, which together with closed book of business.
Minimum investment retail distribution capability in relation to both reduced expense inflation assumptions have guarantees are subject to the risk of declining independent brokers and tied agents released R900 million of reserves.
In addition, Old Mutual plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Distribution is a core strength of the business, and our The South African economy is strong, benefiting from growing number of distribution channels positions us worldwide demand for resources.
A redistribution of strongly for future growth.
wealth has seen a new generation of consumers enter the marketplace, which has made it an attractive retail market.
the higher market level had a positive impact OMAM SA continued to deliver strong Individual Life sales up 10% on asset-based charges and fees.
investment performance, improving its ranking Individual Business Life sales increased from third to second out of the nine by 10% over 2004, with good growth Significant investment gains on the institutional asset managers in the Alexander experienced across all product categories.
shareholder portfolio arising from the Forbes South African Global Manager Watch Within this, single premiums showed growth underlying market strength were masked by Large Survey over the three years to the end of 13%, positively impacted by a strong the smoothing effect of the LTIR.
The LTIR of of December 2005, although it dropped from increase in bancassurance life sales through R1,453 million was R215 million lower than first to sixth out of eleven over one year.
At the Nedbank channel, up 92% on an APE 2004, reflecting the lower rates applied across 31 December 2005, 72% of funds managed basis compared with 2004 and underpinned all asset classes, combined with an increase by OMAM SA weighted by value by strong demand for our low cost Max in the cash component of the portfolio since outperformed their benchmarks over three product range and our offshore products June 2004, and lower investible assets years 58% over one year.
following the increased investment in Nedbank Group.
The acquisition of Marriott Properties and Individual Life recurring premiums increased Marriott Asset Management, with R20 billion by 9% to R2,032 million from R1,866 million The adjusted operating profit for the OMSA of funds under management, was announced last year, reflecting the ongoing benefit from asset management businesses increased by in October 2005.
The transaction is still growing headcount in both our own agency 48% to R801 million from R542 million in subject to approval by the Competition channel and our Group Schemes sales force.
The strong performance of the South Commission.
Our combined sales force totalled 5,460 at African equity market, good performance fees the end of December 2005, some 10% earned by OMAM SA, combined with rapid Exceptional growth of 87% in non-life sales higher than the position at 31 December growth in unit trust funds and an investment Unit trust sales grew in both our broker and 2004.
Sales of regular premium life savings revaluation gain in OMSFIN, all contributed to agency channels, with sales for the year products through our Group Schemes channel this result.
increasing by 87% to a record R9.3 billion.
Net cash flows also increased significantly to Growth of 16% in funds under management R4.0 billion from R1.3 billion in 2004.
This Strong growth in Group Business sales Client funds under management increased by result moves us from sixth to fourth market Group Business Life sales increased by 16% to R362 billion from R312 billion at position on a gross inflows basis, and from 16% to R1,049 million compared with 31 December 2004, driven primarily by seventh to second on a net inflows basis both R903 million in 2004, with sales continuing higher equity markets.
comparisons exclude money market funds.
to benefit from the investment in our sales management processes and capability.
This Net client cash flows of negative R18 billion Unit trust investment performance remained overall picture was driven by strong single have continued to disappoint despite positive strong, with 53% of funds positioned in the premium growth, 77% higher than last year, investment performance during the year.
top quartile of their respective peer groups whilst sales of recurring premium policies R17 billion of this outflow, including over the three-year period to 31 December were 6% lower than last year.
R10 billion of funds withdrawn by the Public 2005, and 35% placed in the top quartile Investment Corporation, occurred in the first over the 12 month period.
The high growth in Group Business Life single six months of the year, with cash flow for the premiums was underpinned by significantly second half negative R1 billion.
The main Life sales continue to benefit from higher demand for our annuity range of area of outflows has been OMAM SA, which investment in distribution products than in 2004, together with strong has suffered from the widespread trend to Our focus on investing in our distribution sales growth in savings products.
break up balanced mandates and direct funds capability has benefited growth in life and into specialised investment mandates.
Total life sales including Group Business Life recurring premiums Employee Benefits cash flows have also South African sales into Old Mutual suffered overall as a result of lower Healthcare suffered from the trend away from guaranteed International OMI on an APE basis for the sales, which were 13% lower than 2004 due benefits that led to outflows from the year increased by 12% to R3,932 million as primarily to new customers choosing lower Guaranteed Fund.
Significant management compared with R3,519 million achieved last levels of cover.
Recurring premium protection effort continues to be taken to reduce the year.
Both Individual and Group Business life sales, on the other hand, increased strongly outflow of client funds and improve inflows sales were higher, the latter showing strong by 31%.
growth in all areas, with the exception of the Healthcare segment.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19 Our business in 2005 The breadth of our South African business, combined with the strength of our brands, positions us well to extract maximum value from our large number of strong client relationships Africa: OMSA continued INDIVIDUAL LIFE SALES UP 10%, REFLECTING STRONG INCREASE IN Lower value of new business as value for BANCASSURANCE SALES money for clients is improved The after-tax value of new business excluding Individual APE Rm 2005 2004 % Change OMI was R614m, 12% lower than in 2004.
This reduction is a consequence of the Savings 1,165 1,076 8% initiatives we have taken to improve value for Protection 710 651 9% money for customers as well as the Immediate annuity 175 164 7% investments we have made to increase our Group Schemes 685 611 12% distribution capacity.
Total excluding OMI 2,735 2,502 9% OMI SA only 148 114 30% New business margins have decreased correspondingly to 16% overall from 21% for Total including OMI 2,883 2,616 10% 2004.
Whilst the Group Business margin has Single 851 750 13% increased slightly from 17% to 18%, Recurring 2,032 1,866 9% benefiting from relatively stronger sales growth in higher margin products, the Individual Business margin has reduced significantly from STRONG GROWTH IN GROUP BUSINESS SALES 22% to 16% as expected.
We continue to anticipate margins in the 15% to 20% range.
Group APE Rm 2005 2004 % Change Savings 310 260 19% Strong capital position Protection 157 120 31% The capital strength of the South African life Annuity 162 42 286% company is demonstrated through the 3 times Healthcare 420 481 13% coverage of the Statutory Capital Adequacy Requirement SCAR, after allowing for Total 1,049 903 16% statutory limitations on the value of certain Single 425 240 77% assets.
This compares with the coverage of Recurring 624 663 6% 2.4 times at 30 June 2005 and 2.6 times at 31 December 2004.
The significant strengthening in this position results from the increase in the value of our shareholdings in Nedbank and Mutual & Federal, together with the issue of a R3 billion 8.92% callable subordinated note in October 2005.
This has contributed to the diversification and flexibility of the businesss capital base, taking advantage of the current strong credit appetite and low interest rate environment in South Africa.
Update on Pension Funds Adjudicator determinations An industry-wide solution has been announced, in consultation with the South African Finance Ministry, to resolve the challenge of poor early termination values for retirement annuities and endowment policies in South Africa.
The life industry as a whole has estimated the cost of the solution at between R2.5 billion and R3 billion, with OMSAs results reflecting a charge of R716 million.
Old Mutual plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Nedbank distributes products through a wide range of channels, including the South African network of branches and automated teller machines, brokers, direct marketing through the internet and by telephone and, in respect of corporate and commercial clients, through relationship managers.
Nedbank Group Nedbank BANKING Nedbank Corporate Nedbank Retail Nedbank has moved into the next phase of its Nedbank Corporate comprises the clientNedbank Retail serves the financial needs of re-engineering since its rights issue in 2004. focused businesses of Corporate Banking, individuals and small businesses by providing The majority of the benefits of the Strategic Business Banking, Property Finance, Nedbank credit, lending, savings, investments, Recovery Programme launched in 2003 to Africa and the specialist Transactional Banking insurance and transactional products and restore the business to a pattern of sustainable and Shared Services businesses.
growth, are now firmly in place and the focuses mainly on providing lending, depositbusiness is on track to deliver on the 2007 taking and transactional banking execution Target markets are clearly identified and range targets of 20% ROE and 55% cost to income services to the businesss wholesale banking from entry-level transactional banking to the ratio.
Performance is increasing in momentum client base.
The business also provides debt high-income segment.
The division also and the business is now becoming more structuring, factoring, vehicle and asset services merchants and large corporates in outwardly focused.
Nedbank can now finance and financing for commercial, respect of card acquiring services.
These concentrate on implementing world class industrial and residential property markets are serviced through the brands client service, with all strategies geared developments.
within the Nedbank Retail stable, being towards achieving this goal, from the Nedbank, Nedgroup, Old Mutual Bank, empowerment of staff, to the improvement of The division combines strong corporate Pick n Pay Go Banking, BoE Private Clients, accessibility and affordability for our clients.
business, property and asset finance Fairbairn Private Bank and Fairbairn Trust franchises with a regional presence in South Company.
The Business Banking operations also Nedbank Group Limited is a JSE listed cover many of the countrys rural and semiThe Retail product portfolio includes company of which Old Mutual now owns rural areas.
Nedbank Corporate has built transactional, home loans, asset-based 52%, and through its principal subsidiary, strong client relationships, which provide an finance, card both card issuing and merchant Nedbank Limited, and other members of the excellent base and opportunity to cross-sell acquiring, personal loans, bancassurance, Nedbank Group, operates as one of the four the products and services offered by other investments and specialised products such as largest banking groups in South Africa, with a divisions of Nedbank as well as the wider wills, stockbroking and portfolio advice.
market share slightly over 20% measured by Old Mutual Group.
Nedbank Retail strives to ensure that it offers domestic banking assets.
The business offers a competitive product set appropriately priced a wide range of wholesale and retail banking Nedbank Capital for risk, volume and individual client profiles.
services, including corporate and retail Nedbank Capital, the groups investment banking, property and asset finance, banking division, manages the banks Imperial Bank investment banking, private banking, and structuring, lending, underwriting and trading Imperial Bank Limited is an independently foreign exchange and securities trading, businesses.
The division provides a full regulated bank, of which Nedbank owns through four main business divisions: product spectrum to the South African market, 50.1%, with the remainder held by Imperial Nedbank Corporate: Nedbank Capital: with an offering that stretches from equity Bank Holdings Limited.
Imperial Bank is a Nedbank Retail and Imperial Bank.
Nedbank research to the provision of long-term project niche market player, primarily engaged in Group also generates revenue from private financing, enabling Nedbank Capital to asset-based financing, including motor and equity, credit card issuing and processing compete effectively in the southern African property finance, supplier asset and medical services, custodial services, unit trust market.
administration, asset management and bancassurance services.
The division seeks to provide seamless Market environment specialist advice, debt and equity raisings and The South African banking economic Nedbank distributes products through a wide execution and trading capability in all the environment remains positive as stable, low range of channels, including the South African major South African business sectors.
interest rates and low inflation continue to network of branches and automated teller Principal clients include the top 200 domestic drive consumer spending and retail advances machines, brokers, direct marketing through corporates, leading financial institutions, nongrowth, positively impacting Nedbanks the internet and by telephone and, in respect South African multinational corporates and market share, particularly in the Retail of corporate and commercial clients, through clients undertaking major infrastructure and division.
The positive economic conditions are relationship managers.
Old Mutuals full-time mining projects in Africa, and emerging BEE stimulating the equity markets and ensuring a agents also distribute certain Nedbank consortiums.
continuation of the positive credit products.
environment, as evidenced by the relatively low level of credit impairments in 2005.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 Our business in 2005 Performance is increasing in momentum and the We are confident that Nedbanks focus on delivering business is now becoming more outwardly focused.
world class client service and on unlocking additional Nedbank can now concentrate on implementing world cost and revenue synergy opportunities amongst the class client service.
Old Mutual South African businesses will result in enhanced revenues and market share.
Africa: Nedbank Group continued STRONG RESULTS AS BENEFITS FROM STRATEGIC RECOVERY PROGRAMME CONTINUE arising as a result of mismatches in the repricing terms of assets and liabilities.
Interest Highlights Rm 2005 2004 % Change rate risk is managed by the Group Asset and Liability and Executive Risk Committee Group Adjusted operating profit 5,034 2,828 78% ALCO through a combination of structural Headline earnings 3,167 1,743 82% and derivative strategies.
Hedging activities Net interest income 8,529 7,145 19% are evaluated regularly in order to align with Non-interest revenue 8,483 8,379 1% interest rate views and defined risk appetite Net interest margin 3.55% 3.18% ensuring optimal hedging strategies are Cost to income ratio 65.1% 71.8% applied, either positioning the balance sheet ROE 15.5% 11.0% or protecting interest income through different interest rate cycles.
An independent Group As reported by Nedbank Asset and Liability Management function Group ALM monitors the structural interest rate risk profile of the banking book making The demand for credit in business banking concerns supervisory review and Pillar 3 strategic interest rate risk recommendations to and commercial property finance remains concerns market discipline.
Pillar 1 is a major the Group ALCO.
steady, with the initial signs of an increase in challenge for banks as the increased risk infrastructure spend being noted.
The sensitivity in relation to credit and operational Liquidity risk investment banking markets continue to risk requires enhanced internal systems of The risk of being unable to raise funds at experience strong deal flows, driven primarily information and control.
This is particularly the market prices to meet commitments as they by BEE transactions.
case where, as in Nedbank, the more complex fall due or to satisfy client demands for funds, advanced approaches to these risks are being is managed through the maintenance of The South African banking environment is taken.
In this respect, Nedbank has had a adequate capital.
This is combined with becoming more competitive, with increased BASEL II project in operation for some time sophisticated cash flow forecasting, strategic regulatory pressures and more financial and is making good progress towards being planning, maintenance of an adequate pool of services providers entering the market, ready to comply with Basel II requirements high quality marketable assets, and increasing the range of products and services which come into effect from January 2008 appropriate diversity in liabilities.
We are confident, however, that going for Banks taking the advanced approach.
forward Nedbanks focus on delivering world Currency translation risk class client service and on unlocking Credit risk Nedbanks trading in foreign exchange and additional cost and revenue synergy Credit risk is governed by policy guidelines interest rate markets primarily involves interest opportunities amongst the Old Mutual South and administered through an appropriately rate swaps, forward rate agreements, bonds African businesses, will result in enhanced constituted committee at Nedbank, which and bond options.
Currency options, equities revenues and market share.
approves all facilities in excess of 10% of and equity derivatives are also traded on a capital, and also monitors other large limited basis.
Trading exposures are measured Risk management exposures, risk limits, provisions and nonusing sensitivity analysis, value at risk and Risk is an integral component and driver of performing loans.
Concentrations in country scenario testing, and Nedbank operates a Nedbanks success in achieving shareholder credit risk are similarly managed.
formal system of monitoring and oversight on value.
Nedbanks risk process covers the Through a regular review and consideration of market trading risk.
entire range of risk categories faced by its advances, Nedbank determines the banking institutions and specifically includes impairment of bad and doubtful loans by Nedbank recognised in 2004 that it was strategic risk and enterprise-wide risk considering, among other factors, general holding excess capital in foreign currencies management.
market conditions, credit quality of loans, the and repatriated, converted and hedged capital collateral supporting the loans and sensitive to foreign exchange movements, The South African Reserve Bank is requiring performance of its clients relative to their thereby significantly reducing the sensitivity of the large South African banks, including financial obligations.
the balance sheet to currency translation Nedbank to comply with the requirements of volatility.
The last year has seen further the BASEL II Accord.
This Accord introduces a Interest rate volatility significant reduction in offshore capital three pillar system where: Pillar 1 concerns Interest rate risk for Nedbank is its net income through the sale and liquidation of identified minimum capital requirements, Pillar 2 exposure to adverse movements in rates non-core offshore investments and the Old Mutual plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The Nedbank Group offers a wide range of wholesale and retail banking services, including corporate and retail banking, property and asset finance, investment banking, private banking, and foreign exchange and securities trading repatriation of these funds back into Rand and Strong growth of 19% in programme and merger expenses.
As a result, into the businesss core activities.
This has net interest income NII total expenses increased by only R218 million resulted in a significant reduction in the Positive growth of 19% in NII helped to to R11,157 million and this contributed to an groups exposure to currency translation risk increase the net interest margin to 3.55% improvement in the cost to income ratio to that now aligns with an approved risk from 3.18% for 2004.
The margin benefited 65.1% compared with 71.8% for the prior appetite, with low expected earnings volatility.
from an improved mix of advances from year.
Good progress has been made towards strong asset growth in Nedbank Retail and achieving Nedbanks target cost to income Performance Nedbank Corporates Business Banking ratio of 55% by 2007, with income growth Nedbanks financial performance in 2005 divisions, the sale of non-core assets and for the year excluding the cost of the BEE was ahead of management expectations as various initiatives undertaken in 2004.
These transaction, of 11.2% higher than expense the business continued to benefit from the initiatives include the uplift created from the growth and exceeding the target of 9%.
strategic recovery programme in a positive rights offer cash received in May 2004, economic environment.
reduced funding drag following the revised Return on equity ROE on track hedging strategy, income from sale of nonROE of 15.5% for the year improved Nedbanks adjusted operating profit, including core investments and the repatriation of significantly from the 2004 level of 11.0% asset management operations, increased certain foreign capital during 2004.
The and, while still below Nedbanks peers, is now significantly by 78% to R5,034 million, impact of these initiatives has more than offset comfortably above the cost of capital.
Despite compared with R2,828 million in 2004.
The the industry margin pressure resulting from the dilutive effects of the BEE transaction and continued positive banking and credit the lower interest rate environment.
the accounting impacts of IFRS, Nedbank environment, resulting in a relatively lower remains committed to achieving the 20% ROE level of impairments, growth in Nedbank Non-interest revenue NIR set to grow target by 2007 through the continued Retails net interest income, favourable private The sale of certain subsidiaries in 2004 improvement in profit and the application of equity investment realisations and revaluations negatively impacted NIR, which increased by sound capital management.
in the Property Finance division, as well as only 1% to R8,483 million compared with expense containment, contributed to this R8,379 million for 2004.
Deal flow, however, Strong capital position improved result.
continued to improve, with commissions and Nedbank continues to be well capitalised, with fees in the existing businesses showing good its Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio increasing from Solid growth was experienced in all three key growth of 6%.
Nedbanks long-term goal is 8.1% at 31 December 2004 to 9.4% at operating divisions, with headline earnings to grow transactional revenue through a 31 December 2005.
The total capital adequacy increasing by 82% to R3,167 million range of initiatives implemented to improve ratio has increased to 12.9%, compared with compared with R1,743 million for 2004. cross-selling, up-selling, client service, 12.1% at 31 December 2004.
This improved Nedbank Retails results benefited from the pricing and bancassurance.
Whilst Nedbank capital position has prompted the initiation of a turnaround strategy implemented during recognises that transactional revenue growth share repurchase programme by Nedbank, with 2004, with the rate of market share losses is a longer term goal and the full benefits are just over 1 million ordinary shares repurchased decreasing in the key home loans market.
only expected to be realised over the next few to date.
This initiative further supports the Further benefits are expected now that the years, an increase in bancassurance sales efficient management of Nedbanks Tier 1 integration of Peoples Bank into Nedbank has of new business premiums of 95% was capital and improves the businesss overall been completed.
Nedbank Retail continues to experienced in 2005. capital mix.
Nedbank has also changed its focus on building on its strategic objectives of dividend cover policy, reducing the cover ratio generating profitable asset growth and Cost to income ratio improves to 65.1% from between 3 to 3.5 times headline earnings addressing the loss of market share as part of Cost savings were achieved through tight to between 2.5 to 3 times headline earnings.
the Retail fix it, grow it, and win it strategy.
expense control and a reduction in recovery Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 23 Our business in 2005 As one of the leading insurance companies in southern Africa, Mutual & Federal provides personalised insurance services to the personal, commercial and corporate markets in South Africa, Namibia, Botswana and Malawi Africa: Mutual & Federal GENERAL INSURANCE STRONG RESULTS IN A SOFTENING CYCLE Our vision for this business is to become the short-term insurance company of first choice Highlights Rm 2005 2004 % Change in Southern Africa as we continue to focus on Adjusted operating profit 1,178 1,190 1% developing and growing our share of the Underwriting ratio 8.4% 9.4% market through unit growth, product Gross premiums 8,004 7,360 9% development and exploration of alternative Earned premiums 6,882 6,449 7% distribution channels and emerging markets.
Solvency ratio 73.7% 56.1% The business continues to focus on its key Return on capital 20.2% 23.9% financial targets of sustaining a minimum underwriting ratio of 4% and delivering a As reported by Mutual & Federal return on capital in excess of 20%, whilst maintaining service excellence to intermediaries and policyholders.
Commercial division Whilst these competitive forces are placing Business profile The Commercial division provides a significant downward pressure on Mutual & As one of the leading insurance companies in comprehensive portfolio of insurance services, Federals premium rates, with consequent Southern Africa, Mutual & Federal, of which the including credit insurance to cover domestic effects on profitability and premium growth, Group now owns 83%, provides personalised and export credit risk, insurance against fire, the business has been successful in insurance services to the personal, commercial accident and motor risk and crop insurance maintaining a healthy underwriting surplus in and corporate markets in South Africa, services to a diverse range of customers from 2005.
The business, going forward is looking Namibia, Botswana and Malawi through small and medium sized businesses to large to realise benefits from securing business from professional and highly experienced brokers corporate institutions.
the previously uninsured emerging black who are able to offer clients personal service middle class and fully realising synergy and advice when purchasing policies, and Market environment benefits with OMSA and Nedbank.
practical assistance in the event of a claim.
The South African short-term insurance market is becoming increasingly competitive Risk management Personal Lines division as domestic participants seek to increase their Underwriting risks are controlled through a The Personal Lines division provides domestic share of the market by means of pricing and formal system of parameters within Mutual & household, motor, and all risks short-term acquisition strategies, and overseas companies Federal, which is regularly updated and only insurance products to individual clients enter the market, primarily targeting the deviated from following approval by senior predominantly through its high-quality Allsure corporate market.
In recent years several management.
Reinsurance cover is set at range.
Allsure offers clients lower premiums by direct writers have also come into the market conservative levels and is in place for losses combining household goods and motor short-term and have secured a growing portion of the arising from catastrophe events such as insurance requirements into one policy.
Each of the major hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, severe divisions product offering also includes hospital banks in South Africa have also formed their hail, floods and fires, with retentions set at cash plans and various forms of personal own insurers to insure houseowners business conservative levels.
The business does not accident policies.
Allsure is supported by in particular.
These insurers are becoming provide cover against losses from terrorist intermediaries throughout South Africa providing more aggressive and are moving into lines attacks, a risk that is underwritten by the customers with excellent value, supported by a other than houseowners and hence are South African Government.
fair and fast claim settling service.
important competitors of Mutual & Federal.
Old Mutual plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Teams of professional and highly experienced brokers offer clients personal service and advice when purchasing policies, and practical assistance in the event of a claim.
Performance Following a change to interpretation of IFRS Healthy underwriting surplus maintained Mutual & Federal has performed strongly over accounting rules and emerging industry The underwriting surplus of R577 million, the past year with an adjusted operating profit practice, from 1 January 2005 Mutual & although lower than the 2004 surplus of of R1,178 million, a slight decrease from the Federal no longer consolidates results of cells, R607 million, remained at a highly 2004 result of R1,190 million, reflecting the entities into which clients may place business satisfactory level, representing an underwriting continued pricing pressure on premium covering all or part of their insurance risks, ratio of 8.4% the ratio of underwriting income, and the negative impact of the resulting in a R374 million reduction in net surplus to net earned premiums.
The reduction to the long-term investment return premiums.
As the cell results no longer form Corporate section of the Commercial division, rates effective from 1 January 2005.
This part of adjusted operating profit, no transfer is however, continued to be impacted by result has benefited from the consolidation for required to minority interests, as was the case aggressive competitor rate reductions.
the first time of the results of Credit Guarantee in prior years, with this change in presentation Insurance Corporation CGIC.
Continued having no effect on profit.
The return on capital also remained strong at close management of expenses, an overall 20.2% due to the satisfactory underwriting relatively low level of significant Corporate and Claims maintained at a low level performance.
The solvency margin at 73.7%, Commercial claims, and the strong equity While a sharp increase in claims was allowed an increase in the Mutual & Federal performance, with the JSE All Share index experienced in the last quarter following the final dividend to 115c.
Mutual & Federal is rising by more than 45% during the year, also impact of the expected seasonal weather, the reviewing its current capital requirements, contributed to this result.
overall level of commercial and industrial following the strong performance in 2005. claims remained relatively low for the year Solid premium growth at 9% and positively influenced the commercial Total gross premiums for the year increased by portfolio.
The claims ratio for the division 9% to R8,004 million, assisted by the improved to 49% from 51% in 2004.
Excluding CGIC, gross Personal division, however, was impacted by premium growth would have been 3%, adverse weather conditions and a noticeable reflecting the intense levels of competition decline in the profitability of the motor experienced in the market.
Each division has account, which continued to be adversely encountered challenges in defending its client affected by an increase in the incidence of base, with particularly disappointing premium motor vehicle accidents.
Management action growth experienced in Personal schemes.
has been taken to withdraw certain motor group schemes in order to address the underperformance in this division.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25 Our business in 2005 United States Adjusted operating profit Funds under management 11% $226bn Old Mutual plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Old Mutual has built significant asset management and life assurance businesses in the US through a number of acquisitions during the course of five years.
The US businesses are well placed strategically to take advantage of demographic and other related trends Overview PROFIT UP 11% REFLECTS RECORD FUND FLOWS Highlights m 2005 2004 % Change Adjusted operating profit 207 184 13% Life assurance sales APE 290 274 6% Funds under management bn 131 97 35% Highlights $m 2005 2004 % Change Adjusted operating profit 376 338 11% Life assurance sales APE 528 501 5% The Groups focus in the US is on providing financial Funds under management $bn 226 185 22% solutions to baby-boomers, with the life and asset management businesses well positioned to meet this opportunity.
In the developed markets of the US, as with Outlook the UK and Europe, the aging of populations At US Life we will continue to maintain strong is leading to a pension crisis.
The Groups pricing disciplines to achieve sales growth in focus for growth in the US is, therefore, on the higher margin, more profitable areas of the providing financial solutions for these ageing business.
Through strong capital management baby-boomers.
These will be predominantly disciplines, the business continues to be well savings and investment solutions in the life positioned to achieve the target of delivering and asset management sectors.
Our US life and asset management businesses At US Asset Management, the loss of higher are well positioned to meet this opportunity.
margin assets during 2005, offset by We will continue the organic growth of these increased volumes of lower margin assets, businesses, in particular by building wholesale may have a modest downward impact on distribution for the retail market and future earnings.
However, we will continue to incrementally enhancing the breadth of our execute our strategy in the year ahead, products and investment styles.
growing our core businesses, augmenting our capabilities where required, and building up Performance our retail platform and alternative investment Adjusted operating profit for the US businesses business.
increased by 11% from $338 million to $376 million in 2005, driven by record net cash flows and strong investment performance in our US Asset Management business, offset by historical reserve adjustments at US Life.
Funds under management increased by 22% to $226 billion, with the asset management business contributing the majority of this growth, whilst the US Life business experienced an 18% increase in funds under management to $20 billion.
The 35% increase in funds under management on a sterling basis also reflects dollar appreciation during 2005.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27 Our business in 2005 The focus of our US Life business is on attaining growth and profitability through the orderly expansion of our traditional middle markets.
We will continue to develop and strengthen our competitive advantages in product development, back office outsourcing and distributor relationships US Life The focus of our US Life business is on the majority of sales are generated through guaranteed rate portfolios, with distribution attaining growth and profitability through the established groups of master general agents primarily taking place through private banks.
orderly expansion of our traditional middle MGAs, with the MGAs typically providing markets, including greater focus on the babyaccess to a range of annuity and life Protection products boomer generation.
Old Mutual Bermuda, our assurance products from different suppliers.
Our US Life business offers two principal offshore affiliate, will continue to play a key protection product lines, term mortgage role in the growth and diversification of our Equity index annuities EIA protection and universal life products which business.
We will continue to develop and Our EIA product has been consistently placed provide flexible life assurance protection in the strengthen our competitive advantages in as the second or third in the US product event of death or illness.
Through the product development, back office outsourcing segment over the past few years, with most of introduction of some novel product features and distributor relationships.
our sales concentrated in the annual reset such as partial return of premium benefits, product.
Under this product, the policyholder and quick underwriting turnaround times, our Business profile is guaranteed a minimum return over a one products have grown rapidly in this traditional We commenced operations in the US life year period, in addition to some participation life segment, with the business becoming the market in 2001 through the acquisition of in equity index movements.
The potential fastest growing US insurer in the broker life several established insurance companies, the equity index upside is covered through the use market in the second quarter of 2005. largest being Fidelity & Guaranty Life.
The of dynamic hedging principles, enabling us to business is headquartered in Baltimore, with a provide better value for money to our client Market environment sales office in Atlanta and offers a diverse base and shareholders by effectively Whilst it is anticipated that competition from portfolio of annuities and life insurance disintermediating the investment banks.
other financial services companies will products to individuals in the US.
increase, our US Life business maintains a Fixed deferred annuities significant market share of the fixed annuity Our operations were further strengthened in These are fixed rate contracts which involve life assurance market in the US.
The business 2003 with the acquisition of OMNIA Life the business investing in a portfolio of bonds has been highly successful in responding to Bermuda for a nominal consideration from that earn a spread above the rate guaranteed changing market demands through the another South African insurer, Sage Life.
There are two main types development and rollout of new products.
offshore variable annuity business has been of deferred annuities: the principal purpose of repositioned within the private bank channels, one is to offer a tax efficient way to save Risk management one of the main sources of business for the money for retirement, with the others main Underwriting risk offshore market and has provided significant purpose to provide an income stream for life.
Underwriting risk is carefully controlled sales growth since acquisition.
The business through underwriting principles governing was rebranded Old Mutual Bermuda in 2005 Immediate annuities product repricing procedures and authority as part of the rollout of unified branding for Immediate annuities provide regular income limits.
The underwriting process takes into our North American operations.
payments guaranteed for life or for a fixed account prospective mortality, morbidity and period of time.
The immediate annuity expense experience, with a large proportion of The US Life business has experienced strong products allow customers the flexibility to the mortality and morbidity risk reinsured to new business growth since its acquisition, choose the amount of income desired, the highly rated companies.
backed by Group capital injections, but is timing of payments and their duration.
Our firmly on track to become self-funding and outsourcing model enables us to deliver cost Policyholder option risk remit dividends to the Group from 2007. efficiencies in the underwriting and Fixed annuity policyholder option risk is administration of this product, a significant managed through investing in fixed securities The life company assets are invested with our advantage in the price sensitive immediate with durations within a half-year of the US Asset Management business, which annuities market.
duration of the liabilities and cash flows in manages these on a commercial basis, with any period closely aligned to ensure the majority of US Lifes administrative Variable annuities mismatches are minimal.
Extensive interest functions outsourced to third party service These products, sold through our offshore rate scenario testing is undertaken as required providers.
business, Old Mutual Bermuda are US dollar by regulatory authorities, to ensure that the based investment policies targeted at non-US amounts reserved are sufficient to meet the Whilst our products are distributed through citizens residing outside of the US.
various channels including private banks used variable annuity product is essentially a unit to sell the offshore variable annuity product, linked investment plan, offering linkage to Old Mutual plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Our US Life business maintains a significant market share of the fixed annuity life assurance market in the US.
The business has been highly successful in responding to changing market demands through the development and rollout of new products.
The guaranteed returns provided in relation to CONTINUED STRONG GROWTH the EIA product are dynamically hedged to ensure close matching of option payoffs to Highlights $m 2005 2004 % Change liability growth, with hedging positions Adjusted operating profit 162 178 9% reviewed and re-adjusted daily as necessary.
Return on equity 5.8% 8.4% EV adjusted operating profit after tax 147 99 48% Credit risk Embedded Value 2,116 1,837 15% Credit risk is monitored by the businesss Adjusted return on Embedded Value 8% 7% Investment Committee, which has established Life assurance sales APE 528 501 5% appropriate exposure limits such that Value of new business 93 82 13% impairment levels at US Life are low.
New business margin 18% 16% Funds under management $bn 20 17 18% Performance The business continued its strong growth trend as it develops towards maturity and capital self-sufficiency.
The Group is APE up 5% Improved margins committed to ensuring that adequate Total sales on an APE basis were The after-tax value of new business increased infrastructure is in place to support this $528 million for the year, an increase of 5% to $93 million, 13% higher than in 2004, growing business, which has now trebled in from $501 million in 2004, underpinned by positively impacted by the growth in sales and size since its acquisition in 2001.
As part of a strong growth for the year of 40% in life sales an increase in the new business margin from wider internal transformation programme, we and 85% in offshore annuity sales through 16% for 2004 to 18% for the year.
The have chosen to implement a new financial Old Mutual Bermuda.
increased margin is at the upper end of our and actuarial system, working closely with our long-term expectations under EEV external advisors to build new actuarial Life product sales of $148 million for the year, methodology and reflects the strengthening of models.
Several historical reserve adjustments compared with $106 million in 2004 reflect our pricing disciplines, positive investment were identified during the course of this the success of our market penetration yields, and a favourable product mix.
transition, resulting in net adjustments to strategies, strong market growth in the middle valuation reserves totalling $40 million, income sector and a strengthening of Prudent action taken to build driving a 9% decrease in adjusted operating relationships with our key distributors.
We are the strength of this business profit to $162 million.
The system migration now ranked 18th overall for sales in the life Whilst the fundamentals of our US Life is due for completion in 2006 and is expected market and remain the market leader for business model remain unchanged, the strong to provide significant enhancements to our mortgage protection term insurance.
sales growth experienced in the first nine internal processes.
months of the year allowed management the Sales of equity indexed annuities were the opportunity to rationalise certain products and The business has been successful in growing single largest APE contributor, as agent and distribution channels towards the end of underlying profit in line with funds under consumer acceptance expanded the market.
2005, providing the business with a more management since 2001 and despite the efficient distribution network.
drop in 2005, we expect this long-term trend Old Mutual Bermudas sales reflected growth in profit to continue.
in our bank distribution, combined with The increasingly efficient use of outsourced extensions to our product range to include underwriting and administration services also Return on equity for the year of 5.8% was fixed annuity and equity indexed products continued to differentiate the US operations.
negatively impacted by the lower operating modelled closely on our onshore products.
Our migration to a new third party profit and $200 million capital injection in Corporate sales continued to be held at low administrator has been successfully executed, late 2004 to strengthen the businesss capital levels due to the strength in retail sales.
contributing to a reduction of 49% in our base and maintain the targeted risk-based annual per policy unit costs compared with capital ratio at 300%, coupled with the 2003, which was the last full year prior to the repatriation to the United States of a move to outsourcing.
significant block of annuity business from Old Mutual Re Ireland at the end of 2004.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29 Our business in 2005 Our US Asset Management business combines the investment focus of boutique managers with the stability and resources of a large international firm US Asset Management Through our US Asset Management business, 14% of the total funds under management.
income, international equities, emerging we combine the investment focus of boutique Over time, the largest firms within US Asset markets, real estate investment trusts and managers with the stability and resources of a Management will change depending on the money markets.
We have created an market environment and investment styles environment where unique, entrepreneurial currently in favour.
Market environment asset management boutiques can thrive and Competition in the United States is strong, the investment professionals within them can The majority of affiliates operate under profitwith each of Old Mutuals asset management do their best work for our clients.
We have sharing arrangements, with a certain firms facing significant competition from other capitalised on our economies of scale and percentage of operating profit, after overheads specialist providers.
The differentiating factors brought best practice risk management, and salaries, paid to the affiliates as variable between firms are often investment technology, legal and distribution capabilities compensation.
The profit-sharing model performance and product capabilities.
Supported in the back office ensures that the interests of our affiliates are investment managers have a record of areas of their business, our firms are free to closely aligned with those of our shareholders.
delivering strong performance, and through focus their time and resources on delivering our ability to leverage the diverse styles of our strong investment performance.
US Asset Managements product range individual firms, are able to seek targeted includes the following: investment opportunities to broaden our Business profile product capability.
Our US Asset Management business, based in Institutional accounts Boston and established through the acquisition Actively-managed investment products are Risk management of UAM in 2000, now consists of 20 distinct offered in all the major asset classes and The exposure of the Groups US Asset boutique firms, including asset managers that investment styles.
The businesss investment Management business to market fluctuations specialise in high-quality, active investment capabilities span US and global equities, fixed gives rise to potential impacts on revenue strategies for institutional clients, high net income, real estate and alternative asset levels, which are a function of the value of worth individuals and mutual fund investors.
Separate accounts are offered across client portfolios.
Investment risk is principally Collectively, the asset management business a range of asset classes and investment borne by the client.
Compliance risks faced by offers over 100 distinctive investment strategies.
Actively-managed co-mingled this business are independently monitored strategies.
Individually, however, each member accounts are also available in US equities, US and reviewed by compliance functions and firm has its own vibrant, entrepreneurial fixed income and real estate investment trusts.
committees, which are also required to meet culture of experienced investors focusing on stringent US regulatory requirements.
We their particular area of expertise.
Retail accounts mitigate the risk of loss of key employees In October 2004, the Old Mutual Advisor through the use of long-term incentive The business has benefited strongly from its Fund was launched, establishing the schemes aligned with shareholder value affiliate structure, offering a diversity of foundation for full-scale retail distribution.
targets, and through competition restrictions investment styles, minimising exposure to the These funds use the subsidiaries asset embedded in employment agreements.
changing preferences of investors, and management capabilities to construct asset benefiting from efficiency savings resulting allocation mutual fund products tailored to from the centralisation of compliance and different investor risk profiles.
These allow distribution capabilities through its holding individual investors access to institutionalcompany, OMAM US.
quality management in a mutual fund format.
Individual mutual finds are currently offered in The business asset mix is heavily weighted a wide range of asset classes and investment towards value equities, fixed income and nonstyles.
Funds are offered as single-strategy USD international assets.
While the business mutual funds, or alternatively as diversified consists of a diverse range of affiliates, Barrow asset allocation funds under the Pure Hanley Mewhinney & Strauss, a value equity Portfolio brand.
In addition, multi-strategy manager, represents 24% of the businesss funds are offered that leverage the capabilities assets, with Dwight Asset Management, a of our firms as well as selected outside fixed income manager, accounting for another managers.
23% of the funds under management.
Acadian Asset Management, an international Single strategy mutual funds are currently equities firm, is the third largest manager with offered by our affiliates in US equities, fixed Old Mutual plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Collectively, the asset management business offers over Actively-managed investment products are offered 100 distinctive investment strategies.
Individually, each in all the major asset classes and investment styles.
member firm has its own vibrant, entrepreneurial culture The businesss investment capabilities span US and of experienced investors focusing on their particular area global equities, fixed income, real estate and alternative of expertise.
RECORD NET CASH FLOWS CONTRIBUTE TO STRONG OPERATING RESULT Integra Global Advisors, and UAM Japan during the year.
Highlights $m 2005 2004 % Change The US Asset Management business now Adjusted operating profit 214 160 34% primarily consists of profit-sharing businesses, Funds under management $bn 226.3 184.6 23% being left with only one significant revenueAverage funds under management $bn 207 165 25% sharing firm, First Pacific Advisors, which has Net fund flows $bn 26.3 12.3 114% an option to acquire certain of the firms assets Operating margin 26% 24% and liabilities with effect from October 2006.
Performance Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss has The Groups US asset management business been awarded the mandate to manage, from delivered excellent growth in adjusted operating the start of 2006, the Clipper Focus fund, profit of $214 million, an increase of 34% over formerly managed by PFR and now renamed 2004.
The combination of record net cash the Old Mutual Barrow Hanley Value Fund.
flows, strong investment performance and positive equity markets led to a 22% increase Excellent fund performance in asset levels to $226 billion for 2005.
The record net fund inflows reflected the excellent investment performance achieved by Operating profit has also benefited from a our member firms.
At 31 December 2005, significant increase in one-off transaction and 86% and 95% of assets outperformed their performance fees of $106 million in 2005, benchmarks over three and five years with the increase of 56% over 2004 sourced respectively.
Over the same periods 52% and primarily from the Campbell Group and 68% of assets, respectively, ranked in the first Heitman.
quartile of their peer group.
Funds up 22% to $226 billion Building our distribution Funds at our US Asset Management business Our retail initiative continued to gather increased by 22% to $226 billion at momentum with gross sales of $1.9 billion, of 31 December 2005 from $185 billion at which $445 million related to open-end 31 December 2004, driven by record net mutual fund sales.
We invested $19 million in inflows of client assets totalling $26 billion.
this initiative during the year, with the aim of The net fund inflows were achieved mainly in providing our affiliates with access to a higher international and emerging markets equity, margin market and further diversifying value equity and fixed income, as well as revenue-generating sources for the Group.
The $11 billion in cash collateral assets.
Strong business continued to expand its product investment performance and positive market offering, with four new open-end mutual action contributed 8.3% or $15 million funds and two closed-end fund products towards this increase.
Funds under management were negatively US Asset Management has actively worked impacted by the restructuring of the Pacific to manage its portfolio during the year, Financial Research PFR team, which was establishing a high-quality alternative announced during the third quarter of 2005. investments business with the launch of Definitive management action taken to 2100 Capital, the initiation of our strategic address the impact of this reorganisation and partnership with Copper Rock Capital Partners significant fund inflows from other areas of the as well as the acquisition of Larch Lane, a US asset management business, resulted in New York-based hedge fund specialist in minimal net cash outflows of less than October.
In an effort to sharpen our strategic $400 million for the fourth quarter.
focus, we divested ourselves of L&B Realty, Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 Our business in 2005 UK and Rest of the World Adjusted operating profit Funds under management 24m 6.9bn Old Mutual plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 We are focused on delivering further organic growth in our UK businesses by continuing to develop our products and services.
In Asia, we aim to enhance the scale of our operations through the development of new businesses in these attractive markets and the delivery of products to the emerging middle class Overview Business profile A YEAR OF EXCEPTIONAL GROWTH The Group operates a number of businesses in the UK and certain other parts of the Highlights m 2005 2004 % Change world.
In the UK, Old Mutual Asset Managers Adjusted operating profit 24 5.0 OMAM UK, a specialist asset management Funds under management bn 6.9 5.2 33% boutique firm, offers a range of equity, fixed Selestia sales 704 423 66% income and multi-asset funds.
These include retail unit trusts, hedge funds, funds-of-hedge funds, multi-asset funds and structured products.
Risk management Mid Cap and the UK Select Smaller Consistent with most asset management Companies equity funds both ranked in first During 2001, Selestia was launched in the UK businesses, the UK and Rest of the World place within their sectors for the year ended market.
Selestia offers Independent Financial business is exposed to the impact of 31 December 2005.
Advisers a system through which they can fluctuations in the level of funds under access over 700 funds offered by 57 fund management on fees earned and, particularly Selestia has also continued to build critical managers to construct and maintain investment with hedge fund assets, is also influenced by mass with sales of 704 million for 2005, an portfolios taking into account the investors risk the performance of the underlying assets.
increase of 66% when compared to sales of appetite for asset allocation and fund selection.
The Groups UK businesses operate in a Old Mutual International, based in Guernsey, highly regulated environment.
Compliance risk Our interests in India continued to grow provides offshore investment products and is mitigated through embedded compliance exponentially, now in their fourth full year of services for international investors.
Products procedures and controls, ensuring adherence financial operation.
The business is currently and services include unit-linked life offerings, to regulations, and ongoing monitoring by operating from 45 branches in 31 cities unit trust offerings, discretionary portfolio internal compliance functions.
across India and has a sales force of around management, offshore trusts and company 10,500 tied agents.
The risk of loss of key employees is managed through the use of long-term incentive Outlook Palladyne Asset Management, a specialist schemes aligned with shareholder value Going forward, we will continue to pursue asset management firm based in the targets, and by including competition organic growth, with new product launches Netherlands, offers asset management restrictions in employment agreements.
and further development of team capabilities services for the retail market through a planned for OMAM UK.
The focus at Selestia network of independent financial planners.
Performance is on continuing to build critical mass, with Our UK and Rest of the World asset the planned launch of a new pension product In India, Old Mutual offers a range of both management and life assurance businesses in response to the release of the Pensions A individual and group life assurance products delivered exceptional growth in adjusted Day regulations.
through Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life operating profit to 24 million in 2005 from Insurance Company Ltd as a joint venture a loss of 5 million in 2004.
We are also committed to expanding our with Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited.
operations in India and China through the OMAM UK, in particular, produced strong development and offering of financial solutions The Group also has a representative office in results with adjusted operating profit to the emerging middle class in those Beijing, China.
increasing to 13 million from 5 million in countries.
This result was driven by excellent Market environment hedge fund and retail unit trust performance, The UK economic environment is in a period combined with strong net fund inflows, of stability marked by good recent equity resulting in a 38% increase in funds under performance, low inflation and interest rates.
2005 was Our businesses continue to benefit from these OMAM UK s most successful year in terms conditions, with our UK asset management of gross and net business, with gross sales of businesses experiencing strong fund inflows, 1.1 billion.
Overall, 67% by value of the with particular demand for hedge funds and retail unit trust funds produced top quartile structured products.
performance for the year, with the UK Select Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33
