Group values Integrity Respect Accountability Pushing beyond boundaries Act honestly and openly and be Treat others as you would like to be Take responsibility for the commitment Strive as individuals, as a team trustworthy and consistent in all that treated yourself value and learn from that you make, actions you perform and and as an organisation to break new you do.
Act in accordance with the the strength of our diversity.
Accept that you will ground and achieve higher levels of highest ethical standards.
listen to others and recognise that be judged on these.
Reach to the depth of everyone has a contribution to make.
A year of achievement 2005 was a year of significant transformation of as used by Old Mutual plc itself, in replacement modern, open architecture life and investment the Old Mutual Group and one which I believe we of the more familiar tablet version of the name.
products, which are likely to appeal to babycan look back on with considerable satisfaction.
Nedbank has continued its rebranding, with its boomers in developed markets as they age.
change of parent company name from Nedcor It therefore fits very well with our existing UK Firstly, we achieved strong organic growth in our Limited to Nedbank Group Limited and businesses, Selestia and OMAM UK, as well major business platforms in South Africa, the completion of the transformation of former as extending the Groups presence into a large USA and the UK, with significantly improved life Peoples Bank branches into Nedbank branches.
number of other new territories.
We also expect assurance and unit trust sales in South Africa, Skandias presence in China to accelerate the substantial progress in the recovery programme United States Groups push into that fast-growing economy.
at Nedbank, record cash flows at our US asset In the USA, we have continued to develop our management business and impressive growth portfolio of asset managers, with a number of Future outlook at both of our UK businesses.
acquisitions and disposals during the year.
Concerted management action taken during Copper Rock, 2100 Capital and Larch Lane 2005 has contributed to the creation of a strong Secondly, we completed innovative and broadhave added to our alternative investments platform for sustainable growth across each of based Black Economic Empowerment BEE capability, whilst we have said farewell to our geographies.
ownership proposals at each of Old Mutual L&B Realty, Integra Global Advisors and UAM South Africa OMSA, Nedbank Group and Japan.
Funds under management continued Our African businesses will continue in 2006 Mutual & Federal.
The benefits of these to grow strongly throughout 2005, albeit less to focus on strengthening their brand and transactions, in terms of accelerating the strongly in the last quarter following the loss of distribution capabilities and on working closely transformation of each of the businesses, some mandates at Pacific Financial Research.
together to leverage opportunities for cross-selling are already becoming apparent.
Overall funds under management by the US and creating efficiency savings.
OMSAs focus is asset managers at the end of the year stood at on building sales volumes and stabilising cash Lastly, we have now completed our acquisition $226 billion, including $15 billion of cash flows in the face of increased industry margin of Skandia and thereby broadened the revenue collateral assets for our securities lending pressure, while Nedbank will continue to focus base of the Old Mutual Group significantly, business, eSecLending, an increase of 23% on growing its retail and corporate transactional which has been one of our strategic objectives over the position at 31 December 2004. business.
The softer underwriting cycle and for some years.
Julian Roberts, who has served increased pressure on premium rates is expected us so well as Finance Director, has agreed to At US Life, strong sales were achieved, to result in more normal trading conditions for take up the reins as CEO of Skandia.
I know he particularly in the first three quarters of the year, Mutual & Federal in 2006. will do a great job.
with equity index annuities making a particularly strong showing.
We have been enhancing our Our US Life business is still aiming to become Africa systems at this business to manage a company capital self-sufficient by the end of 2007, while In South Africa, we have made progress in that is now three times as large as when we our US asset management business is continuing aligning our life assurance, banking and general bought it in 2001.
As a consequence, we have to focus on building its retail distribution network insurance businesses more closely so as to made some reserve adjustments, which have and actively managing its affiliate relationships.
exploit bancassurance and other benefits of caused earnings in 2005 to be lower than Growth looks set to continue at our UK and Rest working together.
Bancassurance business nearly 2004, but the underlying trends have remained of the World businesses.
doubled in 2005 compared to 2004, but I steady as a percentage of assets managed.
This believe there are still great opportunities for business is becoming more mature and is on We believe that, in 2005, we have taken an additional synergies to be achieved in this area.
track to deliver a dividend by the end of 2007. important step along the path to achieving our Bob Head was appointed as Group Director, There are a number of strategic opportunities objective of being a world-class financial services Southern Africa, towards the end of the year, with open to us to develop US Life further over the group.
We look to the future with confidence that one of his specific objectives being to promote a next few years.
One of these will be to develop we can create something special through Old more integrated product offering among the products and sales strategies to appeal to Mutual and its family of companies.
businesses and to catalyse the necessary changes the large Hispanic market.
to address the rapidly developing financial Jim Sutcliffe services market in South Africa.
United Kingdom and Rest of the World Chief Executive Our profile in the UK and the Rest of the World 27 February 2006 We have made progress with our brand will be much more significant from 2006 rationalisation and modernisation, with onwards as a result of our ownership of Skandia.
OMSA now using the new Old Mutual brand, Skandias business has a strong focus on Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5 How we are doing Group at a glance Where we operate Working together South Africa Old Mutual and Skandia make an excellent fit.
We have used our broad Our life, banking and general insurance Both are international insurance businesses businesses are continuing to focus on with little geographic overlap, compatible and well-established strengthening their brand and distribution product ranges and similar business South African base to capabilities.
philosophies tailor-made product lines, innovative cultures, and decentralised create a multinational They are also now working more closely organisations.
Both companies have strong together to realise opportunities for crosshome market positions South Africa and business and are building selling each others products and achieving Sweden and successful international businesses in the US cost and efficiency savings.
activities, Skandia in the UK and Old Mutual in the USA.
and the UK that focus Through strong investment performance, refocusing of product offerings, and delivery A strong combination on sectors of the market of synergies between our businesses, we aim In combination, Old Mutual and Skandia are to offer exceptional value to customers.
well positioned to become a formidable force with good fundamentals in the European savings market through and where our skills can USA efficient distribution networks, leading Our US life and asset management businesses products and optimal service and systems.
aim to provide financial solutions for a wide The Enlarged Group will be financially robust, range of clients, with particular emphasis with strong growth potential and more on products suitable for the baby-boom broadly-spread risk.
in Europe adds to Old Mutuals existing strengths in the USA and Africa, giving the They are continuing to build distribution for the Enlarged Group a diverse earnings base and retail market and enhance their product and more sustainable earnings patterns.
Leading open architecture player UK & Rest of the World The Enlarged Group will be a leading provider Our UK asset management businesses, of a variety of innovative and flexible products, Old Mutual Asset Managers and Selestia, have designed according to clients preferences and taken major steps to gain critical mass during needs.
These market segments are expected 2005, and our joint venture life company in to grow at a faster rate than the traditional life India continues to expand its business, assurance market.
offering financial solutions to the emerging middle class.
Outlook We are committed to ensuring that not only do Acquisition of Skandia we deliver the prospective returns from Old Mutual and Skandia have similar business Skandia factored into our acquisition planning, profiles, with each having a strong position but also that our other businesses continue to in its home market, rapid growth in other make good progress.
developed markets, and smaller businesses in markets that are expected to grow in the longer term as a result of demographic pressures and reforms in welfare provision.
Old Mutual plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 As a result of a successful year in 2005 and our acquisition of Skandia, we now have a much higher profile among international investors Jim Sutcliffe, Old Mutuals Chief Executive, rings the bell at the Stockholm Stock Exchange on 2 February 2006 to signal the listing of Old Mutuals shares in Sweden.
Old Mutual sales 2005 Skandia sales 2005 Enlarged Group pro forma sales 3 1 1.
Rest of Europe & Latin America 23% 3.
Rest of Europe 14% History of Skandia The Enlarged Group 1979 1855 Skandia Life UK Skandia founded in established in London Sweden as a life and as the first company fire insurance company.
to offer unit-linked 1863 pension insurance to Listed on the Stockholm the UK market.
1990s 1900 Period of significant Skandia establishes itself international growth, in the US market as the during which Skandia first foreign, non-British established operations in insurance company.
more than 20 countries on four continents.
1920 Entered the pensions 2003 insurance and motor American Skandia insurance markets.
1964 2006 New Skandia group Old Mutual declares its formed by the merger of offer for Skandia wholly five Swedish insurance unconditional after companies.
Old Mutual shares admitted to listing on the Stockholm Old Mutual Skandia Stock Exchange.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7 2
