The Old Mutual Groups goal is to develop its customer proposition, distribution, products and investment performance so as to deliver value for both customers and shareholders Aligning our strategy for future growth independent financial advisers.
Skandia also Strategic objectives operates an offshore company, Royal Skandia, Objective Progress based on the Isle of Man, which offers products to international investors and OMSA Black Economic BEE deals completed expatriates.
Empowerment Nedbank Build retail and Retail profit up 66% and Skandia is one of the largest life assurers in transaction capability client service improving Sweden, and has operations in a number of Mutual & Invest in leading systems Business Process Management and other Nordic countries.
Approximately 20% of Federal data warehouse systems live Skandias business is in Sweden, where it has dealings with one in every four households.
US Life Dividend from 2007 On track Skandia Sweden provides a full product range US Asset Achieve growth and 2100 Capital and Larch Lane hedge in the areas of protection, investments, Management expand alternative funds, Copper Rock small caps healthcare, pensions and banking.
These are investment capability provided under the Skandia brand name.
The UK & Rest Expand into India and China 10,500 agents in India: Skandia Skandia brand also includes products from its of the World brings joint venture in China subsidiary, Skandia Liv, which is run on a mutual basis.
Plc Taking opportunities Skandia acquired In addition to Skandias core markets of Sweden and the UK, Skandia operates in a select number of European countries offering We offer a broad range of financial services: Our businesses include: unit-linked insurance products and mutual our strength is our diversity, the benefits of funds.
These include Germany, Austria, Spain, which can be seen in our results.
Our scale, US Asset Management, which comprises Italy, Poland, Switzerland, France and sector and geographic diversification allow us of over 20 asset management businesses Liechtenstein.
to weather market fluctuations and other offering diverse investment styles and challenges more robustly than our smaller, products: and Skandia has established operations in a more regional, competitors.
US Life, which is among the top ten fixed number of countries in Latin America and Asia annuity and top five equity indexed annuity Pacific.
In Latin America, Skandia operates Strength in internationalisation businesses in the USA.
out of Mexico, Colombia and Chile.
Skandia We are one of the largest financial services has operated in Colombia for over fifty years.
businesses in southern Africa, through our life In the United Kingdom, we focus on asset In Asia Pacific, Skandia has established itself assurance, asset management, banking and management through: in Australia and Chile.
Our businesses include: Old Mutual Asset Managers UK, Demographics a specialist investment boutique: and Baby-boomer demographics in the USA Old Mutual South Africa: the countrys Selestia, a provider of IFA-distributed retail and Europe, as well as the emerging middle largest financial services provider: investment solutions.
classes in South Africa, India and China, Nedbank Group formerly Nedcor : form a very attractive backdrop for business one of South Africas top four banks: With the acquisition of Skandia, we now have development in the future.
Mutual & Federal: one of South Africas operations in a large number of additional largest general insurers: and countries.
Europe is moving closer to the US pensions Operations in Namibia, Kenya, Malawi and model as state funding is being reduced and Zimbabwe.
Skandias UK operation is the Skandia Groups becoming insufficient.
The Enlarged Group is largest business.
Skandia UKs product particularly well positioned to satisfy clients In the United States we are a leading fixed offerings include unit-linked assurance, seeking flexible financial solutions to sustain and equity indexed annuity provider and our mutual funds and protection.
multi-style asset management business offers implemented the multi-manager concept an array of specialist asset management skills.
Skandia owns 81% of Bankhall, a UK provider of services to Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9
