CAT PROPRIETARY PRODUCT CAT COLLABORATIVE PRODUCT PRODUCT DEVELOPED BY CAT LICENSEE PRODUCT PIPELINE PROPRIETARY CAT-8015 CAT-354 CAT-3858 COLLABORATIVE CAM-3001 GC-1008 LICENSED MILESTONES AND ROYALTIES ABT-874 HGS-ETR2 ABTHRAX MYO-029 HUMIRA HGS-ETR1 LYMPHOSTAT-B LICENSED MILESTONES AND ROYALTIES DYAX BIOINVENT MICROMET PATENT LICENSEES PRE-CLINICAL PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III MARKETED PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT CAT expects up to approximately 33% development activities in oncology.
STRATEGY of its scientific teams to be working on the CAT also hired ten key former staff development of CATs oncology capabilities of Genencor, who will continue to be CATs product pipeline in relation to the and potential product candidates.
responsible for the development of these Companys business strategy is shown programmes and who will lead the above.
A more detailed chart is included CAT-354 is being developed by CAT expansion of CATs expertise in oncology.
on page 14. as a potential treatment for severe asthma.
Given the costs and capabilities necessary CAT believes that focusing its future Proprietary to develop drugs in the respiratory area, proprietary development programmes CAT will seek a partner for this in oncology provides the greatest DEVELOP PROPRIETARY DRUGS programme prior to the commencement opportunities for a company with CATs of confirmatory clinical trials.
resources, technologies and capabilities, as a result of: CATs proprietary development CAT-3888 and CAT-8015 were recently programmes provide opportunities for acquired from Genencor and these are Medical need despite recent advances significant longer term revenue.
CAT is being developed as potential treatments in cancer therapy, many patients relapse, currently developing three proprietary for a number of B-cell malignancies.
or are refractory to, or unsuitable for, product candidates.
In these programmes, The acquisition of these programmes also existing therapies.
CAT bears all the development costs and signalled CATs intention to concentrate risks, but retains the full potential return on its future proprietary research and the investment.
In the financial year 2006, CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 05 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Achievability there are multiple Collaborative disorders and certain cancers.
The TGF potential points of intervention for programme is an important part of both DEVELOP DRUGS IN COLLABORATION antibody therapeutics, playing to CATs Genzymes focus on developing therapies for immune mediated diseases and CATs technology strengths.
pipeline of antibody drug candidates.
CAT believes that collaborative alliances Market attractiveness whilst great offer a valuable approach to the creation Progress during the year is covered in progress has been made in the treatment of important new medicines.
Through detail in the Product Candidate Pipeline of some cancers, cancer remains a very these alliances, CAT provides its science section, on page 16. significant area of medical need.
Cancer is, and capabilities and co-invests with its in fact, a large number of specific diseases partners in the discovery and development ii Zenyth formerly Amrad in some of which the use of of human monoclonal antibody inflammatory disorders monoclonal antibody therapeutics has therapeutics.
In this way, CAT is able In 2001, CAT and Zenyth already demonstrated success.
to achieve a full share of the potential www.
com entered into a product returns from the development of these collaboration for the joint discovery and Commercial implications given the drugs and is able to enhance its capabilities development of human monoclonal multiple specific indications, the clinical by learning from the experience and antibody therapeutics that neutralise trials in certain oncology indications can capabilities of its partners.
the GM-CSF  be of a size that allows a company of colony stimulating factor Receptor CATs scale and capabilities to develop CAT has three major collaborative which may play a central role in the drugs in oncology potentially into relationships with Genzyme, Zenyth development of chronic inflammatory confirmatory clinical studies thereby and AstraZeneca.
increasing potential returns for shareholders.
i Genzyme fibrotic disorders CAT and Zenyth will jointly fund all and oncology development through to completion Details of CATs proprietary programmes CAT and Genzyme www.
com of Phase II proof-of-concept studies.
and progress during the year are provided began working together in September CAT has the primary responsibility for on page 15.
2000 when a broad, strategic alliance for further development and commercialisation the development and commercialisation of human monoclonal antibody drug of human monoclonal antibodies directed candidates arising from the agreement against TGF was established between and Zenyth will have the option to the two companies.
Also, Genzyme made receive milestone payments during the an equity investment in CAT.
completion of development and royalty payments on sales from CAT, or to In September 2003, CATs collaboration participate jointly with CAT in further with Genzyme was strengthened and development and commercialisation.
At the same time, Genzyme made a further equity investment in CAT.
So far, this collaboration has produced one product candidate, CAM-3001.
The companies are collaborating on the development of anti-TGF antibody Progress during the year is covered in drug candidates such as GC-1008 with detail in the Product Candidate Pipeline potential for use in treating fibrotic section, on page 16.
06 CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 iii AstraZeneca inflammatory disorders CAT is principally responsible for i Product and technology licensing In November 2004, CAT and AstraZeneca antibody discovery, manufacturing process CAT has a number of licensing www.
com commenced development and the supply of material agreements and research-based a major strategic alliance for the joint for exploratory clinical trials.
AstraZeneca collaborations, under which its scientists is responsible for translational biology, have undertaken discovery research on discovery and development of human clinical development programmes, behalf of its partners, or it has licensed monoclonal antibody therapeutics, regulatory filings and commercialisation.
In both principally in the area of inflammatory cases, the partner is responsible for all disorders.
This alliance offers CAT the This alliance is expected to be the principal development and marketing activities opportunity to build a substantial pipeline focus of CATs research activity to the end and costs.
CAT receives milestone and of antibody products in collaboration of 2009 and will account for the majority royalty payments on the products that with a leading pharmaceutical company of CATs research expenditure over the result from these collaborations.
Such and the potential to receive enhanced next five years.
In the financial year 2006, partnerships have been successful.
As part of the alliance, CAT expects up to approximately 45% CAT has a diversified pipeline consisting it was agreed that CAT and AstraZeneca of its scientific teams to be working of HUMIRA and six further out-licensed would jointly fund the cost of a minimum on the AstraZeneca collaboration.
human monoclonal antibody drug of 25 discovery programmes that will be candidates in clinical development, initiated over the first five-year discovery Progress during the year is covered in as well as more than 25 programmes phase.
CATs commitment to the alliance detail in the Product Candidate Pipeline believed to be at an earlier stage is fully funded by the 75 million equity section, on page 16. of development with licensees.
These injection made by AstraZeneca in the together offer good prospects for Company in December 2004.
Licensed growth in the medium and longer term.
CATs financial participation reflects its DEVELOP DRUGS WITH LICENSEES CAT has ongoing licensing relationships level of investment in the programme.
with the following: CAT has the option of co-investing in all Licensing CATs technologies and programmes through to Clinical Proof of Abbott Laboratories capabilities to enable others to develop Concept, and of continuing to fund jointly Amgen products remains an important part the development of one in every five Chugai of CATs business and helps to balance product candidates that reach Clinical Genzyme the risk profile of the Company.
In return Proof of Concept up to product launch.
Human Genome Sciences, Inc for access to its proprietary antibody If CAT opts out after the Discovery Merck & Co expertise and technologies, CAT receives phase it receives milestones and royalties.
NovImmune upfront fees and potential option, milestone If it opts out at Clinical Proof of Concept Pfizer and royalty payments.
it receives milestone payments and royalties Wyeth Research at a higher level.
For those programmes Xoma which it funds to product launch, it receives higher royalties, sales milestones and Progress with regard to CATs product an option to co-promote these products library licensees during the year is in the US.
covered in detail in the Product Candidate Pipeline section, on page 17.
CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 07 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW ii Patent licensing CAT lacks experience in the area Other companies may develop CAT has licensed its Phage Display of oncology.
This is compounded by products that are superior to those patents to a number of companies a lack of available predictive modelling which CAT develops.
in return for an upfront fee, milestone techniques.
This is a risk for any biopharmaceutical payments as product candidates progress This has been, and continues to company.
Some of the measures which through clinical development, and royalties be, addressed in a number of ways, CAT has put in place to mitigate this on any future product sales.
which include: risk include: CAT has worked on multiple Striving to ensure that CATs therapeutic Patent licences have been granted to: programmes in the field of oncology, focus is in areas of significant unmet Affimed Therapeutics, BioInvent including HGS-ETR1 and HGS-ETR2, medical need where it is likely that CATs International, Crucell, Dyax Corporation, which are already in clinical technology and expertise will result Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Micromet, development.
in drugs which significantly improve MorphoSys, and Symphogen.
CAT already has staff expert in on current therapeutic solutions.
this area and believes that competitive Committing internal resources to There are four products in clinical advantages can be achieved.
Ten understanding the activities of other development that utilise CAT patents in experienced staff have recently organisations involved in the development this way and which CAT has an economic been hired.
of drugs that might compete with interest in the form of milestones and CAT intends to continue to add CATs candidates.
CAT also beneficially owns a experienced staff in oncology through 6.3% shareholding in MorphoSys that hiring and internal development.
If CAT fails to identify the right targets results from agreements reached in 2003. upon which to work, it may end up CAT may not have sufficient knowledge investing significant time and money What are the risks?
of the market to be able to determine into activities that do not translate There is significant competition in the whether or not its drugs will succeed into a commercial benefit.
The attrition rate in even if they do receive approval It is recognised that attrition is inevitable oncology therapeutics is particularly high.
in the development of drugs.
This risk CAT has undertaken a detailed review CAT has committed resources in order is mitigated to some extent by judicious to identify areas for specific therapeutic to develop an in-depth knowledge and thorough target selection processes, focus where a combination of unmet of the markets in which it is seeking and active portfolio management.
medical need and the Companys to operate and where necessary will technology and expertise are most likely use external expertise.
CAT may be ineffective at managing to give CAT a competitive advantage.
costs relating to the activities to which CAT endeavours to judiciously CAT may not have sufficient clinical it has contractually committed with select projects.
CAT has recently hired ten experienced CAT strives to ensure that detailed coststaff.
sharing arrangements and protections CAT may use external expertise and or are incorporated into all relevant take advantage of partners capabilities.
08 CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CAT strives to ensure that it has decisionCAT may fail adequately to manage its making powers in relation to major proprietary information in the context items of expenditure.
CAT sets detailed budgets for which CAT has committed resources to line management is accountable.
developing knowledge management CAT has committed internal resources systems and to educating its staff to monitoring costs and to ensuring that about issues of confidentiality.
they are comprehensively reported to CAT has established clear lines of senior management in a timely way.
responsibility for the management of information and relationships between CATs partners may change their own CAT and its partners.
strategic direction and or cease to exist.
CAT strives to ensure that it has This risk exists in any collaboration comprehensive contractual provisions with another company.
However, CAT in place to protect its commercially strives to maintain good relationships valuable information.
CAT is working to build a diversified CATs financial performance is reliant portfolio.
to a significant extent on the revenues it receives from a small number of CAT may not identify partners with companies.
In the event that payments whom to collaborate on projects.
of these revenues were to cease, CATs The high degree of shared commitment business could be materially harmed.
and capability may result in failure to Over time, successful product development achieve the collaborations objectives.
may result in a more diversified portfolio.
There are a number of measures that CAT has adopted in relation to this.
These include: Ensuring that CAT has clarity about what it seeks from the relationship with a potential collaborator and how any alliance will advance its own strategic objectives.
Detailed due diligence on potential partners.
Committing significant resources to the active management of relationships with partners and joint determination of objectives for projects.
Striving to ensure that joint decision making structures vesting shared control of the relationship between CAT and the partner are in place.
CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 09
