OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITIES 11 CATs libraries contain more than 10 CAPABILITY TO DISCOVER AND DEVELOP distinct antibody fragments expressed DRUGS IN R&I AND ONCOLOGY in vitro.
CATs Phage Display technique exploits a biological characteristic of LEADERSHIP IN DISPLAY TECHNOLOGY phage that allows the expression of foreign proteins on their surface in CATs case antibody fragments.
Antibodies displayed in this way retain their ability MAXIMISE VALUE FROM COLLABORATIONS LICENSEES to interact normally with other molecules and CATs controlled selection process DISCOVERY AND can identify hundreds to thousands of DEVELOPMENT different potential drug candidates to each target protein.
From these, CAT has the Discovery capabilities to development candidate antibodies create a human monoclonal antibody with specific characteristics are selected.
therapeutic with the desired characteristics including target selectivity, cross reactivity, Ribosome Display involves the use binding affinity and potency, efficacy, of ribosomes, the molecular complex mechanism of action, manufacturability responsible for protein synthesis within and formulation, and route of cells, to display functional proteins.
CATs Discovery technique can be even more powerful organisation has the capability to design, than Phage Display, and allows for the isolate and characterise distinct human 13 creation of larger libraries of up to 10 antibody therapeutics with superior or more variants of each candidate performance characteristics for the antibody, which can then be selected treatment of important diseases.
using more stringent product criteria.
Its amenability to automation, together CATs core Discovery capabilities are: with the larger antibody libraries, means that Ribosome Display has the prospect Target generation and quality control of becoming an increasingly important, Antibody isolation independent tool in the advancement High throughput screening of protein therapeutics.
Mode of action expertise High capacity DNA sequence analysis CATs technologies provide the Company Antibody expression and conversion with key advantages in terms of speed, Lead optimisation capacity and the potential for further Biology optimisation of antibody candidates.
The power of these technologies is harnessed CATs core technologies remain vital by CATs expert scientists, and is validated, to the Companys progress as a productfor example, by HUMIRAs success and based biopharmaceutical business.
CATs by the number of additional CAT-derived staff have many years of experience and antibody candidates in clinical trials.
the know-how needed to get the best from CATs technologies.
12 CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CAT has established substantial expertise INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY in the early development of antibody CAT pioneered both the application therapeutics, including a high quality team of Phage Display and Ribosome Display of Clinical Development professionals.
technology for the design and CAT has recently enhanced this team development of human monoclonal by hiring the development team who had antibody therapeutics and this is reflected previously been working on the recently in the breadth of the Companys patent acquired oncology candidates in the US.
portfolio approximately 40 families of patents, covering both technologies CATs core development competencies and products the protection of which include: is paramount to CAT.
Biopharmaceutical production in-house What are the risks?
manufacturing process development, CAT may not be able to secure the primary manufacture, formulation necessary intellectual property rights and secondary manufacture in relation to developments in its Bioanalytical assay development technology and around targets that Product characterisation may inhibit CAT drug development.
Quality Control CAT endeavours to file patents Regulatory affairs and to monitor the intellectual Clinical trial management property environment.
Systems for ensuring that laboratory CAT strives to maintain its leading notebooks are kept up to date position in its core technologies and key and are stored in a secure off-site scientific areas.
It is possible that antibody technologies may become commoditised and or superseded.
CAT is seeking to develop value as a result of developing a successful portfolio of drug candidates rather than relying solely on its technology assets.
CAT is also investing in technology improvements.
CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 13
