Board of Directors 1 23 4 5 6 78 9 10 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 1.
Pawan Pandya Chief Operating Officer Age 66 Age 41 Jonathan Perry joined the Group as a non-executive Pawan Pandya joined the Group in December 1988. director in June 1991 and was appointed Chairman in He was appointed as Chief Operating Officer in July 2002, January 1992.
He is a Chartered Accountant and between responsible for all operational and IT areas of the Group.
1997 and 1999 he was Vice-Chairman, Investment Banking Prior to joining Paragon, he worked in foreign exchange, Division, HSBC Investment Bank plc.
Previously he was a credit risk management, marketing and corporate finance.
Director of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited for 15 years.
Nigel S Terrington Chief Executive Age 64 Age 45 David Beever joined Paragon as a non-executive director Nigel Terrington joined the Group in 1987 and became in August 2003.
He is Chairman of KPMG Corporate Chief Executive in June 1995, having held the positions Finance, Vice-Chairman of London & Continental Railways of Treasurer and Finance Director.
Prior to Paragon, Ltd and a non-executive director of JJB Sports plc and he worked in investment banking.
He is a Board member Volex Group plc.
He was previously a Vice-Chairman of of the Finance and Leasing Association and is also SG Warburg & Co Ltd.
He is the Senior Independent Vice-Chairman of the FLA Consumer Finance division.
He previously held the position of Chairman of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association and was also 7.
Robert G Dench Non-Executive Director a member of the Executive Committee of the Council of Age 55 Mortgage Lenders.
Robert Dench joined Paragon as a non-executive director in September 2004.
He previously held various senior 3.
Nicholas Keen Finance Director positions with Barclays, where, following a number of Age 47 overseas appointments, he returned to the UK and served Nicholas Keen joined the Group in May 1991 and became on the boards of Barclays Retail Financial Services and Finance Director in June 1995 having previously held the Private Client businesses.
He is also a non-executive position of Treasurer.
Prior to joining the Group he worked director of AXA UK plc and of Clipper Ventures plc.
in Corporate Banking, Treasury and Capital Markets.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Credit Committee.
Gavin A F Lickley Non-Executive Director Age 59 4.
John A Heron Director of Mortgages Gavin Lickley joined Paragon as a non-executive director Age 46 in October 2002.
He retired from the Board of the John Heron joined the Group in January 1986.
He was Investment Banking Division of Deutsche Bank AG in April appointed as Marketing Director in 1990 and in 1994 2000, having previously been Head of the Banking Division played a pivotal role in re-establishing the Groups and Chairman of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited.
He is a mortgage lending operations as Managing Director of Chartered Accountant and is Chairman of the Paragon Paragon Mortgages.
As Director of Mortgages, he is Remuneration Committee.
responsible for both Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers 9.
Christopher D Newell Non-Executive Director and a member of the Executive Committee of the Council Age 45 of Mortgage Lenders.
Christopher Newell has been a director of Altium Capital Limited since 1990.
He is also a director of Artemis Investment Management Limited.
He is a Chartered Accountant and joined the Board of Paragon as a nonexecutive director in November 2001.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Audit and Compliance Committee.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 11
