Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 7 Managers Report Market and Economic Review business has grown over the period, and he continues to believe that the Company will be The UKs benchmark FTSE All-Share Index rose able to further exploit both its dominant market 11.9% over the 12 months to the end of March.
position in the UK and its fast growing overseas The market performance was generally good, business, which now accounts for 50% of total but remained volatile.
Market sentiment was selling space.
dominated in particular by macro economic issues in the US and the direction and pace of In the electricity sector new holdings were interest rate movements.
purchased in Scottish Power and Scottish Southern Energy.
These companies are The performance of the UK economy was benefiting from a combination of falling powerrelatively strong again, with real GDP growth of generation costs allied with rising electricity 2.9% year-on-year in the fourth quarter of 2004. prices for consumers.
In addition, investors are This growth was driven by continued strength in currently being attracted to the sector because government spending and household of its ability to withstand a potential weakening consumption despite persistently high energy economic backdrop.
prices throughout the second half of the year.
However, the housing market and consumer The weightings in specialist insurers were also expenditure showed clear signs of slowing down increased over the review period as the current at the start of 2005 in reaction to interest rates benign insurance environment has meant that rising from 4.0% to 4.75% over the period.
these companies have been able to return more cash to shareholders, despite 2004 being the Portfolio Strategy and Review worst year for windstorms on record.
The other Over the review period to 31 March 2005, the significant addition to the Company was a diluted net asset value per share of the position in Reuters.
This is a business which is Company rose by 17.4%, outperforming the in the process of restructuring and this should FTSE All-Share Index, which increased by lead to a substantial one-off cash return to 11.9%.
Over the same period, the Companys shareholders as well as a more cash generative share price rose 16.9%.
The performance of the business going forward.
Company benefited from large holdings in Throughout the period, the manager increased utility companies notably the water stocks and the portfolios exposure to defensive large-cap the US tobacco companies.
Overall the market stocks like GlaxoSmithKline.
At the end of the continued to reward good stock selection.
period, 54.0% of the portfolio was held in Throughout the period, the manager maintained stocks with market capitalisations over the defensive focus of the portfolio due to 5 billion, while the top 15 holdings accounted concerns over imbalances in the UK and US for 45.1% of the portfolio.
The gearing of the economies, in particular the rising levels of Company has been maintained over the period, consumer and government debt.
Against this reflecting the managers level of conviction that backdrop, the portfolio is focused on valuation levels available in the current market companies with good dividend yields, earnings are attractive.
The Company The portfolio is now more concentrated with has low weightings in cyclicals and higher fewer holdings after the sale of the high yielding weightings in defensive sectors, most notably corporate bonds following strong performance.
Cash generative, strongly franchised companies The manager reduced exposure during the year are able to reward investors with good real to high street retailers as trading conditions dividend increases.
As a consequence, the became tougher selling a selection of holdings Company has enjoyed good growth of including Marks & Spencer, Dixons, Signet and investment income during the year.
In addition, the holding in pub company Mitchells & Butler and the remaining bank Outlook holding Lloyds TSB were sold.
The other major The factors that contributed to UK economic change in the consumer related areas of the growth may now begin to soften as interest market was to increase the weighting in Tesco.
rates have risen significantly and government The managers conviction in the strength of this expenditure is likely to be reined in after the 8 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Managers Report continued General Election.
Furthermore, the forthcoming re-assessment of council tax bands and upward pressure on utility bills will add further pressure to already stretched disposable incomes.
It is impossible to tell how imbalances currently facing global economies such as unsustainably high levels of consumer debt and a huge US trade deficit will unwind.
However, in such an environment we believe it is best to be cautious.
It could be that these issues dissipate over a prolonged period of time in a benign way, but any exogenous shock to global economies could have severe implications.
A key factor is how US consumption growth will slow.
If it does slow in a dramatic fashion it could lead to investors searching for safe havens in equity and bond markets, and we believe high-yielding, cash-resilient utilities and tobacco businesses will do well in such an environment.
Although corporate profitability is currently very good and balance sheets are healthy in the US and UK, company profits growth will become more difficult to achieve against a slowing economic backdrop.
Nevertheless, despite this bleaker backdrop, the manager believes that there remain a large number of stocks with cheap valuations and businesses with the characteristics to sustain and grow dividends over the medium term.
These are the kind of companies which the manager is seeking to identify for investment.
It remains his belief that by picking companies with the ability to sustain dividend growth, he will be able to maximise returns for the portfolio.
Mark Barnett Fund Manager 14 June 2005
