58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:55 pm Page 4 How we choose a new country CHOOSING FROM ALL THE COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD POSSIBLE TARGETS 192 Home credit does particularly SHORTLIST FOR DETAILED RESEARCH well in emerging markets where consumer demand is growing.
60 In many cases, people have traditionally had to borrow from For the 60 or so remaining family or friends or deal with countries, we assess potential state-owned institutions or banks according to these criteria: geared to the wealthy.
8 Legislation Home credit is a simple, clear Having ranked the possible Is it broadly supportive?
and easily understood product targets, we shortlist the best Are there regulations that could with a friendly, exible service eight opportunities for detailed that is especially welcome in make lending difficult?
The rule of law Desk research The number of suitable new Could agents operate safely?
Looking at published information markets has grown in recent Would corruption be a problem?
years with increasing globalisation, Are property rights protected?
the fall of Communism and a greater emphasis on prudent economic Research within the country Funding management by more governments.
Making contacts, taking legal, Is it possible to fund in local There is a range of countries tax and accounting advice, currency?
available to keep us growing in evaluating the availability the future.
and cost of suitably qualied Population size and income levels employees, carrying out Is the market large enough Of the 192 countries in the world, qualitative research with to represent a worthwhile we eliminate those with a potential customers, assessing opportunity?
population of under eight million.
the size of the market and Could customers afford to borrow Anything less is unlikely to provide whether the business model enough to give us sufficient a large enough target market at will work.
this stage of our development.
The national economy Are the trends in GDP growth and interest rates favourable and is the economy sufciently stable?
Political conditions Is the country politically stable?
04 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:55 pm Page 5 WHERE NEXT ?
The process of choosing new countries is continuous.
We have a list of countries that we believe are potentially suitable for home credit and which, in due course, PILOT OPERATIONS we may test with a pilot operation.
The rate at which we enter new countries is partly determined by the supply of experienced, FULL SCALE LAUNCH senior management able to establish successful operations in new countries.
As we expand our 1or2 international operations, the pool of developing management talent The most promising one or two able to take on this challenge is candidate countries that emerge growing.
Our aim is to develop from the detailed research will a new territory or country at least 1 progress to a pilot operation.
If the findings from the pilot We launch in a single location and are positive, the next step is to test the demand for the product, roll the business out across all agent expertise, customer or part of the country.
repayment patterns, our ability to recruit and train suitable local Concentrating on urban areas, employees, and ultimately the we open more branches, increase potential of the business to grow the number of agents who in and make a profit.
turn recruit more customers, step up our advertising and employ and train a quality workforce.
As customer numbers grow, we progress from small, initial loans to larger ones.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 05
