Board of directors Chairman Executive directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1.
Sir David Clementi MA FCA MBA 3.
Mark Norbom Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Group Finance Director.
Aged 57 Philip Broadley has been an executive director of Mark Norbom has been an executive director Sir David Clementi has been Chairman of Prudential Prudential and Group Finance Director since May of Prudential and Chief Executive, Prudential since 1 December 2002.
In May 2005 he was appointed as a nonCorporation Asia since January 2004.
Previously, appointed as President of the Investment Property executive director of Egg plc, which delisted on he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Forum.
In October 2003, he joined the FSAs 20 February 2006.
He is currently Chairman of the General Electric Japan, and a company officer of Financial Capability Steering Group, and in July 100 Group of Finance Directors and a member of General Electric Company.
He has spent 23 years 2003 he was appointed by the Secretary of State the Insurance Advisory Group of the International with General Electric in various posts in the United for Constitutional Affairs to carry out a review of Accounting Standards Board.
He is also President of States, Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand and Japan.
the regulation of legal services in England and the Przezornosc Charitable Foundation, which has 7.
Nick Prettejohn Wales, which was completed in December 2004. been established in Poland in recognition of former Executive director.
Aged 45 In February 2003 he joined the Financial Reporting policyholders with whom the Company lost contact.
Nick Prettejohn has been an executive director Council.
In addition, Sir David is a non-executive Previously, he was with the UK firm of Arthur of Prudential and Chief Executive, Prudential UK & director of Rio Tinto plc, which he joined on Andersen, where he became a partner in 1993.
He is also a member 28 January 2003.
Clark Manning FSA MAAA of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel.
2002 he was Deputy Governor of the Bank of Executive director.
Aged 47 Previously, he was Chief Executive of Lloyds England.
During this time he served as a member Clark Manning has been an executive director of of London from July 1999 until December 2005. of the Monetary Policy Committee and as a nonPrudential since January 2002.
He is also President He joined the Corporation of Lloyds in 1995 as executive director of the Financial Services and Chief Executive Officer of Jackson National Head of Strategy, and played a key role in the Authority.
From 1975 to August 1997 he worked Life.
He was previously Chief Operating Officer, Reconstruction and Renewal process, which for the Kleinwort Benson Group, latterly as Chief Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary of Jackson reorganised Lloyds after the losses of the late Executive.
National Life, which he joined in 1995.
Prior to that, 1980s and early 1990s.
Mark Tucker ACA he was Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary completion of the reorganisation in 1996 he Group Chief Executive.
Aged 48 for SunAmerica Inc, and prior to that Consulting became Managing Director of Lloyds Business Mark Tucker was re-appointed as an executive Actuary at Milliman & Robertson Inc.
He has more Development Unit and in 1998 he also assumed director on 6 May 2005, on which date he also than 20 years experience in the life insurance responsibility for Lloyds North America business became Group Chief Executive.
From May 2004 industry, and holds both a bachelors degree in unit.
Prior to his appointment to Lloyds he was to March 2005 he was Group Finance Director, actuarial science and an MBA from the University responsible for corporate strategy at National HBOS plc and director of Halifax plc.
He also holds professional designations of Freight Corporation plc, and prior to that he was he was an executive director of Prudential from Fellow of the Society of Actuaries FSA and Member a partner at management consultants Bain and Co 1999 to 2003, and from 1993 to 2003 he was Chief of the American Academy of Actuaries MAAA.
and a director of private equity company Apax Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia, and also Partners.
He is also a board member of the Royal 5.
Michael McLintock held senior positions in Prudentials businesses in Opera House.
He first joined Prudential in 1986, Michael McLintock has been an executive director having previously been a tax consultant at of Prudential since September 2000.
He is also PriceWaterhouse UK in London.
Chief Executive of M&G, a position he held at the time of M&Gs acquisition by Prudential in March 1999.
He is also a non-executive director of Close Brothers Group plc.
36 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 Non-executive directors 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 8.
Keki Dadiseth FCA and was appointed Chairman of the Evian Group of the Audit Committees of EMI Group plc and Independent non-executive director and member of in 2001, a think tank and forum for dialogue Great Portland Estates PLC.
She is also Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He also serves as a nonthe Invensys Pension Scheme.
Previously, she was a Keki Dadiseth has been an independent nonexecutive director on the Boards of the Bobst non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit executive director of Prudential since April 2005.
Group Switzerland and Hasbro Inc. in the USA.
Committee of the Court of the Bank of England, He is a member of the International Advisory and a non-executive director of O plc.
Bridget Macaskill Boards of Marsh & McLennan Companies Inc. and she was Chief Financial Officer of BTR and Invensys, Independent non-executive director and DaimlerChrysler Benz.
He is also an International and before that she was a partner at Ernst & Young.
member of the Remuneration and Nomination Advisor to Goldman Sachs.
In 2005 he was appointed Committees.
James Ross to the Board of Nicholas Piramal India Limited and Bridget Macaskill has been an independent nonIndependent non-executive director and member Siemens Limited in India, and he is a director of executive director of Prudential since September of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Aged 67 The Indian Hotels Company Limited and the Indian 2003.
She rejoined the Board of Prudential having James Ross has been an independent non-executive School of Business.
Before he retired from Unilever previously resigned due to a potential conflict of director since May 2004.
He holds non-executive in May 2005, he was Director, Home and Personal interest in March 2001.
She is a non-executive directorships with McGraw Hill and Datacard in the Care, responsible for the HPC business of Unilever director of J Sainsbury Plc and the Federal National United States and Schneider Electric in France.
He worldwide, a Board member of Unilever PLC and Mortgage Association Fannie Mae.
She was is also Chairman of the Leadership Foundation for Unilever N. V. and a member of the Executive previously Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Higher Education.
He was previously Chairman of Committee.
He joined Hindustan Lever Ltd in India OppenheimerFunds Inc, a major New York based National Grid plc and Littlewoods plc.
He was also in 1973. investment management company.
Chief Executive of Cable and Wireless plc and 9.
Michael Garrett Chairman and Chief Executive of BP America Inc. 11.
Roberto Mendoza Independent non-executive director and member and a Managing Director of the British Petroleum Independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Aged 60 Michael Garrett has been an independent nonRoberto Mendoza has been an independent non- 14.
Rob Rowley FCMA executive director of Prudential since September executive director of Prudential since May 2000.
He worked for Nestl from 1961, becoming He was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee and member Head of Japan 1990-1993, and then Zone Director Committee in July 2002.
He is also Chairman of of the Nomination Committee.
Aged 56 and Member of the Executive Board, responsible Integrated Finance Limited, and he was the nonRob Rowley has been an independent nonfor Asia and Oceania, and in 1996 his responsibilities executive Chairman of Egg plc, which delisted executive director of Prudential since July 1999.
He were expanded to include Africa and the Middle on 20 February 2006.
Previously, he was Vice was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee East.
He retired as Executive Vice President of Chairman and director of JP Morgan & Co. Inc. a in June 2000 and as Senior Independent Director of Nestl in April 2005.
In addition, he served the non-executive director of Reuters Group PLC and Prudential in December 2003.
He is also executive Government of Australia as Chairman of the Food The BOC Group plc, and a managing director of Deputy Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc and a Industry Council and as a Member of the Industry Goldman Sachs.
non-executive director of Liberty International plc.
Council of Australia, and was also member of the Until the end of 2005, he was also a non-executive Advisory Committee for an APEC Asia-Pacific 12.
Kathleen ODonovan ACA director of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
He retired as a Economic Cooperation Food System, a Member of Independent non-executive director and member director of Reuters Group PLC in December 2001, The Turkish Prime Ministers Advisory Group and of the Audit Committee.
Aged 48 where he was Finance Director from 1990 to 2000. the WTO World Trade Organization Business Kathleen ODonovan has been an independent Advisory Council in Switzerland.
He remains a non-executive director of Prudential since May director of Nestl companies in India and Japan, 2003.
She is a non-executive director and Chairman Ages as at 15 March 2006 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 37
