com Report and accounts 2005 Page 14 Directors Executive directors Ian Buckley Ian Buckley, aged 55, is chief executive of the Mark Powell Groups trust division and chairman of the Mark Powell, aged 60, is the executive chairman Groups IT Steering Committee.
He qualified as a with principal responsibility for the strategy of the chartered accountant with Peat, Marwick, Group.
He has been involved in investment Mitchell & Co. now KPMG in 1975.
He was management for private clients throughout his chief executive of Smith & Williamson for ten career.
From 1968 to 1989 he worked in what years from 1985 to 1995, and subsequently chief became Credit Lyonnais Securities and was chief executive of EFG Private Bank Limited and Tenon executive of CL-Alexanders Laing & Cruickshank Group Plc.
He was appointed to the Board in Holdings.
In 1989 he joined Laurence Keen as December 2001.
He is the senior independent chief executive and was appointed to the director of NXT Plc.
Rathbones Board as managing director of the Group following its acquisition in March 1995.
Paul Chavasse He was appointed as chairman in May 2003.
He Paul Chavasse, aged 41, is the chief operating is chairman of the Association of Private Client officer responsible for the Groups investment Investment Managers & Stockbrokers APCIMS operations and IT infrastructure.
He started his and a member of the Takeover Panel.
He is also career working for the institutional fund non-executive chairman of SVM Active Fund Plc.
management arm of NatWest, which was later merged with Gartmore.
After a period in the Andy Pomfret private client businesses of NatWest and Coutts, Andy Pomfret, aged 45, is the chief executive.
He his final role before joining the Group in 2001 was is chairman of the Executive Committee which as head of NatWest Portfolio Management in manages the day-to-day affairs of the Group.
He was appointed to the Board in qualified as a chartered accountant with Peat, September 2001.
Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG.
Prior to joining Rathbones in July 1999, he spent over 13 Paul Egerton-Vernon years with Kleinwort Benson now Dresdner Paul Egerton-Vernon, aged 60, was chairman of Kleinwort Wasserstein as a corporate financier, the trust division until his retirement from the venture capitalist and latterly finance director of Board on 31 December 2005.
He qualified as an the investment management and private banking English solicitor and worked at a leading US law division.
He was appointed to the Board in August firm in Brussels and a major City law firm.
He 1999 and became chief executive in October 2004. was a senior partner of Nigel Harris & Partners, He is also a non-executive director of Beazley Jersey, which was acquired by Rathbones in 2000 Group plc.
and was appointed to the Board in December 2001.
In addition to his many years of practical Sue Desborough experience in international fiscal and estate Sue Desborough, aged 45, is finance director.
She planning, Paul frequently chairs conferences and joined Rathbones as group financial controller in seminars on offshore matters and EU law.
He was 2000 and became finance director in October for many years the International Editor of The 2004.
Between 1987 and 2000 she worked for Law Society Gazette and is currently editor of the Kleinwort Benson Private Bank where she was Use of Offshore Jurisdictions published by latterly head of financial and regulatory reporting, FT Law.
a role which included a diverse range of projects including M&A and new product development.
She qualified as a chartered accountant in 1984 with Deloitte Haskins & Sells.
She is chairman of the Groups Business Continuity Committee.
members of the Executive Committee Rathbone Brothers Plc www.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 15 From left to right: Andy Pomfret, Mark Powell Paul Egerton-Vernon, Andrew Morris, Peter Pearson Lund Richard Lanyon, Paul Chavasse, Sue Desborough James Barclay, Giles Coode-Adams, Jamie Cayzer-Colvin James Lifford, Ian Buckley, Richard Smeeton Richard Lanyon Richard Smeeton Richard Lanyon, aged 54, is the director Richard Smeeton, aged 41, has, as his principal responsible for Rathbones investment responsibility, the management of the Groups management business.
He has spent his entire investment management business in London.
career in private client investment management.
He also manages a large number of client Initially with Laurence Prust, he moved to portfolios and chairs the Groups Alternative Framlington Group Plc in 1986 where he was the Assets Committee.
He joined Laurence Keen in board member responsible for pension funds.
1988 having been a graduate trainee with County Richard joined the Group in 1992 to concentrate Bank.
He was appointed to the Board in on private client discretionary investment November 2000. management and was appointed to the Board in March 1996.
Non-executive directors Giles Coode-Adams James Lifford Giles Coode-Adams, aged 67, has over 40 years James Lifford, aged 57, is the director in charge of experience in the City.
In 1966 he became a the regional investment management offices and partner in L. Messel & Co. which from 1986 was manages the investments of a significant portfolio part of Lehman Brothers.
He became a managing of clients from the Winchester office.
He has director of Lehman Brothers in 1987 and has worked for Rathbones and predecessor companies advised a number of leading UK and US for nearly thirty years, and during that period has companies.
Additionally, from 1991 to 1997 he been responsible for developing the regional office was chief executive of the Royal Botanic Gardens, network.
He was appointed to the Board in Kew Foundation.
He is also a director of September 1996 and is chairman of the Groups Guardian Media Group plc.
He joined the Board Social and Environmental Committee.
in June 1999 and is the senior independent director and chairman of the Audit Committee.
Andrew Morris Andrew Morris, aged 41, is the director James Barclay responsible for Rathbones investment James Barclay, aged 60, has many years management business in Liverpool and also experience in the financial services and banking manages client portfolios.
He has spent his entire sector.
As chairman and chief executive of Cater working career at Rathbones in private client Allen Holdings Plc, he was responsible for creating investment management and was appointed to the a market leader that was ultimately sold to Abbey Board in November 2000.
He is chairman of the National in 1998.
Currently, he is non-executive Groups Training and Competence Committee and chairman of M&G Equity Investment Trust PLC is the director responsible for marketing.
Agnews and Sons Limited, a leading West End international art dealer.
In Peter Pearson Lund 2000 he was appointed as an adviser to the UK Peter Pearson-Lund, aged 58, was appointed to the Debt Management Office and was chairman of its Board on 5 January 2005.
He is chief executive of audit committee for four years.
He was appointed Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited.
Before to the Board in November 2003 and is considered joining Rathbones, Peter worked for Gartmore for to be independent.
14 years where he was a group director and managing director of Gartmore Fund Managers, the unit trust division.
Peter joined Rathbones in 1999 when the company decided to develop its unit trust activities and promote them externally.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 16 From left to right: Mark Robertshaw and Oliver Corbett Caroline Burton, Roy Morris Caroline Burton Roy Morris Caroline Burton, aged 56, is a highly experienced Roy Morris, aged 64, was chief executive from figure within the asset management industry.
She 1997 until his retirement from this role in October spent 26 years with Guardian Royal Exchange Plc 2004.
He remains a non-executive director but is where she was executive director in charge of not considered to be independent and does not sit investments from 1990 until 1999.
She was also a on Board Committees.
He is a Deputy Lieutenant director of The Scottish Metropolitan Property Plc of Merseyside and is chairman of the Mersey until June 2000.
Currently, she is a member of the Partnership.
He is also a non-executive director of service authority for the National Crime Squad Albany Investment Trust Plc and of the Liverpool and National Criminal Intelligence Service.
Culture Company Ltd. She is a non-executive director of TR Property Investment Trust Plc.
She was appointed to the Mark Robertshaw Board in November 2003 and is considered to be Mark Robertshaw, aged 37, is currently chief independent.
She is chairman of the Remuneration financial officer of The Morgan Crucible Committee.
Company plc and, as announced on 20 February 2006, is due to become chief executive later in Jamie Cayzer-Colvin the year.
Prior to joining Morgan Crucible in 2004 Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, aged 40, is a director of he was chief financial officer of Gartmore Caledonia Investments plc, Polar Capital Partners Investment Management Plc for four years.
Holdings Plc and India Capital Growth Fund Ltd.
He previously worked for the NatWest Group and After leaving the Army, he worked for Whitbread also spent nine years as a management consultant and GEC before joining Caledonia in 1995. with Marakon Associates.
He was appointed to He initially worked at Ambersil, an international the Board on 7 March 2006 and is considered to speciality chemicals subsidiary, before transferring be independent.
to Caledonias head office in 1999.
He was appointed to the Board in May 2002.
Whilst Jamie is a director of a major shareholder, Caledonia Investments plc, he is not their appointed representative on the Board and is therefore considered to be independent.
In reaching this conclusion, the Board relied on the terms of his original appointment as a nonexecutive and his conduct in, and contribution to, Board meetings.
Oliver Corbett Oliver Corbett, aged 41 is group finance director of SVB Holdings PLC.
He is a chartered accountant and worked for SG Warburg, Phoenix Securities later Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, where he was managing director, emerging companies, before joining SVB in October 2003.
He was appointed to the Board on 7 March 2006 and is considered to be independent.
