com Report and accounts 2005 Page 27 Corporate governance In relation to compliance with the Combined Code this report together with the Directors Report states the position at 7 March 2006.
The Combined Code compliance statement The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code was issued in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and applies for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The directors believe the company was in compliance with Section 1 of the Code with the following two exceptions: Composition of the Board Following two appointments to the Board on 7 March 2006, the Board now has seventeen directors of which six 35% are independent non-executive directors.
This is a positive re-balancing of the Board towards the Code requirement for FTSE 350 companies that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
It is the policy of the company to promote to the Board senior practitioners from within the operating subsidiaries.
This does result in a sizeable number of executive directors, making the achievement of the Code target difficult.
Independence of the chairman on appointment The chairman did not, on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in the Code since he had been an employee and executive director of the company since 1995.
The Board Board meetings The Board meets a minimum of seven times per annum with one meeting devoted entirely to strategic issues.
In months where no formal board meeting is scheduled, an informal meeting of the non-executive directors and the chairman and chief executive is held.
The non-executive directors have regular, informal meetings without the chairman or chief executive present.
Board membership The Board currently consists of an executive chairman, nine other executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
The roles of chairman, Mark Powell, and chief executive, Andy Pomfret, are separated and are clearly defined in writing and agreed by the Board.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board and the chief executive for the running of the business and implementation of Board strategy and policy.
The Board considers that six of the seven non-executive directors are independent, the exception being Roy Morris who became non-executive on his retirement as chief executive on 1 October 2004.
Whilst Jamie Cayzer-Colvin is a director of a major shareholder, Caledonia Investments plc, he is not their appointed representative on the Board and is therefore considered to be independent.
In reaching this conclusion, the Board relied on the terms of his original appointment as a non-executive and his conduct in, and contribution to, Board meetings.
The non-executive directors participate fully with their executive colleagues in Board meetings and have access to any information they need to perform their duties.
They bring an independent judgement to bear on Group policies and strategies as well as management actions and performance, including resourcing and standards of conduct.
The senior independent non-executive director is Giles Coode-Adams.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its attention, which covers key areas of the Groups business.
These include determination of the Groups aims and the strategy to be adopted in achieving those aims, reviews of budgets and financial statements, company acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure and the review of decisions taken by the Boards of subsidiary companies.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 28 Corporate governance continued Board performance The Board carries out an appraisal of its operation and performance as a whole on an annual basis.
In 2005, feedback was obtained from directors by means of a questionnaire.
The results were summarised and discussed by the full Board.
Issues covered include board composition, balance of skills, board management, communication and personal development.
Individual appraisal of each directors performance is undertaken by the chairman each year and involves meetings with each director on a one-to one basis.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
Board training The Groups overall objective is to maintain and enhance professional standards for all its employees who have client responsibilities or those in a management capacity.
It is also necessary to maintain these standards for all staff who fall under the scope of the Financial Services Authority Training and Competence rules.
All directors and staff under the scope of these rules are required to perform a certain number of hours of development training during a year.
This development training is divided into structured and unstructured time.
New directors are given an induction process, which includes meetings with senior management and other staff together with visits to Group offices as appropriate.
Board Committees The four principal Board Committees are the Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive Committee subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the full Board.
The other Board Committees have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
These are available on request from the Companys registered office and on the Company website.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the chief executive, Andy Pomfret and comprises Ian Buckley, Paul Chavasse, Sue Desborough, Richard Lanyon, Viscount Lifford and Mark Powell.
Paul Egerton-Vernon served on the Committee until his retirement on 31 December 2005.
The purpose of the Executive Committee is to monitor every aspect of the Group businesses on a continuing basis and to analyse and plan all business proposals in detail for submission to and consideration by the Board.
The Executive Committee meets monthly and more frequently when required.
Audit Committee Members of the Audit Committee are Giles Coode-Adams chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton and Jamie Cayzer-Colvin who served on the Committee throughout 2005.
With effect from 7 March 2006, Oliver Corbett and Mark Robertshaw will join the Committee.
It reviews the adequacy of the accounting systems and financial control of the Group, the interim and full year financial statements and the Groups accounting policies.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
This is achieved primarily by a review of the work of the Group internal audit department, review of reports produced by the compliance functions, reviews of the half-year and annual financial statements, review of the scope and findings of the annual external audit and periodic reviews with senior management.
The Group internal audit department reviews Group operations on a continuing basis and the frequency of the reviews is determined by an internal risk based audit programme which is approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also regularly reviews the resources and authority of the Group internal audit department.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing external audit arrangements and for any recommendation to the Board regarding the rotation of audit partner or change of audit firm.
This review includes consideration of the external auditors period in office, their compensation and the scope, quality, and cost-effectiveness of their work.
Whilst the Committee are very satisfied with the effectiveness of the current external auditors, they have asked that a review be undertaken which will be completed prior to the start of the 2006 audit.
KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as auditor in May 1999 and it is the Committees view that whilst fixed term rotation of audit firms is not desirable, audit arrangements should be put out to tender every five to ten years.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 29 The Audit Committee reviews the independence and the nature of non-audit services supplied and non-audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
Prior approval by the Audit Committee is required where the fee for an individual non-audit service is anticipated to exceed 25,000.
Fees for non-audit services paid to the auditors should not, in aggregate, exceed 50% of the audit fee in any year without prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee recognises that, given their knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in using the auditors to provide certain non-audit services.
The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the auditors has not been impaired by providing these services.
Details of the auditors fees are shown in note 8 on page 57.
On invitation, the finance director, other executive directors, compliance officers, the head of internal audit and the external auditors attend meetings to assist the Committee to fulfil its duties.
The Committee can access independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
Remuneration Committee Members of the Remuneration Committee are Caroline Burton chairman, James Barclay, Jamie Cayzer-Colvin and Giles Coode-Adams.
Full details of its role are set out in the Report on directors remuneration.
Nomination Committee Members of the Nomination Committee are Mark Powell chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, Giles Coode-Adams and Andy Pomfret.
The Nomination Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment of directors: the Board as a whole decides upon any such appointment.
The Committee takes advice from specialists in the field of board recruitment.
An external search consultancy and or open advertising are used when recruiting new directors.
When considering possible candidates, the Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
All directors are required to seek election by the members at the AGM following their appointment, and re-election every three years.
A non-executive director is not appointed for a fixed term but would not normally serve as a director for more than nine years.
Other Board issues The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect of legal action against its directors.
Any director has access to the advice and services of the company secretary and may seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures and compliance with rules and regulations applicable to the Company.
Any removal or appointment of the company secretary is decided by the Board.
Board meeting and committee attendance in 2005 Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Plc Board Committee Committee Committee Committee J C Barclay 6 7 5 5 4 4 1 1 I M Buckley 7 7 12 12 C M Burton 7 7 5 5 4 4 1 1 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 6 7 4 5 3 4 0 1 P D G Chavasse 4 7 11 12 J G S Coode-Adams 7 7 5 5 3 4 1 1 S M Desborough 7 7 12 12 M P Egerton-Vernon 7 7 12 12 R P Lanyon 7 7 12 12 Viscount Lifford 6 7 12 12 A T Morris 7 7 R A Morris 7 7 P G Pearson Lund 7 7 A D Pomfret 6 7 12 12 1 1 G M Powell 7 7 10 12 1 1 R I Smeeton 5 7 Scheduled bi-monthly meeting Scheduled monthly meeting Rathbone Brothers Plc www.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 30 Corporate governance continued Shareholder relations The Company is committed to ensuring that there is effective communication with all shareholders.
All regulatory news announcements, press releases and financial reports are available on the Company website.
Following the publication of the interim and full year results, presentations are given to major shareholders, fund managers, analysts and employees.
The presentation packs used and any web-cast are also on the website.
Meetings with major shareholders provide an opportunity to discuss governance and strategy issues and provide an opportunity to introduce other directors.
Non executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend these meetings.
Feedback from these meetings is reported to the Board.
At least 20 business days notice of the AGM is given to allow time for proper consideration of the resolutions by shareholders.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate issue.
Every effort is made to ensure that all Board members, and in particular committee chairmen, are at the meeting.
The Board welcomes questions and comments from shareholders.
Votes are taken on a show of hands unless a poll is requested and full details of proxy voting figures are disclosed after the vote and on the website.
Internal control The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The chairman ensures that the Board members receive sufficient and timely information regarding corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their duties and canvasses the views of non-executive directors upon the adequacy of the management information.
The Risk Management Committee reports to the Board and comprises members of the Executive Committee together with the Group heads of compliance and internal audit.
This committee is an important element in the Groups overall control system and undertakes a full review of risk within the Group.
It reports on a regular basis to the Board both on the identification of risks and the steps being taken to control or mitigate such risks.
Risk review procedures have been in place throughout the year and up to 7 March 2006.
The other key elements of the Groups overall control systems include: a formal structure of committees and subsidiary company boards where senior staff oversee the operation of the business on a regular basis: an annual budgeting, regular forecasting and monthly financial reporting system for all Group divisions, which enables trends to be evaluated and variances to be acted upon: a defined set of policies and procedures for treasury operations with limits set by the Banking Committee: a confidential reporting policy, which encourages employees to raise serious concerns about a colleagues or Group companys practice: the Audit Committee which, on the Boards behalf, examines the effectiveness of the systems of control as explained above.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control in existence in the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005, and has taken account of material developments since the year end.
This process meets the requirements of the Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance published in September 1999.
Going concern The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 31 Regulation Rathbone Investment Management Limited, Rathbone Stockbrokers Limited, and Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited are all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Rathbone Investment Management Limited is registered as an investment adviser with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Rathbone Trust Company Jersey Limited and its subsidiary companies are regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission, as is Rathbone Investment Management C. I.
Rathbone Insurance Limited, which was incorporated on 3 January 2006 in Guernsey, is regulated by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Rathbone Bank BVI Limited is regulated by the BVI Financial Services Commission.
Rathbones Anguilla Limited is regulated by the Anguilla Financial Services Commission.
Rathbone Stockbrokers Limited is a member firm of the London Stock Exchange.
Rathbone Trust Company SA is a member firm of the Association Romande des Intermdiaries Financiers.
The Board together with the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee have implemented systems and procedures to achieve adherence with the statutes and regulations relevant to each of the Group companies.
Model Code The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend The Model Code provisions to all employees of the Group and persons connected with them.
