10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 24 24 24 Capita Capita Business review Divisional information We report the financial performance of the 5 operating We now operate Capita through 7 divisions, divisions, additionally reporting the Business Services comprising 5 operating divisions and 2 support Division as two operating business segments resourcing divisions being major sales & marketing and property consultancy.
As a As a constantly evolving company working across consequence of this and the requirement to diverse markets, we regularly refresh our structure to comply with the new International Financial meet the needs of the business.
We move businesses Reporting Standards, we are now providing and managers across the divisions to ensure that each shareholders with increased detail regarding operation and contract, as they develop, is matched with the most relevant leadership and resources.
the performance of individual parts of Capitas business in the accounts.
p p p Integrated Services Corporate Services Commercial Services Life & pensions Major BPO contracts Insurance services Outsourced solutions Capita Hartshead Central government Specialist services services Financial services Teceris Local government HR services Legal services services Occupational health Strategic childrens services services Contact centres Administration services Travel administration Offshore p p Professional Services Business Services Resourcing IT services Veredus Advisory services Education resourcing Education & local government software Capita Symonds Learning & development 10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 25 25 25 Capita Capita Business review Our services p Integrated Services 2005 2004 Integrated Services contains Capitas major m m government related contracts which draw upon a range of skills from across the Group.
The division also Turnover third party sales 373.8 338.6 contains our businesses that provide administration, Operating profit 58.0 49.4 customer and strategic services to central and local Operating margin 15.5% 14.6% government and the education market.
Our offshore operations are also managed from this division.
p Development highlights in 2005: Transport for London additionally appointed Capita Capita Contact & Document Services continues to to set up and deliver the Western Extension of the smoothly deliver its core contracts with the London Congestion Charging Scheme with an Department of Work and Pensions DWP and our expected go-live date of February 2007. contract with DWP to run a range of key office services, originally signed in 1998, was extended to CRB Disclosure service launch of POVAFirst, a December 2006.
The business has expanded its bespoke service for the care industry.
This is the CRBs offering to additional clients across the public and first online application and issued over 300,000 private sector, with new business worth over 2.7m additional checks in the first year.
Micromedia, a specialist provider of TV Licensing together with the BBC and its other document management solutions was acquired, partners, we have significantly improved levels of enhancing our ability to deliver end-to-end document service, made payment easier and more efficient capture, online storage and retrieval services and and driven evasion down to an all time low of 5%.
EMA additional contract with the DfES to support Capita Strategic Education Services was relaunched the extension of the Education Maintenance as Capita Strategic Childrens Services in line with Allowance to unwaged trainees and apprentices the Governments Every Child Matters: Change for from its current scope of 16-19 year olds in further Children strategy.
This new statutory framework education.
represents an unprecedented transformation programme for local authorities.
We have developed Capita Local Government Services we have new products and services to support local continued to extend our capability to support local authorities in their drive to improve services for authorities through the introduction of new software children and young people and to implement change.
products, the application of ICT and increasing The business also had a particularly strong year utilisation of our shared service centres.
Our 6 local winning new business with existing and additional government shared services centres have continued clients valued at over 2m, including a number of to expand the number of clients and services new local authority clients.
For example, in 2005 our Coventry Centre supported 21 local authorities Capita Lonsdale Capita entered the corporate travel 2003: 8, collecting 15m council tax payments administration market through the acquisition of 2003: 8.5m and handling 1.6m customer calls Lonsdale Travel, one of the UK's leading independent 2003: 1.1m.
Our partnership with Blackburn with travel management companies.
Travel administration Darwen Borough Council continues to strengthen and costs are very significant across both the private and deliver measurable benefits.
The shared services public sectors and ripe for re-engineering.
centre established in Blackburn is operating well and Capita Offshore Services we have continued to we are now delivering Westminster City Councils invest in our 2 business centres in India.
Services now benefit service from the site.
We also renewed a delivered from our offshore operations include: back number of our key local government partnerships in office decision based processing, policy the year, such as our multi-service contracts with administration, claims, premium accounting, fund Mendip District Council and Bexley Council.
administration for life and pensions, book keeping, coding and finance processing and data validation and entry.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 26 26 26 Capita Capita Business review Our services p Corporate Services 2005 2004 All our businesses relating to financial services m m and life and pensions sit within our Corporate Services Division.
Capitas human resources and Turnover third party sales 240.4 189.8 payroll services are also managed within this Operating profit 44.8 35.0 operating division.
Operating margin 18.7% 18.4% p p ifsProShare Awards 2005 Development highlights in 2005: Capita Share Plan Services Capita Life & Pensions has experienced another The companys pre-eminent position in the UK recognised for excellence in strong year, delivering measurable benefits to third-party pensions administration market was employee share plan design and customers and further developing its core further strengthened through the acquisitions of communication with 3 clients offering, as well as pursuing new opportunities the FPS Group of Companies Limited and MHA picking up awards: easyjet, in the life and pensions arena.
Northern Rock plc and Appointed by Zurich to deliver business Capita Registrars and Financial Services The Capita Group Plc.
processing activities to support the continued experienced strong growth in 2005. growth of Zurichs UK Life operations.
Capita will Capita Registrars was appointed to manage focus on simplifying business processes and the share allocation and registers of half of accelerating technological performance to all company flotations in 2005 including achieve further service improvement, freeing p PartyGaming plc, the largest flotation by market Zurich up to focus on business strategy.
Professional Pensions capitalisation in the last 5 years.
We were also Lincoln Life contract our current policies appointed as registrar for a number of Awards 2005 retention programme has reduced the attrition organisations including Boots Group PLC.
Capita Hartshead won the Best rate by at least 1%, equating to approximately Since its launch in February 2004, our Small Scheme of the Year award 3 million in premium income and 4 million in sharedealing service has grown swiftly and is now embedded value over 12 months.
for the Capita Pension and Life used by over 750 corporate clients including Assurance Scheme.
We have continued to invest in our Northern Rock plc, BAA Plc, Compass Group PLC comprehensive and flexible life & pensions and National Grid plc.
A key new component is Our collective investment schemes 'Elixir, ' a comprehensive sales and policy administration operation continues to expand administration system designed using an rapidly, with funds under administration having innovative component based architecture, increased from 1bn to over 16.5bn in just licensed to Capita by Mastek for the next 10 3 years.
As a result of this growth, we are years.
It combines a wide range of 'wrappers' for now listed in 12th place in the Investment life, pensions and investment products.
Management Association IMA rankings for Capita PPML was relaunched as Capita SIP funds under administration.
Services, reflecting the changing marketplace as a Acquired Channel House Financial Services Group result of pensions simplification which comes into Limited, a Jersey company providing a wide range effect in April 2006.
We have undertaken a major of trust and company administration services to investment programme to ensure that the business private and corporate clients, in September 2005. is fully equipped to deal with the changes and also to administer the growing range of specialist Capita HR & Payroll we continue to build our pension products.
capability in this area, securing new contracts and extensions valued at 10.6 million over the period Capita Hartshead, our occupational pensions with clients including Royal Bank of Canada, ACE administration business, continues to perform European Group and The Royal Bank of Scotland.
strongly with contract wins and renewals worth over 9.8m with clients including BP Oil, Baring Asset Management, Alliance & Leicester and Thames Water.
Opened first operation outside the UK in Dublin, enabling the business to take advantage of pan-European pensions opportunities in the mid to longer term.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 27 27 27 Capita Capita Business review Our services p Commercial Services 2005 2004 Our Commercial Services Division comprises specialist m m services and outsource solutions for the insurance market, corporate occupational health services and Turnover third party sales 253.7 241.2 outsourced customer services centres.
Operating profit 25.4 21.4 Operating margin 10.0% 8.9% p Development highlights in 2005: Capita Insurance Services experienced strong trading Capita Health Solutions is the leading player in the conditions in 2005, building further on its position as occupational health arena with an estimated market the market leading provider of support services to the share of 22%.
The market is expected to grow at insurance market.
The business is the largest technical 35% p. a. to 2009.
We work with over 900 corporate claims handler in the UK outsourcing market, clients across the public and private sector and deal administering 12.5bn of liabilities on behalf of with more than 200,000 referrals per annum.
clients, including one of the largest uncapped A complementary range of services were added liabilities on behalf of the Government.
to our existing offering through the acquisition of We have continued our investment in building BMI Health Services, notably mobile screening, a flexible SAP administration platform and we audiology units and ill health and retirement have become the first organisation in Europe to assessments.
Capita is now the largest trainer implement SAP Claims and SAP CRM.
The SAP and employer of qualified occupational health solution increases information availability and professionals outside the NHS in the UK.
reduces the time taken to process claims across Contact centres we continue to extend our multiple client companies.
customer service offering to private sector A new contract was secured with Chester Street organisations particularly across the retail and Insurance Holdings Limited to administer their communications sectors.
eircom in January we won a 3 year contract to Our contract to manage Norwich Unions support eircom in growing its broadband and Clubline, first awarded in 1995, has been extended.
added value telephone services, managing 200 The contract covers existing services and additional call centre staff.
As a result of the smooth transition volume growth following the general insurance of this contract and high standard of service partnership between Norwich Union and Barclays.
delivery, eircom signed a further contract with us to provide contact handling services for residential Acquired BDML Connect to enhance Capitas and business customers.
proposition to the affinity market enabling us to provide a comprehensive end-to-end DSG international plc we have been managing capability encompassing sales and service, policy DSG international plcs customer contact centre in management and claims handling across a broad Sheffield since April 2004.
Due to our track record range of personal lines products.
of performance, we have been awarded a further contract to manage their customer technical support centre in Nottingham, commencing March 2006.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 28 28 28 Capita Capita Business review Our services p Professional Services 2005 2004 Professional Services is comprised of our ICT business m m that supports the Groups operations and external clients, our software businesses focused primarily on Turnover third party sales 202.9 187.6 the local authority, housing and education markets Operating profit 34.0 30.7 and expanding into the financial services sector, our Operating margin 16.8% 16.4% advisory services and conference and training businesses.
p p Management Consultancies Development highlights in 2005: Association MCA Awards Capita IT Services continues to play a key role in Capita Education Services experienced continued Gold Award for Change supporting the Groups wider BPO offering whilst also organic growth in 2005.
The business remains focused Management awarded to securing business with external clients.
The business on developing market leading software which can Capita Advisory Services for was awarded contractor status in 2005 to provide IT support education establishments in raising standards their work with the DWP on services to the DWP through the Departments and reducing the administrative burden on staff.
internal procurement framework process known as Successful launch of the new.
net version of UNIT-e UNITY UNderpinning IT deliverY.
Student Records & Tracking Solution with 100 Capita Software Services experienced another strong colleges already upgraded to the system.
year, securing a number of significant contracts with Launch of Childrens Services Suite of products in clients including Glasgow, Sheffield and Plymouth response to the change in the Governments City Councils.
Academy Mobile Solution was launched across Increased interest in systems to provide access to Argyll and Bute Council, the second largest Scottish information for parents and pupils outside of authority by geographical area.
Capitas established Parents Gateway web handheld technology will enable Council staff to tool, joined by the new SIMS Learning Gateway, conduct inspections and deliver results enables schools to publish attendance details, electronically, reducing the time spent on each visit assessment scores and timetables.
In 2005, North and improving the customer service delivered to Lincolnshire Council and Northamptonshire Council Council tenants.
launched pilot schemes to allow parents online Randall Lyons, a leading provider of web based access to information relating to their child.
electronic document management solutions and Capita Advisory Services is playing a key role in scanning services was acquired, enhancing Capitas facilitating change across the public, healthcare, ability to deliver end-to-end software services to financial services and other private sectors.
the public sector, the housing market and the private sector, notably the insurance and financial Successfully developed and delivered a suite of HR industries.
products to support the DWP achieve its Workforce Management Project, involving the reduction of Quay Software, a major provider of online 30,000 posts by 2008. quotation and fulfilment services to the Independent Financial Adviser market, was also acquired.
Quay applications linked directly to leading portal providers will result in efficiency savings and enable more effective product distribution.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 29 29 29 Capita Capita Business review Our services p Business Services 2005 2004 Our Business Services Division comprises our Property services m m resourcing businesses and our property consultancy business, Capita Symonds, providing professional Turnover third party sales 190.5 162.9 and technical expertise in the building design, Operating profit 17.1 17.2 civil engineering, environment, management and Operating margin 9.0% 10.6% transport sectors.
2005 2004 Resourcing services m m Turnover third party sales 174.2 162.1 Operating profit 11.4 6.8 Operating margin 6.5% 4.2% p Development highlights in 2005: Capita Resourcing performed well in 2005, securing Capita Symonds has continued to trade well, winning new business and expanding market share across all business with new and existing clients.
also undertaken a number of strategic acquisitions and ranks 5th largest multidisciplinary consultancy in the New contracts were agreed with clients including UK 7th in 2004. the Big Lottery Fund, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister ODPM, Further strengthened our service offering by Atos Origin, HBOS and Argos.
acquiring Buchanan Consulting Engineers, a leading development and transport planning consultancy, Awarded significant managed services contract by and Norman Dawbarn, a design practice providing British Nuclear Group to manage agency supplied architecture and engineering services.
workers with a payroll of 150m over 3 years.
Selected to provide a range of design and Capita Education Resourcing performed well in a engineering services to the Dubai Rapid Link competitive market.
The teachers we placed taught consortium, appointed to build the new Dubai over 10 million children in England and Wales.
Veredus, our executive search and selection Strategic partnership with Cumbria County Council business, secured business worth over 12.5m, extended for a further 3 years.
The contract includes including projects for the Home Office, DWP, the delivering highway and property maintenance, Metropolitan Police, DfES and the National occupational health, finance and pensions Assembly for Wales.
administration from our regional business centre in Carlisle.
Launch of Urban Vision, the joint venture between Capita Symonds, Morrison and Salford City Council.
Capita Symonds is focusing on development planning and enhancements across property, engineering and highways services and associated support services.
