10697 Capita 2005 mid 14 3 06 09:53 Page 42 42 Capita Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Group accounts for the The interests of the Directors under the share option schemes, the year ended 31 December 2005.
Long Term Incentive Plan and the Long Term Indexed Share Appreciation Scheme of the company are shown in the Directors remuneration report.
Group activities The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a leading Since the year end, Paddy Doyle has acquired 65 ordinary shares of the UK provider of professional support services and business process company through the Capita Share Ownership Plan.
outsourcing solutions to organisations across the public and private Substantial shareholders sectors.
The Groups 8 chosen markets are local government, central On 22 February 2006 the company had notications that the following government, education, health, transport, life & pensions, insurance and were interested in 3% or more of the company's ordinary share capital: other private sector including financial services.
Number of shares Percentage On behalf of its clients, the Group aims to improve service quality, reduce FMR Corp and Fidelity International Ltd 97,732,752 14.99% their costs of delivery and enable them to transform the way that they deliver services to their customers.
The services that the Group provides Lloyds TSB Group plc 33,479,685 5.04% are essential to the smooth running and success of its clients operations.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The Group designs, successfully implements and manages tailored service and auditors solutions, ranging across administration, information technology, financial, Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial human resources, property and customer service functions.
The Group year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company maintains market leading positions due to its ability to draw on its wide and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In base of professional services, detailed market knowledge and extensive preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: business process transformation and change management skills.
The Groups principal activities are managed through five divisions select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently comprising business services, commercial services, corporate services, make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent professional services and integrated services, with two support divisions being major sales and marketing and central support services.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, A review of the development of the Group and its business activities during subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the the year is contained in the Chairmans statement on pages 02 to 07 and accounts Business Review on pages 08 to 37. prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate profits and dividends to presume that the Group will continue in business The Group profit before taxation and discontinued operations, amounted to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no to 153.1m 2004: 142.1m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the 4.9p per share 2004: 3.6p per share to be paid on 5 May 2006 to companys auditors are unaware ordinary shareholders on the register on 7 April 2006.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 7.0p per share 2004: 5.35p per share.
each Director has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of all relevant audit information and Share repurchase to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
The company renewed its authority to repurchase up to 10% of its own issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting in April 2005 and The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above during the year acquired 13,236,000 2004: 8,925,000 ordinary shares requirements.
of 2p each see note 26 of which 8,236,000 2004: 8,625,000 were The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which added to those already held as treasury shares, the remainder were disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the cancelled.
To date there are 16,861,000 shares held in treasury which are Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the available to satisfy any potential future share issues.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Directors of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and The Directors of the company currently in ofce are listed on page 40. detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Gordon Hurst and Eric Walters retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer Going concern themselves for re-election.
Robert Alcock retired as a Non-Executive After making enquiries, the Group Board of Directors has a reasonable Director on 24 February 2005.
Martina King was appointed on 1 January expectation that the Group and its Group holding company The Capita 2005.
None of the Directors of the company had a material interest in any Group Plc have adequate resources to continue in operational existence contract with the company or its subsidiary undertakings other than their for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going contracts of employment and no Director has a service contract exceeding concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Disabled persons Directors interests It is the Group's policy to give full consideration to suitable applications for The interests all beneficial of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the employment of disabled persons.
Disabled employees are eligible to company were as follows: participate in all career development opportunities available to staff.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 to continue in their employment or to be retrained for other positions in or date of or date of the Group.
appointment appointment if later if later Ordinary shares Ordinary shares of 2p of 2p Rod Aldridge 15,764,000 17,794,000 Paul Pindar 2,450,000 3,050,000 Paddy Doyle 26,664 25,000 Gordon Hurst 28,221 28,221 Peter Cawdron 24,000 24,000 Eric Walters 45,000 45,000 Martina King appointed 1 January 2005 The Directors have no interests in the share capital of any other Group undertaking.
10697 Capita 2005 mid 14 3 06 09:53 Page 43 43 Capita Directors report Employee involvement The main financial risks to which the Group has exposure are interest rate The Group is committed to involving all employees in the performance risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The Group borrows in desired and development of the Group.
Its approach to staff development offers currencies at xed and oating rates of interest and makes use of interest continual challenges in the job, learning opportunities and personal rate swaps to generate the desired interest prole and to manage its development.
Capita supports staff through a comprehensive range of key exposure to interest rate uctuations.
In respect of liquidity risk, the business and management skills courses and an annual management Group aims to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and development programme.
exibility through the use of bonds, unsecured loan notes, finance leases and overdrafts.
The Group faces a small exposure to foreign currency risk The Group encourages all its employees to participate fully in the business as it has only limited investments in overseas operations in the Republic through open dialogue.
Employees receive news of the Group through of Ireland, India, Malaysia, Dubai, Korea and the Philippines which are Recap, the Groups newsletter, frequent email notices, internal notice affected by foreign exchange movements.
Consequently, as the Group is board statements and Capita Online, a regular communication reviewing not exposed to significant foreign currency risk and does not intend to the performance of the Group from the perspective of the Directors.
signicantly increase its overseas operations, it currently does not hedge These communication initiatives enable staff to share information within this exposure.
and between business units and staff are encouraged to contribute news, views and feedback.
The Group maintains a strong communications Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of Directors network and employees are encouraged, through our open door policy, to Under the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise discuss with management matters of interest to the employee and Act 2004 which amends the Companies Act 1985, companies are under subjects affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
an obligation to disclose any indemnities which are in force in favour of their directors.
The current Articles of Association of the company contain The Group grants share options to senior employees, on a discretionary an indemnity in favour of the Directors of the company which indemnifies basis, in order to reward their long term commitment to the Group.
them in respect of certain liabilities and costs that they might incur in the The granting of all share options is subject to the approval of the execution of their duties as Directors.
Copies of the relevant extract from Remuneration Committee.
The share option schemes have been a key the Articles of Association are available for inspection at the registered factor in attracting, retaining and motivating senior employees across ofce of the company during normal business hours on any weekday and the Group.
will be available at the venue of the AGM from 15 minutes before the The Capita Sharesave Scheme, an employee Save As You Earn Scheme, and meeting until it ends.
the Capita Share Ownership Plan, a share incentive plan, are both rmly Auditors established and are designed to promote employee share ownership and In accordance with section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to to give employees the opportunity to participate in the future success of re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditors will be put to the the Group.
The Group has continued to provide the Capita PC Purchase Scheme, a The company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its tax-free benefit, which provides employees with the opportunity to have relationship with external auditors and the key safeguards are: a personal, high quality home computer at a discounted rate and has established a range of other staff discounts on products and services.
the Group Risk Manager monitors the independence of the auditor as part of the Groups assessment of auditor effectiveness and reports to the In keeping with its belief that staff are the Groups most valuable asset, Audit Committee the Group runs an annual staff awards scheme, celebrating the core values that embody the organisation and rewarding employees for the Audit Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the external audit service excellence, effective teamwork, service to the community fee against other comparable companies both within and without its and innovation.
sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in the audit process Further information on our employee initiatives can be the Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of non-audit found on pages 30 to 33. fees accruing to the external auditor, and specic assignments are discussed in advance with the external auditor and agged for the International Financial Reporting Standards approval by the Audit Committee as appropriate.
The Audit Committee The European Union issued a regulation in 2002 requiring all listed reviews, in aggregate, non-audit fees of this nature on an annual basis and companies to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards in their considers implications for the objectivity and independence of the consolidated accounts by 2005.
The Group is a first time adopter for the relationship with the external auditor.
Further narrative disclosure is included in notes 1 and 34 to the accounts on page 60 and 91.
Ensuring conicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in the selection of any third party auditor for assignments with which the Group Payment of suppliers is involved.
Such conicts may arise across public or private sector The company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the suppliers customers and key supplier relationships, for example, and are a key contract terms.
The company had an average of 44 days purchases determinant in the award process for external audit assignments.
2004: 44 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
By order of the Board Charitable and political donations During the year charitable donations amounted to 0.4m 2004: 0.3m.
Gordon Hurst No political contributions were made.
Company Secretary 22 February 2006 Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments primarily comprise bonds, unsecured loan notes, finance leases and overdrafts.
The principal purpose of these is to raise funds for the Groups operations.
In addition, various other financial instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise directly from its operations.
From time to time, the Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps and currency swaps, the purpose of which is to manage interest risk and currency risk.
