10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:51 Page 10 10 10 Capita Capita Business review Our business model Capita offers on-site consultancy and single service The pressure on organisations in both the support as well as multi-service outsourced solutions.
public and private sectors to improve The majority of our services are delivered under services and raise efficiency has never been long term contracts with detailed service standards, greater.
We draw on our wealth of skills often based on a series of key performance and experience to transform and manage indicators.
This enables us to clearly demonstrate progress and ensures accountability to our clients our customers existing services or create and their customers.
Our largest contracts have a and run brand new service infrastructures.
Strategic Partnership Board arrangement, ensuring that both parties have a shared understanding of We focus on achieving measurable step changes in each organisations objectives.
The average duration service delivery increased service efficiency, quality of our contracts is 8 years.
For many of our customers we play a key role in the transformation of their services Services are delivered from our established ensuring they meet the needs of communities and infrastructure of business centres across the UK, customers, today and into the future.
Our ability to offer a blended onshore offshore service delivery model, provides clients with increased flexibility and reduced risk.
p Our business model Our markets Our capabilities Our services Central government Business process design and Customer services Local government re-engineering Administration and support Education Service solution design Human resources Insurance People care, transfer, training Information technology Life & pensions and development Property consultancy Health Change management Finance and treasury Transport Service delivery Advisory services Private sector and other Established network of financial services business centres p Our business centres UK Ireland India 42 business centres including: 3 business centres including: 2 business centres including: Back office administration Back office administration Data validation & entry Customer services Customer services Claims & policy administration Life & pensions administration Life & pensions administration Fund management IT & software Financial & corporate administration Resourcing & training registrar services Accounting & finance Share registration processing Property consultancy Electronic document processing Claims & policy administration HR administration 10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:51 Page 11 11 11 11 Capita Capita Capita Business review Our business model Our proven, scalable business model enables us to deliver the Groups core objectives to all stakeholders primarily our shareholders, clients and employees.
Paul Pindar, Chief Executive p Our long term goals to support our key stakeholders Shareholders Customers Staff To continue building Capita as a To deliver high value, essential To create a supportive and sustainable, growth business, services, that add fundamental rewarding environment in which achieving a fair return for our value to our customers and our people can fully develop their shareholders.
p Our strategy for managing our business Organic Growth Acquisitions Financial control Governance To concentrate on organic To seek suitable To run the business with To run our business growth, securing long acquisitions which strong financial control, in a responsible and term recurring revenues complement our core with a focus on operating transparent manner from new and existing competencies and meet margins, cash flow, capital with due regard for customers in the UK and our financial targets.
expenditure and return on statutory and regulatory Ireland.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:51 Page 12 12 12 Capita Capita Business review Our business model Creating growth Key performance measures Organic growth 1.
Operating margins We have two complementary approaches to creating Objective: maintain and strengthen margins.
Firstly, our central Major Sales Team Achieved through: seeks to secure contracts that typically have a value of 10m or above.
These contracts are complex, increased selectivity in bids integrated projects that require a wide range of the choosing opportunities which focus on innovation Groups skills and which generate high quality, recurring revenues.
Secondly, each of our businesses employs finding opportunities that add fundamental value sales teams focused upon securing growth from both to our customers existing and new customers.
increasing economies of scale We are highly disciplined in our bid qualification improved purchasing power process, using a strict set of criteria to maintain selectivity.
This process ensures that we pursue bid unremitting focus on our cost base opportunities only where we can deliver benefits both greater leverage from existing business centres.
to the client and to the Group.
Cash flow Our bid criteria: Objective: maintain strong cash flow.
fit with our core competencies of service transformation The strength of Capitas business model is reflected in our excellent underlying cash flow.
We define free cash leverage benefit from our existing business centre flow as operating cash flow less capital expenditure, infrastructure interest and taxation.
Current strong levels of free cash contained capital requirements unless there is a flow are a reflection of the way we manage the real value proposition for Capita business, including: fair risk reward balance and acceptable contractual the importance of securing timely payment terms obligations when negotiating contracts defined bid process with clear decision criteria set by a focus on cash generation within the businesses customers with whom we can build a strong providing a good service to our customers.
2001 and 2002 absorbed investment in two major We work hard to deliver quality service and long term greenfield contracts, Criminal Records Bureau and value to our customers, enabling us to enjoy a high rate London Congestion Charging.
These were unusual in of customer retention through contract extensions, their initial capital requirements.
In the current bid renewals and repeat business.
pipeline, there are no contracts requiring similar levels of investment.
Acquisitions Our focus remains firmly on small transactions, priced 3.
Capital expenditure at a level which adds value for shareholders.
Objective: limit Group capital expenditure to no more The Group has clear criteria against which we assess than 4% of annual revenue.
any potential acquisitions: We believe this limit is sustainable for the foreseeable must adhere to strategy and core competencies future as there are no indications of excessive capital expenditure requirements in current business forecasts niche businesses in core markets or in the current bid pipeline.
However, there may be quality of revenue must be highly enduring rare occasions when capital expenditure exceeds 4% if the financial strength of Capita can be used as a attractive price which adds value for Capitas competitive advantage.
shareholders We feel that this measure creates a necessary discipline early exclusivity.
in the Group to avoid tying up valuable capital in long term projects and allows the Group to direct its funds in ways which generate greater shareholder value.
Return on capital Objective: drive a steadily increasing return on capital, which in turn should exceed our cost of capital.
In recent years the margin between the Groups cost of capital and the returns generated by the investment of this capital has widened.
This is a key discipline we use to add shareholder value over the long term.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:51 Page 13 13 13 Capita Capita Business review Our business model We work hard to deliver quality service and long term value to our customers, enabling us to enjoy a high rate of customer retention through contract extensions, renewals and repeat business.
Gordon Hurst, Group Finance Director 1.
Share buybacks Objective: use capital opportunistically to add value for Objective: add further value to shareholders through 6.
Total dividend per share p shareholders rather than being tied to a target level of share buybacks when market conditions allow.
A policy of opportunistic share buybacks enables us 7.00 There is considerable headroom for taking on further to maintain an efficient capital structure which will debt if necessary as indicated by the interest cover minimise our long term cost of capital.
ratio and net debt to earnings before interest, tax, 5.35 depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
Treasury management the Group is highly cash generative this has not been Objective: focus on efficiently raising funds for Group 4.00 necessary.
operations and managing any financial exposure.
2005 m 2004 m The Groups principal financial instruments for 3.00 fundraising are bonds, unsecured loan notes, finance Bond debt 199 125 2.25 leases and overdrafts.
The Group has various other Bank facilities drawn 19 26 1.65 financial instruments such as trade creditors and trade Loan notes 23 27 debtors that arise directly from its operations.
Where Net debt 241 178 appropriate, the Group may also use derivatives to Interest cover 14x 13x hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and 00 01 02 03 04 05 Net debt to EBITDA 1.1 0.9 foreign exchange rates.
It is the Groups policy that no Before asset based securitised finance trading in financial instruments will be undertaken.
Dividends Objective: pursue a progressive dividend policy.
In 2003 we set a target of reducing annual dividend cover to no more than three times by 2006.
As an indication of the strength of our business and resultant operating cash flows, we have reduced cover further this year and believe this is sustainable going forward.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:51 Page 15 15 15 Capita Capita Business review Our business model p Operational issues p Internal control and risk Escalated via the MOB process to Executive management Group Board Management and Group Boards as appropriate Group Board Executive p New contracts Responsive management Directors Our management structure and business reporting Group Board involvement in all major contracts process promotes accountability and knowledge Group Board Fit with core competencies financial targets sharing across the Group, ensuring that management Non-Executive Directors are responsive to issues and trends within the business Rigorous, risk-based due diligence process and the wider market place.
p Acquisitions disposals Expenditure is subject to consideration and approval Group Board by the Group Board The Group Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control Fit with core competencies financial targets and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The key Rigorous, risk-based due diligence process mechanisms used by the Group Board to achieve this include regular reports from the Executive Management p Reputation p Board: periodic updates from the Audit Committee Robust process for handling enquiries complaints based on its review of risk management and internal from all stakeholders primarily clients, media, public Executive Management audit reports by the relevant group functions: and suppliers Board discussions with and reports from the external auditors Group Board Executive and regulatory reports.
Issues are escalated to the Group Board as appropriate Directors p Fraud Executive Management Board Divisional Executive Directors Monitored by the Group Risk and Business The Executive Management Board has responsibility Assurance function in conjunction with Group to set, communicate and monitor the application Compliance.
of Group-wide policies, procedures and standards.
Divisional Executive Directors will delegate operating p Regulatory responsibility to their respective Managing Directors Monitored by Group Compliance function reporting and local management teams.
directly to the Group Operations Director and independently to the Audit Committee Monthly Operational Board reviews p Financial including credit and liquidity We maintain regular communication via our Monthly Operational Board MOB reviews where management Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous budgetary p teams assess financial and operational performance controls and beyond specified levels requires Group and discuss the ongoing development of each business Board sign off Monthly Operational unit.
Comprehensive financial plans are prepared by Board reviews Financial performance of each business unit is each business unit and reviewed at both Executive Group Board Executive monitored each month and actual progress against Management Board and Group Board level.
Directors plan is challenged by Divisional Executive Directors Performance is monitored routinely by means of comprehensive monthly management accounts.
p Staff retention Divisional Executive Directors Investment in staff training and development Risk assessment & mitigation Divisional management teams Competitive incentive schemes Systems and procedures are in place across the Group to identify, assess and mitigate major business risks.
Further information regarding how we manage our The Groups exposure to risk is monitored as an integral business is contained in the Directors report and part of the Monthly Operational Board MOB reviews corporate governance section on pages 42 to 46. and in certain businesses this is supplemented by formally constituted committees.
The Groups risk management is independently facilitated and challenged by the Group Risk and Business Assurance function which reports to the Group Finance Director and independently to the Audit Committee.
As part of its remit this function delivers a risk-based programme of business assurance, which focuses on those areas determined as highest risk to the Group.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 16 16 16 Capita Capita 94.8bn 4.4bn Total potential UK BPO Total UK BPO market revenues market p. a. for 2005
