10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 18 18 18 Capita Capita Business review Our markets A recent independent survey estimates that the total potential UK BPO market is valued at 94.8bn p. a. with the public sector representing 33% and the private sector 67%.
Capita has chosen to operate across 8 markets across the public and private sectors where the drivers for seeking outsourced solutions and professional support services are strong.
1 The drive for efficiency and quality service Drivers Overall leading BPO provider delivery continues to set the agenda for service Gershon Efficiency Review and 2004 2007 in UK transformation across the public sector.
Spending Reviews Government departments are implementing Imperative to demonstrate service further stringent targets to achieve the desired delivery outcomes efficiencies and looking to the private sector to help them deliver organisational change and Government drive to deliver personalised services service transformation, enabled and supported by designed around the customer outlined in the effective ICT and process re-engineering.
The market Government paper Transformational Government is expected to see a growth rate of 14% to 2009, No.
1 Enabled by Technology up from 12% in 2005.
With our track record of in central government Promotion of shared services the merging of delivering complex, major transformational transactional functions, standardising and projects we are in a leading position to compete simplifying processes and sharing expertise for future Government initiatives.
Need to improve productivity through process redesign and management of absenteeism Lyons Review - relocation of public sector functions requires the rationalisation of assets and improved HR and ICT systems to link geographically dispersed offices.
p Local government The transformation of public services for the benefit Drivers of citizens and frontline staff is an explicit priority for Spending reviews including the Gershon Efficiency the Government.
This agenda is driving local Review - achieve efficiency gains of 2.5% per annum, government to seek alternative ways of providing delivering at least 6.45bn in savings by 2007 8 services, creating opportunities for the private sector Need for citizen-centric approach to service to assist them in developing new delivery models.
delivery as detailed in Government strategy With over 20 years experience in this marketplace paper Transformational Government and a UK wide network of multi-service centres, Enabled by Technology we are uniquely placed to support local authorities to achieve effective change.
Industry analysts Local strategic partnership models - working are estimating market growth of 11% to with health, police, other councils and the private 2009 2004:10%.
sector to achieve common goals supported by shared services Central governments plan to encourage local government to be a commissioner rather than provider of services The focus on economic and social regeneration of local communities.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 19 19 19 Capita Capita Business review Our marketplace Total potential UK BPO market p. a.
1 in other services retail, wholesale, transport and other business A.
1 The Government has committed further funding Drivers in finance including life & to improve educational standards and raise Spending reviews and efficiency targets of at least pensions and insurance accessibility, with spending of 5.6% of GDP allocated 4.3bn by 2007-2008, of which 50% to be for 2007-2008, compared to 5.4% in 2004-05. reinvested in front line activities Government strategy is focused on education Childrens Services Agenda establishment of working in partnership across the public, private and Childrens Trusts that join up education, social, voluntary sectors to deliver high quality educational health and other services outcomes.
We are well placed to support this agenda with our experience at ground level in schools and Local authorities to take a commissioning role with higher educational establishments and at a more less emphasis on service delivery as detailed in the strategic level with local authorities and the DfES.
Education White Paper Building Schools for the Future Government commitment to investment in infrastructure and ICT Focus on ICT to reduce bureaucracy and improve financial management.
p Transport Total government expenditure on transport Drivers will exceed 37bn between 2005 and 2008, New Public Service Agreement PSA to cut urban representing an average increase of 4.5% in real congestion by 2010-11 terms.
A key priority for the Government is road Road pricing feasibility study recommended that congestion, with funds committed to exploring local or regional schemes should be piloted to innovative ways of reducing local traffic.
The private explore the potential of national road pricing sector is firmly involved in this area and Capitas delivery of the Central London Congestion Charging Focus on local transport needs with public Scheme is now an established model for successful consultation traffic management.
Our offering spans a broad range Government commitment to building road and of transport consultancy, from strategic and policy transport infrastructure issues to the effective design and delivery of complete transport management solutions.
Use of technology to improve network management.
Statistics and data on pages 16 to 21 extracted from Harris Interactive formerly HI Europe, Kable and Ovum 2005 reports and various government reports.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 20 20 20 Capita Capita Business review Our marketplace Financial performance 2005 turnover by market % 1 Central government 16% 18% 8 2 Local government 15% 15% 1 3 Education 14% 11% 4 Health 1% 2% 5 Transport 7% 6% 2 6 Insurance 12% 14% 7 7 Life & pensions 6% 4% 6 8 Private sector & 3 4 5 other financial services 29% 30% Public sector 53% 2004: 52% Private sector 47% 2004: 48% p Health NHS funding is set to increase by an average Drivers of 7% a year between 2005-06 and 2007-08.
Audit commission reviews calling for radical However, there are significant financial challenges change on a health economy-wide basis which will require organisational change through Rationalisation and modernisation of support such initiatives as shared services and back office services as a result of the reconfiguration of Strategic rationalisation.
Financial challenges include the target Health Authorities and Primary Care Trusts to achieve savings of 6.5bn a year by 2007-08, to be reinvested into frontline services.
This includes 0.5bn Roll-out of Connecting for Health programme is from rationalisation under the Arms Length Body requiring support to optimise use of new systems Review ALBR.
Outsourced services and public and make better use of human capital private partnerships are increasingly seen as playing a Programme of rationalisation of existing property key role in the health sector, with industry analysts and reinvestment in new property to improve work predicting growth rates in this market of 68%.
environment and patient care experience.
Foundation Trusts able to deal more effectively with the private sector.
p Life & pensions Life and pensions companies continue to operate Drivers in an increasingly competitive and regulated Pressure to reduce operating costs whilst environment.
Many companies are therefore actively improving performance and customer retention exploring new service models to increase their Need for effective administration processes due to efficiency and flexibility whilst maintaining quality increasingly complex regulatory issues and initiatives customer service.
Our capability and in depth such as the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly experience across both open and closed books of business, together with the option for our clients to Need to swiftly introduce new products to market combine onshore with offshore service delivery, Pensions simplification need to be compliant with places us in a strong position to meet the needs new legislation requiring capability enhancement of this market.
Additionally, the need for specialist and changes to legacy systems skills and software to cope with the increasing complexity of pension scheme structures continues Demise of final salary pension schemes and the to drive occupational pensions providers towards move towards money purchase schemes requiring outsourcing.
For the whole life and pensions market, specialist administration solutions.
industry analysts are predicting CAGR of 17-18% out to 2008.
10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 21 21 21 Capita Capita Business review Our marketplace Capita's public private split m 1,436 1,282 1,081 898 691 455 00 01 02 03 04 05 5 year compound growth: 33% private, 21% public p Insurance The UK insurance industry continues to operate in a Drivers challenging environment with increased regulatory Need for effective administration processes due to requirements and the need for reduced costs and increasingly complex regulatory issues improved efficiency.
As a result, organisations are Need to reduce operating costs through outsourcing increasingly looking for alternative service delivery non-core business processes models to help them compete more effectively and meet the changing expectations of their customers.
Establishment of strategic partnerships for low risk Outsourcing is becoming a more widely used business service improvement and business transformation model and this trend is set to continue with predicted Focus on improving management of claims costs, growth rates of approximately 8% to 2008. in particular through fraud and leakage prevention Need to meet customer demands for more transparency, information, flexibility and value from their insurance providers Continued rise of affinity brands emerging interest from internet providers and utilities alongside the growing numbers of retailers seeking administration partners.
p Private sector In order to retain and enhance competitive Drivers advantage, organisations across the private sector Maintaining competitive advantage within UK face continued pressure to improve productivity and global markets and customer service.
The outsourcing of non-core Need to improve access to expert operational activities is integral to achieving this, adding real and advisory capabilities value to customers performance and allowing them to focus resources on their specific area of Focus on employee support and benefits as well expertise.
Capita is an established player with as managing sickness and absenteeism numerous private sector clients from a wide range Need for rapid process transformation across of industries.
There is considerable opportunity for administration and customer services to reduce growth as organisations who have made the step transactional costs whilst improving service and into outsourcing reap the benefits, making it an even loyalty more acceptable alternative to in-house provision.
Increasing regulatory and legislative requirements UK business views this as the greatest inhibitor of growth CBI.
