Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 35 Board of Directors John Napier Andy Haste George Culmer Noel Harwerth Edward Lea Malcolm Le May John Maxwell David Paige Bridget McIntyre N, I A, I A, R, N, I John Napier Age 63.
Director of the Group Noel Harwerth Age 58.
Director of the John Maxwell Age 61.
Director of the Group from January 2003 and Chairman of the Group Group from March 2004.
Director of Corus from July 2003.
Chairman of the Remuneration from March 2003.
Chairman of the Nomination Group plc, Tube Lines Limited, Metronet Rail Committee from October 2003.
Chairman of Committee from March 2003.
Non-executive SSL Limited and Metronet Rail BCV Limited DX Services plc mail.
Director of Provident Chairman of Kelda Group plc water utility.
Deputy Chairman of Sumitomo Financial plc financial services.
Director of Former Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited Homeserve plc support services.
Governor of Kelda Group plc.
Former Chief Operating Officer of the Royal Ballet School.
Chairman of the Booker plc cash and carry.
Former Managing of Citibank International plc finance.
Previously Director of Hays plc business services from an executive director of Prudential Group plc.
Former Managing Director of Previously Director General Chief Executive Group from July 2003.
Chairman of the Group AGB plc international market research and Officer of The Automobile Association Limited.
E, I Redbourn Group plc property management David Paige Age 54.
Group Risk Director E, I Andy Haste Age 44.
Director and Group and investment.
Director of IDC Plugs Limited from February 2005.
Former Global Finance Chief Executive from April 2003.
Director of MacIntyre Transformation Programme Director and Executive of AXA Sun Life plc and director Care charity.
Previously a director of The former Group Risk & Audit Director Aviva plc of AXA UK plc life and pensions.
Former British United Provident Association BUPA.
Former Group Risk Director Zurich President and Chief Executive Officer of Financial Services insurance.
Former Chief R, I Malcolm Le May Age 48.
Director of the Global Consumer Finance Europe at GE Financial Officer of retail business, National Group from March 2004.
President Europe Capital UK, Western Europe and Eastern Westminster Bank plc banking.
JER Partners Limited Europe property Europe financial services.
Former Deputy Chief Executive Bridget McIntyre Age 44.
UK Chief Executive of National Westminster Banks US Consumer Morley Fund Management Investment and Director of the Group from November Credit Business retail banking.
Former Director of Sales, Marketing and E, I George Culmer Age 43.
Underwriting at Norwich Union insurance.
Officer and Director of the Group from May E Executive director 2004.
Previously Head of Capital Management A Member of Group Audit Committee N Zurich Financial Services insurance.
Member of Nomination Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee I Member of Investment Committee
