Royal & SunAlliance 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Royal & SunAlliance today Our strategy is to run general insurance businesses with strong market positions delivering sustainable profitable performance.
We are delivering strong financial results Core Group underlying return on capital % Core Group combined operating ratio COR % 21.6 96.1 17.7 94.1 2004 2005 2004 2005 We operate in 27 countries and provide insurance products and where people are challenged, accountability assigned and services in over 130 countries.
We are committed to delivering performance rewarded.
sustainable returns, targeted profitable growth and continuous As a result of the momentum generated, the shape and structure operational excellence.
Our portfolio of businesses is diverse of the portfolio of businesses, our focus on core disciplines of and provides exposure to markets at different stages of underwriting, claims and expense management, the business development and at different stages in the insurance cycle.
The Core Group COR improved in the We have a strong reputation for our underwriting and year by 2 points to 94.1% and the underlying return on capital claims expertise.
We are focused on continuous operational for the Core Group was 21.6%.
improvement to enhance operational efficiency, controls and In 2005 we have delivered against our strategic objectives.
We are confident in our ability to continue to deliver on our Key to delivering our strategy is embedding a performance objective of running general insurance businesses with strong management culture and having the right people.
We are market positions delivering sustainable profitable returns.
committed to developing talent and creating an environment Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11 We have a good balance of premiums and earnings by geography and business line.
Our portfolio is well balanced Core Group net written premiums UK COMMERCIAL PERSONAL 50% 16% 2,632m 830m UK 34% 1,802m UK 13% 703m SCANDINAVIA 15% 25% 25% 812m 12% 1,337m 1,324m INTERNATIONAL 621m SCANDINAVIA 10% 525m INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL SCANDINAVIA We have strong positions in our chosen markets and segments.
Our International business has operations in 21 countries, Underpinning this is our reputation for providing innovative including Canada, Ireland, Italy and selected emerging markets insurance solutions and good customer service.
in Latin America, Asia and the Middle East.
We are focused on building our position in our chosen markets, trades and segments.
In the UK we are ranked number two and three in Commercial and Personal respectively.
We have a 12% share of the commercial In Canada, Johnson Corporation, our direct business continues property segment and insure 40% of FTSE 100 companies.
Our to deliver double digit growth.
We have also consolidated our UK Personal business has a strong reputation for customer leading position in marine through the acquisition of INGs service and has 3.5 million covers in place.
We have a leading position in Irish personal household.
In Scandinavia, our two largest operations, Denmark and Sweden, The diversity, strength and focus of our business positions us are ranked third overall in terms of market share.
We are number to deliver sustainable earnings with targeted profitable growth.
Latvia and Lithuania are exciting markets with high growth potential and in these markets we are clear market leaders.
Royal & SunAlliance 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Royal & SunAlliance today continued We have good positions in markets at different stages of development providing us with a range of growth opportunities.
Growth opportunities in each of our markets Strategy CANADA NORWAY DEVELOP DISTRIBUTION MATURE OPPORTUNITIES DENMARK SWEDEN IRELAND UNITED KINGDOM GROWTH IN TARGET MARKETS ITALY TRADES AND SEGMENTS PROPOSITION DEVELOPMENT CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT AND RETENTION EXPAND FOOTPRINT ARGENTINA LITHUANIA EMERGING BAHRAIN MALAYSIA SELECTIVE INVESTMENT BRAZIL MEXICO IN LONG TERM MARKETS MARKETS CHILE NETHERLANDS ANTILLES BUILD STRONG CHINA OMAN DISTRIBUTION COLOMBIA SAUDI ARABIA FOCUS ON TARGETED EGYPT SINGAPORE SEGMENTS HONG KONG UAE INDIA URUGUAY LATVIA VENEZUELA We have businesses in markets at different stages of development markets.
In Canada we developed a proposition for the SME sector presenting a range of strategic options to deliver growth.
which we subsequently implemented in the UK and Ireland.
Our strategies vary from market to market but there are a number In Denmark we have continued to add to our bancassurance of common themes supporting all of our businesses.
These proposition and we have taken this knowledge and applied it to include leveraging Group expertise and focusing on continuous Sweden where the market has yet to develop.
with FreningsSparbanken Swedbank gives us access to a potential four million customers.
We are developing our international marine proposition.
Through this we are leveraging our technology, product skills, underwriting We have been in Chile for 100 years.
This year we achieved a and claims expertise.
We are number one insurer in Canada and market leading position by acquiring the number one Chilean Denmark and a leading marine insurer in the UK and Brazil.
general insurer, Cruz del Sur.
One of our strengths is our ability to take successful initiatives We are focused on building upon the strength of the businesses.
from one market to another.
The small and medium enterprise Integral to this is our continued focus on the core disciplines of SME sector is an attractive, growing segment in a number of underwriting, claims and expense management.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 13 Our continuous focus on our core disciplines of underwriting, claims and expense management is providing us with real competitive advantage.
We are committed to operational excellence Expense savings m Core Group claims ratio % 240 69.7 190 67.4 144 64.9 2003 2004 2005 2003 2004 2005 On a UK GAAP basis In 2003 we set out a plan to improve our core competencies: We are focused on continuous operational excellence and underwriting, claims and expense management and deliver have a range of initiatives to improve efficiency, procedures annualised expense savings of 270m by the end of 2006. and develop a culture of accountability.
We continue to embed a We have made good progress through restructuring the business, performance culture.
In the last two years we have strengthened implementing new systems and focusing on underwriting, claims the top management team and clearly aligned reward with and customer service.
At the end of 2005 we have delivered personal performance for over 80% of employees and are 240m of annualised expense savings.
Through the actions we have taken over the last three years We have developed a Group risk appetite which defines the type we have reduced MORE TH Ns expense ratio by 14 points to and level of risk the Group wants to take.
This is underpinned by 24.1% at the year end.
a disciplined approach towards risk selection and underwriting with clearly defined levels of authority.
We have reduced the Core Groups claims ratio by 2.5 points over the year.
In Canada and Ireland claims leakage has halved.
In the UK we have built a market leading supply chain and have won contracts with two companies to use our supply chain infrastructure.
