Royal & SunAlliance 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 International operating review A portfolio of businesses in mature and emerging markets focused on delivering sustainable profitable growth.
growth with bolt on acquisitions in existing geographies where International complementary opportunities are available.
m 2005 2004 Business progress against strategies General business In 2005 there were floods in Canada and India and hurricanes Net written premiums 1,337 1,186 Emily and Wilma.
Despite the significant weather events we Underwriting result 63 45 delivered a 20% increase in the insurance result, demonstrating Insurance result 207 173 the strength of the International portfolio.
Combined operating ratio COR 94.7% 96.6% Our business in Canada delivered a good financial result, driven by both the Johnson Corporation, our personal lines direct operation, Our International businesses are a balanced portfolio and the intermediated business.
Johnsons delivered 26% growth of operations in the mature markets of Canada, Ireland and in 2005 signed affinity deals with new sponsorship groups and Italy and selected emerging markets in Latin America, giving access to an additional 600,000 customers in our target Asia and the Middle East.
International delivered excellent professions of education and health.
Penetration of these results in 2005 with an underwriting profit of 63m and groups is developing strongly with a 25% increase in members a COR of 94.7%.
This reflects our continued focus on insured over the last two years.
In September Johnson acquired maintaining underwriting discipline in a competitive Morgex Insurance Group, doubling the size of our brokerage in pricing environment.
Alberta, providing a platform for further profitable growth.
Overview of major strategies In the Canadian intermediated business, we continued to accelerate We continue to focus on securing our position within our broker appointments, with 147 new brokers added compared chosen countries, market segments and target trades in which with 110 in 2004.
In Commercial we acquired the renewal rights we have a competitive advantage, rather than chase market to the ING marine portfolio.
Overall retention rates in excess share across all operations.
Our approach is to maintain pricing of 80% demonstrate our market leading expertise in this discipline as we target sustainable profitable opportunities.
Against a background of mandatory rate reductions are continuously raising standards in underwriting and claims, in motor, the personal intermediated business has made good improving our customer management and strengthening our progress, with high retention levels and strengthening new risk and governance environment.
We will balance organic business trends.
The Group has leading positions in marine in the UK, Canada, Brazil and Denmark.
We are leveraging our expertise to develop an International marine proposition.
Our position as a leading marine insurer in Brazil demonstrates how this can be achieved.
In 2005 the Brazilian marine portfolio grew more than 40%.
The marine hull portfolio within the acquisition of Cruz del Sur has been transferred to the UK marine team to benefit from their expertise.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 19 The performance of our business in Ireland was excellent.
opportunities in the markets enjoying economic prosperity.
We are ranked fourth largest in the market and are a leading We view India and China as longer term opportunities, with both personal household insurer.
In 2005, pricing pressure markets expanding and maturing.
continued and the claims environment was relatively benign.
Market and economic conditions Our focus was on disciplined underwriting and operational Although geographically diverse, there are a number of common excellence.
A project to streamline our processes and reduce themes across International.
inefficiencies generated significant cost benefits enabling us to improve our cost base going forward.
As part of this project we Declining rates were a feature of 2005, whether due to the are the first general insurer in Ireland to completely outsource competitive environment in markets such as Ireland or to our IT services.
In 2006 we expect the rating environment, although varied across International, to remain Our Italian business continues to grow faster than the market stable.
We remain committed to maintaining our pricing discipline with 25 new agents appointed in 2005.
During the year, a and will, if necessary, sacrifice volume for profitability.
new operating model was adopted with new appointments to strengthen the management team and to give an increased The insurance regulatory environment continues to evolve, focus on risk management and control.
with strengthened standards of regulation being applied in Italy, parts of the Middle East and Latin America.
Having rolled out Latin America demonstrated strong levels of growth, both the Groups comprehensive standards, we are well positioned organic and inorganic.
In Brazil, our marine portfolio grew in to respond to regulatory changes and reform.
excess of 40% as we strengthened our brand awareness and customer profile in this segment.
In recognition of this, our Other initiatives Brazilian operation won awards for Best Marine Product and In line with the rest of the Group, we have introduced a new Best Marine Business Performance in Cobertura, a monthly performance culture with variable pay elements to ensure insurance industry magazine.
We significantly increased our our teams are motivated and objectives aligned throughout presence in the region with the acquisition of Cruz del Sur, the operations.
We have strengthened the management teams the market leader in Chile and La Republica in Argentina.
with external hires and are actively promoting internal talent.
In Argentina we were voted best company to work for in a survey Latin America has consistently delivered a sub100 combined by Apertura magazine, a leading monthly business magazine.
operating ratio for the last four years, but in 2005 the COR In Brazil our strengths in people management were recognised was 101.4%.
This was after absorbing 7.6 points of weather by Hay Group and ValorCarreira Magazine, an annual HR costs which primarily reflect the impact of hurricanes Emily and publication.
In India we won the award for Most Innovative Wilma.
This impact was not significant in terms of the overall Recruiting & Staffing Programme at the first Indian Recruiting International result given the diversification benefits within and Staffing Best in Class Awards.
Sustainable expense management was a key priority for 2005.
In our Asia and Middle East region we experienced strong We are reaping the benefits of two major change programmes growth in motor in UAE and India.
We now have distribution in Canada and Ireland designed to streamline processes.
We have agreements with 80 car dealerships through Maruti Suzuki, outsourced IT services in Ireland and Canada and launched the largest car manufacturer in India.
Through this partnership procurement projects to take advantage of bulk buying efficiencies.
we have issued more than 100,000 policies.
In the Middle East, In 2006 we will roll out key elements of these projects on a we are a top five International insurer and see organic growth smaller scale within the other regions.
13 % 20% INCREASE IN GROWTH NET WRITTEN IN INSURANCE PREMIUMS RESULT Royal & SunAlliance 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 International operating review continued In Ireland, Brazil and India we have undertaken a full analysis In Canada, Johnsons acquisition of Morgex Insurance Group of our client base to help us understand more fully the most was the largest of Johnsons 16 broker acquisitions to date.
profitable clients and the products they are interested in.
Following the acquisition Johnson is a top five personal This work has enabled us to develop retention and win insurance provider in Alberta.
back strategies aimed at our top tier clients, allowing us to We completed the disposals of our Thai and Japanese operations differentiate and tailor our proposition to create extra value in 2005, bringing to a close the restructuring programme of for our customers.
We have also worked closely with our intermediary brokers Outlook and agents to further strengthen our relationships.
In Canada, We will build upon our current platform by focusing on the markets weve continued the roll out of WebBusiness, which allows and segments that offer the best potential for producing brokers to process new business and policy changes in their sustainable profitable growth.
To complement our organic own office, allowing them to compete more effectively with the growth strategy we will consider acquisitions of portfolios or direct channel.
Approximately 90% of processable transactions businesses in countries where there is a strategic fit with existing within the Canadian intermediated personal business are now operations.
In moving towards a sustainable profitable growth agenda, In UAE we won the Insurex Conference E-Business award for we will look to balance our increased focus on sales and effective use of information and communications technology business development capabilities with continued rigour in at the point of sale with the broker or client.
our risk selection and control.
Successfully combining these In Italy we have a structured training programme to assist agents activities will ensure we remain a key contributor to the Groups and brokers in developing their businesses and in Ireland we overall performance.
launched a new key account management team.
These efforts have been vital in allowing us to improve our relationships with brokers and in some territories we have reduced commission rates in response to a falling rate environment.
Acquisitions and disposals In line with our strategic aim of building strong positions in selected markets to deliver sustainable profitable growth, we acquired Chiles leading general insurer Cruz del Sur and its Argentinean sister company La Republica for 68m in November.
This combination creates a clear market leader within Chile with a 22% market share and we see the opportunity for significant value creation as we apply our underwriting model to Cruz del Surs heavily reinsured portfolio.
In Argentina the companies are geographically complementary, allowing us to expand outside Buenos Aires more rapidly.
A balanced portfolio with strong positions in our chosen markets Net written premiums and segments.
Canada 578m Europe 406m Latin America 249m Asia and Middle East 104m
