Royal & SunAlliance 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Key business information Core Group UK Total net written premiums: 2,632m 68% 32% Personal: 830m Commercial: 1,802m Key areas of business The UK Commercial business primarily writes property, motor, liability and marine insurance.
Property is the largest insurance line, accounting for around 40% of Commercial net written premiums.
The business has a strong reputation, insures 40% of FTSE100 companies and is one of the leading carriers of Professional & Financial and Marine US risks outside of Lloyds of London.
UK Personal primarily provides In addition to the Core Group we household, motor and travel insurance through our intermediated have a discontinued operation channels and MORE TH N, our direct business.
For details on this business has 3.5 million covers in place and is ranked third largest operation refer to pages 24-25. in the UK.
Key strategies We are committed to continuous operational improvement and through our change programmes are focused on: risk selection, underwriting and claims discipline and expense management.
We are further enhancing our motor and household pricing sophistication and targeting expense reductions in MORE TH N. We are focused on building our distribution capabilities.
In Personal this year, we have signed 12 new broker and brand panels and 10 affinity deals.
In Commercial we launched a web based proposition, MORE TH N Business, aimed at the attractive small and medium enterprise market.
Highlights 2005 We delivered a COR of 93.1% which was 3.2 points better than last year and a 62% increase in the underwriting result.
Commercial delivered a COR of 91.9% an improvement of 4.1 points on 2004.
In Personal the business achieved a 1.7 point improvement in its COR of 95.6%.
This Annual We are seeing the benefits of our claims transformation programme Report & Accounts contains forward in the results.
We have developed a market leading claims supply chain looking statements as defined in the which has been recognised through contracts with Lloyds TSB and US Private Securities Reform Act.
Co-operative Insurance Society to use our supply chain infrastructure.
For a discussion of factors that could affect future results, reference should be made to the Important disclaimer on page 128.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 3 International Scandinavia Total net written premiums: Total net written premiums: 1,337m 1,324m 39% 47 % 61 % 53% Personal: 812m Commercial: 525m Personal: 703m Commercial: 621m We operate in 21 countries.
The business comprises a balanced We are the third largest general insurer in the Nordic region comprising portfolio of operations in the mature markets of Canada, Ireland and Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Latvia and Lithuania.
In both Denmark Italy and selected emerging markets in Latin America, Asia and the and Sweden our businesses are ranked third largest, operating under Middle East.
Canada accounts for around 40% of the International the Codan brand in Denmark and the Trygg-Hansa brand in Sweden.
In Canada we are ranked number one in marine.
In Latin Our businesses in Latvia and Lithuania have gained market share America our largest operations are Argentina, Brazil and Chile where consolidating our number one position.
In Ireland we are ranked fourth overall.
We have We provide a range of personal insurance including: motor, household strong partners in India and China and consider these markets as and personal accident and travel.
In Commercial we write property, marine longer term opportunities.
We are ranked number one in Danish marine.
We are focused on building our position within countries, market We target markets where we hold strong positions and are committed segments and target trades where we have a competitive advantage.
to continuously improving claims handling and underwriting capabilities Our approach is to maintain pricing discipline and target profitable and enhancing our product offering.
We have a pan Nordic proposition growth through continuously raising standards in underwriting, claims but recognise each country is different and customer propositions, and customer management.
We will balance organic growth with bolt pricing and brands are adapted for each market.
We operate a multi on acquisitions in our current markets.
We are focused on sustainable brand strategy in our primary markets, Denmark and Sweden.
In 2005 cost reduction and in 2005 there were major change programmes in we enhanced our customer value propositions for both Commercial Canada and Ireland.
Our focus on development opportunities is balanced and Personal lines.
against our disciplined approach towards risk selection and pricing.
The COR improved by 1.9 points to 94.7% and the underwriting We achieved a 20% increase in underwriting result and improved the result increased by 40%.
This reflects our focus on risk selection and COR by 1.2 points to 94.4%.
Net written premiums were up 8% on 2004. underwriting discipline despite absorbing significant weather events.
We are focused on building distribution capabilities and in the year Johnson Corporation, our Canadian Personal direct business, continued signed an agreement with Swedbank, the largest nationwide bank in to deliver double digit growth and acquired Morgex doubling our size Sweden.
In Denmark we have 68 bancassurance relationships giving in Alberta.
Our Latin American operation demonstrated strong growth.
us access to two thirds of the attractive local bank market and we In Brazil we consolidated our strong market position in marine and in consolidated our number one marine position through the acquisition Chile we acquired the leading general insurer Cruz del Sur.
