Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 21 Scandinavia operating review We are committed to delivering on our objectives by continuously improving our claims handling and underwriting capabilities.
improving our claims handling and underwriting capabilities as Scandinavia well as constantly monitoring and updating our product offering.
m 2005 2004 We have continued to develop our customer value propositions General business in personal and developed new propositions for commercial lines.
Net written premiums 1,324 1,228 We are building our distribution proposition.
In Denmark we Underwriting result 65 54 have 68 bancassurance agreements with the local banking Insurance result 180 145 market including the fifth largest Danish bank SparNord and Combined operating ratio COR 94.4% 95.6% in Sweden we have recently started selling policies through our partner FreningsSparbanken Swedbank.
In 2005, we continued to focus on our core disciplines and We now have agreements with three major motor manufacturers produced very good results with a combined operating ratio which between them account for a quarter of car sales in Sweden of 94.4% and a 65m underwriting profit.
Overview of major strategies Focusing on the motor sector in Denmark we have jointly We are the third largest general insurer in the Nordic region developed a vehicle inspection and insurance cover product.
comprising Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Latvia and Lithuania.
The product provides six months of cover for major mechanical In line with the rest of the Group, our strategy is to focus on components.
markets where we hold positions that enable us to see the Pursuing opportunities for acquisition based growth, led to the positive benefits of the underwriting and pricing actions that acquisition of TopDanmarks marine portfolio which consolidates we have taken.
In both Denmark and Sweden we are the third our number one position in Danish marine.
These businesses are supported by our growing operations in Latvia and Lithuania Baltics where we hold During the year, we took the next step in driving forward the pan market leading positions.
Nordic organisational initiative by realigning our organisation along business lines rather than by geographical regions.
The The operational performance improvement programme new organisation consists of a number of divisions: Commercial, introduced in 2003 has now moved to business as usual with Personal, Key Accounts, Marine and the Baltics.
These business the commitment of delivering on our targets by continuously divisions will be serviced by a number of pan Nordic support We are building on our distribution capabilities.
In Denmark we have a successful bancassurance proposition and are applying our skills and knowledge in Sweden, where bancassurance distribution has yet to develop.
Through our partner in Sweden, FreningsSparbanken Swedbank, we have access to a potential four million customers.
Royal & SunAlliance 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Scandinavia operating review continued functions.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities Our Commercial business, with a COR of 85.5%, performed for enhancing scale and efficiency in the forthcoming years.
strongly reflecting the benefits of a review of the entire portfolio and increasing premium rates to levels that properly reflect the Our employees are key to our success.
We are well on our way risk in recent years.
In Personal lines, the COR of 102.5% and to moving towards a true performance culture, implementing a the Swedish Personal COR of 104.7% reflects the decision to performance orientated bonus system for all employees, which strengthen personal accident reserves.
In Denmark the COR is integral to embedding the new culture.
We are establishing a for Personal lines was 99.5%.
more open and challenging culture, which is fairer and offers better promotion prospects with clear and open structures.
We believe A number of factors influenced our 8% growth in net written that this new culture makes us better placed to get the right people premiums, including improvements in the way in which we for the right jobs.
We now have more effective tools to measure structure our reinsurance covers.
We achieved rate increases leadership performance, thus making it possible for everyone to ahead of the market in Swedish Personal Accident, while rate see their strengths and areas for development.
This culture will increases across the rest of the portfolio were in line with help us to develop our business.
We are committed to driving the pan Nordic organisation forward We have continued to enhance our concept of dynamic pricing, but recognise that each country is different and our customer where prices are based on market factors, price elasticities and propositions, customer segmentation, pricing models and brands technical price.
We have also expanded our rate plan based are adapted for each market.
As a result, we remain committed to pricing to the part of our commercial book which was previously our multibrand strategy in our primary markets where we trade manually underwritten.
under a variety of brand names: Codan: Trekroner and Privatsikring Our customer value propositions have been refined for the in Denmark and Trygg-Hansa: Aktsam and Tre Kronor in Sweden.
Personal market with enhanced value propositions for targeted Our main brand names, Codan and Trygg-Hansa, have close to customer groups, notably families and the over 50s.
In Commercial 100% prompted brand awareness.
we have introduced customer value propositions aimed at Business progress against strategies being the best in the market for advisory services.
We facilitate In Scandinavia, net written premiums of 1,324m were up 8% Commercial clients risk management activities with counselling on 2004 and the underwriting result improved by 20% to programmes, product offerings, claims adjustment programmes 65m.
The COR of 94.4% improved by 1.2 points on 2004. and claims prevention programmes.
The claims ratio was 74.4%, 2.1 points better than prior In 2005, customer surveys in Denmark and Sweden showed high year while the expense ratio reflected an increased sales levels of customer satisfaction.
In both Denmark and Sweden, we focus and a general strengthening of support functions, recorded a net positive inflow of Personal customers in 2005. including a number of additional regulatory costs.
The We believe that the work to improve our value propositions is improvement in our claims ratio reflects the result of the a major contributor to this increased number of customers.
performance improvement programme focusing on more We will continue to develop and improve our distribution sophisticated pricing models, expansion of rate plans into channels in Scandinavia, where most insurance is written the part of the commercial book that was previously manually direct through call centres and tied agents for both Personal underwritten, as well as continued management action to and Commercial insurance.
Unlike the position in many other improve our claims handling and sales efficiencies.
24% 85.5% INCREASE COMMERCIAL IN INSURANCE BUSINESS RESULT COMBINED OPERATING RATIO Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 23 countries, only a limited proportion of the commercial book is Outlook written through brokers.
We remain committed to improving our core capabilities: pricing, underwriting and claims handling.
We believe focusing The markets of Latvia and Lithuania have exciting growth on our core capabilities will help to mitigate the effect of prospects following entry into the European Union in May 2004. any softening of the rating environment and maintain our In these markets we have gained market share consolidating our profitability.
In addition, we will be looking for further profitable number one position.
We continue to drive growth and reduce growth opportunities.
Net written premiums are up 26% to 87m and the combined operating ratio was 90.3%.
We will maintain In summary, we will maintain our focus on the markets and our focus on growth within these markets as well as continue business lines where we have scale and see evidence of to develop the infrastructure by utilising best practice from sustainable profitable growth.
With the changes we have the other Group operations.
made in our performance culture and organisational structure, our team is well positioned to deliver on these opportunities.
Market and economic conditions The Scandinavian markets are highly consolidated.
In Sweden, the top five players represent 90% of the market and in Denmark 70% of the market.
We do not expect significant changes to this level of consolidation, although we did see a limited number of new players enter our markets in 2005, particularly multi nationals in Commercial lines.
In 2005, profitability in Scandinavian markets was good, following the hardening of premium rates in previous years.
In Commercial lines, rate levels have increased following several years of low underwriting results.
Rates in the Commercial market are under pressure in particular within the Industrial and Transportation segments.
During 2005 we responded proactively to pressure from consumer organisations to offer policies which run for less than one year.
We offered products with these characteristics although we have experienced limited demand at this stage.
Interest rates in the Scandinavian market remained at low levels and were, against expectations, lower than those at the end of 2004.
These low interest rate levels have led to low investment returns and underlined the need for sustainable profitable underwriting results within the industry.
We are focused on the markets and segments where we can see Net written premiums the benefit of our underwriting Sweden 720m Denmark 506m and pricing actions.
Baltics and Norway 98m Royal & SunAlliance 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 US operating review 2005 has been a productive year with the continued reduction in exposure and infrastructure.
We cut our insurance result loss to 29m for 2005, down US from 372m in 2004 and delivered a 3m profit in the m 2005 2004 fourth quarter.
General business Business progress against strategies Underwriting result 145 462 Achieving our stabilisation and restructuring strategy continues Insurance result 29 372 to be driven by the six critical drivers introduced in late 2003.
Claims management During 2005, we continued our stabilisation and Our efforts to accelerate the reduction in our claim inventory restructuring programme, moving significantly forward resulted in a 61% decrease in open claims since December 2003 with plans to simplify our operations.
Highlights included and liabilities have reduced by $1.2bn in the year to $3.4bn at the sale of Nonstandard Auto NSA, the strengthening year end.
Cost control initiatives included the introduction of of our Risk Based Capital RBC ratio, the reduction a national litigation management strategy designed to control in regulated insurance entities and domiciliary states claim litigation costs, and an early resolution initiative that targets and the reduction in losses.
claims, where possible, for immediate settlement and resolution.
Overview of major strategies Expense management Our major focus during 2005 was structural simplification, In 2005 we reduced our expense base by $115m to $225m building on the successful implementation of our stabilisation in line with our operational size.
We also reduced headcount plan.
The overarching goal of our restructuring is to safeguard by 1,299 to 860 at the year end.
assets appropriately and minimise the risk of volatility in the Transition of resources and assets overall operating result of the Group.
Derisking the business We are consolidating the operations whilst ensuring we have and eliminating operational uncertainties also allows for greater a stable, cost effective structure to support our continuing flexibility in pursuing options for bringing certainty and finality obligations.
With the sale of NSA, the remaining US ongoing to the US business.
business is primarily personal insurance.
Accordingly, we have To this end, we have sold our last ongoing business and our net filed personal insurance withdrawal plans in several states, with approvals received from four states by the end of February 2006. written premiums have decreased by 98% since September 2003.
Over the last few years, across the Group, we have restructured our portfolio, exited a number of lines of business, more clearly defined our risk appetite and established rigorous underwriting controls.
In 2005 there were significant weather events in the Americas.
However, through our focus on risk selection and our disciplined approach to underwriting, the Core Group delivered a 42% increase in underwriting profit and a 2 point improvement in the combined operating ratio to 94.1%.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 25 Legal risk assessment and performance management initiatives.
Through strong management we are focused on the resolution Our success in this area was substantiated by internal audits of claims and corporate litigation.
Our proactive approach is conducted during 2005. successfully mitigating risk and positions us for the best We have continued to closely monitor regulatory and legislative possible litigation results.
matters in the US, especially the asbestos litigation reform Investment management process at the federal level.
In February, debate by the senate We generated a strong investment result.
This can be attributed resulted in Bill 852, the trust fund legislation, being sent back to duration extensions, interest rate rises and additional income to the committee.
As it stands today, it is possible that the focus earned from higher coupons on the floating rate portfolio.
could shift to a medical bill or another version of asbestos reform.
We will continue to monitor developments.
Reinsurance recoverables We aim to maximise the cash available to our operations through Outlook aggressive reinsurance collections and cash management.
During 2006, we will continue the work to identify a solution In addition, we are focused on managing and improving our to the challenges we face in the US.
We will maintain our focus statutory capital position.
We collected $1.3bn in reinsurance on stabilising and restructuring the US organisation in a cost balances during 2005, bringing our total collections to almost effective and efficient manner, while maintaining an appropriate $4bn since the beginning of 2003. control environment.
Sale of Nonstandard Auto We appointed Edward Muhl to the US Board in January 2006.
On 1 November 2005, we sold our remaining ongoing He brings with him nearly 40 years of insurance industry business to Sentry Insurance a Mutual Company.
The sale experience, having served in a regulatory capacity as included the transition of more than 600 NSA dedicated Superintendent of Insurance, State of New York: Commissioner employees to Sentry.
For the first 10 months of the year, NSA of Insurance, State of Maryland and President of the NAIC reported an operating profit of $37m and a COR of 88.8%.
National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
The transaction provided a post tax gain under IFRS of 71m.
Achieving stabilisation has not been easy and we still face It also strengthened our Risk Based Capital.
At 31 December uncertainty associated with long tail reserves and litigation.
On 2005, the US operation had an RBC ratio of 2.2. a business as usual basis, we anticipate broadly breaking even at the insurance level in 2006.
We continue to focus on driving The NSA sale also allowed for continued simplification of our down claims and expenses and actively explore opportunities to regulatory structure in the US.
The operation reduced the number accelerate coming off risk.
Our objective is to bring certainty and of domiciliary states to two and insurance entities to four, down finality to the US exposure.
Execution of this is complex, will take from 11 and 25 respectively, at the beginning of 2004.
This time and will not be a totally smooth ride.
restructuring streamlined the regulatory process, eliminated the costs associated with maintaining numerous legal entities and enhanced our ability to maximise investment return by reducing the number of separate, individual company portfolios.
Governance continued to be a top priority as evidenced by the process controls implemented across the operation, robust We continue to reduce our exposure and actively explore 61% $1.
2bn options to accelerate coming REDUCTION REDUCTION off risk.
IN OPEN IN LIABILITIES CLAIMS SINCE IN THE YEAR DECEMBER 2003
