Citizens Profit contribution 1,575 million 2004 1,069 million Total income up 43% Profit up 47% 32 K-Sea Transportation has been a business customer with Citizens for over 3 years.
It builds ferries, tugs and barges, one of which is seen here on the famous Staten Island crossing.
To help fund further investment in its business K-Sea looked to Citizens Bank for a US$37 million Senior Credit Facility, US$34 million in equipment leases, and foreign exchange services.
Make it happen Citizens 33 applications.
Its Consumer Finance division is the Citizens ranks as the eighth largest No.
2 bank auto lender in the US and a top home commercial banking organisation equity lender.
The Consumer Finance division introduced two new business lines: Indirect in the US by deposits.
Last year Recreational Vehicle and National Home Equity.
was Citizens 13th consecutive Both new initiatives contributed operating profit in their first year of operation.
year of record profits, achieved Citizens Switch Support programme through the integration of Charter with automated concierge service has smoothed One and strong organic growth.
the transition of customers switching to Citizens Drive and Charter One from other banks.
In 2005 Citizens increased its income by 42% to US$5,940 million.
Our supermarket banking programme continued its momentum during 2005, adding Make it happen 34 branches in strategic locations with our primary Through Citizens Bank and Charter One partners.
With around 520 Citizens Bank and Bank, Citizens network of retail and corporate Charter One in-store branches, Citizens is now the banking covers Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, second-largest supermarket banker in the US.
Indiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York state, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Building on this momentum, in January Rhode Island and Vermont.
Citizens has a retail 2006 Citizens announced the opening of 75 branches and corporate presence in about 40 states.
in Stop & Shop Supermarkets over the next three years, expanding its supermarket banking The systems and account integration for franchise into New Yorks Hudson Valley, Rockland 3 million customer accounts and around 8,000 and Westchester Counties and Long Island.
The colleagues of the former Charter One Financial, Inc. partnership with Stop & Shop began in the New the companys largest US acquisition, was completed England franchise in 2001, where it has grown to in July 2005, five months ahead of schedule.
In 2005, all Citizens Bank and Charter One RBS National Bank, now part of Citizens US branches and facilities were re-branded, with more credit cards division, launched the Circle Rewards than 70,000 new signs and ATM surrounds using MasterCard that can be issued automatically the RBS logo, a new font for the bank name and the when a qualifying customer opens an account distinctive Citizens green.
at a Citizens Bank or Charter One branch.
Citizens made more than 900,000 new consumer loans totalling US$22 billion during 2005 and processed more than 1.5 million credit 2005 Divisional review Citizens continued Citizens was the No.
2 US Small Business Administration lender in the US for the fourth consecutive year.
Citizens International Cash Management collaboration with Corporate Markets resulted in 300 new Citizens accounts with existing RBS customers.
34 Ryerson, Inc. based in Chicago, is North Americas leading processor and distributor of metals.
Our ability to meet the complex needs of large commercial customers is demonstrated in the partnership between RBS Corporate Markets, which provided Ryerson with credit facilities, and Charter One, which was able to offer treasury management services.
Make it happen Citizens 35 Kroger Personal Finance, a joint venture interest rate protection, foreign exchange, cash between Citizens cards division and Kroger Co. management, asset finance and administration, the second largest supermarket chain in the US, asset-based lending and private equity capital.
is offering KPF credit cards in nearly 2,200 stores and is branching out into other products.
The management and business of RBS We launched seven different branded card Asset Finance, Inc. has been transferred from programmes in 2005 for Kroger customers, RBS Corporate Markets to Citizens.
This integration launched a MasterCard-branded gift card and combined the existing Citizens asset finance started installing RBS Lynk-supported ATMs into company, Citizens Leasing, with Charter Ones a number of Kroger locations.
ICX Corporation and the group formerly known as RBS Lombard to form RBS Asset Finance.
1 US Small Business The combined company is the eighth largest bankAdministration SBA lender in the Mid-Atlantic, affiliated leasing company in the US.
Midwest and New England regions in 2005, and the No.
2 lender in the US for the fourth consecutive During 2005, RBS transferred to Citizens year.
We made over 10,000 SBA-backed loans, the operating control of the electronic processing totalling more than US$416 million, which provider RBS Lynk.
RBS Lynk began cross-selling represented a 79% increase in volume over 2004. merchant services to small business customers through Citizens and Charter One branches and In its first year of Citizens ownership, their business bankers.
Charter Ones new Business Banking team grew its SBA lending to No.
1 in the Midwest in both the In late 2004, Citizens established new number of loans written and total dollars loaned International Cash Management services with during 2005.
Charter One became top SBA lender Corporate Markets for companies doing business in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio.
in the US and the EU, resulting in nearly 300 new customer accounts at Citizens during 2005 for Also in Ohio, Charter One is sponsoring existing RBS customers.
These customers use an the new Charter One Global Enterprise Center in extensive array of cash management services, and Cleveland to fuel economic growth by maximising have brought in more than US$80 million of new northeast Ohios international business core deposits.
Since it began in 2004, Citizens Job Bank In addition to lending at the community offered US$144 million in loan funds at belowbanking, middle market and large corporate market rates to 11 companies that agreed to create levels, Citizens Corporate Banking services has an estimated 4,536 jobs.
Citizens Housing Bank worked effectively in partnership with RBS offered US$167 million in low-interest loan funds to Corporate Markets.
This provides additional expertise non-profit housing developers to create 2,286 and flexibility to meet the needs of larger customers affordable housing units in New England and Ohio.
Services include Both programmes will be extended in 2006.
2005 Divisional review Citizens continued Citizens is among the top 10 rankings in deposits among US commercial banking organisations.
It ranks seventh in branches and ninth in ATMs.
Citizens was one of just two companies in 2005 to receive the US Chamber of Commerce Corporate Stewardship Award.
36 Citizens support for the community is matched colleague donations for Hurricane Katrina extensive.
Examples include a comprehensive, relief efforts, added its own corporate contribution, multi-million dollar investment plan to increase home and collected customer donations to The Red ownership, strengthen commercial retail districts, Cross and The Salvation Army through its network and create an education district in Albany, New York: of more than 1,600 branches.
a new innovative product for low moderate-income homebuyers introduced by CCO Mortgage Corp in Charter One secured the naming rights to the traditionally under-served areas: a strong partnership previously designated Lakefront Pavilion, a summer with the Chicago Urban League on housing and concert performance centre on Northerly Island, financial literacy: US$700,000 of help with heating costs between Lake Michigan and the Chicago skyline.
for more than 345 homeless shelters in eight states through the Shelter Heating Assistance Campaign: Awards SM and assistance through our Champions in Action Citizens was one of just two companies in programme for close to 70 small, non-profit agencies the United States to be awarded the US Chamber dedicated to a range of housing, health and youth of Commerce Corporate Stewardship Award.
This issues in New England, Pennsylvania and Ohio.
recognition was for the companys total performance and contribution to economic, community and Citizens support for its own people includes social progress.
It noted Citizens Champions in the Home Buyer Assistance Programme, which Action, the Citizens Job Bank, and the companys since 2002 has helped more than 2,000 colleagues Home Buyer Assistance Programme.
purchase primary residences often their first homes with forgivable loans totalling more than Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania received the US$10 million.
The military leave policy, which bridges 2005 Good Government Award from the League of pay and benefits to cover the duration of military Women Voters for its Citizens Job Bank initiative to leave, has benefited more than 190 colleagues, and grow new jobs during 2004 and 2005. over 70 employees with serving family members have been given time off with pay, air fares and Citizens Financial Group received the 2005 help with travel expenses to visit their loved ones.
Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award, the US governments highest honour for Since June 2005 Citizens has promoted support of the Guard and Reserve for policies local volunteering through the Join Us campaign and programmes that support colleagues on active and its associated website, which also provides duty well beyond US legal requirement.
information on the Champions in Action programme and enables visitors to let Citizens know about local Citizens received the Alfred P. Sloan Award non-profit organisations that they feel deserve the for Business Excellence in Workplace Flexibility banks attention.
Citizens created a special Tsunami from the Families and Work Institute, U. S. Chamber Sabbatical to send a colleague to Indonesia for of Commerces Center for Workforce Preparation three months to help with relief and rebuilding and the Center for Emerging Futures in recognition efforts through Plan International.
Citizens also of its many programmes to support employees.
Make it happen Citizens 37 The Chicago Defender is one of the oldest newspapers in America serving the AfroAmerican community.
Charter One built on its SBA lending success offering capital to inner city businesses like The Chicago Defender.
RBS National Bank, which RBS Lynk, based in Atlanta, sells credit cards in the offers a range of payment US, is now offering these systems for retail and to Citizens customers.
Fence In 2005 we launched America is one of the first Circle Rewards, a loyalty to use the innovative new programme with discounts product Treo, which allows for air travel, hotels and credit card payments to be branded merchandise.
