Ulster Bank Group Profit contribution 530 million 2004 460 million Total income increased 15% Profit up 15% 30 University of Limerick.
Ulster Bank and University of Limerick share a passion for innovation and high standards.
A 10-year agreement has underlined Ulster Banks commitment to the education sector nationally and to the Munster region where the university is located covering the Universitys own banking and on-campus banking for students, staff and local businesses.
Make it happen Ulster Bank Group 31 Ulster Bank Groups Corporate Banking Ulster Bank Group saw sustained and Financial Markets CBFM division continued growth in 2005 and the launch to experience strong lending growth to its corporate Potential customers.
Average lending grew by 29% in 2005 of market-leading mortgage 26% in Northern Ireland and 30% in the Republic of Ireland.
A branch improvement programme Important transactions completed during the year included the banking business of United Dairy and a new Ulster Bank brand Farmers, a leading dairy producer: funding the identity moved us towards our construction of major shopping centres in Essex and Dundalk, and working with the RBS Specialist vision of becoming the best bank Healthcare team to win the mandate to fund development of Beacon Hospital, a major new on the island of Ireland.
Ulster private hospital in Dublin.
Make it happen Bank Groups total income 89 branches were overhauled as part increased by 15% to 858 million.
of our improvement to the Ulster Bank branch network, with work planned on a further 57 during 2006.
The Ulster Bank and First Active branches Ulster Bank Group ended 2005 with 1.6 together create a network of 272 branches.
million personal and business customers across the island of Ireland.
2005 was also significant for the visibility of our brands.
The Ulster Bank brand adopted Product development has been a key factor the RBS logo in November, enhancing its identity in Ulster Bank Groups success.
In November 2005 as a member of the RBS Group, while First Active we launched a radical overhaul of personal current continued its targeted focus on the mortgage sector.
accounts in Northern Ireland to provide free banking to all personal customers.
Awards First Active introduced the Republic of Corporate Banking Excellence Award Irelands first 100% First Time Buyers Mortgage KPMGs Financial Services Excellence Awards confirming First Actives reputation for innovative products.
These include the Current Account Best practice in recruitment and Mortgage and Elevator savings account.
employment of people with disabilities 02 Ability Award Ulster Bank also led as the first clearing bank to extend its 100% mortgage to first-time buyers Aimhigher programme Northern Ireland across the island.
The Switcher Mortgage package Big Tick Award for Business in the Community has made it easy for customers to switch to us.
Excellence and Chambers of Commerce in Ireland Presidents Awards Commendation 2005 Divisional review
