Board of directors and secretary Sir George Mathewson Sir Fred Goodwin Sir Tom McKillop 52 Lawrence Fish Guy Whittaker Gordon Pell Archie Hunter Joe MacHale Charles Bud Koch Janis Kong Jim Currie Bob Scott Colin Buchan Sir Steve Robson Peter Sutherland Miller McLean, Secretary Board of directors and secretary Chairman Lawrence Fish age 61 Lynch Gold Limited, Royal Janis Kong age 55 former group chief executive of Sir George Mathewson age 65 Chairman and Chief Executive Scottish National Orchestra OBE, DUniv CGNU plc and chairman of the CBE, DUniv, LLD, FRSE, FCIBS Officer of Citizens Financial Society Limited and World Appointed to the Board in board of the Association of C Chairman, N Chairman Group, Inc. Mining Investment Company January 2006, Janis Kong is British Insurers.
He is chairman Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Limited.
currently executive chairman of of Yell Group plc and nonSeptember 1987 and as January 1993, Lawrence Fish Heathrow Airport Limited, executive director of Swiss Chairman in April 2001, Sir is an American national.
He is Jim Currie age 64 chairman of Heathrow Express Reinsurance Company Zurich, George Mathewson has a wide a career banker and was a D. Litt Limited and a director of BAA Jardine Lloyd Thompson background in finance, director of the Federal Reserve R plc and Portmeirion Group plc.
Group plc and Focus DIY technology and management Bank of Boston.
He is a trustee Appointed to the Board in She is also a member of the Group Limited.
He is also a and spent some of his career of The Brookings Institution November 2001, Jim Currie is board of Visit Britain and trustee of the Crimestoppers in the United States.
He and a director of the Financial a highly experienced senior previously served as a member Trust and an adviser to Duke became Group Chief Executive Services Roundtable, Textron international civil servant who of the board of the South East Street Capital.
53 in January 1992 and, in March Inc. and numerous community spent many years working in England Regional Development 2000, he was appointed organisations in the USA.
Peter Sutherland age 59 Executive Deputy Chairman.
was formerly director general KCMG He is a director of The Scottish Gordon Pell age 56 at the European Commission Joe MacHale age 54 C, N Investment Trust PLC and the FCIBS, FCIB with responsibility for the EUs A Appointed to the Board in Institute of International Chief Executive, environmental policy and Appointed to the Board in January 2001, Peter Sutherland Finance, Inc.
He is also Retail Markets director general for Customs September 2004, Joe MacHale is an Irish national.
He is a president of the International Appointed to the Board in and Excise and Indirect is currently a non-executive former attorney general of Monetary Conference, a March 2000, Gordon Pell was Taxation.
He is also a director director and chairman of the Ireland and from 1985 to 1989 member of the Advisory formerly group director of of Total Holdings UK Limited, audit committee of Morgan was the European Committee of Bridgepoint Lloyds TSB UK Retail Banking an international advisor to Crucible plc, a non-executive Commissioner responsible for Capital Limited and a member before joining National Eversheds and a consultant to director of Brit Insurance competition policy.
He is of the Financial Reporting Westminster Bank Plc as a Butera & Andrews UK Limited.
Holdings plc, and a trustee chairman of BP p. l. c. and Council.
He was chief director in February 2000 and of MacMillan Cancer Relief.
Goldman Sachs International executive of the Scottish then becoming chief executive, Archie Hunter age 62 He held a number of senior and honorary president and Development Agency from Retail Banking.
He is also a A Chairman, C executive positions with J P member of the Advisory 1981 to 1987 and is a former director of Race for Opportunity Appointed to the Board in Morgan between 1979 and Council for the European president of the British and a member of the National September 2004, Archie 2001 and was latterly chief Movement Ireland.
Employment Panel and the Hunter is a Chartered executive of J P Morgan formerly chairman of Allied FSA Practitioner Panel.
He was Scottish Europe, Middle East and Irish Bank and a director Deputy Chairman and senior partner of KPMG Africa Region.
general of GATT and the World Chairman-designate Guy Whittaker age 49 between 1992 and 1999 and Trade Organisation.
Sir Tom McKillop age 62 Group Finance Director President of The Institute of Sir Steve Robson age 62 C, N C Chartered Accountants of A Group Secretary and Appointed to the Board as Appointed to the Board in Scotland in 1997 1998.
He Appointed to the Board in July General Counsel Deputy Chairman in February 2006, Guy Whittaker has extensive professional 2001, Sir Steve Robson is a Miller McLean age 56 September 2005, Sir Tom is a was formerly group treasurer at experience in the UK and former senior UK civil servant, FCIBS non-executive director of BP Citigroup Inc. based in New North and South America.
who had responsibility for a C p. l. c. and was formerly chief York, having previously held a He is currently chairman of wide variety of Treasury Miller McLean was appointed executive of AstraZeneca plc.
number of management Macfarlane Group plc, a matters.
His early career Group Secretary in August He was formely president of positions within the financial director of Edinburgh US included the post of private 1994.
He is a trustee of the the European Federation of markets business at Citigroup.
Tracker Trust plc, Convenor secretary to the Chancellor of Industry and Parliament Trust, Pharmaceutical Industries and He was elected a Lady of Court at the University of the Exchequer and a non-executive chairman of Associations and chairman of Beaufort Fellow of Christ's Strathclyde and a governor secondment to ICFC now 3i.
The Whitehall and Industry the British Pharma Group.
He is College Cambridge in 2004. of the Beatson Cancer He was also a second Group and a director of The Pro-Chancellor of the University Research Institute.
permanent secretary of HM Scottish Parliament and of Leicester and a trustee of Non-executive directors Treasury, where he was Business Exchange.
the Council for Industry and Colin Buchan age 51 Charles Bud Koch age 59 managing director of the Higher Education.
A, C, R Appointed to the Board in Finance and Regulation A member of the Audit Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Bud Koch is Directorate.
He is a nonCommittee Executive directors June 2002, Colin Buchan was an American national.
He has executive director of JP C member of the Chairmans Sir Fred Goodwin age 47 educated in South Africa and extensive professional Morgan Cazenove Holdings, Advisory Group DUniv, FCIBS, FCIB, LLD spent the early part of his experience in the USA and is Xstrata Plc and Partnerships N member of the Nominations Group Chief Executive career in South Africa and the currently chairman of the UK plc, and a member of the Committee C Far East.
He has considerable board of the Federal Home Chairmans Advisory Appointed to the Board in international investment Loan Bank of Cincinnati, Committee of KPMG.
R member of the Remuneration Committee August 1998, Sir Fred Goodwin banking experience, as well as chairman of the board of John is a Chartered Accountant.
He experience in very large risk Carroll University and a trustee Bob Scott age 64 independent non-executive was formerly chief executive management in the equities of Case Western Reserve CBE, FCIBS director and director, Clydesdale Bank business.
He was chairman, C, N, R Chairman PLC and Yorkshire Bank PLC.
member of the group president and chief executive Appointed to the Board in He is chairman of The Princes management board of UBS AG officer of Charter One January 2001, Bob Scott is an Trust, a non-executive director and head of equities of UBS Financial, Inc. and its wholly Australian national.
He is the of Bank of China Limited and Warburg.
He is chairman of owned subsidiary, Charter One senior independent director.
a former president of the UBS Securities Canada Inc. Bank, N. A between 1973 and He has many years experience Chartered Institute of Bankers and vice-chairman of Standard 2004.
He is also a director of in the international insurance in Scotland.
He is Assurant, Inc. business and played a leading also a director of Merrill Lynch role in the consolidation of the World Mining Trust Plc, Merrill UK insurance industry.
He is a Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Governance and financial review
