Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in presenting their report together Going concern with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
Profit and dividends For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern The profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the basis for preparing the accounts.
company for the year ended 31 December 2005 amounted to 5,392 million compared with 4,856 million for the year ended Ordinary share capital 31 December 2004, as set out in the consolidated income During the year ended 31 December 2005, the ordinary share statement on page 145. capital was increased by the following issues: 110 An interim dividend of 19.4p per ordinary share was paid on a 13.5 million ordinary shares allotted as a result of the 7 October 2005 totalling 619 million 2004 529 million.
exercise of options under the companys executive, The directors now recommend that a final dividend of 53.1p sharesave and option 2000 schemes and a further 0.7 per ordinary share totalling 1,700 million 2004 1,308 million ordinary shares allotted in respect of the exercise of million be paid on 9 June 2006 to members on the register options under the NatWest executive and sharesave schemes at the close of business on 10 March 2006.
Subject to which had been exchanged for options over the companys approval of the dividend at the Annual General Meeting, shares following the acquisition of NatWest in 2000: shareholders will be offered the opportunity to participate in a dividend reinvestment plan, which will replace the current b 7.4 million ordinary shares allotted in lieu of cash scrip dividend scheme.
dividends: and Activities and business review c 2.3 million ordinary shares allotted under the companys The company is a holding company owning the entire issued employee share ownership plan.
ordinary share capital of the Royal Bank, the principal direct operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital at comprises the company and all its subsidiary and associated 31 December 2005 are shown in Note 30. undertakings, including the Royal Bank and NatWest.
The Group is engaged principally in providing a wide range of Preference share capital banking, insurance and other financial services.
The financial Details of issues of preference shares during the year and the risk management objectives and policies of the Group and authorised and issued share capital at 31 December 2005 are information on the Groups exposure to price, credit, liquidity shown in Note 30. and cash flow risk are contained in Note 34 on the financial statements.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of Authority to repurchase shares the company are shown in Note 15.
A review of the business At the Annual General Meeting in 2005, shareholders renewed for the year to 31 December 2005, of recent events and of the authority for the company to make market purchases likely future developments is contained in the Operating and of up to 317,495,924 ordinary shares.
The directors have not financial review.
exercised this authority to date.
The Group has however announced its intention to repurchase up to 1 billion of Business developments ordinary shares over the course of the next 12 months, and In August 2005, the Group announced a strategic partnership shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the Annual with Bank of China BoC.
Subsequently, a Group-led General Meeting in April.
consortium acquired a 10% shareholding in BoC through a majority-owned subsidiary for US$3.1 billion 1.7 billion.
The Groups share of the investment US$1.6 billion was financed through the disposal of its 2.2% holding in the issued share capital of Banco Santander Central Hispano, S. A.
Following receipt of all required regulatory approvals, the investment was completed in December 2005.
The two banks will co-operate across a range of business activities in China including credit cards, wealth management, corporate banking and personal lines insurance.
They will also closely co-operate in key operational areas including financial controls, risk management, human resources and corporate governance.
Report of the directors Shareholdings As at 27 February 2006, the company had been notified of the following interests in its shares, in accordance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985: Number of shares % held Number of shares % held 1 Ordinary shares: 5 2% cumulative preference shares: Legal & General Group plc 98,761,695 3.40 Commercial Union Assurance plc 91,429 22.86 Barclays PLC 126,816,644 3.97 Mr P. S. and Mrs J. Allen 86,999 21.75 The Capital Group of Companies, Inc 95,578,555 3.01 Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited 46,255 11.56 11% cumulative preference shares: E M Behrens Charitable Trust 20,000 5.00 Guardian Royal Exchange Mrs Gina Wild 19,800 4.95 111 Assurance plc 129,830 25.97 Trustees of The Stephen Cockburn Windsor Life Assurance Limited Pension Scheme 19,879 4.97 Company Limited 51,510 10.30 Miss Elizabeth Hill 16,124 4.03 Mr S. J. and Mrs J.
A. Cockburn 30,810 6.16 Mr W. T. Hardison Jr. 13,532 3.38 Cleaning Tokens Limited 25,500 5.10 Ms C. L. Allen 13,200 3.30 Ms J. C. Allen 12,750 3.18 Notification has been received on behalf of Mr A. W. R. Medlock and Mrs H. M. Medlock that they each have an interest in the 1 holding of 5 2% cumulative preference shares registered in the name of Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited noted above and that there are further holdings of 5,300 and 5,000 shares, respectively, of that class registered in each of their names.
Directors Sir George Mathewson will retire as Chairman of the Board The names and brief biographical details of the directors are with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting shown on page 109.
All directors, except: on 28 April 2006.
The Group has secured his continued employment to serve in an advisory role to the Group.
Sir Tom Sir Angus Grossart, Lord Vallance and Iain Robertson, who McKillop will succeed Sir George as Chairman.
retired from the Board on 20 April 2005, and Eileen Mackay, who retired from the Board on 31 December 2005, Directors interests The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at Sir Tom McKillop, who was appointed to the Board on 31 December 2005 are shown on page 130.
None of the 1 September 2005, Janis Kong, who was appointed to the directors held an interest in the loan capital of the company or Board on 1 January 2006, and Guy Whittaker, who was in the shares and loan capital of any of the subsidiary appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006, and undertakings of the company, during the period from 1 January 2005 to 27 February 2006.
Fred Watt, who resigned from the Board on 31 January 2006, Employee proposition served throughout the year and to the date of signing of the The Group recognises that staff performance is central to the financial statements.
successful delivery of its overall business strategy.
Accordingly, the Group focuses on maintaining an employee proposition Sir Tom McKillop, Colin Buchan, Janis Kong, Bob Scott, Peter that attracts, engages and retains the best available talent.
Sutherland and Guy Whittaker will retire and offer themselves for election or re-election at the companys Annual General Employee recruitment Meeting.
Bill Friedrich, Johnny Cameron and Mark Fisher have Utilising a wide range of recruitment channels, including an been appointed as directors with effect from 1 March 2006 open internal jobs market, talent forums and detailed and will also offer themselves for election at the companys succession planning, the Group ensures that the recruitment Annual General Meeting.
and development of employees is closely aligned to organisational requirements.
A strong standing as an employer section Details of the service agreement for Guy Whittaker are set out of choice prompts applications from hundreds of thousands of on page 125.
Johnny Cameron has a service agreement with potential candidates each year.
Similarly, all vacancies are 02 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc dated 29 March 1998 which displayed internally and RBS employees can apply for any role.
may be terminated by Mr Cameron giving six months notice to the Royal Bank and by the Royal Bank giving 12 months notice The Group retains a high profile as a graduate recruiter, to Mr Cameron.
Mark Fisher has a service agreement with The providing a wide range of development programmes.
In 2005, Royal Bank of Scotland plc dated 3 May 2000 which may be more than 14,000 graduates applied for over 230 places terminated by either party giving six months notice to the other.
The Group also received the Association of No other director seeking election or re-election has a service Graduate Recruiters Award for delivering the Best Integrated agreement.
Marketing Recruitment Campaign targeted at graduates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Report of the directors Governance Report of the directors continued Group-wide co-ordination and access to recruitment and Employee learning and development interview skills training ensures recruitment complies with The Group actively encourages learning and development and internal and regulatory requirements.
In addition, the Group is committed to creating and providing opportunities both continues to ensure all appointees are appropriately inside and outside the workplace.
These experiences are referenced and screened prior to joining the organisation.
provided through a variety of developmental initiatives, technological innovations and learning networks and forums.
Employee reward Creating and maintaining a talented network of people across The Group acknowledges that its continuing success is closely the Group ensures not only a strong leadership capability, but linked to the performance, skills and individual commitment of also a high performing workforce.
Significant focus is therefore given to offering an 112 exceptional reward proposition to all RBS Group employees in In 2005 a new Group-wide approach to leadership order to attract, motivate and retain the best available talent at development was launched.
Called the Leadership Journey, every level.
it defines success at different leadership levels and the key developmental challenges that employees face as they In 2005, employee costs of 5,992 million, including National progress within the Group.
A suite of development Insurance and pension costs of 864 million, made up over a programmes has been designed and implemented to ensure third of total expenditure.
appropriate leadership development, supporting the challenges that individual leaders face whilst completing The Groups remuneration and benefits package, Total Reward, different stages of the Leadership Journey.
consisting of salary, bonus, share scheme and competitive pension benefits is acknowledged as one of the most A core component of this ongoing activity is the Groups comprehensive and flexible packages in the financial services Executive Leadership Programme developed in conjunction sector.
Salary awards within the Group reflect individual with the Harvard Business School and the establishment of an performance, offering greater increases for high performers, on-site business school at the Group Headquarters at as well as acknowledging market competitor movements.
Gogarburn, Edinburgh, which opened in January 2006.
The Business School is central to the Groups commitment to RBSelect, the Groups benefits choice programme, forms part developing its leaders, and equipping them with the skills and of the Total Reward package.
It provides for UK staff in the confidence necessary to lead in complex and challenging Group a flexible way of tailoring their reward to reflect their environments.
Options range from subsidised childcare vouchers and discounted personal insurance Employee communication products to environmentally friendly bicycle purchases.
Employee engagement is encouraged through a variety of means including a corporate intranet, Group and divisional Employees can also participate in bonus incentive plans magazines, team meetings led by line managers, briefings specific to their business and share in the Groups ongoing held by senior managers and regular dialogue with employees success through profit sharing, Buy As You Earn and and employee representatives.
Sharesave schemes, which align their interests with those of shareholders.
UK employees participate in profit sharing that is During 2005, the high quality of the Groups internal directly related to the annual performance of the Group.
For communications was reflected by success in a number of the last seven years this has amounted to a further 10 percent prestigious external awards schemes.
Awards were attained at of basic salary.
both Group and divisional level and included a Gold Award for hub magazine, the Manufacturing divisions internal To enable employees to get the most from Total Reward, a publication, at the UK Communicators in Business Awards, wide range of information about reward and benefits has been and a Gold Award for the Group Communications team in the introduced through RBSpeople.
com, an internet site offering Regular Communications category at the International Visual 24 hour access from home or work.
Communication Association Awards The RBS group Charity Lottery was launched during 2005.
The Group Chief Executive and other senior Group executives Employees contributing to the prize fund through a small regularly communicate with employees through Question Time monthly entry fee have the chance to win up to 50% of the total style programmes, broadcast on the Groups internal television funds collected each month.
The remainder, after payment of network.
An Open Air debate chaired by the Group Chief a small lottery-operating fee, is donated to charity.
Executive on Diversity and Inclusion, seeking to ensure equality of opportunity for employees and customers, typifies The Group continues to offer membership of its final pension this approach.
scheme, with the entire cost being met by the Group.
The largest scheme is the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund, with 80,000 employee members in the UK.
Report of the directors Employee consultation provided to support applicants in the recruitment process The Groups confidential global Employee Opinion Survey is where these are required.
The Group provides reasonable externally designed, undertaken and analysed annually on workplace adjustments for new entrants into the Group and for behalf of the Group by International Survey Research ISR.
existing employees who become disabled during their employment.
The survey enables employees to maximise their contribution to the Group by expressing their views and opinions on a Health, safety, wellbeing and security range of key issues.
The health, safety, wellbeing and security of RBS staff and customers continue to be a priority for the Group.
Regular The results from the 2005 survey, which 86% of Group employees reviews are undertaken of both policies and processes to 113 completed, demonstrated significant improvements for the fifth ensure compliance with current legislation and best practice.
This year, for the very first time, the Group The Group focus is on ensuring that these policies are closely scored above the ISR Global Financial Services Norm in every linked to the operational needs of the business.
Corporate responsibility The survey results are presented at Board, divisional and team Business excellence requires that the Group meets changing levels.
Action plans are developed to address any issues customer, shareholder, investor, employee and supplier identified.
With continuing year-on-year improvement, strong expectations.
The Group believes that meeting high standards divisional results and improvements in all leading indicators, it of environmental, social and ethical responsibility is key to the is believed that results are sustainable, particularly given the way it does business.
Groups focus on continuous improvement.
The Board regularly considers corporate responsibility issues In addition to direct communication and consultation with and receives a formal report twice each year.
Further details of employees, the Group recognises the trade union Amicus the Groups corporate responsibility policies will be contained in the UK, and the Irish Bank Officials Association and the in the 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Services, Industrial, Professional and Technical Union in Ireland.
These formal relationships are complemented by works Code of ethics council arrangements in many of the Groups mainland The Group has adopted a code of ethics that is applicable to all Europe-based operations.
of the Groups employees and a copy is available upon request.
The Group has an European Employee Communication Council Charitable contributions that provides elected employee representatives with an In 2005 the contribution to the Groups Community Investment opportunity to better understand market conditions and strategic programmes increased to 56.2 million 2004 45.8 million.
decisions with transnational impact on our European operations.
The total amount given for charitable purposes by the company and its subsidiary undertakings during the year ended Diversity 31 December 2005 was 24.3 million 2004 20.1 million.
The Groups Managing Diversity policy sets a framework and a minimum standard within which all employees can develop Corporate governance to their full potential irrespective of race, gender, marital status, age, disability, religious belief, political opinion or sexual The company is committed to high standards of Corporate orientation.
Each division has developed and delivered an governance.
Details are given on pages 115 to 120. action plan incorporating both Group and division-specific priorities to promote diversity across all areas of the employee Political donations lifecycle.
No political donations were made during the year.
The success of this approach culminated in the Group At the Annual General Meeting in 2002, shareholders gave receiving a Gold Standard Award in the Race for Opportunity authority for the company and certain of its subsidiaries to Benchmarking Survey, having previously attained a Bronze in make political donations and incur political expenditure up to section 2004.
The Group maintains its involvement in and support of a maximum aggregate sum of 675,000 as a precautionary the UK Employers Forum on Age, Employers Forum on 02 measure in light of the wide definitions in The Political Parties, Disability, Employers Forum on Belief, Stonewall and of the Elections and Referendums Act 2000, for a period of four Governments Age Positive campaign.
These authorities have not been used and it is not proposed that the Groups longstanding policy of not making The Group is also committed to ensuring that all prospective contributions to any political party be changed.
A resolution to applicants for employment are treated fairly and equitably renew a general Group authority will be proposed at the throughout the recruitment process.
Its comprehensive Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2006. resourcing standards cover the attraction and retention of individuals with disabilities.
Reasonable adjustments are Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Report of the directors Governance Report of the directors continued Policy and practice on payment of creditors The Group is committed to maintaining a sound commercial relationship with its suppliers.
Consequently, it is the Groups policy to negotiate and agree terms and conditions with its suppliers, which includes the giving of an undertaking to pay suppliers within 30 days of receipt of a correctly prepared invoice submitted in accordance with the terms of the contract or such other payment period as may be agreed.
At 31 December 2005, the Groups trade creditors represented 114 27 days 2004 27 days of amounts invoiced by suppliers.
The company does not have any trade creditors.
Directors' indemnities In terms of section 309C of The Companies Act 1985 as amended, the directors of the company, members of the Group Executive Management Committee and Approved Persons of the Group under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 have been granted Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions by the company.
Auditors The auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Miller McLean Secretary 27 February 2006 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is registered in Scotland No.
