Divisional profile 10 Corporate Markets Chief Executive Johnny Cameron Corporate Markets formerly Corporate Banking & Financial Markets is a leading provider of banking services and integrated financial solutions to corporate customers in the UK and major corporates and financial institutions globally.
Since the start of 2006 we have organised Corporate Markets into two distinct businesses: UK Corporate Banking, which focuses on the needs of UK domestic and international corporate and commercial customers, and Global Banking & Markets, which supports the requirements of large international corporates and financial institutions around the world.
UK Corporate Banking Global Banking & Markets Geographical spread Geographical spread UK UK, Europe, US and Asia Market data Market data Market data No.
1 UK corporate and commercial Serves over 95% of the FTSE 100 No.
1 for structured syndicated relationship bank loans in Europe Serves over 80% of Fortune 100 No.
1 for UK payments companies in the US No.
1 leveraged finance house in Europe No.
1 for card transaction processing Banking relationships with over 90% of the Dow Jones Eurostoxx 50 No.
1 train operating lessor in No.
1 for deposits Europe Top 10 globally for total debt No.
1 bookrunner of Agency commercial mortgage-backed No.
2 securitisation house globally securities No.
1 project finance bank globally No.
1 in US government sales No.
1 for foreign exchange for liquid products No.
3 commercial aircraft financier globally No.
1 for sterling interest rate derivatives Top 5 globally for foreign exchange Divisional profile 11 Retail Markets Chief Executive Gordon Pell Retail Markets has the largest network of bank branches and ATMs in the UK: it has leading positions in the UK in credit card issuing, merchant acquiring, consumer finance and supermarket banking: and it provides services to clients through premier brands in UK private banking and UK offshore banking.
It offers a wide range of banking, financial, insurance, life assurance, pension, credit card and charge card products and client services for private, corporate, expatriate and offshore customers.
Retail Markets brands include The Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest in retail banking and credit cards.
MINT and Tesco Personal Finance also offer cards, and a range of products and services are available through The One account, First Active UK, Direct Line Financial Services, Lombard Direct and other brands.
Through Streamline and International Merchant Services, which includes WorldPay and Bibit, we are the leading merchant acquirer in Europe.
Wealth Management brands include Coutts Group, Adam & Company, Royal Bank of Scotland International and NatWest Offshore.
Retail Banking Retail Direct Wealth Management Geographical spread Geographical spread Geographical spread UK UK and Europe UK, Europe, Asia and offshore locations Market data Market data Market data Largest retail network in the UK Over 17.5 million customer accounts Coutts premier UK private banking brand 2,274 branches Over 11 million credit card and storecard accounts in the UK Over 100,000 private banking Largest ATM network in the UK customers Over 2 million customer accounts Over 14 million personal customers in Europe Third largest foreign-owned private bank in Switzerland Largest provider of banking services to small and medium sized 160,000 offshore customers enterprises SMEs in the UK Over 1.1 million business customers 2005 Group review Divisional profile continued 12 Ulster Bank Group Citizens Chief Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cormac McCarthy Larry Fish Geographical spread Geographical spread Island of Ireland New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the US Ulster Bank Group operates across the island of Ireland Citizens is the eighth largest commercial banking providing a full range of banking and financial products organisation in the US, based on deposits.
The Charter One and services for personal customers and corporates via acquisition in August 2004 enabled it to expand into six branches, telephone and the internet.
Ulster Bank Group adjacent states in the northeastern and midwestern US.
has the largest share of personal banking customers Citizens offers personal banking, residential mortgages, in Northern Ireland and is the third largest bank in the home equity loans, credit cards and merchant card Republic of Ireland.
In 2005 Ulster Bank Group launched services, and a wide variety of commercial banking market-leading mortgage and current account products services through its extensive, convenient network of city and a new brand identity with the RBS logo.
centre, local and supermarket branches.
Market data Market data Largest share of personal banking Eighth largest commercial banking customers in Northern Ireland organisation in the US by deposits Third largest bank in the Republic Second largest supermarket banker of Ireland in the US 1.6 million personal and business 4.6 million personal customers, customers across the island of Ireland 450,000 business customers and 1.6 million retail credit card customer 304 branches and business outlets accounts Retail branch footprint extends to 13 states and 30% of the US consumer population With credit cards and our partnership with Kroger our total retail and corporate presence stretches across 40 states Over 1,100 traditional bank branches Over 520 in-store branches More than 3,800 ATMs Divisional profile 13 RBS Insurance Manufacturing Chief Executive Chief Executive Annette Court Mark Fisher Geographical spread Geographical spread UK and Europe UK and Europe RBS Insurance is the second largest general insurer in the Manufacturings diverse range of services supports UK and a growing provider of general insurance in Spain, the customer-facing operations of the Groups multiple Italy and Germany.
It sells and underwrites insurance via brands.
It provides customer support via telephony, the telephone, the internet, partnerships and a network of account management, lending, mortgage processing brokers.
Its brands, including Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege, and money transmission.
Green Flag and NIG, are some of the best known in the UK.
Group Technology develops and maintains the infrastructure and technology that supports the branches, ATMs and Market data internet banking for customers of Corporate Markets, Second largest general insurer in the UK Retail Markets and RBS Insurance.
1 for UK car insurance Purchasing is responsible for the vast majority of purchasing No.
2 for UK home insurance undertaken by the Group, leveraging its scale to maximise 25.9 million in-force policies cost efficiencies.
8.7 million UK car policies The Groups property portfolio is managed, maintained 4.6 million UK home policies and refurbished by Manufacturing, which also oversees Largest tele-direct insurer in Spain the property investment programme.
1.9 million international car policies Market data No.
1 in the UK for cheque payments No.
1 in the UK for Bank Automated Clearing System BACS transactions No.
1 in the UK for Clearing House Automated Payment System CHAPS transactions Runs the UKs largest ATM network 2005 Group review
