Manufacturing Manufacturing is the backbone of RBS, supplying IT, processing, telephone, property and purchasing support for the Groups customer-facing divisions.
On 14 September 2005, Her Majesty The Queen and His Royal Highness The Duke of Edinburgh formally opened the new RBS headquarters in Edinburgh.
It provides a superb working environment, together with fitness, nursery and conference facilities.
Make it happen Manufacturing 43 Broadening the skills of our teams in our In 2005 Manufacturing redesigned telephone and service centres, and changing their its operations so that more incentives, has generated a more responsive working culture.
Customers enjoy better service customers queries are resolved because we try to solve as many issues for them Determination by the first person they contact as we can in a single phone call.
Good We now have dedicated centres dealing with corporate customers helping to make the progress was made with the Group one of the top service providers for Make it happen integration of Ulster Bank onto the corporate and commercial customers in 2005.
Manufacturings In November 2005 a new Tesco Personal purchasing and property Finance Centre was created in Glasgow bringing together telephony, loans and savings functions operations were benchmarked as under one management team.
Combining these areas has created efficiencies and improved World Class during the year.
service to customers by giving people in the Centre a greater understanding of the full range of products Our network of over 7,400 ATMs processed and services offered to customers.
The daily average volume was 1.9 million transactions, The Groups Fraud Ring Task Force tackles dispensing 119 million.
the growing threat of fraud rings fraud cases linked together which can fund terrorism and In 2005 we reduced the time it takes for a organised crime.
This team is already creating customer to receive a fully operational debit card considerable benefit for the Group in the early after loss or theft from 12 days to within three days.
identification and closure of fraud ring activity.
Manufacturing processed 262,000 new The Group remains focused on reducing mortgage applications and 61,000 extra borrowing the threats associated with electronic attacks like mortgage applications for Group customers.
phishing used by fraudsters to try to obtain customers security details over the Internet.
During 2005 we introduced a programme During 2005 we experienced one of the lowest called Lean across our operations.
Developed in number of successful phishing attacks in the UK the Japanese car industry and used worldwide, banking industry.
Lean is a customer-focused approach that uses targeted tools and techniques to remove waste, In 2005 the key technology systems improve the flow of work and improve customer supporting branches and other parts of the service.
Group were available 99.95% of the time.
2005 Divisional review Manufacturing continued Often referred to as The Engine Room, Manufacturing enables the Group to function 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
44 In 2005 Group Workplace Operations, part than 1,500 people attended workshops on of our Group Property function, was judged coaching, developing and motivating their teams.
World Class by University College London, who Offshore Operations took part in the Jersey made the independent assessment using the workplace challenge which contributed to raising globally recognised Attributes of a world class real over 25,000 for Jersey Hospice and Save the estate organisation benchmark developed by the Children in 2005.
Real Estate Executive Board REEB.
REEB base this benchmark model on the top 10% practices Awards drawn from their membership of over 150 global World Class Accreditation Strategic blue chip companies.
Sourcing team, Group Purchasing A. T. Kearney Manufacturing completed the delivery of Gogarburn, the Groups new headquarters, on 100% Service Availability Programme, budget and six months early.
IT Team of the Year Previously Royal Mail collected, sorted European Banking Technology Award and delivered our mail to customers.
We appointed UK Mail, a third party supplier, to collect and sort Most innovative application of technology the mail bags, and track and deliver them to the Institute of Financial Services Royal Mail for final delivery to the customer.
By the year end, UK Mail had processed over 200 million Global Innovators Award Group Property envelopes through downstream access, generating CoreNet savings of 5 million.
On average, 20% of customers are now receiving their mail a day earlier Industry Champion than they did formerly by 2nd class mail.
European Call Centre Awards One customer service centre reduced its Top prize for Business Infrastructure and use of paper by 36% over 2005.
Building on this Facilities Management Strategy and Delivery experience, other centres are significantly reducing Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors Property Management Awards their use of paper.
Corporate Occupier of the year RBS Group Purchasing achieved the highest Scottish Property Awards, second year in a row scores within the 2005 Excellence in Procurement study, run by supply chain experts A. T. Kearney.
Gogarburn campus most significant The study, a multi-industry benchmark, involved contribution to the property industry in Scotland more than 300 global blue chip companies and for 2005 reinforced further our position as World Class Variety Club of Scotland global sourcing leaders.
The Groups internal mail handling service Feedback from the employee opinion survey won a World Mail Award in the Quality category showed a significant improvement in engagement in May 2005. and motivation across Manufacturing, after more Make it happen Manufacturing 45 Gogarburn.
Gogarburn provides a first class working environment and has received a number of awards for environmental best practice.
89 branches such as this one at Dorset Street in Dublin were upgraded as part of our 50 million improvement to the Ulster Bank branch network, with work planned on a further 57 during 2006.
Document Solutions processed 345 million customer communications in 2005, making it one of the largest mailing facilities in Europe.
This enlarged facility in Scotland increased capacity and resilience for the Group.
