Operating and financial review Description of business Retail Markets was established in June 2005 to strengthen Introduction co-ordination and delivery of our multi-brand retail strategy.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company Retail Markets comprises Retail Banking, Retail Direct and of one of the worlds largest banking and financial services Wealth Management.
groups, with a market capitalisation of 56 billion at the end of 2005.
Headquartered in Edinburgh, the Group operates in the Retail Banking is one of the leading retail banks in the UK.
The UK, US and internationally through its two principal subsidiaries, division comprises both the Royal Bank and NatWest retail brands.
the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Both the Royal Bank and NatWest It offers a full range of banking products and related financial are major UK clearing banks whose origins go back over 275 services to the personal, premium and small business markets.
In the US, the Groups subsidiary Citizens is ranked the 54 eighth largest commercial banking organisation by deposits.
In the personal banking market, Retail Banking offers a The Group has a large and diversified customer base and comprehensive product range: money transmission, savings, provides a wide range of products and services to personal, loans, mortgages and insurance.
In the small business market, commercial and large corporate and institutional customers.
Retail Banking provides a full range of services which include money transmission and cash management, short, medium The Group had total assets of 776.8 billion and shareholders and long-term financing, deposit products and insurance.
equity of 35.4 billion at 31 December 2005.
It is strongly capitalised with a total capital ratio of 11.7% and tier 1 capital Customer choice and product flexibility are central to the Retail ratio of 7.6% as at 31 December 2005.
Banking proposition and customers are able to access services through a full range of channels: branches, ATMs, the internet Organisational structure and business overview and the telephone.
The Groups activities are organised in the following business divisions: Corporate Markets formerly Corporate Banking & Retail Direct consists of the Groups non-branch based retail Financial Markets, Retail Markets comprising Retail Banking, businesses.
Retail Direct issues a comprehensive range of Retail Direct and Wealth Management, Ulster Bank, Citizens, credit and charge cards to personal and corporate customers RBS Insurance and Manufacturing.
A description of each of and provides card processing services for retail businesses.
the divisions is given below.
It also includes Tesco Personal Finance, The One account, First Active UK, Direct Line Financial Services and Lombard Corporate Markets is focused on the provision of debt and risk Direct, all of which offer products to customers through direct management services to medium and large businesses and channels principally in the UK.
In continental Europe, Retail financial institutions in the UK and around the world.
Corporate Direct offers a similar range of products through the RBS and Banking & Financial Markets was renamed Corporate Markets Comfort Card brands.
on 1 January 2006 when its activities were reorganised into two businesses, UK Corporate Banking and Global Banking & Wealth Management provides private banking and investment Markets, in order to enhance our focus on the distinct needs of services to its clients through a number of leading UK and these two customer segments.
These two divisions broadly overseas private banking subsidiaries and offshore banking correspond to the analysis of Corporate Markets by customer businesses.
Coutts is one of the worlds leading international grouping presented in this review.
wealth managers with over 20 offices worldwide, including Switzerland, Dubai, Monaco, Hong Kong and Singapore, as well Corporate Markets provides an integrated range of core as its premier position in the UK.
Adam & Company is the major banking, structured finance and financial markets products private bank in Scotland.
The offshore banking businesses The and services, including acquisition finance, trade finance, Royal Bank of Scotland International and NatWest Offshore leasing, factoring, treasury services, money markets, foreign deliver retail banking services to local and expatriate customers, exchange, derivatives, bond origination and trading, sovereign principally in the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and Gibraltar.
debt trading, futures brokerage and interest rate risk management services.
Ulster Bank brings together Ulster Bank and First Active to provide a highly effective challenger to the larger competitors Corporate Markets is the largest provider of banking, finance in the Irish banking market.
Serving personal and small and risk management services to Mid-Corporate and business customers, Ulster Bank Retail Banking provides Commercial customers in the UK.
Through its network of branch banking, wealth management and direct banking relationship managers across the country it provides the full throughout the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
With range of Corporate Markets products and services to small, a continued focus on providing customer choice and value, medium and large companies.
First Active serves personal and small business customers through its separately branded product offerings and branch Corporate Markets is a leading banking partner to major network throughout the Republic of Ireland.
Both First Active corporations and financial institutions around the world, and Ulster Bank retain their own brands, branch networks and specialising in providing a full range of debt financing, risk distinctive customer propositions and benefits are achieved management and investment services to its Global Banking by selling more mortgage and savings products to Ulster & Markets customers.
Banks customers and a broader range of banking products to First Actives customers.
Operating and financial review Ulster Bank Corporate Banking & Financial Markets caters for In the small business banking market, the Group competes the banking needs of business and corporate customers, with other UK clearing banks, specialist finance providers and, including treasury and money market activities, asset finance, for smaller businesses, building societies.
In the personal banking segment the Group competes with UK Citizens is the second largest commercial banking organisation banks and building societies, major retailers, life assurance in New England and the eighth largest commercial banking companies and internet-only players.
In the mortgage market the organisation in the US measured by deposits.
Citizens provides Group competes with UK banks and building societies.
NatWest retail and corporate banking services under the Citizens brand Life and Royal Scottish Assurance compete with Independent in Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Financial Advisors and life assurance companies.
The competitive 55 Jersey, New York state, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont situation in the long-term savings market is dynamic due to the and the Charter One brand in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and uncertainties created by regulatory change and the continued Ohio.
Through its branch network Citizens provides a full range evolution of institutions, particularly in the mutual sector.
of retail and corporate banking services, including personal banking, residential mortgages and cash management.
In In the UK credit card market large retailers and specialist card addition, Citizens engages in a wide variety of commercial issuers, including major US operators, are active in addition lending, consumer lending, commercial and consumer deposit to the UK banks.
Competitive activity is across a number of products, merchant credit card services, insurance products, dimensions including introductory and longer term pricing, trust services and retail investment services.
loyalty and reward schemes, and packaged benefits.
Whilst competition remains intense, pricing of introductory interest RBS Insurance is the second largest general insurer in the UK, rate offers has become less aggressive.
In addition to physical by gross earned premiums.
Through the Direct Line, Churchill distribution channels, providers compete through direct and Privilege brands it sells and underwrites personal marketing activity and the internet.
insurance over the telephone and the internet in the UK.
Through the Direct Line brand, RBS Insurance also sells and In Wealth Management, The Royal Bank of Scotland International underwrites personal insurance in Spain, Italy and Germany.
competes with other UK and international banks to offer Through UKI Partnerships, our partnership business, we offshore banking services.
Coutts and Adam & Company operate insurance schemes on behalf of third parties who in compete as private banks with UK clearing and private banks, turn sell insurance products to their customers.
NIG sells and with international private banks.
personal and commercial products through a network of intermediaries, while Inter Group acts as an insurance RBS Insurance competes in personal lines insurance and to a administrator and Devitt Insurance Services operates as a limited extent in commercial insurance.
There is strong specialist broker administrator.
competition from a range of insurance companies which now operate telephone and internet direct sales businesses.
RBS Manufacturing supports the customer facing businesses in the Insurance also competes with local insurance companies in UK and Ireland and manages the Groups telephony, account the direct motor insurance markets in Spain, Italy and Germany.
management and money transmission operations.
It is also responsible for information technology operations and In Ireland, Ulster Bank and First Active compete in retail and development, global purchasing, property and other services.
commercial banking with the major Irish banks and building societies, and with other UK and international banks and Manufacturing drives optimum efficiencies in high volume building societies active in the market.
Competition is processing activities, leverages the Groups purchasing power intensifying as UK, Irish and other European institutions seek and has become a centre of excellence for managing large to expand their businesses.
scale and complex change programmes such as integration.
In the United States, where competition is intense, Citizens Competition competes in the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Mid-West retail section The Group faces intense competition in all the markets it and mid-corporate banking markets with local and regional serves.
In the UK, the Groups principal competitors are the banks and other financial institutions.
The Group also 01 other UK retail and commercial banks, building societies and competes in the US in large corporate lending and specialised the other major international banks represented in London.
finance markets, and in fixed-income trading and sales.
Competition is principally with the large US commercial and Competition for corporate and institutional customers in the UK investment banks and international banks active in the US.
is from UK banks and from large foreign financial institutions who are also active and offer combined investment and In other international markets, principally in continental Europe, commercial banking capabilities.
In asset finance, the Group the Group faces competition from the leading domestic and competes with banks and specialised asset finance providers, international institutions active in the relevant national markets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review
