Corporate Markets Profit contribution 5,224 million 2004 4,196 million Total income up 17% Profit up 24% 14 14 Kew Gardens has an international reputation.
In 2005 they selected RBS for the quality of online banking data we offered alongside a very competitive and flexible interest bearing account.
RBS is UK market leader in the provision of banking services to the charitable sector.
Make it happen Corporate Markets Corporate Banking & Financial Markets 15 UK Corporate Banking provides customers with a full Corporate Markets is focused on suite of banking products and specialist services to the provision of financial services meet domestic and international needs.
We continue to be the UKs No.
1 corporate and commercial to commercial and corporate relationship bank and market leader in the UK in Delivery payments, card transaction processing, deposits, customers in the UK and to lending, asset finance, invoice finance, foreign large corporates and financial exchange and sterling interest rate derivatives.
In Make it happen Our corporate and commercial banking business has 86,000 customers supported 2005 Corporate Markets increased by 1,500 dedicated relationship and business income by 17% to 8,815 million.
development managers operating out of 170 corporate centres spread across the UK.
The former Corporate Banking & Financial We differentiate ourselves through the Markets division was renamed Corporate Markets strength of our long-term relationships with our on 1 January 2006, when we reorganised our customers.
Service is delivered by a network of activities into two businesses, UK Corporate experienced and highly trained relationship Banking and Global Banking & Markets, in order to managers operating in their local communities.
enhance our focus on the distinct needs of these Acting as a single point of contact, they work two customer segments.
proactively with our product teams to deliver the right solutions for their customers needs.
Quality Corporate Markets extensive product operational service is provided by specialist range includes cash and liquidity management customer service teams who are also closely and comprehensive debt, risk management and aligned with our relationship managers.
Debt services include overdraft, bilateral and syndicated lending: primary bond In addition to our core banking offering of issuance: trade finance: asset finance: and lending, payments, deposits and international structured finance solutions for property, acquisition services, our specialist businesses offer a full range finance, project finance and infrastructure finance of financing solutions to UK customers.
Lombard is including PPP PFI.
Risk management and treasury the market-leading provider of asset financing and services include trading of corporate, institutional management services from traditional hire purchase, and public sector debt: futures brokerage: foreign leasing and contract hire through to bespoke exchange: and money markets, currency derivative solutions.
RBS Invoice Finances services include and interest rate risk management services.
factoring, invoice discounting, asset-backed lending, trade cycle finance and bad debt protection.
Lombard and RBS Invoice Finance have 400 sales staff working out of 53 offices, and over 100,000 customers.
2005 Divisional review Corporate Markets continued RBS, through UK Corporate Banking, is the UKs No.
16 2005 successes include: RBS Invoice Finance delivered a committed RBS jointly underwrote and syndicated 16.5 million stock and debtor funding package a 1.2 billion funding package to enable Travis for Hargreaves Group, a leading bulk haulage and Perkins to acquire Wickes, creating one of the aggregates business.
This allowed the customer largest building supply businesses in the UK.
We to complete the acquisition of Monckton Coke & then acted as sole adviser on the raising of $400 Chemical Co whilst refinancing existing credit lines.
million of debt in the US Private Placement market, Travis Perkins first such transaction.
As a lead We helped Joy Mining Machinery to manage banker to the enlarged group we also provide the payment risks associated with exporting to the clearing services, interest rate hedging and Letters Far East, Russia and North Africa.
Our Letter of of Credit to support its international business.
Credit processing expertise enabled the company to trade safely in these countries.
We acted as an Underwriter and Bookrunner for Premier Foods, one of the largest suppliers Global Banking & Markets is a leading banking of grocery products in the UK, in a 780 million partner to major corporates and financial institutions financing package to support the acquisition of around the world, specialising in providing these Marlow Foods Limited, owner of the Quorn brand, customers with a full range of debt financing, risk the UKs leading meat alternative.
Our relationship team, working with Financial We serve our Global Banking & Markets Markets colleagues, provided South Yorkshire customers from offices in 20 countries, with a leading based Castings Technology International with position in the UK, established and strongly-growing funding for new flagship premises, allowing the positions in the US and continental Europe and company to grow its business and create 48 new an increasing capability in Asia-Pacific.
sophisticated customers benefit from our sectoral expertise, product excellence and access to markets.
A strong relationship with Icelandic readyprepared foods group Bakkavr resulted in RBS A focus on long-term relationships backed being mandated to structure and jointly arrange by our strong balance sheet and suite of valuea 500 million facility to enable Bakkavr to acquire added product capabilities is at the heart of our the entire share capital of Geest and refinance approach to our customers.
This approach enabled its debt.
excellent growth across the full range of products and markets that Global Banking & Markets serves.
As the leading UK clearing bank for TNT, we We have relationships with the overwhelming majority provide a comprehensive range of payment and of the members of each of the FTSE 100 index, cheque reconciliation services, including integrated the Fortune 100 list and the Dow Jones Eurostoxx IT systems and secure e-mail communication with 50 index.
Our close relationship enables us to integrate product delivery and enhance our The integration of our banking operations in customer service.
the US with RBS Greenwich Capital, our industryleading US government bonds and asset-backed Lombard provided a funding package securities business, has delivered excellent results to support the installation of a revolutionary new during 2005, with strong growth in new corporate G-Force rollercoaster ride at Drayton Manor relationships, corporate loan syndications and Theme Park in Staffordshire.
Make it happen Corporate Markets 17 Fondo Immobili Pubblici.
RBS Italy led three banks in the underwriting of the first closed-end real estate fund for the 3.3 billion transfer of property from the Italian Ministry of Economy and Finance to the newly created FIP.
Bloomsbury RBS has a long standing Publishing is one of relationship with The Britains most successful Open University, Britains publishing houses.
It is first university dedicated best known for titles such to distance learning.
as Harry Potter and the In 2005 the Open Pru Leith Cookery books University consolidated and is a long-standing its loan facilities with RBS UK Corporate Banking as sole lender.
2005 Divisional review Corporate Markets continued Our focus on long-term relationships backed by value-adding solutions has won Global Banking & Markets major corporate and institutional customers around the world.
We have relationships with over 95% of the FTSE 100, over 80% of Fortune 100 companies in the US and over 90% of the Dow Jones Eurostoxx 50.
In April 2005 Pernod Ricard completed the acquisition of Allied Domecq.
RBS was one of four Bookrunners for the 9.2 billion facility offering specialist expertise in foreign exchange hedging and structured loans.
Make it happen Corporate Markets Corporate Banking & Financial Markets 19 A controlled expansion of our franchise over the api Energia Power Project in Italy due to our the last five years across France, Germany, Spain, long-term relationship, structuring expertise and Italy and the Nordic region has enabled us to market-leading position.
api Energia is one of three capture and develop major client relationships in integrated gasification combined cycle plants in continental Europe.
We now provide a full range Europe showcasing an environmentally friendly of products to customers in these countries.
gasification process which converts refinery residue to electrical power.
This transaction and our ongoing In the Asia Pacific region we have selectively support have enabled the api Group to continue built up our presence, particularly where we have with its development plans and long-term growth identified opportunities to leverage our expertise in objectives.
delivering financial markets products to financial institutions.
We continue to achieve impressive RBS was instrumental in the largest Public results from the region, where we now employ Tender Offer ever made by a privately owned 500 people.
In Australia our wide range of products company in Germany, when it served as the exclusive has been particularly successful with both corporate financial arranger to Spohn Cement GmbH in its and institutional customers.
acquisition of Heidelberg Cement AG.
RBS was mandated as Sole Bookrunner to underwrite and Our worldwide team of structured finance arrange the financing needs of the bid, including the professionals provides specialised financing solutions provision of acquisition facilities totalling 3.1 billion.
for acquisitions, property, projects, infrastructure and commercial equipment including aircraft, ships When RBS co-arranged the US$1.2 billion and trains.
In Europe we have a long-standing private placement for Wolseley, the worlds largest market-leading position in leveraged finance as distributor of heating and plumbing products, it set a preferred partner to financial sponsors.
Globally a market record for private placements.
1 project finance bank and No.
RBS jointly led the 18 billion acquisition of UK mobile operator 02 by Telefnica, underwriting Our financial markets activities benefit from 6.1 billion.
This was one of the largest acquisitions our established platform and the real scale that we in the telecom sector and the largest ever single have developed.
We are able to provide a full range acquisition made by a Spanish company awarded of solutions that deliver against different customer Most Impressive Loan and Best Western European requirements, from rapid access to electronic Loan by Euroweek.
platforms, to high quality advice and excellent execution by highly skilled sales people.
The UK Debt Management Office and Her Majestys Treasury mandated RBS to act as one of 2005 successes include: four Bookrunners in the UK Governments first ever RBS arranged and underwrote 1.7 billion syndicated offering in sterling bonds and the first of debt facilities to finance Gala Groups 50 year inflation bond in the world.
acquisition of Coral Eurobet in the UK.
This transaction was one of the largest-ever sterling Through long-standing relationships with both leveraged transactions awarded Domestic Deal of the UKs leading cable companies, deep sector of the Year by Acquisitions Monthly.
knowledge and tactical use of our balance sheet we helped to pave the way for the merger between NTL We were awarded the role of Sole Lead and Telewest, thereby consolidating our position as a Arranger on the 470 million debt refinancing of top-tier partner bank to this customer.
2005 Divisional review Corporate Markets continued Weve been the fastest growing debt issuance bank globally over the last four years.
20 20 RBS was the only bank to be awarded both the first instance an amortising junior note was Bookrunner and Mandated Lead Arranger roles in introduced for a Korean cross-border mortgagefunding each of the three deals to acquire stakes backed securitisation.
in France's leading motorway companies from the French government.
This was achieved through the RBS Aviation Capital, working closely with combined strength of our multi-product platform, our Shanghai Branch, completed a major Japanese infrastructure sector expertise and local corporate Operating Lease financing with China Southern relationships.
Our teams led the underwriting of Airlines.
The deal comprised an initial US$93 million innovative and competitive financing packages bridge loan financing of three Boeing 737-700 totalling some 17.5 billion in support of the aircraft from RBS Shanghai which was 21.3 billion-worth of acquisitions.
subsequently restructured into a Japanese Operating Lease financed through RBS Tokyo.
As Joint Mandated Lead Arranger and Underwriter, via our offices in France and Spain, Selected Awards: RBS provided an innovative financing structure for Best UK Bank 532 million of debt to fund the 1.1 billion high Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2005 speed rail link concession to be built through the Pyrenees between Perpignan and Figueras European Loan House of the Year awarded EMEA Infrastructure Deal of the Year, PFI IFR Awards, and EMEA Rail Transport Deal of the Year by Project Finance Magazine.
European ABS Arranger of the Year 2005 ISR Awards RBS Greenwich Capital acted as Joint Bookrunner for the US$750 million 10-year Global Securitisation House of the Year - Europe Notes offering for Harrahs operating company, The Banker Harrahs Entertainment Inc. Harrahs is a leading entertainment and casino group and is the only Top Bank for European Leveraged Finance investment grade gaming company in the world.
By taking advantage of an attractive financing window Financial News the transaction was twice over-subscribed.
Mezzanine Debt provider of the year In Australia we completed our first leveraged European Venture Capital & Private Equity Journal finance transaction as Joint Mandated Lead Arranger and Bookrunner for the US$1.7 billion acquisition of EMEA Bank of the Year Project Finance Dyno Nobel, a leading global supplier of commercial PFI awards explosives, by a consortium of investors.
Best Bank in Foreign Exchange in London RBS acted as Joint Arranger of a crossFX Week border securitisation for SC First Bank previously Korea First Bank raising 500 million in triple-A Best Bank in Asian Prime Brokerage rated notes.
The issue was more than 2.5 times AsiaMoney FX Survey over-subscribed with more than 30 institutional investors and was structurally innovative, marking Make it happen Corporate Markets Corporate Banking & Financial Markets 21 Hyatt Corporation.
The international hotel group, headquartered in Chicago, embarked on a significant hotel investment in 2005.
RBS in New York was joint lead arranger for the US$1 billion loan facility.
We acted as Monro Muffler.
agent on a US$1 billion RBS Securities and Charter private placement for One in Chicago joined Adidas, a global leader forces as Lead Arranger in the sporting goods and Sole Bookrunner for industry.
It was the largest Monro Muffler, which runs such placement in the US a network for automotive out of Germany.
The repairs, showing the funding will largely be used strength of the RBS to finance their acquisition platform in the US.
