Financial results continued Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of corporate Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, enhanced governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its standards of corporate governance and business and financial activities.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, the disclosure apply to companies with securities registered in the company has complied in all material respects with the US.
The Group complies with all currently applicable sections provisions set out in the revised Combined Code on Corporate of the Act.
Governance and the Smith Guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
A full explanation of how these principles are applied is 60 contained in the corporate governance and remuneration reports in the Group's 2005 Report and Accounts.
Summary directors report Activities and business review A review of the activities and business of the Group for the Report of the auditors year ended 31 December 2005, of recent events and of likely The auditors report on the full accounts for the year ended 31 future developments is contained on pages 4 to 49.
December 2005 was unqualified and did not include a statement under sections 237 2 inadequate accounting Directors records or returns or accounts not agreeing with records and Photographs and biographical details of the directors are returns or 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and shown on pages 52 and 53 respectively.
explanations of the Companies Act 1985.
Independent auditors statement to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement which contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial comprises the summary directors report, the summary Statement and consider the implications for our report if we consolidated income statement statutory basis and balance become aware of any apparent misstatements or material sheet and the summary remuneration report.
inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Basis of opinion body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might The auditors statement on the summary financial statement state to the companys members those matters we are required issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Opinion assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the report, for our audit report or for the opinions we have formed.
summary remuneration report of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and complies Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
and Summary Financial Statement in accordance with The auditors report on the companys annual accounts was applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report unqualified.
to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act Deloitte & Touche LLP 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We report whether Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the auditors opinion on the full annual accounts was Edinburgh unqualified or qualified.
We also read the other information 27 February 2006 Financial results
