Presentation of information In the Report and Accounts, and unless specified otherwise, International Financial Reporting Standards the term company means The Royal Bank of Scotland Group As required by the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the plc, RBS or the Group means the company and its subsidiary European Union IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial undertakings, the Royal Bank means The Royal Bank of statements of the Group have been prepared, for the first time, Scotland plc and NatWest means National Westminster Bank Plc.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board The company publishes its financial statements in pounds IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial sterling or sterling.
The abbreviations m and bn Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB together represent millions and thousands of millions of pounds IFRS as endorsed by the European Union.
The Group, sterling, respectively, and references to pence represent however, has taken advantage of the option in IFRS 1 First- 52 pence in the United Kingdom UK.
Reference to dollars or time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards $ are to United States of America US dollars.
The to implement IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands Measurement IAS 39, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: of millions of dollars, respectively, and references to cents Disclosure and Presentation IAS 32 and IFRS 4 Insurance represent cents in the US.
The abbreviation represents the Contracts IFRS 4 from 1 January 2005 without restating its euro, the European single currency and the abbreviations m 2004 income statement and balance sheet.
and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of euros, respectively.
The Groups 2004 financial statements were prepared in accordance with then current UK generally accepted Certain information in this report is presented separately for accounting principles UK GAAP or previous GAAP domestic and foreign activities.
Domestic activities primarily comprising standards issued by the UK Accounting Standards consist of the UK domestic transactions of the Group.
Foreign Board, pronouncements of the Urgent Issues Task Force, activities comprise the Groups transactions conducted relevant Statements of Recommended Accounting Practice through those offices in the UK specifically organised to and provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The Group also service international banking transactions and transactions presents information under generally accepted accounting conducted through offices outside the UK.
principles in the US US GAAP.
The geographic analysis in the average balance sheet and To allow more meaningful comparison with the 2005 results, interest rates, changes in net interest income and average pro forma results have been prepared for 2004.
The pro forma interest rates, yields, spreads and margins in this report have results include the effect of standards relating to financial been compiled on the basis of location of office UK and instruments and insurance contracts IAS 32, IAS 39 and Overseas.
Management believes that this presentation IFRS 4 and the basis of preparation of these results is provides more useful information on the Groups yields, described on page 57. spreads and margins of the Groups activities than would be provided by presentation on the basis of the domestic and foreign activities analysis used elsewhere in this report as it more closely reflects the basis on which the Group is managed.
UK in this context includes domestic transactions and transactions conducted through the offices in the UK which service international banking transactions.
The Group distinguishes its trading from non-trading activities by determining whether a business units principal activity is trading or non-trading and then attributing all of that units activities to one portfolio or the other.
Although this method may result in some non-trading activity being classified as trading, and vice versa, the Group believes that any resulting misclassification is not material.
