MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Lloyds of London 2 Waste Recycling Group Lloyds of London has developed its Waste Recycling Group helps to global reputation over three manage the growing demand for centuries of underwriting.
1 2 Fixed Interest Scottish Mortgages bond portfolio earned a months in local currency terms, or 14.3% Eircom, the largest Irish telecom company, healthy return of 9.5% in the year to when translated to sterling.
following its successful share sale.
The overall economic climate was companies had reduced indebtedness The Trusts bond portfolio is mainly comprised helpful with inflation remaining subdued markedly since we bought their bonds.
Of of investment grade bonds with a smaller despite strong global economic growth.
The our current holdings, Debenhams is perhaps allocation to higher yielding bonds with lower Bank of England raised base rates from 4% to the most likely to buy back its bonds: its credit ratings.
The former tend to have steady 4.75% in response to the economys strength highly successful and profitable turn-around as finances but have more sensitivity to interest and to block off inflationary pressures: the a private company paving the way for a rates.
We look for bonds which pay a high USs Federal Reserve also raised interest public listing.
interest rate premium in comparison to their rates, somewhat more aggressively, from 1% credit risk or bonds which might be bought A final leg to the fixed income portfolio is to 2.75%.
The European Central Bank and back at a premium by their issuer.
A good asset backed bonds bonds which have Bank of Japan, in contrast, kept interest rates example is AMP, the Australian insurer.
Its exit their income and capital backed by security.
unchanged as their economies wrestled with from the UK market has both reduced The Trusts bonds assets vary from structural problems.
Bond market returns business and financial risk and left a commercial mortgages through bank loans to followed the rate rise pattern: best in Europe, profitable domestic business.
We expect that healthcare clinics.
This market segment has weakest in the US, with the UK lying it will use surplus capital to buy back bonds not appreciated in value to the same extent somewhere in between.
and that the Trusts sterling denominated as others despite solid operating performance bonds will be a prime target when it does so.
and so we expect it to do well in the coming Company profitability has continued to grow year.
and many companies have sought to reduce In high yield bonds we look for companies indebtedness.
One reflection of robust which are expected to generate good cash Our aim is to generate income while corporate health is the Moodys global flow to pay down debt.
The ideal outcome is investing in assets which will hold value or, speculative-grade default rate which declined a fide-gearing through a sale of the company ideally, appreciate.
While world growth is to 2.1% from its 2001 peak of 10.6%.
This or public share sale.
In this year we realised likely to moderate and US interest rate rises improvement has led to a flood of money into profits in MTU, the German aero engines may weigh on global bond markets, we high yield bonds and the European high yield manufacturer, as speculation grew that it believe we can still find attractive investments market returned 11.1% over the past twelve would return to the public stockmarket and in in corporate bonds.
Past performance is no guaranteee of future performance 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 MANAGERS REVIEW Performance Attribution for the year to 31 March 2005 in sterling terms Computed relative to the benchmark 50% FTSE All-Share Index and 50% FTSE World Ex UK Index in sterling terms with net income reinvested.
Contribution Benchmark Scottish Mortgage Contribution attributable to: asset allocation asset allocation Performance to relative Stock Asset 01.04.04 31.03.05 01.04.04 31.03.05 SM Benchmark return selection allocation Portfolio breakdown %%%%%%%%% United Kingdom 50.0 50.0 50.5 49.0 13.7 15.6 0.8 0.8 Europe ex.
Source: HSBC Baillie Gifford & Co The above returns are calculated on a total return basis with net income reinvested and debentures valued at par.
Scottish Mortgages figures represent the returns on the Companys portfolio and the benchmark figures for each geographical area represent the return on the appropriate FTSE index.
Contributions cannot be added together as they are geometric: for example to calculate how a return of 12.2%, against a benchmark return of 11.5% translates into a relative return of 0.6%, divide the portfolio return of 112.2 by the benchmark return of 111.5 and subtract one.
Asset allocation includes the contribution attributable to currency movements.
Equities include convertibles, limited partnerships and OEICs.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17
