DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their After payment of the dividend the Corporate Governance Annual Report together with the results of the accumulated revenue balance is increased The Board is committed to achieving and Company for the year to 31 March 2005. by 82,000 to 54,123,000. demonstrating high standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how the Review of Activities principles of The Combined Code and the Status AITC Code of Corporate Governance were During the year under review the Company applied throughout the financial year.
The Company is an investment company has followed the normal activities of an within the meaning of section 266 of the investment trust company.
A review of the Companies Act 1985.
The Board main features of the year is contained in the The Board has overall responsibility for the Chairmans Statement and in the Managers The Company carries on business as an Companys affairs.
It has a number of matters Review on the preceding pages.
In the opinion of the reserved for its approval including strategy, Directors, the Company conducts its affairs investment policy, currency hedging, gearing, Dividends so as to enable it to obtain approval by the treasury matters, dividend and corporate Inland Revenue as an investment trust under governance policy.
A separate meeting The Board recommends a final dividend of section 842 of the Income and Corporation devoted to strategy is held each year.
Full and 5.05p per ordinary share which, together Taxes Act 1988.
The Company was timely information is provided to the Board to with the interim of 2.30p already paid, approved as an investment trust for the year enable the Board to function effectively and to makes a total of 7.35p for the year ended 31 March 2004, subject to matters allow Directors to discharge their compared with 7.00p for the previous year.
that may arise from any subsequent enquiry responsibilities.
The Board also reviews the by the Inland Revenue into the Companys financial statements, investment transactions, If approved, the recommended final dividend tax return.
The Company will continue to revenue budgets and performance.
on the ordinary shares will be paid on 6 July seek approval under section 842 of the 2005 to shareholders on the register at the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 close of business on 10 June 2005.
The Directors and Directors Independence each year.
The Board currently comprises six Directors 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Attendance at Meetings Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Number of meetings 83 1 Sir Donald MacKay 83 1 GA Ball 72 1 MM Gray 83 1 WG McQueen 83 1 The Earl of Portarlington 31 JPHS Scott 83 1 Lord Strathclyde 83 1 The Earl of Portarlington attended all the meetings held up to the date of his retiral.
all of whom are non-executive and are discharge its duties effectively.
The number of Terms of Appointment and Re-elections considered by the Board to be independent meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee Letters which specify the terms of of the Managers and free of any business or and the Nomination Committee held during appointment, are issued to new Directors.
The other relationship which could interfere with the year and the attendance of the individual letters of appointment are available for the exercise of their independent judgement.
Directors at those meetings is shown in the inspection on request.
Mr GA Ball who has served on the Board table above.
Under the provisions of the Companys for more than nine years offers himself for reArticles of Association, a Director appointed election annually.
The Board has concluded during the year is required to retire and seek that, notwithstanding his length of service, Nomination Committee election by shareholders at the next Annual Mr Ball retains independence of character The Nomination Committee consists of the General Meeting.
Directors are required to and judgement and his skills and experience independent non-executive Directors and the submit themselves for re-election at least once add to the strength of the Board.
The Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the every three years and Directors who have executive responsibility for investment Committee.
The Committee meets on an served for more than nine years offer management has been delegated to the annual basis and at such other times as may themselves for re-election annually.
The Board Companys Managers and Secretaries, be required.
The Committee has written terms is of the view that length of service will not Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a of reference which include reviewing the necessarily compromise the independence or Board comprised entirely of non-executive Board, identifying and nominating new contribution of Directors of an investment trust Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
candidates for appointment to the Board, company, where continuity and experience The Senior Independent Director is Board appraisal, succession planning and can add significantly to the strength of the Mr GA Ball.
The terms of reference are available Board.
The Directors believe that the Board has a The names of Directors retiring and offering balance of skills and experience which themselves for re-election together with the enables it to provide effective strategic Performance Evaluation reasons why the Board supports the leadership and proper governance of the The Nomination Committee met to assess the re-elections are set out on page 29.
Information about the Directors, performance of the Chairman, each Director, including their relevant experience, can be the Board as a whole and its committees, found on pages 8 and 9.
Induction and Training after inviting each Director and the Chairman New Directors are provided with an induction There is an agreed procedure for Directors to to consider and respond to a set of questions.
programme which is tailored to the particular seek independent professional advice if The appraisal of the Chairman was led by circumstances of the appointee.
Directors necessary at the Companys expense.
The performance of each receive other relevant training as necessary.
Company also maintains Directors and Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Officers Liability insurance.
Committees continues to be effective and each Director and the Chairman remain Remuneration Meetings committed to the Company.
A review of the Since all the Directors are non-executive, a There is an annual cycle of Board meetings Chairmans and other Directors commitments Remuneration Committee is considered which is designed to address, in a systematic was carried out and the Nomination unnecessary and Directors fees are way, overall strategy, review of investment Committee is satisfied that they are capable considered by the Board as a whole within policy, investment performance, marketing, of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
the limits approved by shareholders.
The revenue budgets, dividend policy and There were no significant changes to the Companys policy on remuneration is set out communication with shareholders.
The Board Chairmans other commitments during the in the Directors Remuneration Report on considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to year.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 DIRECTORS REPORT The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business Internal Controls and Risk Management Accountability and Audit The Directors acknowledge their responsibility Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk The respective responsibilities of the Directors for the Companys system of internal controls provide the Board with regular reports on and the Auditors in connection with the and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring Financial Statements are set out on pages of internal controls is designed to manage programmes.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts 33 to 35. rather than eliminate risk and can only an annual review of its system of internal The accounts have been prepared on the provide reasonable but not absolute controls which is documented within an going concern basis as it is the Directors assurance against material misstatement or internal controls report.
This report is opinion that the Company will continue in loss.
The Directors confirm that they have independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & operational existence for the foreseeable reviewed the effectiveness of the system and Cos auditors and a copy is submitted to the future.
they have procedures in place to ensure Board.
An Audit Committee has been established in A detailed risk map is prepared which compliance with the Combined Code The Board confirms that there is an ongoing identifies the significant risks faced by the consisting of all directors.
Its authority and process for identifying, evaluating and Company and the key controls to manage duties are clearly defined within its written managing the significant risks faced by the these risks are confirmed as in place and operating effectively.
terms of reference which are available on Company in accordance with the guidance request.
Mr WG McQueen is chairman of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on These procedures ensure that consideration is the Audit Committee.
The committees the Combined Code.
given regularly to the nature and extent of the responsibilities include: risks facing the Company and that they are The practical measures to ensure compliance being actively monitored.
Where changes in monitoring and reviewing the integrity of with regulation and company law, and to risk have been identified during the year they the financial statements, the internal provide effective and efficient operations and financial controls and the independence, also provide a mechanism to assess whether investment management, have been objectivity and effectiveness of the external delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, further action is required to manage the risks auditors: Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the identified.
The Board confirms that these Management Agreement.
The Board procedures have been in place throughout the making recommendations to the Board in acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise Companys financial year, are operating relation to the appointment of the external and control the discharge by the Managers effectively and continue to be in place up to auditors and the remuneration and terms of and Secretaries of their obligations.
the date of approval of this Report.
their engagement: Baillie Gifford & Co. is responsible for the developing and implementing policy on the Internal Audit design, implementation and maintenance of engagement of the external auditors to The Board has reviewed the need for an control policies and procedures to safeguard supply non-audit services: internal audit function and has decided that the assets of the Company and to manage its the compliance and internal control systems affairs properly.
This responsibility also extends reviewing the arrangements in place within and the internal audit function in place within to maintaining effective operational and Baillie Gifford & Co whereby their staff the Investment Managers provide sufficient compliance controls and risk management.
may, in confidence, raise concerns about assurance that a sound system of internal possible improprieties in matters of financial control, which safeguards shareholders The Companys investments are segregated reporting or other matters insofar as they investment and the Companys assets, is from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and its may affect the Company: maintained.
An internal audit function, other clients through the appointment of The specific to the trust, is therefore considered reviewing the terms of the Investment Bank of New York as independent custodian unnecessary.
Management Agreement: and of the Companys investments.
28 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors interests Nature Ordinary 25p shares held at Name of interest 31 March 2005 31 March 2004 Sir Donald MacKay Beneficial 2,469 2,469 GA Ball Beneficial 10,000 10,000 MM Gray Beneficial 272,900 272,900 Non-beneficial 12,500 12,500 WG McQueen Beneficial 1,500 1,500 Non-beneficial 3,000 3,000 JPHS Scott Beneficial 15,464 15,464 Lord Strathclyde Beneficial 3,142 3,142 The Directors at the year end, and their interests in the Company, were as shown above.
There have been no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 4 May 2005. considering annually whether there is a wishing to communicate with any members of Directors need for the Company to have its own the Board may do so by writing to them at Sir Donald MacKay and Mr JPHS Scott retire internal audit function.
the address on the back cover.
The by rotation at the Annual General Meeting Companys Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves for re-election.
provides a forum for communication with all Investment Manager shareholders and the Board announces the Mr GA Ball, having served for more than An Investment Management Agreement level of proxies lodged.
The notice period for nine years, offers himself for re-election.
between the Company and Baillie Gifford & the Annual General Meeting is at least twenty Co sets out the matters over which the Following formal performance evaluation, working days.
Shareholders and potential Managers have authority in accordance with their performance continues to be effective investors may obtain up-to-date information on the policies and directions of, and subject to and each remain committed to the Company.
the Company from the Managers website, restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The Their contribution to the Board is greatly www.
Management Agreement is terminable on not valued and the Board recommends their less than 12 months notice.
Details of the fee re-election to shareholders.
arrangements with Baillie Gifford & Co are Voting Policy and Socially Responsible The Earl of Portarlington retired from the shown on page 41.
The Company has given discretionary voting The Board considers the Companys Increase in ceiling on Directors fees powers to the investment managers, Baillie investment management and secretarial Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against arrangements for the Company on an Article 90 of the Companys Articles of resolutions they consider may damage ongoing basis and a formal review is Association provides that the fees paid to, and shareholders rights or economic interests.
The Board considers, benefits in kind received by, the Chairman for Baillie Gifford & Co give due weight to what amongst others, the following topics in its his services in such office and the fees paid they consider to be socially responsible review: the quality of the personnel assigned to, and benefits in kind received by, a Director investment when making investment decisions, to handle the Companys affairs: the for his services in such office should not but their overriding objective is to produce investment process and the results achieved to exceed in aggregate 30,000 and in good investment returns for shareholders.
The date: the administrative services provided by aggregate 20,000 per annum respectively Managers policy has been reviewed and the Secretaries and the marketing efforts or such higher amounts as the Company may endorsed by the Board.
Following the from time to time by ordinary resolution most recent review it is the opinion of the determine.
The Chairmans current fee is Directors that the continuing appointment of 27,000 and each Directors fee is currently Compliance Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on the 18,000 and consequently there is little Subject to the special circumstances of the terms agreed, is in the interests of scope for increase within the current limits set Company as an investment trust, the shareholders as a whole.
out in the Articles of Association.
With the Company has complied with the provisions of extra burdens placed on Directors nowadays it The Combined Code during the financial is likely that fees will generally continue to rise.
Relations with Shareholders year except that there is no Remuneration Accordingly, it is proposed that, pursuant to The Board places great importance on Committee and Directors are not appointed Resolutions 10 and 11, as set out in the communication with shareholders.
These issues are Notice of Annual General Meeting, the fees Companys Managers meet regularly with explained above.
paid to, and benefits in kind received by the institutional shareholders and report Chairman and a Director be increased to shareholders views to the Board.
The The Board is also adhering to the principles 45,000 and 30,000 respectively to allow Chairman is available to meet with of the AITC Code in all material respects.
Shareholders SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 DIRECTORS REPORT Substantial Holdings No.
of ordinary Name 25p shares held % of issue DC Thomson & Co Ltd 15,000,000 5.1 Prudential plc 10,938,100 3.7 Legal & General Investment Management 9,092,501 3.1 The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 4 May 2005 in compliance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985.
The shares in question were purchased at a Repurchase of Shares Creditor Payment Policy price after allowing for costs below the net At the Annual General Meeting held on It is the Companys payment policy for the asset value and subsequently cancelled, 1 July 2004 the Company renewed its forthcoming financial year to obtain the best thereby reducing the issued share capital see authority to purchase shares in the market, in terms for all business.
In general, the note 15 on page 47.
As a result of such respect of up to 44,566,036 ordinary shares Company agrees with its suppliers the terms purchases the net asset value of the Company equivalent to 14.99% of its then issued on which business will take place and it is has increased by approximately 0.1%.
share capital, such authority to expire at the its policy to abide by these terms.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting The Company had no trade creditors at The Directors are seeking shareholders of the Company to be held in respect of the 31 March 2005 or 31 March 2004. approval at the Annual General Meeting to year ending 2005 or 31 December 2005, renew the authority to purchase up to whichever is earlier, unless previously varied, Auditors 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in revoked or renewed.
issue at the date of the passing of the The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to resolution, such authority to expire at the continue in office and in accordance with During the year to 31 March 2005 the Annual General Meeting of the Company to section 385 and section 390A of the Company bought back 1,700,000 ordinary be held in respect of the year ending 2006 Companies Act 1985 resolutions concerning shares nominal value 425,000, on the or 29 December 2006, whichever is earlier.
their reappointment and remuneration will be London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
The total consideration for these shares Authority of the Financial Services Authority, was 4,908,000.
Between 1 April 2005 By order of the Board the maximum price that may be paid on the and the date of this report no further shares exercise of the authority must not exceed BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co have been bought back.
105% of the average of the middle market Managers and Secretaries The principal reasons for such share quotations for the shares over the 5 business 5 May 2005 buy-backs are: days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The minimum price that may be i to enhance net asset value for paid will be 25p per share.
Purchases of continuing shareholders by purchasing shares will be made within guidelines shares at a discount to the prevailing established, from time to time, by the Board.
net asset value: Your attention is drawn to Special Resolution No.
9, in the Notice of Annual General ii to address any imbalance between the Meeting.
supply of and the demand for Scottish Mortgages shares.
