MANAGERS REVIEW Returns From Markets for the year ended 31 March 2005 Geographical performance against benchmark in local currency Managers Review We have continued to reduce steadily the longer dangerously exposed to modest rises Overview number of equity holdings.
The year saw a in American interest rates.
Returns were respectable but unspectacular in reduction from 120 to 101 stocks.
We the last twelve months.
Given the dramatic expect a small further fall in the year ahead United Kingdom succession of bull and bear markets of recent but we are now close to our preferred The UK market returned 15.6% in the year to years modest positive returns are an unusual portfolio shape.
Greater concentration should 31 March, the second successive year of outcome but one which may be more reinforce our conviction that all our holdings double digit positive returns.
This represented frequent in the future.
can add significant value for shareholders a decent showing compared with the other whilst still offering broad exposure to world major markets, where profit growth has been Our relative performance was modestly economic growth and adequate risk stronger but starting valuations tended also to ahead of the index aided by gearing.
We think that this policy be higher.
Profit growth was similar to the geographical details of our performance can differentiates us from many other large markets rise and dividend growth continued be found on page 17.
As explained last investment trusts.
to accelerate to close to 10% year on year, year, we treat these figures with considerable which meant that valuations were broadly caution.
We manage the portfolio on a The key theme for us remains the rising unchanged over the period and remain at global basis with a core UK exposure to economic power of the emerging nations.
As the This is likely to be the case for the next twenty Chairmans Statement explains, we think that years.
Economic growth in China, India, Our own UK portfolio performed slightly the attempt to beat regional benchmarks Brazil and Eastern Europe was strong, once worse than the FT All-Share Index, with most leads directly to sub-optimal and unduly again, last year.
Markets in these areas of the shortfall attributable to the decision not diversified stock selection.
From next year we were, however, volatile as rising US interest to own either BP or Shell, two of the largest will not be giving the geographical rates took some toll.
We regard such UK stocks, whose longer term attractions strike performance attribution on a regular basis.
setbacks as offering opportunity as we think us as underwhelming, not least in comparison Instead we will aim to give clear guidance as that major macroeconomic improvements in with other alternatives from within the energy to which stocks have added and subtracted emerging markets mean that they are no sector.
While we remain deeply sceptical of value.
10 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Allied Domecq 2 BSkyB One of Allied Domecqs appealing We acquired a new holding in brands.
The company continues to grow its customer base and profitability is improving sharply.
1 2 the long term investment case for either perceive greater potential.
For example, we contributed to a further reduction in our UK company, recent strength in the oil price has sold Gallaher and Scottish & Southern stake.
Net sales of 21m, represent the given both a profit boost which, in turn, led Energy, each of which has performed well in third consecutive year that the UK exposure to strong share price performance.
Beyond recognition of its strong management record has fallen and by the end of the year UK these two, the only significant disappointment but which both appear destined to grow at a investments represented 45.5% of total came from the hedge fund manager Man below average rate given the limitations of assets, down from 47.5% twelve months Group, where continued asset and profit the tobacco and utility sectors.
While the UK economy has growth failed to convert into a rising share that BSkyB, Hays and Kingfisher, three of our continued to grow at a satisfactory rate with price, largely because of growing scepticism recent purchases, offer significantly greater modest inflation and a sensible pre-emptive about the prospects for the hedge fund opportunities for growth and profitable tightening of monetary policy, future growth industry as a whole on the back of dull short investment over the next several years and we is unlikely to better the longer term trend and term investment returns.
While holding no were able to acquire shares in each at a there are risks that activity could disappoint strong views on the attractions of hedge funds point when expectations were relatively even modest expectations.
Of course, the as an asset class, we see no evidence to subdued.
Similarly, within the banking sector UK stockmarket offers exposure to much more than just the domestic economy, but suggest that a proven manager with strong we can now muster little enthusiasm for HSBC distribution cannot continue to grow its returns or HBOS and subsequently sold out, while the recent tailwinds of a rapid increase in to shareholders and we added to our we are excited by the prospects for the consumer borrowing and expenditure now shareholding following weakness.
smaller and more focused Standard look likely to convert into headwinds and, at Chartered and Northern Rock, both of which the margin, reduce the number and scope Portfolio activity was somewhat higher than represent significant holdings after recent of domestically quoted investment usual, with a number of new purchases and share purchases.
We have tended to reduce complete sales.
The overriding theme was to the UK stake simply because we have been reduce exposure to companies with limited This increased focus on growth and longer able to find a broader range of potential longer term growth opportunities and refocus term potential has shaped most of our investments elsewhere in the world.
the portfolio on businesses where we trading activity over the year and has SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 SAP 2 Sandvik SAP headquarters: a rare European Sandvik headquarters: one of high-technology success.
Europes oldest and best industrial companies.
1 2 The structural rise of emerging markets that the opportunities offered by the growth in World excluding United Kingdom emerging markets extends far beyond and portfolio structure We manage the international portfolio on a companies listed in these locations.
From oil global basis, without geographical or sectoral The key issue for the world markets is whether and mining stocks to manufacturers of the rise of the major developing economies of constraints.
We have therefore decided that it industrial equipment to suppliers of brand is inappropriate to persist with our previous China, India, Latin America and Eastern name luxuries, the power of emerging market Europe continues and can offset the practice of reviewing the portfolio region by demand is driving improved operating inevitable, if much delayed slow-down in region.
Indeed, we think that such a focus conditions.
We accept that there will be American consumption.
We are relatively can have damaging consequences for pauses in this process and that this may be confident that this will be the story of the next portfolio management.
In the endeavour to temporarily painful in equity markets but we decade.
This belief is reinforced not only by meet regional performance targets, holdings are determined to use such setbacks as the increasingly sound fiscal, monetary and in companies of significant weight in local opportunities to add to our exposure rather indices, but little claim to global investment micro-economic policies being pursued in than to prompt alarm.
In particular we regard these nations but also by their generally appeal, can appear in the portfolio.
Over modest rises in US interest rates leading to a time there is a remorseless trend away from impressive standards of educational sell-off in emerging markets as a classic achievement.
Above all, it is backed by the one international fund to several regional example of misguided and outmoded portfolios.
We do not think that this is in the improving and frequently impressive emotion overcoming economic logic.
We performance of the corporate sector.
Our efforts to reverse would only anticipate reconsidering our would not wish to own stocks in the emerging this process have led to a welcome decrease support for emerging markets if we were to markets simply because their local economies in the number of stocks that we own.
We are see evidence of a secular rather than cyclical are growing.
This remains a constraint in pleased that our holding sizes are now much reversal in improvements in their GDP per China but not in most other emerging more closely aligned to our conviction in capita.
This would seem most likely to be markets.
We require evidence of strong each individual stock, rather than being a prompted by major changes of political hostage to regional allocation and index business models and competitive strengths in direction at the local or global level.
Plainly the same manner as we try to identify in the weights.
We think that this should prove recent actions in Russia have the potential to beneficial in the years ahead.
At the same time we think 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 EOG Resources 2 Monsanto EOG Resources drilling rig.
Meanwhile the Western oil increasing stability of the Brazilian economy.
shareholders in Yukos we have seen the majors are struggling to find and develop Our two Russian holdings, Gazprom and direct consequences of the abuse of political worthwhile reserves.
It appears to us to be an Lukoil, offer such formidable reserves that we power but we tend to think that this is a eventually self-defeating process to invest in believe the potential rewards hugely outweigh specific case and that global pressures these declining companies to gain exposure any political dangers that can be envisaged towards liberal economic and political to a prolonged period of high oil prices.
We for two such government favoured giants.
In short, we prefer to look for oil and gas companies with think that the focus of global economic and the ability to increase reserves and production Just as the oil market has been influenced by stockmarket activity will move remorselessly to or those that enjoy significant earnings China so have broader commodity prices the now developing world in the decades gearing to the current high prices.
Some of thrived on this new source of demand.
We think that our asset allocation these can be found in North America.
Oil we are wary that supply is less constrained should reflect this and that there are individual sands reserves have come into their own for than it is in oil markets and unpleasantly prey stocks from these areas that thoroughly Suncor whilst supply constrained markets to speculative excesses we do accept that deserve to be in our portfolio.
permit strong pricing power as shown by dominant, low-cost suppliers of key raw EOG whilst ConocoPhillips has the refining materials are in a strong position for some Commodities position and production potential to make us years to come as weaker competitors will find The most striking feature of the last year has more confident than is the case for so many it difficult to finance and develop economic been the sharp rise in the price of oil.
Our search for reserve capacity even at currently prevailing prices.
Primarily we regard this as yet another and production growth has led us to several BHP Billiton and CVRD Brazil appear to consequence of the rise of Chinese demand.
Petrobras seems to have sufficiently strong positions notably in This said we also believe that the supply of us to be highly appealing.
It has a good iron ore and to be disciplined enough in oil is comparatively constrained.
Whilst we exploration record particularly in offshore their pursuit of balance between future consider it probable that Saudi Arabia can Brazilian waters where others have failed, expansion and current shareholder reward to increase production, it requires a structurally improving production prospects and a deserve places in our portfolio.
Anglo high oil price to fund the necessary capital remarkably low valuation despite the American Platinum has, in contrast, been SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Nissan Motor 2 Mitsui OSK Lines Nissan Titan truck sold in Mitsui OSK Lines containership.
1 2 unpopular with the markets as platinum prices in the last year.
Both companies have unappealing to us.
Samsung is currently our have withered and rand strength has eroded attained global leadership in their respective largest technology holding to which we returns.
We have recently added to the compressor and carbide tool markets and have been adding steadily.
We remain holding as we feel the structural demand both have strong mining equipment franchises fascinated by the growing power of the picture for platinum remains powerful despite in addition.
Both have been investing in company in memory chips, mobile phones these immediate anxieties.
emerging markets capacity for years and and flat screen technology.
Given the have built strong local presence and customer cyclicality of these businesses, the notable Industry links to protect themselves against domestic willingness of Samsung to invest counterWhilst markets have tended to focus on the competition.
For BMW and Porsche the cyclically and to impose scale, earnings will commodity impact of Chinese demand there protection lies instead in brand strength that be as volatile as the share price.
The has been less attention paid to broader appears to be global in reach.
At a time of ultimately impressive returns and low-rating industrial themes linked to the rising nervousness about the automotive industry make us patiently optimistic.
Our other major importance of China but also India, Eastern these virtues are ever more important and holding is the German business software Europe and Latin America.
This too has been a dull dynamics of global growth moving away performer but continues to churn out from American consumers towards emerging Technology consistent annual earnings growth, economy industrialisation there are swathes of Our technology investments have generally increasing margins, and growing industry previously staid manufacturing enterprises that not enjoyed a good year in share price dominance.
Software is an industry that can now boast improved growth opportunities terms.
We do, however, feel reasonably rewards scale so we think this is a selfand competitive positions strengthened by confident that our individual stocks are wellreinforcing trend.
We would also draw years of industry consolidation and capital placed and that ratings are becoming attention to an increase in our holding of redeployment.
The prime exemplars of this statistically attractive for the first time in many Canon.
This seems to us to be one of the are perhaps two Swedish engineering years.
We are therefore contemplating few Japanese companies to offer the industry holdings, Atlas Copco a long-run holding purchases in areas such as internet leadership, concentration on its core business added to this year and Sandvik purchased commerce that have previously been and strong prospects to make it genuinely 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 CNOOC 2 Norilsk Nickel CNOOC is a major Chinese player Norilsk Nickel, one of the worlds in the exploration and production major integrated mining and metals of crude oil and natural gas.
companies, produces 20% of the global nickel supply.
The persistent fide-rating of the retain a large holding in the California based Prospects: the undervaluation of growth company despite earnings consistently mortgage company Golden West.
Its share Whilst the vagaries of market sentiment will exceeding expectations strikes us as being price has been slightly over-shadowed this doubtless swing in unexpected directions in symptomatic of a global disillusion with year by concern over rising interest rates but it the year ahead we are optimistic about the growth stocks and an undue preoccupation in remains the lowest-cost and most focussed underlying prospects for our investments.
We the Tokyo market with all too often illusory reoperator and earnings continue to rise think that the opportunities for growth offered structuring and domestic demand recovery impressively.
The other area which we find of by the burgeoning globalisation of economies stories.
consistent interest in America is brand name are profound and that those companies with consumer goods.
This year we would note the strategic positioning to exploit this will be Financials and consumer staples in that our purchase of Gillette has paid off able to generate excellent profitability.
These America more quickly than we anticipated through bid companies can be found in all parts of the It is in the area of financials and branded activity but stocks such as Altria, Wrigley and globe from India to Canada to Israel and it is consumer goods that the US market comes Walgreen continue to play a significant role our task to seek them throughout the world into its own in its excellent selection of in our portfolio.
Whilst we select our stocks regardless of index weight or investment outstanding companies.
Whilst we are aware on a global basis we believe our US fashion.
If the opportunities are appealing so that operating conditions for US financials department has a record of investing in both too is the rating that the markets currently have been benign for many years we are of financials and consumer goods that we apply to growth stocks.
The hangover from the view that the specific competitive strengths should exploit as a source of ideas.
We the excesses of the late 1990s has led to an of our investments are enduring.
Moodys is a would also highlight this to our shareholders exaggerated suspicion of the possibilities and classic example of this as the business of as so many other investment trusts have ratings of growing companies that has been rating bonds relies on reputation and market struggled in their US stock selection.
Without magnified by the momentum effects that share which are built up over many decades.
such capable input from our colleagues, we markets have become so prey to in recent This is a service which is becoming ever more would find it impossible to invest globally years.
We think that global growth stocks are essential in todays financial system.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15
