DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Directors and Management Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management firm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
Directors The Standard Life Assurance Company for Trust PLC in 2001 and is Chairman of the 1 Sir Donald MacKay 13 years until 2001.
He was an executive Donald MacKay is 68 and was appointed director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and a Director of Scottish Mortgage Investment 3 MM Gray Halifax plc, where his chief role was Chief Trust PLC in 1999, became Chairman in Michael Gray is 57 and was appointed a Executive, Treasury.
He is a director of The 2003 and is Chairman of the Nomination Director of Scottish Mortgage Investment Alliance Trust PLC, The Second Alliance Trust Committee.
He is an economist who was Trust PLC in 2004.
As Chairman and Chief PLC, JP Morgan Fleming Mid Cap Professor of Political Economy at Aberdeen Executive he led the growth of McQueen Investment Trust plc and Shaftesbury PLC.
University and Professor of Economics at International over a 17 year period as it Heriot-Watt University.
He is a former evolved from being a printing company into chairman of The Malcolm Group PLC and 5 JPHS Scott a global enterprise providing a range of Scottish Enterprise and is currently a John Scott is 52 and was appointed a support services to technology companies.
director of Edinburgh Income and Value Director of Scottish Mortgage Investment On McQueens acquisition, he became Trust plc.
He is a former executive Senior Vice-President of Sykes Enterprises director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
Inc. a global NASDAQ quoted outsourcing 2 GA Ball During his twenty years with Lazard, he was services company.
He retired from Sykes in Geoffrey Ball is 61 and was appointed a involved with the merchant banks corporate 1999 and currently has many business, Director of Scottish Mortgage Investment advisory activities and its Asian businesses.
community, charity and sporting interests Trust PLC in 1983 and is the senior He is currently a director of various and responsibilities.
He is a former director independent director.
He is executive companies, including Dunedin Income of Scottish Enterprise and the Scottish chairman of CALA Group Ltd, having led Growth Investment Trust PLC, Martin Currie Community Foundation.
Pacific Trust plc, JP Morgan Fleming, the management buy out in 1999.
He was president of the House Builders Federation 4 WG McQueen Claverhouse Investment Trust plc, Xaar plc, Gordon McQueen is 58 and was appointed Miller Insurance and Schroder Japan of England and Wales from 2001 to 2003 and he was a director of a Director of Scottish Mortgage Investment Growth Fund plc.
8 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT 6 2 5 1 4 3 6 Lord Strathclyde The manager of Scottish Mortgages Managers and Secretaries Thomas Strathclyde is 45 and was portfolio is James Anderson, a partner of Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie appointed a Director of Scottish Mortgage Baillie Gifford where he is Deputy Chief Gifford & Co, an investment management Investment Trust PLC in 2004.
He is Investment Officer and Head of the Global firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm currently the Leader of the Opposition in Team.
He is ultimately responsible for stock Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been the House of Lords.
His parliamentary selection and works closely with the other Managers and Secretaries to the Company career to date includes extensive ministerial Heads of the Investment Departments.
since its formation in 1909. experience at the Departments of The firm of Baillie Gifford & Co are Baillie Gifford is one of the largest Employment, the Environment, Trade and authorised and regulated by investment trust managers in the UK and Industry and the Scottish Office.
Prior to the Financial Services Authority.
entering politics in 1988 as a Government currently manages eight investment trusts.
Baillie Gifford also manages unit trusts and Whip, Lord Strathclyde worked in the City for the insurance brokers, Bain Dawes.
Lord open ended investment companies, together with investment portfolios on Strathclyde is also Chairman of London behalf of pension funds, charities and other based hedge fund manager Trafalgar institutional clients, both in the UK and Capital Management Limited and a overseas.
Funds under the management or Director of Galena Capital Management advice of Baillie Gifford total over Limited and Marketform Limited.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one of the leading privately owned investment All Directors are members of the management firms in the UK, with Nomination and Audit Committees.
30 partners and a staff of over 400.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 9
