COMPANY SUMMARY Company data at 31 March 2005 Total assets Shareholders funds Market capitalisation 1,443m 1,229m 984m before deduction of debentures, long and short term borrowings.
Company Summary Scottish Mortgage is a low cost global portfolio with a core UK exposure designed to maximise overall returns.
Policy and Objective Management Details ISA PEP Scottish Mortgages objective is to Baillie Gifford & Co are appointed as ISA and PEP transfer facilities are maximise total return whilst also investment managers and secretaries to the available see inside back cover.
The management contract can We invest internationally but with a core be terminated at 12 months notice.
AITC of exposure to the UK market.
Our equity The Company is a member of the portfolio is relatively concentrated.
We Capital Structure Association of Investment Trust Companies, look to buy and hold strong businesses At the year end the Companys share of which it was one of the founder with good prospects for growth.
We do capital consisted of 295,605,115 members in 1932. not replicate regional indices but instead ordinary shares of 25p each which were manage the portfolio and gearing levels issued and fully paid.
During the year the actively: our focus is on identifying Company bought back 1,700,000 shares Notes outstanding global investments.
Long term gearing has None of the views expressed in this been secured by the issue of 146 million document should be construed as advice Benchmark nominal value of debenture stocks.
to buy or sell a particular investment.
The portfolio benchmark against which performance is measured is 50% FTSE Management Fee Investment trusts are UK public listed All-Share Index and 50% FTSE World Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration companies and as such comply with Ex UK Index in sterling terms.
is 0.32% of total assets less current requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
liabilities excluding short term borrowings They are not authorised or regulated by the for investment purposes, calculated and Financial Services Authority.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 1
