16 This section of our report gives a review of the portfolio which, at the year end, contained investments in 26 countries.
The hoop diagrams on page 11 give snapshots of the distribution of assets, first by geography and then by broad sector.
The twenty largest equity investments The Twenty Largest Equity are listed below.
Investments On pages 21 to 24 we list all the investments held.
The table at the top of page 21 summarises the UK Large investment changes over the year.
The classification table on page 25 gives a breakdown of the main UK Small & Mid industries in each sector and the percentage of the portfolio held in each geographical area.
Europe North America Large The Twenty Largest % of Equity Investments m assets North America Small & Mid BP 22.6 3.8 Royal Dutch Shell 19.2 3.2 GlaxoSmithKline 18.7 3.1 Japan Vodafone 12.1 2.0 HBOS 11.1 1.8 Royal Bank of Scotland 9.5 1.6 Asia Pacific HSBC 9.4 1.6 Rio Tinto 8.6 1.4 Property Barclays 8.3 1.4 BHP Billiton 6.9 1.2 Aviva 6.7 1.1 Private Equity Alliance Trust Finance 6.3 1.0 Prudential 6.0 1.0 Tesco 5.9 1.0 Fixed Income Persimmon 5.6 0.9 Exxon Mobil 5.6 0.9 Investment Changes Lloyds TSB 5.6 0.9 Abbott Laboratories 5.5 0.9 iFTSE 100 ETF 5.3 0.9 Portfolio Listing National Grid Transco 5.0 0.8 Classification of Investments Portfolio Review 17 UK Large UK Small & Mid Despite higher interest rates the UK Large Cap index rose by 24%.
The FTSE All-World UK Small Cap Index rose by almost 30% over the last 12 months, outperforming the larger UK companies.
We added to our exposure to the banking sector through HBOS, Bradford and Bingley and HSBC and these additions more than Share prices of our investments were driven partly by the offset a reduction to our large holding in RBS.
Although retail outlook for profit growth.
Continued evidence of demand in the banking is experiencing tough trading conditions this was capital investment cycle has increased expectations for growth, balanced by other banking exposure and corporate banking in benefiting engineering companies and basic materials suppliers particular where trading conditions remain good.
We have also in particular.
retained our large position in the housebuilder Persimmon The decision to purchase shares in Paladin Resources and which has coped well with the more subdued housing market Vedanta Resources reflected our confidence in sustained and is strongly financed.
Its shares produced a total return of demand.
Paladin, a recent purchase, is an oil exploration and over 40%.
production company which has been a beneficiary of increased We built a large position in Prudential following its decision to recovery rates of oil from the North Sea.
It has performed very well providing a total return of risen 30%, owns and operates copper and zinc mines in India over 25%.
Prospects for the sector remain attractive and we and is well positioned to benefit from the increased demand for also have large positions in Aviva and Legal & General.
these metals as the Indian economy continues to industrialise.
Resource stocks have provided very good returns.
Oil companies Within the UK economy, the service sector has continued to benefited from strong global demand underpinned by Chinese grow as the government increasingly turns to the private sector growth, geo-political concerns and supply disruptions that to manage projects through PPP PFI initiatives.
Our purchase of combined to push the oil price up to over US$60 barrel.
Mining Carillion and Mitie Group is intended to capitalise on this trend.
companies similarly gained from robust demand and the large Carillion has developed an expertise in the construction and holdings in Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton performed very well.
project management of hospitals, while Mitie has been successful in providing facility management services.
The pharmaceutical sector continued to have a difficult time with pressure from regulators and disappointing new drug Within the manufacturing industry, our investments in launches.
Our holding in GlaxoSmithKline did better than many Renishaw, up 52%, and Spirax, up 43%, continue to perform of its peers matching the market return.
Both companies have continued to invest extensively in with companies switching their emphasis from cost research and development, and this has been reflected in management to the launch of new drugs from their development product development and sales and profit growth.
pipeline as they seek increased future profits.
In contrast, the retail and media industries have both had a New holdings included BAE Systems and Smiths Group, both of more difficult operating environment to contend with.
Our which are exposed to the strong demand in the aviation position in MFI Group was sold as fears increased surrounding industry and have risen over 8% since acquisition, Burberry, the the prospects for UK consumer expenditure, particularly given luxury goods company, which has good growth opportunities the influence of the housing market on product demand.
Capital particularly in Asia, Land Securities, the property company Radio was another disposal over the period as the outlook for which has an excellent track record and has developed an advertising expenditure deteriorated sharply.
outsourced property management company and Johnston Press, The portfolio has been a beneficiary of the increasing number of for whom the regional newspaper environment is challenging but whose business model is strong with good cash generation.
bids from other quoted companies, but also from venture capital companies.
International peers successfully bid for both We sold several holdings where the valuation appeared too Aggregate Industries and Kidde, while a venture capital fund expensive or where we had concerns regarding the operational bought British Vita.
Retailers are experiencing difficult trading and we sold Marks & Spencer and reduced GUS We are encouraged by the progressive dividend policy of a as a result.
We sold Electrocomponents, which continued to number of our holdings.
Of note was the decision by Bovis experience low demand and the share price has fallen over 15% Group, the housebuilder, to commit to a 25% increase in since our final disposal.
Also sold was Yell, which had been dividend payment for the next four years.
Despite the more buoyed by rumours of bids but continues to experience a recent cautious comments from the industry, Bovis looks likely challenging industry structure.
to benefit from its investment in its stock of land in previous years.
18 Portfolio Review Europe North America Large European markets have risen strongly over the year, despite The year under review started with uncertainty over the strength cost pressures and lacklustre domestic economies.
Crucially of the economy and the likely outcome of the Presidential European companies continue to tap into global growth, which, elections.
Despite the high price of oil and nine increases in along with internal restructuring, has led to improved balance interest rates the economy proved remarkably robust.
This was sheets, strong cashflows and healthy dividend increases.
due to continued growth in consumer consumption, encouraged by a firm US housing market, and further strength of corporate The portfolio is well placed to benefit from international profits.
The index of large companies reflected this with a rise of growth, for example, we continue to gain the bulk of our nearly 11% over the year and, with the later strength of the US exposure to the strength of industrial exports through Swedish and Canadian dollar, a total return of 16.7% in sterling terms.
engineering stocks, which have an excellent spread of geographical and end industry markets.
A good example of this Oil and gas was the best performing sector and we benefited is ball bearing manufacturer SKF, which has a strong presence from our large exposure.
Our Canadian investments Shell Canada, in North America and Asia, and has improved its competitive Suncor and Encana, all performed particularly well, rising by position with product innovation and a strong focus on more than 60%.
These companies give us exposure to the profitability.
SKF, along with Sandvik and Atlas Copco, have all Athabasca Tar Sands, the worlds biggest potential oil resource, performed well this year and have demonstrated the health of from which oil extraction has become increasingly cost-effective.
their businesses with capital returns.
Our biggest new investment is Caterpillar, a beneficiary of surging mining investment.
The second half of the year saw pharmaceuticals and healthcare stocks coming back into favour after a tough period of The sharp rise in raw material costs should have put pressure on underperformance.
This was helped by some encouraging news profit margins, but with some prior hedging, efficiency gains and about new products, and reduced market focus on pricing some limited price increases companies have proved adept at pressures and litigation concerns.
We have switched the countering this pressure.
Consumers, on the other hand, have portfolio to concentrate on Roche, which has exposure to a been more directly impacted by rising energy costs and we strong drug pipeline, including excellent potential in oncology reduced our investment in consumer sectors, selling Kraft, products, and the stock has subsequently risen strongly.
We Colgate and PepsiCo, but reinvested some of this in Procter & reduced the weight of other pharmaceutical stocks and sold out Gamble, which is growing faster than the industry and should of Altana which has weaker product and strategic positioning, enjoy synergies from the impending merger with Gillette.
and Altana has fallen 10% since our final disposal.
Pharmaceutical stocks were generally poor performers impacted With some signs that organic growth may be slowing, acquisition by slowing drug sales and the withdrawal of Mercks antiled growth has increased as companies take advantage of inflammatory drug Vioxx which cast doubts over other drugs in improved financial positions and cheap financing.
We built a new holding in Pfizer after it fell on these particularly prevalent in the banks and telecommunications concerns, whilst our biggest US holding, Abbott Laboratories, sectors where a number of holdings have been involved in bid benefited from substitution for these anti-inflammatory drugs activity.
These include UniCredito of Italy bidding for HVB of and rose 18.5%, well ahead of the sector.
Germany, and both ABN of Holland and BBVA of Spain have been Technology hardware recovered as semiconductor sales returned attempting to buy in Italy.
In the telecommunications sector, to peak levels and inventory levels were reduced.
We sold Dell, France Telecom, a new holding, is buying a Spanish mobile phone which was highly valued, and added to Motorola, which is operator.
The markets have generally received such deals well if gaining share in the latest generation of mobile handsets.
there is a sound strategic rationale and sensible financial hurdles Microsoft, our biggest software holding, fell 10% following a are likely to be met.
Both the banking and telecommunications large special dividend payment and lull before the next sectors still look attractive given valuations and strong development of operating software.
We have opportunistically added to BBVA and UBS and With oil over $60 and the Federal Reserve continuing to increase started a new holding in Anglo Irish Bank which has since interest rates, we expect a slowdown in the US economy.
There performed well in absolute and relative terms.
is particular concern over the housing market, as prices become We have also built-up existing holdings and started new holdings less affordable, and this could dent consumer confidence.
in non cyclical consumer goods and utilities.
Close to the year Canada, though, looks better placed with its greater exposure to end we gained Pernod stock through the Allied Domecq bid.
We natural resources and a budget and trade surplus.
Our economic added to Nestle because of its internal restructuring potential, concerns aside, company profits are still expected to advance.
and started a new holding in German utility E. ON given strong domestic power market conditions.
Both companies have since met our expectations with strong share price performance.
19 North America Small & Mid Japan The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose by 23%, easily The Japanese economy recovered strongly from a soft patch in exceeding the S&P 500s 12% return.
Smaller companies have the final quarter of 2004, showing resilience to the rising cost of beaten their larger peers steadily since 1999 owing to investor oil.
The greater confidence stemmed from the ongoing demand appetite for less mature businesses with greater growth prospects.
from China, a pick up in exports, and progress with inventory adjustment.
This is not the first time that we have seen signs of Our best-performing company was Constellation Energy, the utility recovery during the last 15 years when Japan has been affected whose merchant energy division has thrived under new by economic malaise.
Previous upticks have been shortlived, but management, showing a share price rise of 56% during the period.
this time the positive indicators are showing a breadth of We sold Hawaiian Electric and WPS Resources after strong upward moves, believing that higher interest rates would not support such confidence that has been missing for much of that time.
Instead, we bought Wisconsin Energy, whose earning land prices have begun to rise, there are embryonic signs that power should expand in future years as Wisconsin addresses a lack bank lending is returning, capital spending plans are robust, the of capacity in local electricity generation.
labour market is strengthening and the domestic economy may just be building enough momentum so that the dependence on PETsMART, the speciality pet supplies retailer, fell 4% during exports can be lessened.
the year as consumer spending power remained restricted by higher gasoline prices.
We took profits in furnishings retailer There was a small net addition of 0.8m to the Japanese equity Pier 1, concerned by the increasingly competitive homeportfolio over the year and activity was concentrated in changing furnishing retail environment.
Competition and unfavourable the portfolio structure.
The performance of the portfolio lagged geographical positioning led us to exit, at a loss, restaurant the index over the year due to having no exposure to the very chain Bob Evans Farms.
strongly performing heavily cyclical sectors such as shipping, The energy sector is cash-rich and we expect that increased steel and mining.
However in recent months performance has investment in oil exploration and production should drive our new returned to positive territory due to a pick up in some of our holding in oil service provider Weatherford International.
We quality companies and the benefits from realigning the portfolio.
extended our direct exposure to oil and natural gas prices with The better environment for banking encouraged us to invest new holdings in Chesapeake Energy and Pioneer Natural Resources.
New holdings were Mizuho and SMFG, two Also in energy, we initiated a holding in Peabody Energy, whose leading national banks, and Chiba Bank, a well regarded regional shares have already performed strongly, rising 30% since first bank, and we are pleased to note that they have performed purchased.
The improving real estate market led us to add to A new holding in telecommunications is American Tower, which East Japan Railway which has a large property portfolio while has risen 15% since first purchase.
It owns many of the sites also offering exposure to an improving domestic economy.
We on which US mobile telephone operators mount their added to our long standing holding in the security firm Secom, infrastructure and is in some ways like a real estate company.
We were active in the retail area In the financial sector, we took profits in regional banks by adding to Lawson, the convenience store operator, and Comerica and TCF Financial and bought instead Marshall and Shimamura which operates chain stores in Tokyo.
A new holding Ilsley, which is dominant in Wisconsin and has a fast-growing in the machinery area was Komatsu which is a major beneficiary data processing subsidiary.
It has risen 8% since purchase.
from the upsurge in the mining industries infrastructure and its share price has risen by a third since purchase.
Two disappointing A cautious view of the environment for spending on IT led us to exit distributor CDW Corporation, contract manufacturer Jabil performers from the building materials sector were reduced and Circuit and Hyperion Solutions, the business solutions provider.
These were Toto and JS Group who were struggling to cope We sold security specialist Check Point Software, preferring with higher raw material costs and import competition.
We instead RSA Security, the remote access and identity reduced our exposure to the intensively competitive electronics authorisation specialist.
This proved to be a mistake as its sector by paring back the Canon holding and withdrew from shares went on to fall 20% on concerns over end demand.
We telecoms with the sale of NTT Docomo, and this was vindicated by also bought Zebra Technologies, a bar code label specialist.
This its subsequent share price fall.
was also a poor performer, declining 26%.
We plan to add to our Japanese exposure.
The economic climate In healthcare, Hospira performed strongly, rising 47%, although coupled with better corporate governance, which is leading to we subsequently sold it as the shares look fully valued.
We bought improved shareholder returns, will see us continue to focus our dialysis provider DaVita, which, like its overseas competitor attention towards domestic companies.
Fresenius, benefits from long-term trends in dialysis demand.
We also bought diagnostic instruments maker Beckman Coulter.
