12 This section summarises the economic developments over the last year and describes our expectations for the year ahead.
Background Background A key feature of the last 12 months has been the steady rise in the oil price, reflecting strong demand, primarily from China, US combined with concerns over adequate levels of supply.
As illustrated in the chart below, the oil price has increased Asia approximately 40% over the last year, with serious implications for costs, margins and potential inflation.
However, in many Europe and UK sectors of the economy, relatively weak demand and a lack of pricing power have prevented cost increases from being passed on fully through the supply chain and the resulting impact on Summary consumer price inflation has been limited.
The inability to raise prices has forced many companies facing a squeeze on margins to attempt to contain total costs, often by postponing decisions regarding investment and employment.
This has been particularly evident in Europe where firms were also facing the additional burden of euro appreciation, in the first half of our financial year, which further threatened their competitiveness in international markets.
Although inflation has remained contained, growth in Europe has fallen sharply and some countries have even moved into recession.
In the US, the Federal Reserve has been steadily increasing interest rates over the past year, but consumer borrowing rates have remained attractive enough to help to sustain confidence and demand, despite rising household energy costs.
Although this has resulted in a further expansion of the USs trade deficit with the rest of the world, the chart on page 13 illustrates the recent strength of the US dollar against the other major currencies.
This reflects the fact that the US remains relatively attractive to international investors who are looking to invest surplus savings.
Oil Price - West Texas Intermediate $ per barrel 1 Aug 2004 to 31 July 2005 $ 65 60 55 50 45 40 AS O N D J F M A M J J Source: Thomson Financial Datastream Economic Outlook 13 US Europe and UK Tax incentives brought a significant amount of investment Demand within Europe has been weakened by the impact of forward into 2004, resulting in reduced activity in the first half rising oil costs and the appreciation of the euro in the first half of 2005 as inventories were reduced.
However, recent survey of our financial year.
However, the more recent depreciation of evidence indicates that momentum has now improved, the euro, particularly against the stronger US dollar, is already suggesting a favourable outlook for the US economy over the having a positive impact on business confidence.
A strong next few months if the oil price remains steady.
There are also economic recovery in Europe remains in doubt, given the some encouraging signs of a significant improvement in the constraints facing both monetary and fiscal policy, but there are fiscal deficit.
hopes that economic growth will begin to improve, as long as oil prices, and the euro, remain relatively stable.
The health of the US housing market could prove to be a key determinant of future economic performance.
Housing market In the UK the decline in activity has been severe enough to strength has helped to underpin consumer confidence and push the manufacturing sector into recession, but there are now spending, despite moderate wage increases, rising energy costs hopes that the recent decline in sterling will help companies and higher short-term interest rates.
Policy makers will be regain competitiveness in both domestic and overseas markets.
seeking to prevent a bubble emerging in this market and further Meanwhile, prospects for the consumer sector remain closely tightening of monetary policy is expected.
Although the aligned with the housing market, which has been exhibiting prospect of higher interest rates has added to the attraction of signs of slower growth over the past few months.
The recent cut the US dollar in recent months, attention may switch back to in interest rates may have at least some impact on the some of the major structural imbalances in the economy, affordability of housing, and could begin to gradually tempt particularly once interest rates have peaked, placing the US first-time buyers back into the market.
Prospects for only a mild dollar under downward pressure once more.
downturn in the residential property market now depend largely on the strength of the labour market over the months ahead.
Asia Summary Profit margins throughout Asia have been threatened by the rising costs of oil and other commodities, forcing companies to Our outlook for the global economy is relatively favourable for cut costs elsewhere to remain competitive in export markets.
the rest of this year, assuming no further sharp upward moves This has constrained growth in both employment and income in the oil price.
Thereafter, the outlook becomes increasingly levels and has further delayed the move towards a selfuncertain as interest rates in the US move closer to their peak, sustaining domestic recovery in many economies.
We expect raising the risk of a slowdown in the consumer sector and a further strengthening of the key Asian currencies, particularly possible correction in the dollar.
Our main concerns for future now that China has moved from its 10-year old peg against the growth focus on those economies where policy making remains US dollar.
Although currency appreciation could threaten constrained by high fiscal deficits and rising inflation.
export competitiveness and growth, it may also stimulate demand from Asia where savings are high.
Recent currency moves are expected to have minimal impact on Chinas economy given its huge relative advantage in terms of labour costs.
However, it is hoped that further steps will be taken towards achieving a fully flexible and market based US Dollar, Sterling, Yen and Euro - Trade Weighted exchange rate.
Meanwhile, Chinas policy makers remain 1 August 2004 to 31 July 2005 concerned about excessive levels of investment, particularly in 106 the real estate sector, and could announce further tightening Euro 104 measures.
Future policy is also expected to focus on stimulating 102 Yen consumer demand.
In Japan, where the domestic economy has 100 been weak for many years, there are some tentative signs that 98 Sterling employment and income growth may soon be sufficient to lead 96 to a more sustainable recovery.
This is a necessary requirement 94 US Dollar if deflation is to be conquered.
92 90 AS O N D J F M A M J J Source: Thomson Financial Datastream
