14 This section describes how our investment outlook and asset allocation developed during the year under review and our current stance looking forward.
Background Background The economic background is normally very influential for investment selection.
Expectations were that the higher oil Equities price would be temporary, as it would soon dampen economic activity along with the demand for oil itself, and so allow the Other Asset Classes price to fall back.
Instead, markets became aware that the under-investment in the exploration, refining and production of Equity Valuations oil, gas and mineral resources will take several years to correct.
With three steep increases in the oil price in the year, the great Interest and Currencies surprise was that economic growth did not suffer more, that inflation was not worse, but above all that quoted companies profits growth, in aggregate, showed remarkable strength, Outlook rather than slowing down as had earlier been generally predicted.
It was therefore a year of mini cycles, of caution followed by relief in terms of economics, profits and markets.
Virtually no assets looked cheaply valued after several years of very accommodative monetary policies everywhere, especially as influential central banks attempted throughout the year to remove excess liquidity from the system.
US interest rate increases were helpful with their gradual pace from a low base.
However our view was, and still is, that the policy makers, if pushed, would ultimately be more tolerant of the risk of some degree of inflation than of weaker growth and higher unemployment.
Against a background of high levels of personal debt, future asset allocation depends crucially on them.
Equities Equities appeared to be the least excessively valued class of assets, unless profits turned down, with the added advantage of a wide choice of stocks and sectors.
Despite the circumstances of the day, many could still do well, as in oil and mining or the suppliers of infrastructure.
Some old definitions of cyclical or defensive stocks have not held good.
We stayed largely invested in equities which proved rewarding in absolute terms.
Our equity selection was generally good over this challenging year but we retained a relatively high degree of caution, using cash as the main alternative asset.
On one of the occasions when we did want to put money quickly into the market on weakness we purchased some iFTSE 100, an exchange traded fund, which is focused on the UK market.
That proved timely and profitable.
Investment Strategy 15 Companies greater attention to dividend distributions has Interest and Currencies helped revalidate equities as an effective asset class.
We have The US dollar has also proved over the year to be even stronger been able to use that to increase our flexibility to protect and than hoped last autumn, when it was in freefall.
The repatriation enhance capital values going forward, rather than become more of US companies profits made abroad under the Homeland limited in geographical scope or in terms of the kinds of Investment Act provided a further short term boost.
Anticipation companies we can own.
of the peaking out of UK interest rates, and a consequential easing of earlier sterling strength, justified our unhedged Other Asset Classes position against foreign currencies over the year as a whole.
Fixed income returns could not compete at the asset class level but were still positive.
In previous cycles, increases in short Outlook term interest rates tended to drive up yields on longer dated The economic policy makers have done well thus far.
However this time the effect was small Confidence is generally greater despite continued terrorism, and and came late in our year.
The yields on Government debt do the world economy is better placed than it was to cope with not yet appear to be at compellingly attractive levels as they any other shocks.
Nevertheless their task becomes more reflect little of the risk of an upward creep in inflation.
The difficult as the negative effects of high oil prices become differential between the yields on corporate debt and harder to absorb.
The disruption of oil production and refining government debt has mostly stayed narrow and we also in the US caused by Hurricane Katrina is likely to last through considered that provided little upside in the near term.
We sold the end of the year and therefore we expect the balance of 2.3m UK preference shares.
their policy to remain broadly supportive.
Although housing has rolled over in the important south of The rate of profits growth is in aggregate slowing down to a England regions, commercial property remained very much in single digit rate, but that should generally be seen as more demand by investors although it performed slightly behind sustainable and still sufficient to justify equity market equities.
Stock has become fully priced with little availability valuations.
Companies have shown considerable ability in of good quality.
We would prefer to buy on weakness and adapting to circumstances, and their finances have generally continue to examine opportunities that have the potential to stayed strong.
We currently remain confident in being able to perform.
Property still remains a good long term asset find companies that can still grow in the present global particularly in the environment of low interest rates which we environment.
expect to persist for the foreseeable future.
We therefore continue to move forward, encouraged enough to keep our bias towards equities, focusing on the areas and Equity Valuations companies which we believe can continue to offer The valuation levels accorded to companies shares have not positive returns.
become as stretched as is usual in bull markets as share prices rose at a rate close to profits.
Companies reached record levels of profitability in aggregate, thanks to timely self-help in cutting costs.
The question remains as to how long that process can continue.
Balance sheets and cash flow began the year very strong and well placed to weather a volatile outlook.
Cheap finance and large pools of liquidity outside quoted equities, such as private equity funds, have scope to extend the phenomenon yet further although risks would rise alongside that.
So far this time round, financial discipline has held fairly tight for longer than in many past bull market cycles.
Tighter standards of accounting and corporate governance have contributed, and comparison of companies accounts in different countries continues to develop, with the new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS currently coming into force.
