3 The Second Alliance Trust PLC is an investment company which seeks to achieve its objective by expert investment around the world in a range of assets.
Objective To be the core investment for those seeking a long term store of increasing value.
History Investment Policy The Second Alliance traces its origins back to 1880, with the To achieve the Companys objective, we seek long term growth formation of The Hawaiian Investment and Agency Company.
in both capital and income by: That company's purpose was to borrow money from Dundee Investing in both quoted and unquoted equities across merchants and lend it to sugar planters in Hawaii.
We are not tied to any index nor to any rigid were soon broadened and the successor company, The Western geographical, sector or industry asset allocation and Hawaiian Investment Company, was formed in 1883 to Investing internationally in preference shares and in debt offer mortgages in North America.
In 1918, the directors of securities including government and corporate bonds the Western and Hawaiian came to an agreement to share management and administration costs with the Alliance Trust.
Investing in other assets, including property, cash and Both companies had participated in land mortgages in North other financial instruments and investment vehicles America and shared agents across North America.
Five years Retaining the ability to borrow, as we have done from later, the name of Western and Hawaiian was changed to the time to time, and thereby to gear our portfolio Second Alliance Trust.
Investing in subsidiary and associated businesses which From these early beginnings, the Company began to allow us to expand into other related activities with the invest in fixed interest securities, while disposing of its objective of enhancing shareholder value.
Our investment land mortgages and real estate interests in Alliance Trust Savings is an example of this policy By the mid-twentieth century, the Company was invested largely in equities, both quoted and unquoted, with some Risks debt securities Investment in any asset has associated risk.
The Company The Company continues to be predominantly an limits this through a wide spread of investments.
We retain international equity investor, while retaining the power the ability to use gearing and derivative instruments to to invest in other asset classes in order to meet its enhance and protect returns, but which we recognise may objective increase risk.
The Company is an investment company with investment trust status.
