10 This section describes our new approach to asset allocation and changes to the management of our equity assets.
Asset Allocation Asset Allocation Since the 1950s our investment has been predominantly in equities, which provided superior returns compared to most Asset, Liability and other assets over that period.
In the 1980s and 1990s, returns Income Committee from equities were well above their own long-term average, but some other asset classes have generated better returns from Equity Portfolio time to time, particularly during the first years of this decade.
Management We still expect our investments to be mainly in equities, as we believe in their long-term attractions.
However there are many risks that make equities vulnerable to short term shocks.
We Distribution of Assets have therefore broadened our scope once again to cover other assets, including fixed income and property, to ensure that we can deliver value over various time frames.
Fixed income stocks offer some defence against equity fluctuations as well as a generally higher income return in the short run.
When returns in general are low, the combined income and capital returns on fixed income securities, plus potential gains on any foreign currencies, can be relatively attractive.
However, the scope for capital growth is cyclical, and the income provided is constant in absolute terms.
Direct investment in property can offer a higher initial yield than equities and can also offer opportunities for capital growth and protection against inflation.
Asset, Liability and Income Committee In order both to control and enhance the process of efficiently allocating capital across the various asset classes to produce the best overall return on capital, we established the Asset Liability & Income Committee ALICo over a year ago.
The committee manages the capital of the Company within the investment and asset allocation strategies agreed with the board and the risk parameters adopted by the Company.
It also considers the liability side of the balance sheet: for example, it judges the potential merits, timing and risks of gearing or of hedging other exposures such as foreign currencies.
Currently our positions are not hedged nor are we geared.
Alan Young, our Investment Director, chairs the committee.
Other members include the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Heads of Equities, Property and other asset classes and our Head of Economics.
ALICo considers many factors such as political trends, operating environments and investment themes in order to construct a How the Assets are Managed 11 range of scenarios and review their financial implications.
From selection criteria and a high degree of conviction to merit this, the committee determines its view of the most likely inclusion in the portfolio.
central case over the short, medium and long term.
It also Additionally, we have expanded our economics team, which weighs the potential risks to that central view and identifies provides a detailed background to the main themes affecting other quite possible, but less likely, better and worse the many countries and business sectors in which we invest, scenarios.
This provides a range of outcomes which could affect and helps the investment managers in their stock selection.
our investment strategy given possible future changes in We are investing in processes and systems to support our economic and market circumstances.
investment staff in managing, monitoring and reporting on the The heads of the asset classes report on their expectations for portfolio.
We are also currently replacing the systems that returns based these scenarios and, against this framework, the analysts and investment managers use to obtain and handle committee weighs the options and makes strategic decisions on data on investments.
This will increase efficiency and enhance allocation.
our scope to make timely comparisons between companies, The board reviews investment strategy in depth, including increase investment opportunities and reduce risk.
gearing, at least quarterly, and it monitors performance and any Our approach to equity investment remains a blend of both topnecessary changes to investment strategy at each of its down and bottom-up disciplines with rigorous assessment of scheduled meetings.
We report on the strategic approach taken investments and investment prospects.
during the year and on our current stance in the Economic Outlook and Investment Strategy sections which follow.
Distribution of Assets m Equity Portfolio Management UK 321.1 We continue to develop our investment operations to focus on Europe 70.4 generating better returns for stockholders.
North America 114.4 Japan 27.7 We are fortunate to have an experienced and dedicated Distribution Asia Pacific investment team.
This is made up of eight managers, including ex Japan 63.4 by geography the Head of Equities, and eleven analysts, several of whom have Rest of World 1.7 special responsibility for covering industries such as resources, Shareholders pharmaceuticals & healthcare and financials globally.
Funds 598.7 To optimise the output of this team, we have made a number of changes this year to the way we manage the equity portfolio and the support they are given.
m First, we have returned to managing the equity portfolio on a Resources 92.8 geographical basis.
This structure allows more efficient Basic Industries 27.0 monitoring for the purposes of tracking performance and General Industrials 36.0 managing risk.
We continue to do the stock analysis for a major Consumer Goods and Products 87.7 part of the portfolio on the basis of those global sectors, such Distribution Services 115.6 as oil and mineral resources, where that approach provides a by sector Financials 160.5 particularly useful perspective.
The various geographical Utilities 26.1 segments, UK Large, UK Mid and Small, Europe, North America Information Large, North America Mid and Small, Japan, Asia Pacific and the Technology 24.9 Rest of the World, are assigned to eight investment managers.
Fixed Income 10.4 Secondly, we have set a target range of 250-300 stocks for the Other Net Assets 17.7 portfolio and are moving the desired minimum level of Shareholders Figures as at 31 July 2005 Funds 598.7 investment in each equity holding to 1m.
During the uncertainty of the last downturn it was appropriate to maintain a higher number of stocks to spread our risk.
Markets have since recovered, and we believe that a more concentrated portfolio is not only simpler and more efficient to manage but also positions us better to benefit from any continued growth in equities.
Each investment will have to meet more stringent
