35 Directors Lesley M S Knox MA Chairman 52 Joined the board 2001: appointed Chairman 2004: Chairman of the Nomination Committee Lesley Knox pictured centre qualified as a lawyer and worked in the UK and US advising companies on a range of commercial matters.
Subsequently she worked as a corporate finance adviser first with Kleinwort Benson where in 1996 she became a director, and then as a founder director of British Linen Advisers.
She was also Head of Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Investment Management which provided investment services to clients worldwide.
Other directorships include Hays PLC, HMV Group PLC and MFI Furniture Group PLC.
Non-Executive Directors From left to right Executive Directors From left to right Christopher Masters CBE FRSE BSc PhD AKC 58 Alan J Harden 47 Joined the board 2002: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Joined the Company 2003: Chief Executive 2004 Christopher Masters took his doctorate in chemistry at Leeds University and Alan Harden started his career in the investment industry in 1978 in the UK worked for Shell Research BV in the Netherlands and then Shell Chemicals in and then moved to Europe and Cyprus before joining Wardley part of HSBC the UK.
He joined Christian Salvesen as business development manager in in 1984, based in Dubai UAE.
In 1985 he moved to Hong Kong as senior 1979, becoming director of planning for its US operation and then Chief investment manager.
In 1990 he joined Standard Chartered Bank as Executive from 1989 to 1997.
He was then appointed Executive Chairman Managing Director of Scimitar Asset Management based in Singapore.
In of Aggreko PLC, a post he held until January 2002.
He is currently 1994 he became Global Head of Investment Services.
In 2000 he moved to Chairman of SMG PLC and also chairs the Scottish Higher Education Citigroup Asset Management in Japan, was head of the asset management Funding Council and the Festival City Theatres Trust.
business in the Asia Pacific region and a member of the Global Executive Committee.
He joined the Company in November 2003 and was appointed Other directorships include British Assets Trust PLC and John Wood to the board on 1 January 2004, the date on which he took up the Group PLC.
W Gordon McQueen BSc CA FCIBS 58 Alan Harden is also a director of the Scottish Community Foundation.
Joined the board 2004: Chairman of the Audit Committee Alan M W Young MA LLB 59 Gordon McQueen graduated in chemistry and trained as an equity portfolio Joined the Company 1986: appointed to the board 1992 fund manager before embarking on a banking career.
He is a former Chairman and Chief Executive of HBOS Treasury Services PLC.
He is a Alan Young read law at Edinburgh and worked in London at Buckmaster & former Finance Director of Bank of Scotland and served on the boards of Moore, stockbrokers, before joining the investment department at Gartmore HBOS plc and Halifax plc as an executive director following their merger in as an analyst and fund manager.
He became a director of Gartmores 2001 until the end of 2003.
He has experience in many areas of the pension and investment trust management arm in 1983.
On joining the financial services business, particularly in international banking, corporate Company he managed the UK and European portfolios before becoming and commercial banking, treasury and finance.
Other directorships include Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC where Sheila M Ruckley MA LLB DLP 56 he is a non-executive director and chairs the audit committee, JPMorgan Joined the Company 1988: appointed to the board 2000 Fleming Mid Cap Investment Trust plc and Shaftesbury Plc.
Sheila Ruckley studied in the UK and at Wellesley College and the University Clare Salmon MA 42 of Pennsylvania before qualifying as a solicitor in Scots and English law.
She joined the Company in 1988, becoming Company Secretary in 1989, an office she held until 2000 when she was appointed a director.
She had a Clare Salmon graduated with an MA in english from Cambridge.
In 1987 close involvement with the development of ATS, initially on the compliance she joined Boston Consulting Group as a management consultant, working side and then taking responsibility for the introduction of ATS' self-invested in London and Madrid.
She gained considerable experience in financial personal pension.
As a director she first developed the investor relations services and was Consumer Marketing Director for the Prudential before function within the organisation before taking responsibility for the joining Avis Europe as Group Marketing Director.
After a brief spell at establishment of the risk management framework.
This risk management Transacsys PLC she joined Centrica PLC, becoming Managing Director of AA role was handed over to the Finance Director in January 2005 and she is Financial Services before joining the commercial television network ITV as director of corporate development.
David A Deards BA ACA 45 William H Jack 60 Joined the Company and the board 2003 Joined the board 2000: Chairman of the Risk Review Committee David Deards read zoology at Oxford and qualified as a chartered William Jack joined the General Accident Fire & Life Assurance Company in accountant with Arthur Young now Ernst & Young before joining 1973, and was the Managing Director of GA Life subsequently CGU Life, Ansbacher & Co, where he gained considerable experience in corporate with the responsibility for the UK life and unit trust business, from 1991 finance and banking and investment product development, and became a to 2000. director in 1995.
He joined the Company as Finance Director in 2003.
Other directorships include Skipton Company Holdings.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Risk Review Committee All are also Directors of The Alliance Trust PLC and Alliance Trust Savings Limited.
36 Corporate Governance Report The Audit Committee members are Gordon McQueen Chairman, Accountability and Audit Christopher Masters and, following her appointment to the board, Clare Salmon.
William Jack was a member and Chairman Directors Responsibility for the Accounts of the Audit Committee until 29 April 2005.
William Berry was a member until his retirement from the board.
The directors are required by law to prepare financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of Risk Management the revenue and cash flows for the year.
A key responsibility of the board is to understand the nature and extent of the risks which are inherent in carrying out the In addition, the directors are responsible for ensuring that Companys business.
adequate accounting records are maintained, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps to The board has approved a risk management policy for the prevent and detect fraud or other irregularities.
We continue to improve our processes to identify and evaluate risks and to demonstrate that risks are managed on a The Company has, in the opinion of the directors, adequate basis that does not compromise compliance with statute and resources to continue operation as a going concern for the regulatory provision or adherence to good business foreseeable future, and the financial statements of the Company management.
Central to the risk management framework is for the year ended 31 July 2005 have been prepared on that basis.
embedding an understanding of risk and ensuring that staff The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, take responsibility for the management of risk in the areas for consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent which they are responsible.
judgements and estimates, have been used in their preparation During 2004 an executive Risk Management Committee, which and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
reports to the Chief Executive, was established.
In addition, a The accounts are prepared under UK Generally Accepted non-executive Risk Review Committee was formed.
The Company will adopt International Financial Reporting Standards for its 2006 accounts.
Risk Review Committee The Risk Review Committee is a short term committee of the Audit Committee board which was set up in September 2004 to enhance the risk The Audit Committee's duties include reviewing and reporting to management function during a period of substantial business the board on: change.
Its duties include reviewing the framework and procedures which are in place for controlling, monitoring and The annual and interim financial statements and the managing risks, and it advises the board on risk issues.
It accounts, together with the form of proposed considers whether the risk management framework is dynamic announcements and reports relating to the Company's with respect to both external and internal factors.
Committee may commission reports and explanations from management and third parties where it considers risks are not The integrity and effectiveness of accounting and financial being properly identified or managed, and it may agree controls and the system of internal control.
appropriate action plans and monitor progress against them.
It The Committee has a specific function to review the scope and also reviews the minutes of the Risk Management Committee effectiveness of the audits which are carried out by the external meetings.
The Risk Review Committee members are William Jack and internal auditors.
It reviews the independence and Chairman, Lesley Knox and Christopher Masters.
Gordon objectivity of the external auditors, supervises the function of McQueen was a member and Chairman of this Committee until the internal audit and facilitates the work of both the external 29 April 2005. and internal auditors.
It reviews any non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
In 2004 the Committee put the external Internal Control audit out to tender.
The board recommends to shareholders that The board is responsible for the Companys system of internal KPMG Audit Plc should be reappointed as auditor.
control and reviewing its effectiveness.
A robust system of The Audit Committee is also a forum where any member of staff internal control fits into the framework of risk management.
The may, in confidence, raise matters of concern about possible board confirms that procedures which accord with the guidance improprieties in matters such as financial reporting, and it has published in 1999 the Turnbull guidance for compliance with the power to investigate any matters raised.
principle C of the Combined Code internal control have been 37 in place for the year under review and continue to be in place.
Investment Risk and Financial Instruments The board reviews annually the scope and effectiveness of the Risk is inherent in all forms of investment which aim to give a system for internal control.
This includes the consideration of financial return.
We seek to manage this risk primarily through financial, operational and compliance controls as well as of a judicious choice of investments diversified across different significant business risks and any changes in the nature and business sectors and economies.
Notwithstanding extent of those risks since the last review.
diversification, in the short term the aggregate valuation of these investments is subject to considerable fluctuation in No system of internal control can give an absolute assurance response to changes in, for example, inflation, interest rates, against misstatement or loss.
It should prevent or detect areas currency exchange rates and market sentiment.
Cumulative of shortcoming and minimise the risk of loss through effects of dividend income and its reinvestment, along with incompetence, neglect of duty, mistake or fraud.
long term growth can compensate for short term fluctuations in The main control mechanisms in place include: capital value.
Separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive on The Company does not seek to enhance returns by engaging in the board trading activity itself, although it invests in companies that trade.
The Company may borrow and may make use of financial Strong non-executive directors and robust Audit and Risk instruments and derivatives in order to enhance returns or to Review Committees mitigate risks.
Borrowing, financial instruments and derivatives Clear departmental structures, backed up by intercarry their own risks, which must be managed effectively.
departmental support functions During the last financial year, except for its long term Clear authorisation limits debentures which have now been repaid, the Company did not borrow or use any financial instruments or derivatives.
Separation of duties By order of the Board A rolling internal audit programme.
Ian Goddard, Company Secretary Dundee, 19 September 2005
