Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accountability 42 Report of the Directors The Directors of Carillion plc present their annual report, together Carillions core values of openness, collaboration, mutual with the audited financial statements for the year ended dependency, innovation, professional delivery and sustainable 31 December 2005. profitable growth have been developed to emphasise the changing working practices required to succeed in an environment where Principal activities and business review partnership and integrated solutions are becoming the norm.
Carillion is a leading company delivering integrated solutions for infrastructure, buildings and services and operating throughout the It is Carillions aim to foster a working environment in which all UK and in a number of overseas regional markets.
employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
Carillion continually strives to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination A review of the Groups businesses, financial performance and in relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and future developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement members of the public.
Employees who become disabled are, and Operating and Financial Review.
wherever possible, retrained or provided with equipment so that they can continue their employment.
Analyses of revenue, results and net assets by business segment and geographical location are given in Note 2 on page 55.
The objectives of Carillions Equal Opportunity and Diversity Policy are: Profits and dividends to have a workforce that represents and responds to the diversity The consolidated income statement is shown on page 46. of customers and todays society: The pre-tax profit on ordinary activities was 51.9 million 2004: improved safety and quality provided by a balanced and 66.8 million.
productive workforce: better public image and market position, leading to improved links A 2005 interim dividend of 2.8 pence per ordinary share 2004: with the community in which Carillion works: 2.675 pence was paid in November 2005.
It is proposed to pay a adherence to legal requirements: final dividend of 5.2 pence per ordinary share 2004: 4.825 pence lower staff turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels leading to on 23 June 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of cost savings: business on 28 April 2006.
The payment of these 2005 interim and to provide a fair working environment in which discrimination will final dividends amounts to 20.6 million 2004: 15.7 million.
not be tolerated: to create a working environment free from discrimination, A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
harassment, victimisation and bullying: to work towards finding ways for under represented groups to Directors fully realise their potential within Carillion and to take reasonable The Directors of the Company who served during 2005 are shown steps to help such groups: on page 36 of the Remuneration Report.
Biographical details for to ensure that all employees are aware of the Group Equal each Director at 31 December 2005 are given on pages 28 and 29.
Opportunities and Diversity Policy and to provide any necessary ongoing training to enable them to meet their responsibilities Vanda Murray was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 June under it: and 2005 and David Maloney on 1 November 2005.
Mrs Murray and Carillion also recognises the merit of developing a workforce that Mr Maloney will hold office until the Annual General Meeting at incorporates the many diverse skills and backgrounds available which, being eligible, they offer themselves for election.
from within the total population and accordingly, will strive to become an organisation that will recognise, value and understand Both Mrs Murray and Mr Maloney have three year terms of diversity and provide its employees with genuine opportunities to appointment and are members of the Audit, Nominations and improve and reach their full potential.
Mr Maloney is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Carillion places great importance on open and regular communication with employees through both formal and informal In accordance with the Articles of Association, Roger Robinson processes.
As part of this commitment, a Group newspaper, retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election Spectrum, is produced on a regular basis for all employees.
at the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2006.
Roger Robinson has a contract of service which is subject to one years notice of The views of employees on matters affecting their interests are also termination by the Company.
sought through The Great Debate.
This is a major exercise which was undertaken by the Group in 2003, 2004 and 2005 to capture The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the feelings and views of as wide a range of employees as possible.
the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 41.
These views are then taken into account in the development of work related initiatives as part of Carillions strategy to become an Employees employer of choice.
In 2005, around 1,400 employees attended Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is given The Great Debate sessions.
Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and the Group is committed to improving their skills through training and development and nurturing a culture in which employees feel valued for their contribution and are motivated to achieve their full potential.
Section 06 Carillion plc Accountability Annual Report and Accounts 2005 43 Report of the Directors continued Carillion stages The Great Debate as part of the ongoing quest for Policy for payment of suppliers cultural change and to produce step changes which: It is the policy of the Group that each business agrees terms and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and for payment to be raise understanding of what drives motivation, morale, made on these terms providing the suppliers meet their obligations engagement and performance: to the businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a whole therefore does allows employees to take ownership and be empowered to build not apply a general recognised code with regard to the payment of and implement solutions: and all suppliers.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
demonstrates Carillions desire to change attitudes and behaviours based on listening to the views of its employees.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged 62 days at 31 December 2005 63 days at 31 December 2004.
Additionally, Team Talk which is held monthly provides Carillion employees with a face to face communication with their line Charitable and political contributions managers and facilitates two-way communication, discussion and Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the feedback.
It focuses on local issues and key corporate messages year ended 31 December 2005 amounted to 84,000 2004: and information.
The primary beneficiaries of these charitable donations were The Wildlife Trust, Business in the Community, the British One to one meetings between individual employees and their line Heart Foundation and CRASH, the construction and property managers are also held to discuss performance and progress.
industry charity for the homeless.
Employees can also exchange best practice information on a The Carillion Group also contributes more than one per cent of Knowledge Management Forum on the Group intranet.
profits per annum in cash or in-kind staff time on community projects to community activities and is a member of the Business Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its leading edge in the Community PerCent Club.
programmes to integrate safety into everything it does and to improve its environmental performance, including the understanding The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during and application of the principles of sustainability.
Further information the period under review.
on Health and Safety, the Environment and Community is given in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 26 and 27.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday Carillion also involves, engages and consults with employees through 10 May 2006 at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham People Forums across the Group which give employees the B1 2NP.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting accompanies this opportunity to express their views on business issues.
Specifically, annual report and accounts.
the objectives of the People Forums are: Amongst the business to be transacted is a proposal to renew to improve employee information and consultation: the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at to help employees feel more involved and valued: 31 December 2005, the Company had authority from shareholders to support the continued education and development of for the purchase of 21,451,268 of its own shares.
employees: improve business performance by enabling employees to be Auditor better aware of the business climate in which they operate: and Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise to help employees to be responsive to and better prepared the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the for change.
Substantial share interests Approved by order of the Board At 8 March 2006, the Company had received formal notification of the following substantial interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: R F Tapp Number of shares held Percentage Secretary Schroder Investment Management 8 March 2006 Limited, its subsidiaries and affiliated companies 42,177,184 15.03% Fidelity International Ltd and its direct and indirect subsidiaries 13,869,292 4.94% Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accountability 44 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
