Carillion plc Section 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 A Strong Team 28 Board of Directors 1 3 2 4 1.
Chris Girling Chairman Finance Director Age 61.
Philip was appointed to the Board Age 52.
Chris was appointed to the Carillion in October 2004 and became the Chairman, plc Board in November 1999.
Chris is a in succession to Sir Neville Simms, on Non-Executive Director of Elementis plc and 11 May 2005.
Philip is Chairman of the is a Chartered Accountant and holds the Nominations Committee.
He is also degree of Master of Business Administration.
Chairman of Aggreko plc and THUS Group He was previously Group Finance Director of plc and is a Non-Executive Director of The Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc.
Davis Service Group plc and Northgate plc.
He was an Executive Director of BG plc from 4.
Roger Robinson 1992 to 1998, latterly as Deputy Chairman.
Executive Director Construction Services Age 54.
John McDonough as Contracts Director in 1989 subsequently Chief Executive becoming Managing Director of Tarmac Age 54.
John was appointed Chief Executive Civil Engineering, International and Rail.
in January 2001 and is a member of the Roger was appointed to the Board of Nominations Committee.
He is a member of Carillion plc in May 1999 and has the CBIs Public Services Strategy Board and Groupwide responsibility for commercial was a Non-Executive Director of Exel plc until and Health and Safety matters.
He is a he retired from the Board on 13 December Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers 2005 following that companys takeover.
He and was a member of the Government was formerly Vice President, Integrated Taskforce on Modern Apprenticeships.
Facilities Management, Europe, the Middle East and Africa of Johnson Controls Inc.
Section 05 Carillion plc A Strong Team Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29 5 7 6 5.
David Maloney In May 2005, Sir Neville Simms retired Senior Independent Non-Executive Director as Chairman and as a Director of the Non-Executive Director Age 50.
David was appointed to the Company.
Sir Neville was Chairman and Age 54.
Appointed to the Board in Board in November 2005 and is Chairman Chief Executive of Carillion from its launch September 2004, David is Chairman of the of the Audit Committee and a member as an independent company in 1999 Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nominations and Remuneration until January 2001, when he became of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
David is a Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman.
Sir Nevilles David is Group Chief Executive of TDG plc Director of Micro Focus International plc leadership was a key factor in establishing which he joined in 1999 from Associated and of Virgin Mobile Holdings UK plc.
Carillion as one of the UKs leading support British Foods where he was an executive Before taking up these appointments, David services and construction companies.
director, having previously held senior held senior positions in a number of services positions in a number of leading UK sector companies, including Chief Financial Two other Non-Executive Directors, food companies.
Officer for Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts, Roger Dickens and Andrew Parrish, retired Chief Financial Officer for the Thomson from the Board in 2005, having made 6.
Vanda Murray OBE Travel Group Holdings plc and Group valuable contributions to Carillions success.
Non-Executive Director Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
It was with deep sadness that we learnt Age 45.
Vanda was appointed to the of the death of Roger Dickens in January Board in June 2005 and is a member of 2006.
Roger joined the Board in May 2000 the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration and had served as Senior Independent Committees.
Vanda is a Director of Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Ultraframe plc prior to which she was Chief the Audit Committee and as a member Executive of Blick plc.
She is a Trustee and of the Remuneration and Nominations Non-Executive Director of The Manufacturing Committees.
Institute, a registered charity, and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
She was appointed OBE in 2002 for Services to Industry and to Export.
Additionally, Vanda will join the Board of the North West Regional Development Agency in April 2006 as a Non-Executive Director.
