Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review 14 180 million to our year-end order book.
In the Defence sector, Markets and Outlook we made a major breakthrough by winning, with our joint venture partners, two support services contracts for Defence Estates, Business Services together worth around 1.2 billion over a period of up to 10 years.
In addition, Carillions joint venture, Monteray, won a three-year extension to its contract with BT to provide integrated facilities Carillion Business Services comprises our UK building, facilities management services, worth some 350 million.
management FM and other Support Services activities.
In UK building, we won substantial new orders in our chosen These activities generated approximately 1.2 billion of revenue sectors, worth some 1.1 billion.
We were particularly successful including joint ventures in 2005 2004: 769 million, a in the education sector: we reached financial close on a PPP project 56 per cent increase on 2004, driven mainly by a strong to build nine new schools in Renfrewshire, with a construction value performance in UK building and the acquisition of PME.
of 100 million and in which we expect to invest approximately 4 million of equity: we secured a 100 million contract to provide Business Services had a very successful year, more than doubling design and construction services for six new schools in Leeds: and the value of its order book at the year-end to 2 billion a Carillion joint venture was appointed preferred bidder for a PPP 2004: 821 million, as a result of winning a number of significant project to build six new schools in South Ayrshire.
We expect to new orders and the acquisition of PME, which contributed some invest around 3 million of equity in the latter project, which will In 2005, CarillionEnterprise, a joint venture in which Carillion has a 50% interest, was awarded the Regional Prime Central contract by Defence Estates.
This contract involves the maintenance and refurbishment of around 8,500 buildings and other infrastructure for the Ministry of Defence, stretching from the Scottish boarder south through the North of England to the Humber, Midlands and all of Wales.
RAF valley, Anglesey, one of the UKs busiest military airfields, is pictured opposite.
The provision of these services, In addition to providing a wide range which include planned and reactive of support services under the Regional maintenance of buildings and other Prime Central contract, Carillion also facilities, is expected to generate over expects to carry out construction 500 million of revenue for the joint work to provide new buildings and venture over the life of the contract, infrastructure with a potential value initially 7 years, but extendable to of up to 200 million over the life of 10 years.
Financial reporting segments Support Services Construction Services Section 04 Carillion plc Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 also add over 73 million to our construction order book when of the commercial building market.
Notable new opportunities it reaches financial close in 2006. in 2006 include reaching financial close on two major PPP projects for which Mowlem is the preferred bidder the 7 billion Allenby In addition, our UK building business was awarded a 230 million Connaught project to provide Army accommodation in the South contract to provide three new printing plants for News International of England and a 1.1 billion project to provide a new Permanent and a 118 million contract for the British Nuclear Group to construct Joint Headquarters for the Ministry of Defence for which the a store for materials arising from decommissioning at Sellafield.
concession periods are 35 years and 25 years, respectively.
We also expect new opportunities in the growing nuclear market, In 2005, our building business generated some 84 per cent of its following the creation of the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
revenue from 20 customers, reflecting our focus on long-term key Carillion has considerable experience as a supplier of construction customers.
With around 80 per cent of our UK building order book and support services in this market and Mowlem also has useful for 2006 already secure, we expect a similarly high percentage of skills and experience, which complement those of Carillion.
revenue to come from our top 20 customers in 2006.
With the acquisition of Mowlem enhancing the strong positions Business Services entered 2006 in a strong position to deliver we already hold in our existing UK building and support services further growth, particularly from integrated solutions for public markets, and creating a strong presence in other markets, such as sector customers in the Defence, Education and Health markets, as Defence and UK regional building, the outlook for Business Services well as from the retail, offices and mixed use developments sectors is positive.
01 02 01 The 48 storey Manchester Hilton, one of the UKs tallest buildings, is being built by Carillion for the Beetham Organization Limited.
02 Originally a contaminated brownfield site, reclaimed and developed by Carillion and now home to prestige car showrooms for Mercedes-Benz.
Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review 16 In the health market, we provide a range of construction and Markets and Outlook facilities management services, including integrated solutions focused primarily on PPP hospitals and Independent Sector Health Treatment Centres ISTC.
These activities generated 146 million of revenue including joint ventures in 2005 2004: 119 million, with the increased contributions from both construction and support services.
Carillion Health made good progress in 2005, winning new orders that nearly doubled the value of its order book to 1.1 billion at the year end 2004: 592 million, including two particularly notable successes.
In December 2005, we reached financial close on the Queen Alexandra hospital PPP project in Portsmouth, worth approximately 1.1 billion to Carillion over the 33-year concession period, of which some 470 million is included in our Health order Public Private Partnership PPP hospitals, like The Great Western in Swindon, shown here, are examples of how Carillion can provide fully integrated solutions, including private finance, design, construction, maintenance and facilities management services throughout the lives of these hospitals.
Carillion is a joint venture partner and equity holder in The Hospital Company, which has the 27-year concession contract with the Swindon and Marlborough NHS Trust, under Carillion designed and built The Great which it has overall responsibility for Western hospital at a capital cost of the construction and maintenance of some 100 million.
The contract for the hospital and for the provision of At The Great Western hospital, this 490-bed acute hospital was non-clinical services.
Carillion is providing a wide range of completed on time and to budget non-clinical services including building in 2002.
A major benefit of PPP We have invested some 6 million and grounds maintenance, catering, procurement is that it encourages of equity in this project.
This cleaning, portering, reception and innovation.
At The Great Western, investment is one of a portfolio helpdesk.
The provision of these Carillion used its sector leading of 29 investments in PPP projects, services is expected to generate over knowledge and skills in sustainable including nine hospitals, that is 200 million of revenue for Carillion development to create one of the creating substantial value for Carillion.
Financial reporting segments Investments Support Services Construction Services Section 04 Carillion plc Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 book.
In addition, Carillion will invest some 12 million of equity committed to a second wave of ISTCs, including 24 surgical in this project, on which we expect to make financial returns in line centres, plus eight regional contracts and one national with our normal PPP investment criteria.
A Carillion joint venture contract for diagnostic services, with a combined value of was also appointed the preferred bidder by the Bedfordshire and some 3 billion over the next five years.
Hertfordshire Primary Care Trust for new ISTC facilities, involving some 48 million of construction and services worth around We expect to bid for a number of these new centres and 119 million over a five-year period.
The outlook for our Health business continues to be positive, Carillions strong presence and successful track record will be particularly in our two key market sectors of PPP acute hospitals further enhanced by the acquisition of Mowlem, which has and ISTCs.
The UK Government has reaffirmed its commitment to six Local Improvement Finance Trust LIFT contracts.
The a substantial programme of PPP hospitals, worth between 7 billion acquisition of Mowlem will also increase the number of people and 9 billion.
Carillion Health is currently shortlisted for one we have with specialist private finance skills and therefore our new PPP hospital and will be bidding for further hospitals in this capacity to bid for PPP hospitals and ISTCs.
Consequently, the programme as they come to market.
The Government is also outlook for our Health business also remains positive.
01 01 The Queen Alexandra hospital in Portsmouth, our ninth PPP hospital, is a 1,200 bed hospital that will replace three existing acute treatment centres when it fully opens in July 2010.
02 Carillions CafeBlue restaurants are becoming a welcome feature of the facilities management services we provide in NHS hospitals.
02 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review 18 Carillion Transport is focused on the provision and maintenance Markets and Outlook of rail and road infrastructure.
These activities contributed some 580 million of revenue including joint ventures to the Group in Transport 2005 2004: 713 million, with the reduction on 2004 due to the effect of transferring to Network Rail maintenance contracts that generated around 150 million of revenue in 2004.
At 31 December 2005, the value of our Transport order book and framework contracts was 817 million December 2004: 888 million.
The reduction in order book reflects the expected trend in the UK rail infrastructure market, particularly for major projects, as we indicated in our 2005 interim results announcement.
Nevertheless, during 2005 a joint venture, in which Carillion has a 50 per cent interest, was awarded a 110 million contract for rail electrification on the West Coast Mainline and orders for smaller regional rail projects and track renewals have remained at a satisfactory level.
The Public Private Partnership PPP project for the A249 improvement, pictured opposite, is another example of how Carillion can use its wide range of skills and resources to provide a fully integrated solution, including private finance, design, construction, and maintenance.
Carillion is a joint venture partner Carillion is also responsible for the and equity holder in Sheppey Route Carillion is already maintaining part design and construction of the A249 Limited, which has a 30-year of the A249 project route and will project at a capital cost of some 82 concession contract with the maintain all 17 km of the route million.
This involves building 5.6 km Highways Agency, under which it has when construction work is completed of new road, including the 1.3 km overall responsibility for the design, in June 2006.
This will include Swale Crossing, connecting the Isle of construction and maintenance of inspections, routine maintenance and Sheppey with North Kent.
These services are expected to also involves extensive archaeological to invest some 3 million of equity in generate 18 million of revenue for and ecological protection and this project.
Carillion over the life of the concession.
Financial reporting segments Investments Support Services Construction Services Section 04 Carillion plc Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19 While the outlook in the UK rail market is expected to remain In road construction, the 122 million Early Contractor Involvement challenging, planned investment by Network Rail is still substantial ECI project to upgrade the A74 between Carlisle and Guardsmill at approximately 11 billion over the period 2006 to 2008.
The to motorway standard is expected to move into the construction acquisition of Mowlem will increase Carillions already strong presence phase during the second quarter of 2006.
The acquisition of in this market, where we remain focused on increasing our market Mowlem, which has been particularly successful in winning six share and on reducing costs to protect margins.
After a slower than ECI road contracts to date with a total value of over 350 million, expected start to the outsourcing of rail infrastructure work in will significantly strengthen our presence in this market.
Scandinavia, we are now making progress in this market.
We expect this to continue in 2006, as the market is forecast to double in size Overall, the outlook in Transport remains stable.
over the next two years to around 600 million per annum.
In highways maintenance, we expect to maintain our 10 per cent share of the 1 billion per annum Highways Agency market and to target opportunities for further growth in the Local Authority market, worth around 750 million per annum.
01 02 01 Carillion is making good progress with the first private finance project on the the UK rail network to extend and upgrade Marylebone Station and sections of track and signalling to improve the speed and frequency of passenger services for Chiltern Railways.
02 Carillion Roads helps to keep traffic flowing on 20 per cent of the UKs motorways and trunk roads.
Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review 20 Our international regional businesses in the Middle East, Canada Markets and Outlook and the Caribbean are focused on selected construction markets and on their growing support services and PPP activities.
These International Regions businesses contributed 299 million of revenue to the Group in 2005 2004: 349 million.
The reduction in revenue was due to the sale in November 2004 of our contracting business in France, which contributed some 160 million of revenue in that year.
However, this reduction was offset by substantial growth in our remaining international regions, notably in the Middle East and Canada.
2005 was another successful year for new orders.
The value of our international order book increased by over 11 per cent to 1.23 billion at 31 December 2005 2004: 1.1 billion and more than treble its value at December 2003. Notable successes in 2005 included construction orders for Dubai Festival City worth around 150 million and new highways maintenance contracts in Ontario, Canada worth 130 million.
This was followed early in 2006 by our Carillion is providing two of the first Public Private Partnership PPP hospitals in Canada the New Brampton hospital part of the William Osler Health Centre pictured right, a 608 bed acute care hospital near Toronto, and the Royal Ottawa hospital, a 188 bed psychiatric hospital.
When the New Brampton and Ottawa hospitals open, Carillion will provide a Construction of both the New Carillion is a joint venture partner wide range of non-clinical services for Brampton and Royal Ottawa hospitals and equity holder in The Healthcare these hospitals, including catering, is being carried out in joint venture Infrastructure Company of Canada Inc. laundry, housekeeping, portering, with a local partner.
At the New which has the concession contracts security, waste management and Brampton hospital, we are providing with the William Osler Health Centre building maintenance.
diagnostic, treatment and in-patient and the Royal Ottawa Health Care facilities at a capital cost of some Group.
Under these concessions, the Provision of these services is expected 225 million, with construction due joint venture has overall responsibility to generate some 500 million of for completion in July 2007.
At the for the construction and maintenance revenue for Carillion over the 25-year Royal Ottawa, we are providing of the hospitals and the provision of concession contract for the New psychiatric in-patient facilities at a non-clinical services.
We are committed Brampton hospital, and around 75 capital cost of around 63 million to invest some 5.4 million of equity in million over the 21-year concession that are due for completion in these projects.
contract for the Royal Ottawa hospital.
Financial reporting segments Investments Support Services Construction Services Section 04 Carillion plc Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 appointment as preferred bidder for a further highway maintenance In the Middle East, growth in construction activity is forecast to contract in Canada worth 137 million, which will extend our continue, with much of this being generated by the Dubai Festival operations to Alberta.
City development for which our joint venture business is well positioned.
In addition, we shall be targeting opportunities in other With a strong order book, our international regional businesses countries in the region, such as Abu Dhabi, where construction are already on track to deliver further growth in 2006.
They also activity is also forecast to grow.
remain well positioned in good growth markets, especially in Canada and the Middle East.
In Canada, where construction of The acquisition of Mowlem brings new international businesses our two PPP hospitals the William Osler in Toronto and the Royal to the Group in Australia and South East Asia.
The sale of Ottawa is progressing well, we expect to bid for further PPP Charter, Mowlems US construction business, to Balfour Beatty hospitals as the next wave of projects comes to market in 2006. was announced on 18 January 2006 and we expect this to be Our highways maintenance business in Canada will also be completed in the second quarter of 2006, subject to due diligence targeting further contracts in Alberta and in British Columbia as by Balfour Beatty.
these Provinces progressively outsource highways maintenance work to the private sector.
01 01 The Crowne Plaza hotel in Festival City is part of a magnificent mixed-use development covering 1,600 acres adjacent to Dubai Creek, much of which is being built by Carillion and its joint venture partner, the Al Futtaim Group.
02 The Shangri-La Barr Al Jissah Resort and Spa in Oman, built by Carillion Alawi, consists of three hotels with a total of 680 bedrooms.
