Carillion plc Section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Making tomorrow a better place 04 Making tomorrow a better place Carillions success is driven by our commitment to providing a first-class customer experience using our wide range of skills and resources to provide integrated solutions Section 03 Carillion plc Making tomorrow a better place Annual Report and Accounts 2005 05 In 2005, Carillion made a major 300 million.
These included a A balanced and breakthrough in the UK Defence Public Private Partnership PPP market.
With our joint venture project to build nine new schools more resilient partners we won two support in Renfrewshire, with a construction services contracts for Defence Estates, value of around 100 million and business together worth around 1.2 billion in which we will invest approximately over a period of up to 10 years.
4 million of equity, and a 100 These contracts involve maintaining million contract to provide design and upgrading Ministry of Defence and construction services for six new family accommodation comprising schools in Leeds.
A Carillion joint some 45,000 properties in England venture was also appointed preferred and Wales and the maintenance, bidder for a PPP project in Ayrshire refurbishment and replacement of to provide six new schools with a around 8,500 other buildings and construction value of over 70 million infrastructure in central England and in which we expect to invest and Wales.
We also made good progress in the fast-growing education sector winning new contracts worth over Carillion plc Section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Making tomorrow a better place 06 Carillon is one of the leaders in Public and around 350 million of revenue Improving the Private Partnership PPP projects and relating to our 12 million equity Health is one our key growth sectors.
lives of our In December 2005, we secured our ninth PPP hospital contract, In 2005, a Carillion joint venture customers the Queen Alexandra hospital, was appointed preferred bidder Portsmouth, which is expected to by Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire customer generate around 1.1 billion of Primary Care Trust to provide two revenue for Carillion over the 33-year new Independent Sector Treatment concession contract.
This includes Centres, involving some 48 million approximately 250 million of of construction and 119 million of construction, over 500 million of clinical and non-clinical services over maintenance and support services a five-year period.
Section 03 Carillion plc Making tomorrow a better place Annual Report and Accounts 2005 07 Carillion is a recognised leader in Carillion is one of the UKs leading Our reputation developing and adopting socially providers of training for support responsible business practices and services and construction.
In 2005, is helping us to for demonstrating the measurable around 3,000 people attended benefits this has for our business.
courses at our 16 training centres win contracts To measure and benchmark our across the UK and some 800 performance, we take part in Business apprentices qualified with NVQs.
in the Communitys annual survey of sustainability performance.
Since the Index was launched in 2003, Carillion has each year been ranked first in its sector and also in the top quartile of companies participating in the Index.
