38 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Board of Directors 1.
Peter Sands Chairman Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board on on 14 May 2002.
He is responsible for Finance, 9 December 2002 and as responsible for the Groups Risk, Strategy and Technology Chairman on 8 May 2003.
Consumer Banking business and Operations.
Prior to his He spent most of his career worldwide.
He joined Standard appointment he was a director with British Petroleum, rising to Chartered in July 1999 with with worldwide consultants become a main board director responsibility for Consumer McKinsey & Co.
He had been and Chief Executive of BP Banking in Asia.
He is a with McKinsey since 1988, Chemicals before he retired in member of the board of where he worked extensively 2000.
He is Chairman of BUPA Singapore Management in the banking and technology and joint Chairman of the Asia University and a director sectors in a wide range of Task Force with the British of the International Center international markets.
Secretary of State for Trade for Missing and Exploited and Industry.
Sir CK Chow executive director of Sunderland Singapore.
Appointed to the Board Limited and of Durham County on 24 February 1997.
Richard Meddings Cricket Club Holdings Limited is Chief Executive officer Appointed to the Board on and is on the board of directors of MTR Corporation Limited 16 November 2002.
He is of the Asian University for of Hong Kong and is nonresponsible for growth and Women Support Foundation executive Chairman of governance across Africa, and the Commonwealth Standard Chartered Bank the Middle East, Pakistan, Business Council.
He is the United Kingdom, Europe a member of the Hong Kong 2.
E Mervyn Davies CBE and the Americas.
Prior to his Tourism Board, the Council Group Chief Executive appointment, he was Chief of the Chinese University of Appointed to the Board on Operating officer, Barclays Hong Kong and the Council 16 December 1997 and as Private Clients at Barclays of the Hong Kong Institute of Group Chief Executive on PLC.
He was Group Finance Certied Public Accountants.
Before his Director of The Woolwich Previously he was Chief appointment as Group Chief plc, before it was acquired Executive officer of GKN plc Executive he was the executive by Barclays, where his and Brambles Industries plc.
director with responsibility for responsibilities also included He was formerly a president Hong Kong, China and North risk, compliance and treasury.
of the Society of British East Asia and for Group-wide He is a director of the Indo Aerospace Companies.
He is Technology and Operations.
Age 55. is a non-executive director of Age 47.
Jamie Dundas Tesco PLC and of Tottenham 5.
Kai Nargolwala Appointed to the Board Hotspur plc and is Chairman of Appointed to the Board on on 15 March 2004.
He is the Appeal Fundraising Board 7 May 1999.
He is responsible a non-executive director of of Breakthrough Breast Cancer.
for growth and governance J Sainsbury plc and of Drax Age 53. across the Asia Pacic Group plc and is Chairman region and India, Afghanistan, of Macmillan Cancer Relief.
He Previously he was Chief is a non-executive director of Executive officer of the UK Tate & Lyle PLC and is on the property company MEPC and Visa International Asia Pacic Finance Director of the Airport Regional Board.
He joined Authority Hong Kong.
Standard Chartered in 1998 as Group Head of Sales.
Val Gooding CBE Trustees of the WRVS and Board Appointed to the Board on was formerly Managing Partner Committees 1 January 2005.
She is Chief Asia for the international law Executive officer of BUPA rm Freshelds Bruckhaus Audit and Risk Committee and a non-executive director Deringer.
Rudy Markham Chairman of Compass Group PLC.
Hugh Norton was previously Director, Asia Ruth Markland Senior Independent Director Pacic with British Airways, Hugh Norton Appointed to the Board a non-executive director of on 7 August 1995.
He was BAA and of Cable & Wireless Board Nomination formerly a Managing Director Communications plc and on Committee of British Petroleum.
Age 69. the Board of the Association Bryan Sanderson Chairman of British Insurers.
Paul Skinner Rudy Markham executive director of The Lawn Appointed to the Board Ruth Markland Tennis Association and a on 3 November 2003.
He Hugh Norton Trustee of the British Museum.
is chairman of Rio Tinto plc, Age 55. the global mining company, Board Remuneration and was formerly a Group Committee 10.
Ho KwonPing Managing Director of the Hugh Norton Chairman Appointed to the Board on Royal Dutch Shell Group of Ho KwonPing 22 October 1996.
He is companies and CEO of its Ruth Markland Chairman of Banyan Tree global Oil Products business.
He is also Paul Skinner He is a non-executive director Chairman of the Wah-Chang Oliver Stocken of the Tetra Laval Group, the Group.
In addition, he is privately owned global foods Chairman of Singapore Corporate Responsibility packaging company, and is Management University, and Community Committee also a member of the board Chairman of MediaCorp and Bryan Sanderson Chairman of INSEAD, the Euro-Asian a board director of Singapore Mervyn Davies Airlines Limited.
He is based business school.
Rudy Markham Appointed to the Board on Also a director of Standard Chartered Bank.
Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2004.
He is Deputy Independent non-executive director.
He is Chairman of 3i plc and a nonChief Financial officer of executive director of Pilkington Unilever.
Age 59. plc, The Rank Group PLC and GUS plc.
Ruth Markland Group Finance Director of Appointed to the Board on Barclays PLC.
