40 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Senior Management Standard Chartered Bank The directors of Standard Chartered Bank comprise the Chairman and executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC and the following three senior executives: Gareth Bullock Tim Miller Joined Standard Chartered in 1996.
He is a director of Joined Standard Chartered in 2000.
He is Director, People, Standard Chartered Bank and Group Head, Strategy.
In addition Property and Assurance and has responsibility for Human to Strategy, his portfolio of responsibilities includes Corporate Resources, Corporate Real Estate, Compliance and Regulatory Development and Outserve.
Most recently he was the Groups Risk and Legal.
He also has functional responsibility for Internal Chief Information Officer and prior to that, CEO Africa.
He has Audit and the Corporate Secretariat.
Prior to joining the Group he held other senior positions in the United Kingdom, Europe, Hong was Human Resources Director of GlaxoSmithKlines worldwide Kong, China and North East Asia.
He is a non-executive director manufacturing operations.
He is a director of Standard Chartered of Fleming Family & Partners Limited and of Spirax-Sarco First Bank Korea Limited and a non-executive director of Michael Engineering plc.
Mike Rees Joined Standard Chartered in 1990.
He is a director of Standard Chartered Bank and Chief Executive Officer Wholesale Bank.
He has held the positions of Chief Financial Officer of Group Treasury, Regional Treasurer in Singapore and Group Head of Global Markets.
Group Management Committee The Group Management Committee as at 2 March 2006 comprises the directors of Standard Chartered Bank, other than Bryan Sanderson, and the following senior executives: Jaspal Bindra David Edwards Joined Standard Chartered in 1998.
He is General Manager Joined Standard Chartered in 1999.
He is Group Head, Risk and South East and South Asia.
He has held the positions of Global Group Special Assets Management.
He has previously held the Head Client Relationships and Regional General Manager, India.
positions of Regional General Manager, Middle East and South He is a director of Standard Chartered Thai Public Company Asia and Group Head Risk Management.
He is a director of Limited.
Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited.
