A Global Cruise Company Carnival Corporation & plc is a global cruise company and one of the largest vacation companies in the world.
Our portfolio of 12 leading cruise brands includes Carnival Cruise Lines, Princess Cruises, Holland America Line, Windstar Cruises and Seabourn Cruise Line in North America: P&O Cruises, Cunard Line, Ocean Village and Swan Hellenic in the United Kingdom: AIDA Cruises in Germany: Costa Cruises in Europe: and P&O Cruises in Australia.
These brands, which comprise the most-recognized cruise brands in North and South America, the United Kingdom, Germany, Southern Europe and Australia, offer a wide range of holiday and vacation products to a customer base that is broadly varied in terms of cultures, languages and leisure-time preferences.
We also own two leading tour companies in Alaska and the Canadian Yukon that complement our cruise operations, Holland America Tours and Princess Tours.
Combined, our vacation companies attract almost seven million guests annually.
Carnivals product offerings provide our guests with exceptional vacation experiences at an outstanding value, and our success in this regard has made us the most profitable company in the leisure industry.
Our company is dually listed on both the New York Stock Exchange and the London Stock Exchange under the symbol CCL.
Carnival is the only company in the world to be included in both the S&P 500 Index in the United States and the FTSE 100 Index in the United Kingdom.
Headquartered in Miami, Florida, U. S. A. and London, England, Carnival has over 71,000 employees worldwide.
We operate a fleet of 79 ships, and we have another 16 vessels scheduled for delivery by 2009.
With approximately 144,000 guests and 57,000 crew members, there are over 200,000 people cruising with Carnival at any given time.
Sun Princess in Alaska Cunard Queen Mary 2 in New York Regal Princess in the Panama Canal Carnival Victory in the Caribbean P&O Aurora in Norway More Ports More Options Seabourn Legend in London Windstar Wind Spirit in Greece Holland America Line Ryndam in Antarctica Costa Romantica in Italy
