Board of Directors and Executive Management 1 2 1 Lord Harris of Peckham 62 Chairman and Chief Executive Lord Harris has over 40 years experience in carpet retailing and is one of the best known names in the business.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive of Harris Queensway plc from 1964 until the company was taken over in 1988.
Lord Harris was also a Non-Executive Director of Great Universal Stores plc for 18 years, retiring from the GUS Board in July 2004.
Lord Harris became a non-executive director of Matalan in October 2004.
3 Darren Shapland 38 3 4 Group Finance Director Darren Shapland joined Carpetright as Finance Director in 2002.
Darren had held senior financial and operational positions with the Burton Group, Arcadia and Kingfisher, with his previous appointment being as Finance Director of Superdrug Stores plc.
Darren will be leaving the Company on 29 July 2005 to join J Sainsburys as Chief Financial Officer.
5 Martin Harris 36 Group Commercial Director 5 Martin Harris joined Carpetright in 1991, having been a Director of Harveys Furnishing Group Limited.
Martin became Marketing Director in 1997, resigning to become a Non-Executive Director in 1998.
In November 2002 Martin resumed executive director responsibilities as Buying Director and was appointed Commercial Director when he assumed responsibility for Marketing.
Martin took on responsibility for supply chain, logistics and property in June 2005.
6 7 6 Martin Toogood 58 Non-Executive Director Martin Toogood has wide retail experience at the highest level in several companies including BhS, Habitat, Heals and B&Q where he was Chief Executive.
Martin joined the Board in 2002.
He is now Chairman CEO of ILVA, the Danish furniture retailer embarking on a programme of international expansion.
8 Baroness Noakes 56 Non-Executive Director Baroness Noakes, a chartered accountant, joined 8 9 the Board in 2001.
Sheila is a Non-Executive Director of Hanson plc, Imperial Chemical Industries plc and the English National Opera, and a trustee of the Reuters Founders Share Company.
Previously she was with KPMG for 30 years and was the Senior Non-Executive Director of the Bank of England.
Sheila chairs the Audit Committee and is the Senior Independent Director.
10 Guy Weston 44 Non-Executive Director Guy Weston joined the Board in February 2005.
10 Guy began his career as a management tutor and business analyst before entering the food and beverage industry, working for R Twining & Co. Jacksons of Piccadilly and The Ryvita Company.
Currently, Guy is Chairman of Heals PLC and Wittington Investments Ltd, a director of the Thrombosis Research Institute and a Trustee of the Garfield Weston Foundation.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 16 Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors 2 John Kitching 54 As the Carpetright business CEO Europe John Kitching joined Carpetright on its formation has grown we have continued in 1988, having occupied a number of senior management roles within Harris Queensway.
He was appointed Sales Director in 1992 and to invest in our senior team of Managing Director in 1996.
John has overall responsibility for European operations and was retail and functional specialists appointed Chief Executive, Europe, in June 2005. to support the operations.
4 Christian Sollesse 46 Managing Director UK Christian Sollesse joined Carpetright in 1995 having worked for many years in senior retail management roles in Harris Queensway and Harris Interiors.
Christian was appointed Sales Director in 1997 with responsibility for sales and retail management.
In June 2005, Christian was appointed Managing Director UK and Republic of Ireland, taking responsibility for trading operations.
Above: our UK and Republic of Ireland divisional controllers have responsibility for approximately one quarter of the business each, which involves management of 100 stores.. From left to right: Jim May North West and Scotland Terry Moore East Tony Stone South West and Wales Steve Davies South East and Ireland Above: supporting our field team are our functional 7 Baroness Wilcox 64 department heads who together have responsibility Non-Executive Director for all the central functions that enable our stores to Baroness Wilcox was appointed a Non-Executive operate in a simple and efficient way with the goal of Director in 1997.
Judith spent over 20 years in the ensuring that the stores can spend their time with food industry and six years as Chairman of the the customer.
From top to bottom, left to right: National Consumer Council.
She is on the Council of the Institute of Technology, President of the Patricia Dregent Company Secretary Institute of Trading Standards and a Non-Executive Rob Crallan Head of Facilities Director of Cadbury Schweppes plc and Johnson Brian Hawkins Director of Retail Projects Services PLC.
Judith is Chairman of Carpetrights Tim Lovegrove Director of Property Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Ian Woosey Director of Information Technology Sarah Jones Director of Commercial Planning 9 Simon Metcalf 62 Kevin Nicholson Director of Financial Control Non-Executive Director Richard Renouf Head of Consumer Affairs Simon Metcalf is a chartered accountant and Guy Moloney Head of Internal Audit worked in corporate finance as a Director of Steve Challis Director of Logistics County Bank and its successor organisations Wayne Bond Head of Central Operations for over 25 years, latterly as Vice Chairman Carol Sawyer Head of Personnel and Payroll of Hawkpoint Partners.
He is currently a Caron Grant Head of Marketing non-executive director of The Collinson Group, Professional Travel Insurance Limited, Sports & Leisure Group plc and a number of other private companies.
Above left: Our European Finance Director Ian Priestley joins Carpetright in July 2005.
Left: Our sales Director for Belgium and The Netherlands Andy Cordon has responsibility for 89 stores.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 17
