Managers report In 2005, the UK equity market was far stronger than prices well beyond our judgements of fair value.
most commentators had predicted at the beginning It might be tempting in these markets to accept that of the year.
Investors responded to the continuing momentum is moving against us and to buy the positives that lifted the market in 2004: reasonably shares.
However, we believe this is a dangerous low equity valuations, generally good profit game to play.
Many sectors are cyclical in nature as, announcements, better than expected dividend at any time, demand for a product may outweigh flows and a high level of merger and acquisition supply and tend to push prices up.
However, the lack of bad news was equally consequential increase in supply restores market important in maintaining investor confidence.
balance and pushes prices down again.
But if Similarly, many of the negatives unfulfilled in 2004 expanded supply coincides with a fall in demand, were either ignored in 2005, or had been present for the negative effect on pricing, and on share prices, so long that investors were no longer concerned by can be sudden and spectacular.
them: high global housing valuations, high levels of In a cyclical industry, this danger is never far away.
consumer debt, particularly in the US and UK, the Although company or sector earnings may be vulnerability of the US Dollar to a deterioration in the growing impressively, we are cautious in US trade deficit and the relatively high oil price.
extrapolating figures where a cyclical industry may For most of 2005, UK equities moved strongly be close to its peak.
Unfortunately, a peak is not ahead, with little distinction between the easily identified.
Indeed, each new peak may performances of large, medium and small encourage identification of a new paradigm to companies, or between investment styles biased explain the presence of a supercycle, reducing the towards growth or value.
However, the balance of significance of previous cycles.
advantages changed, following the small market Much current analysis of the mining sector exhibits shake-out in early October.
The subsequent recovery each of these characteristics.
Earnings have was characterized by very strong performances by increased strongly, and expectations for peak companies outside the FTSE 100, particularly those earnings have been increased and projected to a which had been buoyant since 2004. future period.
Simultaneously, the market has We warned investors at the beginning of the year welcomed a flurry of new issues of mining that our style of contrarian investing had been well companies whose management, and sponsoring suited to equity markets since the end of the investment bankers, are eagerly advancing the cycle technology bubble, but that many valuation elongation theory.
A cynic might question why anomalies had since been corrected.
This proved current owners are so eager to sell parts of their prescient and, in part, explains the marginal understakes in ventures with such bright futures.
performance relative to the FT-All Share Index.
Although our evaluation of the current trend may be While many elements contribute to the overall incorrect, we believe that the situation requires us to performance of the portfolio, our significant play the averages.
And we know, on average, that in underweight position throughout the year in the Oil & open markets, prices revert to the mean as supply Gas sector and, more importantly, in the Mining catches up with demand.
We are, therefore, sector, was a major factor in our underperformance.
maintaining our underweight stance on the mining With hindsight, we can identify the factors that sector.
Many investors would A number of stocks in the portfolio performed well claim that the continued strength of the Chinese during the year.
In the Tobacco sector BAT rose economy guaranteed high demand for many significantly.
Investors responded to the companys commodities and, therefore, offered strong evidence strong pricing power, cost-cutting initiatives and vast that mining stocks would remain popular.
Towards the end of the year we reduced contrarians, we do tend to miss out when sectors significantly our exposure to the sector.
It has served and stocks exhibit strong price momentum.
Our us well, but valuations are now much higher than preference is to buy and sell early.
While accepting when we first purchased the shares, and investors that precise timing is impossible, we do aim to buy do not seem alert to the risks of litigation.
when sentiment is poor and sell when it has Elsewhere on the portfolio we were aided by bids for improved and when valuations are, in our opinion, car dealer Reg Vardy and housebuilder Westbury.
However, momentum can often take share TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 9 Managers report continued Interestingly, both these companies operate in are in the media and telecommunication sectors sectors under great pressure in 2005, illustrating our greatly favoured in the late 1990s.
Following fundamental belief that the shares we buy at very disappointments, investors have been unwilling to low ratings do not necessarily require positive believe the growth projections of many companies in trading news to deliver handsome profits to this sector, preferring instead to benefit from the high investors.
However, this fide-rating has been so severe that we believe many During 2005 we found that the valuations of several of these companies, including ITV, BSkyB, Reuters of our defensive stocks fully reflected the low risk and Taylor Nelson Sofres are now very attractively nature of the companies, as well as their prospects priced.
We therefore sold many of our water and electricity holdings.
Finally, our contrarian instincts lead us to the General Retailers sector.
In 2005, UK consumer spending With equity markets at four-year highs, and profit was restrained by interest rate fears, high debt levels margins in many areas at historically high levels, and insignificant pay rises.
Simultaneously, many many investors are attracted to stocks with the retailers encountered significant price deflation while lowest ratings and greatest yields, in expectation struggling to contain overall costs, fuel bills and rent.
that the valuations would offer some protection if Inevitably, some collapsed, and many others markets were to consolidate or fall.
However, these recorded large falls in profits and share prices.
stocks have already performed well.
Their yields, although higher than the market, are much lower While we understand investor negativity towards the relative to the market average than they have been sector, we have four reasons to believe that the for many years.
For this reason we are not gloom may be overdone: i the sector is already convinced that purchases would protect us from weak, and a great deal of bad news is discounted in volatile, cyclical markets.
share prices such that for further significant declines from current levels, we think trading would have to In the previous seven years, share prices in smallbe worse than is currently expected: ii a number of and medium-sized companies have grown companies such as Mothercare, JJB and Kingfisher phenomenally, relative to larger companies.
have internal operational opportunities that should Following years of underperformance, this extensive drive profitability as much as an improvement in the revaluation was historically justifiable and is now, in macro-economic backdrop: iii the sector benefits our opinion, complete.
Our contrarian strategy from a high level of bid activity or expectation: iv if encourages us to further increase the portfolio bias the consumer is under as much pressure as many towards FTSE 100 companies.
commentators believe, a reduction in interest rates In recent years, HSBC, BT, Vodafone, Unilever, must be the likely eventual outcome.
Prudential, Royal Dutch Shell and BSkyB have Of course, we shall supplement the core portfolio as disappointed investors.
Perhaps a major factor in contrarian opportunities of all descriptions arise in their relative under-performance has been the the market.
Modest underperformance in 2005 significant reduction in the equity weightings of many indicates the resilience of our contrarian investment life and pension funds during this period, and a strategy when medium term market trends strongly consequent over-supply of many of these stocks.
The longer term trend is At some time, the valuation relationship between favourable to our strategy, and we are fully prepared large and smaller companies will snap back.
We are for the challenge of 2006. happy to be buying into lowly rated companies with Alastair Mundy strong balance sheets, great brand names and, in Investec Investment Management Limited most instances, wide geographical diversity.
In 21 February 2006 classic contrarian mode, we are exploiting an opportunity that will ultimately attract other investors.
Meanwhile, the dividend yields on many of these stocks are adequate compensation until our objectives are fulfilled.
Our second focus is on companies which have been significantly fide-rated in recent years.
Many of these TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 10
