Directors back row from left to right, Richard Jewson, Martin Riley front row from left to right, June fide Moller, John Reeve, Field Walton absent, Gary Allen JOHN REEVE, Chairman, aged 61, was appointed a director in 1992.
He was formerly executive chairman of the Willis Group, group managing director of Sun Life Assurance Society and a member of the boards of the Association of British Insurers and the International Insurance Society.
He is currently Chairman of Alea Group Holdings Bermuda Limited and a director of a number of other companies.
GARY J ALLEN, aged 61, was appointed a director in 2001.
He has over 35 years experience in engineering and is former chairman of IMI plc.
His other directorships include The London Stock Exchange, N V Bekaert SA and The National Exhibition Centre.
RICHARD W JEWSON, aged 61, was appointed a director in 2001.
He first worked in the timber and building material supply industry, becoming managing director of Jewson the builders merchants for twelve years from 1974, and then managing director and chairman of its parent company Meyer International plc from which he retired in 1993.
He is currently chairman of Octagon Healthcare Limited and Archant Limited, deputy chairman of Anglian Water Services Limited and a non-executive director of Grafton Group plc.
JUNE F fide MOLLER, aged 58, was appointed a director in 2005.
She is a non-executive director of London Merchant Securities PLC, Archant Limited and a former managing director of Carlton Communications PLC.
She was previously a non-executive director of J Sainsbury plc, Cookson Group plc and BT PLC.
MARTIN R RILEY, aged 62, was appointed a director in 2004.
He has 35 years experience in stockbroking and fund management in the City and is a former director of Henderson Crosthwaite Ltd, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd and Barlows PLC.
He is currently chairman of SR Europe Investment Trust PLC and CAEC Howard Holdings Ltd and a director of Bonfield Asset Management Ltd and various private investment companies.
FIELD L J WALTON, aged 65, was appointed a director in 1983.
He started his career in engineering management and moved to the City as an analyst with Cazenove in 1971.
Subsequently he held a number of positions in fund management.
He is currently a director of MacArthur & Co. Limited, chairman of Biofuels Corporation PLC and a non-executive director of a number of engineering and trust companies.
Independent non-executive director and member of the audit committee and nomination committee.
Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent Director.
