TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY AND PROCESS The investment objective of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC TEMIT or the Company is to provide long-term capital appreciation for its investors through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
Where possible, investment will generally continue to be made directly in the stock markets of emerging countries.
However, investments in companies listed on more developed stock exchanges may also be made where those companies derive a significant source of their revenue from emerging markets.
Where appropriate, for example to gain access to markets closed to foreign investors, investments may be made in emerging markets through collective investment schemes but such indirect investment is not likely to be substantial.
In any event, Templeton Asset Management Ltd TAML, as the Investment Manager, to the Company will invest directly only in countries where it is satisfied that acceptable custodial and other arrangements are in place to safeguard TEMITs investments and in companies with perceived satisfactory procedures.
TEMITs funds are normally invested in equity securities, although the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles when there are perceived to be advantages.
In addition, in response to market conditions, funds may be held temporarily in non-equity related securities or cash.
The Board has agreed that in exceptional circumstances, TEMIT may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
The Investment Managers investment research and portfolio construction processes may be summarised in five steps: 1 Identify Opportunities A Master List is compiled which is screened for stocks that meet certain market capitalisation and liquidity criteria of the Investment Manager: 2 Analyse Companies A detailed analysis of the stocks industry and financial accounts is undertaken along with a visit to the Company to interview management, assess its quality of product or services, analyse customers and competitors and ascertain competitive advantage: 3 Construct Action List Each stock on this list has a specified buy and sell target.
The Action List is a dynamic list that is monitored continually: 4 Allocate Portfolio On a weekly basis, the portfolio is reviewed for consistency and to ensure that the portfolio complies with investment committee guidelines: and 5 Evaluate and Monitor Portfolio Once the portfolio has been constructed, each investment within the portfolio is reviewed against price targets set for the securities.
These targets are continually updated, with comparisons made with the sector that the security operates in.
Contact is also maintained with the Company and its suppliers and staff.
