TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW DR J B MARK MOBIUS 30 April 2005 This is the annual report for Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 30 April 2005.
Performance Attribution Explanation In the 12-month period ended April 2005, the portfolio returned 21.26% while net asset value per share increased 15.23%, outperforming the MSCI Emerging Markets Index which gained 15.18%.
The Companys performance was enhanced mainly by its underweight positions, relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, in South Korea and Taiwan.
An overweight position in Hungary also contributed positively to performance as the country continued on an upward trend during the period.
However, the Companys underweight positions in South Africa and overweight position in Croatia were negative for relative performance.
In addition, the Companys exposure in Brazil, which was roughly in line with the index, resulted in negative attribution.
At the sector level, an overweight exposure to energy stocks and an underweight position in the information technology sector resulted in the strongest contribution to performance relative to the index.
An overweight position in the financial sector also contributed positively to relative performance.
Alternatively, underweight positions in the telecommunications and materials sector resulted in the largest negative impact on relative performance.
Overview Over the last 12 months, emerging markets recorded good stock market and economic performances.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index ended the period up 15.18% in GBP terms.
Asian markets performance lagged other regions as the possibility of Chinas economy overheating and political tension in the greater China region affected sentiment.
In Latin America, most major economies registered strong growth.
This was reflected in the strong stock market performance of those countries.
High oil prices have been a boon for Mexico since that country is a major oil producer, while the Brazilian governments reforms and policies have led to greater investor confidence in the country.
Greater investor interest in Eastern Europe as a result of the expansion of the EU trade bloc saw new member countries register higher investment inflows, which in turn boosted local stock markets.
Turkey also recorded strong gains as investors reacted favourably to approval from the EU to begin formal accession talks for October 2005.
In South Africa, the governments macroeconomic policies, proactive black empowerment efforts and strengthening economic fundamentals also supported the economy, the benefits of which were reflected in the countrys stock market.
Portfolio Changes & Investment Strategies In general, the Company increased its holdings in Asia while exposure to Europe was decreased in light of its strong appreciation over the last 12 months.
Asian markets, which saw large purchases, were Taiwan, South Korea, India and China Red-chip shares.
Key investments included President Chain Stores the operator of the leading retailer 7-Eleven in Taiwan: LG Chemical, Koreas largest PVC and ABS maker: Hindustan Petroleum Corp. Ltd. one of Indias major refiners and petroleum-based product marketing companies: and Denway Motors, an automobile manufacturer which produces under the Honda brand name in China.
Some switching was also done in China H shares, with the sale of Sinopec as it reached its sell target and purchase of PetroChina.
PetroChina has a dominant market share in upstream oil & gas businesses with huge proven reserves in China.
In Europe, the largest sales were undertaken in Greece, Denmark and Austria as the Company divested in selective stocks, which had reached our sell target.
Key additions in the region included Provident Financial, a consumer finance company with exposure to Central & Eastern European markets as well as Latin America via operations in Mexico: and Pliva, one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in Central and Eastern Europe.
In Latin America, the Company eliminated its exposure to Argentina via divestment of Tenaris.
Elsewhere in the region, selective sales were made in Mexico, while the Company increased its holdings in Brazil.
Key investments included Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the national oil and gas company with 11 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC MANAGERS REPORT continued activities in exploration, production, refining, transportation and distribution of oil and by-products, and Souza Cruz SA, one of the leading tobacco companies in Brazil.
In South Africa, the significant purchases included Anglo American PLC and Sappi Ltd. Anglo American is an international natural resources group with operations in sixty-four countries covering eight principal product groupings, gold, platinum, diamonds, coal, base metals, industrial minerals, paper & packaging and ferrous metals.
Sappi is a fine paper company with businesses in South Africa, Europe and North America.
Asia Chinas economy grew 9.5% year-on-year in the first quarter of 2005, unchanged from 2004s growth rate.
This high growth rate renewed concerns of possible overheating.
Strong consumer demand, trade and investment boosted the growth.
Exports jumped 35% in the first three months of the year, resulting in a trade surplus of US$16.6 billion, more than half of 2004s US$32 billion surplus.
2004 Foreign Direct Investment FDI inflows into China totalled US$60.6 billion, exceeding 2003s US$53.5 billion as foreign investors continue to seek investment opportunities in the country.
Tension in the region increased in the interim as China passed the anti-secession law, which allows it to use force against Taiwan in the event that the latter demands independence from China.
South Koreas Gross Domestic Product GDP grew 4.6% year-on-year in 2004, slower than the governments 5.0% forecast but higher than the 3.1% recorded in 2003.
While consumer confidence has been improving, an expected recovery in domestic consumption has yet to fully materialise.
Strong global demand for South Koreas vehicles, chips and mobile phones led to a six-year high trade surplus of US$29.4 billion in 2004.
Exports increased 31.0% year-on-year to US$253.8 billion, outpacing a 25.5% rise to US$224.5 billion in imports.
2004 FDI inflows into South Korea jumped 97% to US$12.8 billion, a four year high, supported by investments in the manufacturing sector.
The Thai economy grew 6.1% year-on-year in 2004.
Growth was largely driven by domestic demand, more specifically investment and private consumption.
The central bank lowered its 2005 GDP forecast to 4.5% and 5.5% mainly due to high oil prices, social unrest in the southern part of the country and a slowdown in exports.
In February, Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra won an overwhelming victory in the elections.
This should allow Thaksin to continue to push forward with structural reforms with little opposition.
Southern Eastern Europe Hungarys economy grew 4.0% year-on-year in 2004 after expanding 3.7% in the fourth quarter as fixed investment expenditure supported growth.
In a bid to strengthen regional economic relations, Hungary, Austria and Slovenia studied the possibility of enlarging bilateral free trade agreements to a more regional level to include West Balkans countries such as Albania, Croatia and Macedonia.
Hungarian Prime Minister Gyurcsany dismissed two ministers within a week in April.
Janos Veres replaced Finance Minister Tibor Draskovics due to his failure to curb the budget deficit while Jozsef Graf took over the post of Agriculture Minister.
In Poland, fourth quarter GDP grew 3.9% year-on-year, slightly below market expectations, mainly due to slowing private consumption.
This led to a revision of the 2004 growth figure to 5.3% from 5.4%.
Treasury Minister Socha survived a vote of no confidence in April while the government survived a confidence vote in November, signifying its political independence from any party in parliament.
In March, Economic Minister Jerzy Hausner resigned after leaving the ruling Democrat Left Alliance party SLD for the newly established Democratic Party.
His deputy Jacek Piechota replaced him.
Turkeys GDP grew 9.9% year-on-year in 2004 as the country benefited from economic and structural reforms.
The government expected GDP growth to be 5% in 2005.
Turkey agreed to extend its existing treaty with the European Union to include the 10 newest members, including Cyprus, fulfilling a key condition for the start of accession talks in October 2005.
Moreover, the governments US$10 billion stand-by agreement with the IMF should further boost investor confidence in the country.
However, the country delayed the implementation of the new penal code to 1 June 2005 due to technical reasons.
The government said that this would allow for more revisions to ensure human rights and state protection.
12 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC MANAGERS REPORT continued Latin America Brazils economy grew 5.2% in 2004, its fastest rate since 1994.
Industrial output increased 6.2% year-on-year, while household spending rose 4.3%.
The 2004 trade surplus almost tripled from 2003 to US$33.7 billion, bringing the current account surplus to a record US$11.7 billion.
In 2005, the external balance continued to benefit from a strong trade sector with the April surplus reaching a monthly record of US$3.9 billion.
Also contributing to the surplus have been imports, which registered a 9.8% decline in April due to lower domestic demand as a result of the central banks tightening monetary policy.
South Africa GDP grew 3.7% year-on-year in 2004.
The government upgraded its GDP growth forecast from 4.0% to 4.5% over the next three years.
2004 inflation registered 4.3% and is expected to remain between 3.0% and 6.0% over the next three years.
The government plans to boost spending and cut taxes in a bid to support the economy.
The majority of South Africas companies continued to support the governments black economic empowerment charter.
A Tourism Black Economic Empowerment Charter, which aims to raise black ownership of tourism companies to 35% by 2014, was signed during the period.
Outlook The outlook for emerging markets remains bright and we remain positive on the long-term future for emerging markets.
The valuations of many emerging markets securities remain relatively attractive and we continue to find bargain stocks trading at attractive valuations.
While we continue to see significant opportunities in Asia, South America, Africa and Eastern Europe, the key is to find undervalued companies that are well capitalised and have a unique and competitive product range.
Thank you for your continued interest and support.
