TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report for the year ended 30 April 2005.
Principal Activity and Status In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs so as to be able to seek approved investment status from the Inland Revenue under section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the accounting year ended 30 April 2005.
Written approval, as an investment trust, has been received from HM Revenue & Customs for all accounting periods to 30 April 2003 contained in the Taxation of Capital Gains Act 1992 which exempts approved investment trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
Share Capital and Warrants Changes in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Details of the warrants issued by the Company, the final date for exercise of which was on 30 September 2004, are set out in Note 20.
Share Buy-Back Proposals At the last Annual General Meeting, the Company was granted the authority to buy back up to 68,283,573 Ordinary Shares representing 15% of the issued ordinary share capital on 30 April 2004.
During the year under review and to this day, the Company has bought back 11,812,763 shares representing 2.20% of the issued share capital after the exercise of warrants on 30 September 2004.
As stated on page 55 renewal of authority will be sought at this years Annual General Meeting.
Invested Funds Sales of investments during the year crystallised realised net gains of 6.03 million.
Invested portfolio funds at 30 April 2005, had a value of 1,043.40 million against a cost of 713.57 million.
Net Asset Value The net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as at 30 April 2005 was 197.05 pence per share.
Results and Dividend The revenue return on ordinary activities for the year after tax amounted to 17.15 million.
The Directors propose an ordinary dividend of 2.67 pence per Ordinary Share making a total dividend for 2005 of 14.31 million.
If approved, this will be payable on 3 October 2005 to ordinary shareholders on the register at close of business on 2 September 2005.
2.84 million has been transferred to Reserves.
Business Review A review of the Companys activities and an indication of likely future developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement on page 9 and in the Managers Report and Portfolio Review on pages 11 to 13.
Creditor Payment Policy Investment transactions are settled by the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market.
While the Company follows no formal code, its policy is to agree the terms of payment at the start of business and ensure that the supplier is aware of the terms of payment.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
For the year ended 30 April 2005 the number of trade brokers creditors days was 1 day 2004: 1 day.
Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The European Union has agreed that all countries should work towards adopting IFRS.
In the UK, the Accounting Standards Board ASB has developed a process of gradual convergence towards IFRS by 25 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued issuing updated accounting standards which mirror IFRS.
A number of new standards have been issued by the ASB as part of the convergence and the following will impact TEMIT:.
FRS21 IAS10 Events after the Balance Sheet date:.
FRS23 IAS21 The effects of changes in Foreign Exchange rates:.
FRS25 IAS32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation: and.
The main impact on TEMITS future Annual Accounts are as follows:.
All investments will be valued on a bid basis, as opposed to a mid basis: and.
Only dividends physically paid during the year will be reflected in the financial statements.
Currently, proposed dividends are shown as a creditor in the financial statements.
Using the results for the year ended 30 April 2005, the impact of the above on the Net Assets and Net Asset Value would be as follows: Net Assets million Total Net Assets per current UK GAAP 1,056 Dividend proposed 14 Bid valuation adjustment 4 Total Net Assets per IFRS 1,066 Net Asset Value per share p Net Asset Value per current UK GAAP 197.05 Net Asset Value per IFRS 198.88 Reporting Currency As the Company is a UK investment trust, whose share capital is issued in the UK and denominated in Pounds Sterling, it is appropriate that the financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 8 June 2005, the Company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: Percentage Number of of issued Name Ordinary Shares Share Capital City of London Investment Group PLC 58,692,541 10.95% Lazard Asset Management 19,862,960 3.71% Legal & General Investment Management 19,564,853 3.65% British Steel Pension Fund Trustee Limited 18,587,113 3.47% Going Concern The Directors are satisfied that the going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the Financial Statements.
Directors and Management No Director had notified the Company of any interest as defined in Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 existing either at the beginning or at the end of the year to 30 April 2005 in the Companys Ordinary Shares save for the following Directors: 26 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued 30 April 2005 30 April 2004 Sir Ronald Hampel Ordinary Shares 21,618 21,618 Geoffrey A Langlands Ordinary Shares 3,000 3,000 The Honourable Nicholas Brady Ordinary Shares 5,000 The Company has not received notification of any change in the above interests as at 22 June 2005.
The following were Directors during the year to 30 April 2005: Sir Ronald Hampel The Honourable Nicholas Brady resigned 21 September 2004 Sir Peter Burt appointed 1 October 2004 Sam L Ginn Peter C Godsoe OC Charles B Johnson Andrew S B Knight Geoffrey A Langlands Peter A Smith appointed 17 May 2004 Mr Johnson is a director of Templeton Worldwide, Inc. and a director and shareholder of Franklin Resources, Inc. Sir Peter Burt was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2004, and appointed to the Audit Committee on 6 December 2004.
Under the Articles of Association, he will retire and offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors, upon attainment of 70 years of age shall retire from office, and may offer themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
This is in accordance with the AITC Code of Corporate Governance, which recommends that Directors over the age of 70 should offer themselves for re-election every year.
Sir Ronald Hampel 73 and Charles B Johnson 72 offer themselves for re-election.
The Board recommends the election of Sir Peter Burt and re-election of Sir Ronald Hampel and Mr Charles B Johnson whose resumes are set out in this Annual Report.
Each Director has a letter of appointment from the Company.
Other than previously stated, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year.
Auditors RSM Robson Rhodes LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Non-audit work undertaken by RSM Robson Rhodes LLP for the year ended 30 April 2005 on behalf of TEMIT includes assistance with the implications of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, calculation of the year end corporation tax liability, and review of the October 2004 Interim Report.
An engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors is safeguarded.
Custodian JP Morgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian for the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 60 days notice.
Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company relates to the renewal of authority for the issue of new shares in certain circumstances and renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
27 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued Renewal of Authority for the Issue of New Shares As in previous years, a resolution was passed by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 21 September 2004 permitting the Directors to allot new shares to applicants under the Templeton Investment Plan the Plan at times when the share price stood at a premium to net asset value.
The Directors consider that the reasons for asking shareholders to approve such authorisation still apply.
Under the Plan, if the shares are trading at a premium to the net asset value, the authority can be used and investors under the Plan are then able to buy shares at the offer price.
In such circumstances, the Company would also benefit from an increase in its net asset value per share.
The resolution to allot shares in this way is set out as Resolution No.
9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
This resolution, if passed, will give your Directors power to allot equity securities of the Company for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 6.70 million being an amount equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the Notice of the Annual General Meeting to investors under the Plan or in other circumstances, as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply this Section requires, when shares are to be allotted for cash, such shares first be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of shares, this entitlement being known as pre emption rights.
The calculation of the above figure is in accordance with the limits laid down by the UK Listing Authority and Investment Protection Committee guidelines, and the Directors will not use the authority other than in accordance with these guidelines.
The authority contained in Resolution No.
9 will continue until the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2006 and your Directors envisage seeking the renewal of this authority in 2006 and in each succeeding year, subject to such renewals again being in accordance with the above guidelines.
Your Directors will not make any issues of new Ordinary Shares unless they consider it advantageous to the Company to do so.
Renewal of Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 21 September 2004 a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors consider that the reasons for asking shareholders to approve such authority still apply.
The main purpose of any share buy-backs will be to enhance the net asset value of the remaining Ordinary Shares, as the shares will only be acquired at a cost which is less than their net asset value.
Purchases should also provide liquidity for shareholders wishing to sell their Ordinary Shares and may have a beneficial effect on the discount at which the Ordinary Shares currently trade to their net asset value.
The resolution to authorise the Company to purchase its own shares is set out in Resolution No.
This Resolution, if passed, will give the Company the authority to purchase its own shares within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
This represents 15% of the Ordinary Shares in issue as at 30 April 2005.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per Ordinary Share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is 5% above the average of the market values of the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price payable will be 25 pence, being the nominal value of an Ordinary Share.
Purchases will be funded either by using available cash resources, by selling investments in the portfolio or by borrowings.
No Ordinary Shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
10 will continue until the Annual General Meeting in 2006 and your Directors envisage seeking the renewal of this authority in 2006 and in each succeeding year.
28 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued Recommendation The Directors believe all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the resolutions.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH UK Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 22 June 2005 29
