Directors H M Henderson J Horsburgh C G Clarke FCA R W C Colvill A W Jones MA, FREng, Age 53 Appointed Age 50 Jim Horsburgh Age 61 Christopher Age 65 Robert Colvill was FRAeS, FIEE, CIM a director in 1988, was appointed a director Clarke joined the Board in appointed a director in 1994 Age 66 Alan Jones was Harry Henderson became and Chief Executive officer 1992 and was Managing and became Chairman of appointed a director in Chairman in March 2003. with effect from 2 February Director from 1 January the Audit Committee in 1996 and became He was formerly a partner 2004.
He is responsible for 1993 to 30 June 2000.
He is also Deputy Chairman of the of Cazenove & Co. and the overall management of has over 30 years Treasurer of the RNLI.
After Remuneration Committee subsequently a senior Witan.
He has over 25 experience of investment 25 years fund management on its formation in executive at Cazenove years experience of management and was a experience in the City, he December 2003.
He was Group plc, retiring in 2002. investment management.
senior executive of joined Marks and Spencer to formerly Chief Executive of Mr Henderson is Chairman He was formerly with Henderson Global set up their Financial BICC plc.
He is Chairman of Witan Investment Schroder Investment Investors, retiring fully in Services division, later of Alert Communications Services Limited.
He is also Management Limited March 2003.
He is becoming finance director of Limited and The a director of Cadogan where he was UK Chairman of Rensburg Marks and Spencer plc and Manchester Airport Group Settled Estates Limited.
Sheppards plc and a Chairman of Marks & plc and is a director of Mr Horsburgh is a director Trustee of the Spencer Financial Services Agustawestland NV.
He is a of Witan Investment Commonwealth War and its unit trust subsidiary.
former member of The Services Limited.
He was also Chairman for 9 Financial Reporting Mr Clarke will retire from years of the Money Advice Council.
the Board at the conclusion Trust, a charitable company.
of the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2006.
R H McGrath C S McVeigh III R A Bruce MA, MBA J C Platt MA, MSI A Watson BSc Econ, Age 59 Rory McGrath Age 63 Charlie McVeigh Age 56 Andrew Bruce was Age 49 Jane Platt was ASIP, Barrister-at-Law was appointed a director in was appointed a director in appointed a director appointed a director on Age 60 Tony Watson was 1996.
He is Group Credit 13 December 2005.
She appointed a director on Chief Executive of of Citigroup European Risk Director at Barclays has international 1 February 2006.
He retired H. Young Holdings plc, Investment Bank and a PLC where he has management experience in January 2006 after an a marketing company.
Mr responsibility for asset and a track record of executive career of 38 years Mr McGrath is a director McVeigh will retire from quality and credit risk building profitable in the investment of Witan Investment the Board at the conclusion across the Barclays Group.
businesses in financial management industry.
of the Annual General He is also a non-executive services related sectors, Most recently he was Chief Meeting on 24 April 2006. director of Clearstream including both institutional Executive of Hermes International.
and retail asset Pensions Management management.
Mr Watson was recently she was Chief formerly Managing Operating officer at Director of AMP Asset Reuters.
Ms Platt is also a Management plc.
director of Edinburgh UK He is a non-executive Tracker Trust plc.
director of Hammerson plc and will become a nonexecutive director of Vodafone Group Plc in May 2006.
Members of the Audit Committee which is chaired by Mr Colvill.
Members of the Remuneration Committee which is chaired by Mr Jones.
