Phil Bentley former Director General of the executive appointments, and Chairman 59 N. Group Finance Director and Association of British Insurers.
became Chief Operating officer Roger Carr joined the Board as Managing Director, Europe She was previously a senior civil of British American Tobacco a Non-Executive Director in 2001 47 D. E. servant in the Treasury and the Australasia Ltd in September 1999. and was appointed Chairman in Phil Bentley joined Centrica plc as Prime Ministers Ofce.
He is Chairman of Group Finance Director in 2000 10.
Jake Ulrich Mitchells & Butlers plc, Deputy and was appointed Managing 7.
Andrew Mackenzie Managing Director, Centrica Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes Director, Europe in July 2004.
Non-Executive Director 49 A. R. Energy 53 E. US citizen plc and a senior adviser to Formerly, he was Finance Director Andrew Mackenzie joined the Board Jake Ulrich was appointed to the Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co Ltd. of UDV Guinness from 1999 and in September 2005.
He is Chief Board in January 2005.
He was Group Treasurer and Director of Executive, Industrial Minerals, at appointed Managing Director of 2.
Sir Roy Gardner Risk Management of Diageo plc Rio Tinto plc.
Previously, he spent Centrica Energy in 1997.
Between Chief Executive 60 D. E. N. from 1997.
Previously, he spent 15 22 years with BP plc in a range of 1994 and 1997 he was Managing Sir Roy Gardner was appointed years with BP plc.
He is a Nonsenior technical and engineering Director of Accord Energy Ltd, a Finance Director of British Gas plc Executive Director of Kingsher plc.
positions, and ultimately as Group joint venture between Natural Gas in 1994.
From 1995, he had Vice President, BP Petrochemicals.
Clearinghouse NGC and British responsibility for the business units 5.
He previously worked for which subsequently formed Managing Director, British Gas 8.
Patricia Mann OBE NGC, Union Carbide Corporation Centrica plc.
Prior to joining British Residential Energy 48 E. Senior Non-Executive Director and the OXY Mid Con Peoples Gas, he was Managing Director of Mark Clare joined British Gas plc 68 A. N. R. Energy Group.
GEC-Marconi Ltd and a Director of in 1994 as Group Financial Patricia Mann was a Non-Executive GEC plc.
He is President of Carers Controller and was appointed Director of British Gas plc from 11.
Paul Walsh UK and Chairman of the Finance Director of Centrica plc December 1995 until Centrica plc Non-Executive Director 50 Apprenticeship Ambassadors in 1997.
From November 2000 was demerged in February 1997.
He is the Senior to December 2001, he was She was Vice President Paul Walsh joined the Board in Independent Director and Chairman responsible for the development International of J Walter Thompson March 2003.
He is Chief Executive designate of Compass Group plc.
of strategy, financial services and Co Ltd and remains a Director of of Diageo plc, having previously e-commerce.
He was appointed JWT Trustees Ltd. She is on the been its Chief Operating officer and 3.
Helen Alexander CBE Managing Director of British Gas Board of the UK Centre for having served in a variety of finance Non-Executive Director 49 in January 2002.
He is a NonEconomic and Environmental roles.
He is a Non-Executive A. N. R. Executive Director of BAA plc, Development and National Trust Director of Federal Express Helen Alexander joined the Board The Energy Saving Trust Ltd and Enterprises, and is a Trustee of the Corporation, a Governor of the in January 2003.
She is Chief The Energy Retail Association Ltd. AA Motoring Trust.
Henley Management Centre and Executive of The Economist Group, Deputy Chairman of the Prince of a Trustee of the Tate Gallery and an 6.
Paul Rayner Wales International Business Honorary Fellow of Hertford Non-Executive Director 57 A. R. Non-Executive Director 51 A. R. Leaders Forum.
Formerly, she was Mary Francis joined the Board in Australian citizen a Non-Executive Director of BT June 2004.
She is a Non-Executive Paul Rayner joined the Board in Key to membership of committees Group plc and Northern Foods plc.
Director of the Bank of England, September 2004.
He has been A Audit Committee Aviva plc and St. Modwen Finance Director of British American D Disclosure Committee Properties plc.
She is a Director of Tobacco plc since January 2002.
In E Executive Committee Fund Distribution Ltd and a Trustee 1991 he joined Rothmans Holdings N Nominations Committee of the Almeida Theatre.
She is a Ltd in Australia, holding senior R Remuneration Committee 22 22 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
