Governance Directors and senior managers The business of the company is managed by the board of Charlie Cornish age 45 Managing director, directors.
There are no family relationships between any of the United Utilities North West directors or senior managers.
There are no arrangements or Charlie Cornish is responsible for the groups regulated asset understandings with major shareholders, customers, suppliers management business.
He joined the group in January 2004 and or others pursuant to which any of the persons referred to below was formally appointed to the board on 27 January 2004.
After was selected as a director or member of senior management.
graduating from Strathclyde University, he worked for British Aerospace, Plessey Telecommunications and Associated British Reappointment of directors Foods and also served as an executive director of NHS trusts.
In The companys constitution the articles of association provides 1998, he joined the West of Scotland Water Authority as HR director that a director appointed by the board must retire at the annual and was involved with major change programmes.
He went on to general meeting of the company next following such appointment.
become its customer services director and later chief executive.
David Jones and Nick Salmon were appointed as additional nonHe joined Thames Water in 2002 as global business performance executive directors by the board on 27 January 2005 and 4 April director, working across Europe, Asia Pacic and the Americas, 2005 respectively and Tom Drury was appointed as an additional eventually becoming chief operating officer with Thames Water executive director on 9 May 2005.
All three are therefore retiring UK and Ireland with responsibility for service delivery, including and offering themselves for reappointment at the 2005 annual operations and capital programmes.
He is chairman of Young general meeting.
Enterprise North West and a director of Young Enterprise UK.
In addition, the articles of association provide that if, at the start of Tom Drury age 43 Managing director, Vertex business on the date of the notice convening that annual general Tom Drury joined the board as an executive director on 9 May 2005. meeting, a director has served for a continuous period of nine years He began his career with  and became he must retire and may offer himself for reappointment.
Sir Peter a management consultant, specialising in financial management, Middleton will have completed over nine years service at the date activity based costing and business planning.
He joined United of notice and is therefore retiring and offering himself for Utilities Water in 1991 and became finance director in 1992.
He reappointment at the 2005 annual general meeting.
moved to Vertex as managing director when it was set up in 1996 The articles of association also state that a director must and has successfully guided the company from being essentially retire at the third annual general meeting following his or her last an in-house provider of customer management services to its appointment.
Andrew Pinder and Norman Broadhurst were last current position as one of the UKs largest providers of business appointed at the annual general meeting held in 2002 and are process outsourcing.
therefore retiring and are offering themselves for reappointment Gordon Waters age 57 Managing director, at the 2005 annual general meeting.
United Utilities Contract Solutions John Seed, having completed nine years of service, will stand Gordon Waters is responsible for the groups infrastructure down at the annual general meeting in 2005 and will not management business.
He joined the group in 1996, and was seek reappointment.
appointed to the board on 1 June 1997.
A qualified civil engineer and structural engineer, he graduated from the City University EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS London in 1969.
He joined a major UK consulting engineering John Roberts CBE age 59 Chief executive practice before working for a number of major UK construction John Roberts joined the board as chief executive on 1 September companies.
From 1987 to 1996, he worked for Tarmac Construction 1999.
He is a non-executive director of Volex Plc and chairman of Limited, becoming managing director of the civil engineering division the Merseyside Private Sector Group, MIDAS Manchester Inward in 1992, and joining the board of Tarmac Construction Limited in Development Agency Services and the North West Business 1993.
He was responsible for all their major projects and regional Leadership Team.
He is also on the board of the Mersey Partnership civil engineering companies and specialist companies both in the UK and is a member of the University of Liverpools Council.
He is a non-executive director of The Carbon Trust.
Manweb in 1967 upon graduation from Liverpool University.
He was appointed finance director in 1984 and became chief executive in NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 1992.
He left Manweb in 1995, following the companys takeover Sir Richard Evans age 62 Chairman by Scottish Power, and spent some time as a freelance consultant in Sir Richard Evans was appointed a non-executive director on the sector.
He joined Hyder plc in 1996, initially as chief executive of 1 September 1997 and chairman in January 2001.
Born in the South Wales Electricity and then as chief executive of Hyder Utilities north west of England, he joined the Ministry of Transport and from 1997.
He has been president of the Electricity Association, Civil Aviation in 1960 and, shortly afterwards, moved into the then chairman of the Electricity Pensions Trustee Limited, a member newly-formed Ministry of Technology.
In 1969, he joined the Military of the CBI Wales Council and a member of the Royal Commission Aircraft Division of British Aircraft Corporation BAC.
In 1978, he on Environmental Pollution.
was promoted to commercial director of what had then become Simon Batey age 51 Group finance director the Warton Division of British Aerospace BAe.
In January 1983, he Simon Batey joined the board as group finance director on was appointed deputy managing director for BAe Warton and was 1 April 2000.
He had previously been group finance director of appointed deputy managing director of the newly formed British AMEC PLC from 1992 and prior to that deputy finance director.
Aerospace Military Aircraft Division in 1986.
In January 1987, he He was closely involved in the reshaping of that group through a was appointed to the board of British Aerospace plc as marketing number of major investments and disposals and the development director and became chief executive in 1990.
He was a director of its policy towards private finance initiatives.
He also served on of the programme management companies for the Anglo French the boards of Fairclough Homes Group Limited and the major Jaguar aircraft and for the Anglo German Italian Tornado aircraft French electrical contractor SPIE SA.
He is also a non-executive and a director of the Airbus company.
He was appointed chairman director of Arriva plc.
After graduating from Oxford University, of British Aerospace plc now BAE Systems plc in May 1998, a Simon joined Armitage & Norton now part of KPMG where he post from which he retired in July 2004, after more than 30 years trained and qualied as a chartered accountant, and worked with the company and its predecessors.
He was also a nonin a number of management posts.
executive director of NatWest plc from 1998 to 2000.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 33 Governance Directors and senior managers continued Norman Broadhurst age 63 Chairman of the audit committee Nick Salmon age 52 Non-executive director Norman Broadhurst was appointed as a non-executive director on Nick Salmon was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 April 1999 and is chairman of the audit committee.
He has been the chief executive of Cookson chairman of Chloride Group plc and Freightliner Ltd.
He is also a Group plc since 2004.
From 2001 to 2004, he was executive non-executive director of Cattles plc, Old Mutual plc and Tomkins vice president of Alstom S. A. the global energy and transport plc.
He was group finance director of Railtrack plc from 1994 infrastructure group.
As a member of the three-person executive to 2000. central management team, his responsibilities included strategy, mergers and acquisitions, communications and the worldwide David Jones CBE age 63 Non-executive director marketing and sales network.
From 1997 to 2001 he was executive David Jones CBE was appointed as a non-executive director on vice president of ABB Alstom Power.
In his post as chief executive 3 January 2005.
He is currently chairman of UK Coal PLC and of Babcock International Group PLC from 1993 to 1997, he led is also chairman of Teesside Power Ltd.
He was the group chief a major restructuring exercise, resulting in the repositioning of executive of The National Grid Company plc from 1994 to 2001 Babcock as a focused support services company.
Prior to joining taking National Grid to the stock market and leading it successfully Babcock, he held senior management positions at GEC and GEC through an extensive business transformation programme.
Prior Alsthom in the UK and France, and previously spent eleven years to that, he was chief executive of South Wales Electricity, having with China Light & Power Company Limited in Hong Kong.
previously held senior engineering, commercial and management posts on the South Western and Midlands Electricity Boards.
John Seed age 66 Chairman of the remuneration committee John Seed joined the board as a non-executive director in Sir Peter Middleton age 71 Deputy chairman and March 1996.
He was formerly chief executive of South Western senior independent non-executive director Electricity plc.
A chartered engineer, he spent 29 years in a number Sir Peter Middleton joined the board as a non-executive director in of engineering and general management posts with Eastern January 1994.
He is chairman of Camelot Group plc, the operator Electricity.
He was appointed deputy chairman of South Western of the National Lottery, president of the British Bankers Association, Electricity in 1986, becoming managing director at privatisation and chairman of the Barclays Group Asia Pacic Advisory Committee, then chief executive in 1992.
He was chairman of Great Western chairman of the Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution, chancellor Assured Growth plc from 1991 to 1997, of Windelectric Limited of the University of Shefeld, a member of the International Advisory from 1996 to 1999 and of Warren Associates Limited from 1998 to Panel of the Monetary Authority of Singapore, on the board of the 2001.
He has held a number of other non-executive directorships National Institute of Economic and Social Research and a member in the public and private sectors, including Prism Rail plc, Rebus of the Advisory Boards of Marsh McLennan companies, Financial Group plc and British Smaller Companies VCT plc.
After National Service, he joined HM Treasury where he had a long and distinguished career spanning SENIOR MANAGERS 30 years, ultimately ascending to become permanent secretary The following are the senior managers of the company who are not from 1983 to 1991.
Sir Peter joined Barclays in 1991 as group board directors, but are members of the executive leadership team: deputy chairman and as executive chairman of BZW, became Linda Booth age 52 Group human resources director chairman of Barclays Capital following the reorganisation of BZW in Linda Booth joined the group as human resources director of Your October 1997 and was group chief executive from November 1998 Communications Limited on 4 October 1999.
She was appointed until October 1999.
He became group chairman of Barclays Bank as group human resources director on 1 January 2003.
She holds PLC in April 1999 and retired in August 2004. an external directorship and is chair of a charity in Liverpool called Jane Newell OBE age 61 Non-executive director Create Liverpool Trading Limited which helps the long-term Jane Newell joined the board as a non-executive director on unemployed back into work.
She is also a member of the 1 September 1996.
After 10 years as an international civil servant, regional council of The Princes Trust.
she joined the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, and became Hugh Logan age 55 Managing director, Your Communications chairman of its Council from 1995 to 1997.
In 1992, she was Hugh Logan joined Your Communications as its managing director appointed founder trustee and subsequently chairman of the in July 2000.
He was previously director of sales and services at Maxwell Pensioners Trust and in 1997 received the OBE for this BT Cellnet where he oversaw the acquisition of Martin Dawes and work.
She is chairman of Dixons Group Pension Scheme, an managed a customer base of 3.4 million people.
During a ten-year external assessor for the Home Ofce for promotions in the police, career at BT, he held a variety of senior management roles including prison and re services, pro-chancellor and chairman of the board managing director of BT Mobile, director of BT Cellnet, and of governors of London South Bank University and a Justice of the managing director of BTC Lumina and DX Communications.
In March 2005, she stood down as chairman of the trustee Earlier in his career he worked at Plessey, STC and Mercury.
companies responsible for the United Utilities pension schemes following her appointment as chairman of the trustee company to Ian Priestner age 48 Group communications director the Royal Mail Pension Fund, one of the largest funds in the UK.
Ian Priestner joined the company as group communications director on 16 October 2000, having previously been head of public policy Andrew Pinder CBE age 58 Non-executive director and government relations at British Gas PLC.
Andrew Pinder was appointed a non-executive director on 1 September 2001.
As the e-Envoy to the UK government from Tim Rayner age 44 Company secretary 2001 to 2004, he was responsible to the Prime Minister for the A solicitor and previously a partner with a predecessor law rm of delivery of internet access to all British citizens and businesses.
Addleshaw Goddard, Tim Rayner joined the group as group legal He has since joined the board of Entrust, a US-based security manager in 1995.
He was appointed as group company secretary specialist in November 2004 and he became an independent on 1 April 1998. non-executive director of Spring Group plc in March 2005.
Before his appointment as e-Envoy, he was a partner in a venture capital rm and carried out a number of management consultancy assignments for the British government.
Previous executive leadership roles also include positions as the head of European operations and technology at Citibank, director of operations and technology at Prudential Corporation, and as director of information technology at the Ofce of Inland Revenue.
34 34 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005
