Operating and financial review Business description UNITED UTILITIES PLC United Utilities PLC was incorporated on 1 April 1989 under the United Utilities PLC is a public limited company registered in Companies Act 1985 along with its subsidiary United Utilities Water England and Wales.
Its multi-utility operations, comprising United PLC.
In November 1995, the company acquired United Utilities Utilities Water PLC and United Utilities Electricity PLC, provide Electricity PLC then known as NORWEB plc, the distributor of wastewater and water services and electricity distribution services, electricity in north west England, and at that time supplier of respectively, to a population of some seven million people in north electricity and gas in the United Kingdom, to form a multi-utility west England.
The groups infrastructure management business, group.
In August 2000, the company sold the electricity and gas United Utilities Contract Solutions, applies the groups infrastructure supply business, and, as a result, no longer has any significant management expertise to competitive markets and is now the exposure to the competitive generation and energy supply market.
leading utility outsourcing business in the United Kingdom.
Vertex is United Utilities PLCs shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange one of the United Kingdoms largest providers of business process and, in the form of ADSs, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Its outsourcing, managing, and often transforming, the processes registered ofce is at Dawson House, Great Sankey, Warrington, which support a clients business.
United Utilities also owns a Cheshire, WA5 3LW, England.
The telephone number is 44 0 1925 telecommunications business through its subsidiary Your 237000.
Communications, which operates in the United Kingdom.
Organisational structure United Utilities strategy is to: A list of all principal operating subsidiary undertakings is contained out-perform its new regulatory contracts effective 1 April 2005 in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements on page 70. pursuant to which the group operates the wastewater, water and BUSINESS OVERVIEW electricity distribution networks: The group reports its results through four business segments.
grow its two support services businesses, United Utilities References to segmental operating profit loss are dened as the Contract Solutions and Vertex, by applying its core skills of total operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional infrastructure management and business process management in items for a segment as shown in note 2 of the consolidated the provision of these services to others.
Through the expansion financial statements.
Total operating profit before goodwill of these support services businesses, both organically and amortisation and exceptional items is reconciled to total operating through acquisition, the businesses now operate in overseas profit in table 4 on page 15. markets including central and eastern Europe, the Philippines, See discussion on page 15.
United States of America, Canada and Australia: and United Utilities intends to continue to develop Your Communications with a view to its disposal when shareholder value can be maximised.
Table 1: Business overview Turnover Segmental operating profit Net operating assets per cent of per cent of per cent of Financial year ended 31 March 2005 m group m group m group Licensed multi-utility operations 1,384.7 54.2 587.9 85.0 7,838.4 94.3 Licensed multi-utility operations comprise the regulated monopoly activities of United Utilities Water wastewater and water and United Utilities Electricity electricity distribution.
These companies own the respective infrastructure network assets representing around 94 per cent of the groups net operating assets at 31 March 2005.
The businesses are capital intensive and are subject to both economic and environmental regulation.
These businesses generate 85 per cent of the groups total operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, of which approximately three quarters is derived from wastewater and water and approximately one quarter from electricity distribution.
  United Utilities Contract Solutions applies the groups infrastructure management expertise to other competitive markets, by providing a service to clients in managing their infrastructure assets.
In addition, it owns the groups interest in non-regulated utility assets.
These activities employ only a limited amount of capital, representing 1.5 per cent of the groups net operating assets at 31 March 2005. Business process outsourcing 396.4 15.5 26.4 3.8 155.5 1.9 Vertex is one of the UKs largest providers of business process outsourcing services.
It seeks to exploit United Utilities business process management skills by providing a service to manage its clients customers in accordance with its contract.
These activities employ only a limited amount of capital, representing 1.9 per cent of the groups net operating assets at 31 March 2005.
Telecommunications 233.6 9.1 5.1 0.7 236.8 2.8 Your Communications is a medium-sized alternative telecommunications provider with a dense network in the north of England, complemented by a lean national network.
It provides voice, basic and advanced data communication services to the public sector, and small and medium-sized corporate customers, predominantly in central and northern England.
Construction of the network infrastructure is now complete.
These activities employ only a limited amount of capital, representing 2.8 per cent of the groups net operating assets at 31 March 2005.
Note: Financial data for the year ended 2005 has been extracted from note 2 of the consolidated financial statements, using the denitions set out therein.
Full analysis for the last three years is contained within the note.
Percentages are calculated based on the gross totals disclosed in note 2.
In the above table, segmental operating profit as a percentage of group operating profit is calculated based on segmental operating profit loss divided by total operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Turnover and percentage of group turnover include turnover from joint ventures and are stated before inter-business eliminations.
4 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 LICENSED MULTI-UTILITY OPERATIONS west England.
It manages the sales, billing, cash collection and United Utilities North West manages the operation of the licensed debt management activities and systems for 3.1 million domestic wastewater and water network assets owned by United Utilities and business customers and has responsibility for improving the Water, and the electricity distribution assets owned by United quality of service and the range of services provided to these Utilities Electricity, in north west England.
United Utilities North Wests aim is to continually improve the removal and treatment of wastewater from, and the treatment the existing level of customer satisfaction, and to create value from and distribution of around 2.2 billion litres of water a day to, its customer relationships.
As the Water Industry Act 1999 restricts 3.1 million homes and businesses, and the annual distribution the ability of a licensed water utility to terminate services to of approximately 25,500 GWh of electricity to 2.2 million consumer customers for non-payment, customer relationship management is premises.
These activities are: an important activity.
capital intensive At privatisation in 1989, the wastewater and At present, United Utilities North West supplies around 18 per cent water infrastructure inherited by United Utilities Water was in need by volume of the UK large-user market customers consuming of substantial repair and replacement.
Further improvements have more than 250 megalitres of water per annum.
In the competitive been required in order to comply with applicable UK and European industrial market, its activities include on-site treatment of Union environmental and drinking water quality regulations.
Capital wastewater and water at customers premises together with expenditure relating to wastewater and water in the financial year United Utilities Contract Solutions, and advice on controlling ended 31 March 2005 was 706.9 million 2004: 864.2 million, leakage at customers premises and on the recycling of water.
2003: 590.6 million with 52.5 per cent relating to the wastewater It also has responsibility for managing ongoing relationships network including sewage sludge treatment and disposal, 38.3 with these customers and for growing the customer base.
per cent to the water network, and 9.2 per cent to quality and Wastewater collection, treatment and disposal operations efficiency.
Capital expenditure for the financial year 2005 relating In accordance with its licence, United Utilities Water is responsible to electricity distribution was 151.8 million 2004: 149.7 million, for the collection, treatment and disposal of domestic wastewater, 2003: 122.3 million, 21.9 per cent was load related enabling trade efuent non-domestic wastewater and surface water in north new connections to be made to the network and increasing the west England.
Surface water, mainly from groundwater inltration amount of electricity able to be carried, 69.8 per cent was nonand highway drainage, forms a major part of the wastewater load related for example, replacing assets due to statutory which United Utilities Water must treat.
In some cases, separate obligations or replacing faulty or ageing equipment and 8.3 per sewers are provided for wastewater and surface water, so that cent was non-operational for example, information technology : uncontaminated surface water may be piped directly to a watercourse.
subject to economic regulation In general, these businesses United Utilities Waters wastewater treatment works provide a are monopolies and are subject to incentive-based economic range of treatments.
These include primary, secondary and tertiary regulation which imposes caps on increases in customer prices, treatment involving a variety of physical, chemical and biological rewards efficiency and high standards of customer service and processes.
Treated liquid final efuent is discharged into rivers, penalises inefficiency and poor standards of customer service.
estuaries or via sea outfalls.
A by-product of the treatment of The economic regulation of wastewater and water and the wastewater is sewage sludge.
Sewage sludge is also treated by economic regulation of electricity distribution are described a range of physical, chemical and biological processes.
Currently, in more detail below: and around two thirds of the end product is recycled to agricultural subject to environmental regulations In the five-year period land as a soil conditioner or used in land reclamation, and one to 31 March 2005 the group spent 1.56 billion on environmental third is incinerated or disposed to landll.
However, due to the improvements across north west England.
During the financial government designating over 55 per cent of England as nitrate year ended 31 March 2005, the group made environmental vulnerable zones that is, zones that are subject to restrictions on the improvements costing 399.9 million, including 194.7 million amount of nitrogen that can be applied to agricultural land, the on improving standards for wastewater and water treatment amount of end product that is recycled to agricultural land is likely to works and 106.2 million on controlling pollution from storm-water decrease quite signicantly in the short to medium term, while the overows or unsatisfactory combined sewer outows referred to amount of end product that is incinerated is expected to increase.
by the Environment Agency as Unsatisfactory Intermittent Water supply operations, treatment and distribution Discharges or UIDs.
Key outputs for water included the United Utilities Water obtains water from various sources including refurbishment of 815 kilometres of old water mains and the reservoirs, rivers and aquifers.
The majority of its reservoirs are in replacement of some 28,016 lead communication pipes.
Water the uplands of the Lake District and the Pennine Hills, areas with meters were also installed in 40,468 domestic properties under a higher than average rainfall.
Conversely, the major population the free meter option scheme, whereby customers can have a centres it serves are in the lowlands of Greater Manchester, meter tted free of charge and are given an opportunity to switch Lancashire and Cheshire.
Merseyside, the other major population to metered billing.
Key outputs from the wastewater capital served by United Utilities Water, receives its water supply principally investment programme included the refurbishment of two from the River Dee and Lake Vyrnwy in north Wales.
A large kilometres of sewers, replacement of five kilometres of sewers proportion of water supplied by United Utilities Water ows freely and the addressing of 145 UIDs to achieve environmental by gravity and does not need to be pumped.
However, due to the improvements.
The environmental regulation of wastewater and nature of the water catchments, being peaty moorlands or coal water and the environmental regulation of electricity distribution measure strata, enhanced treatment methods are required to are described on pages 7 to 10. ensure the water satisfies all regulatory and quality standards.
The group cannot increase demand materially for its licensed multiAll water supplied is treated in order to meet the appropriate utility operations within its licensed area and, as detailed below, the standards enforced by the Drinking Water Inspectorate, the groups licensed multi-utility businesses are restricted in their ability government regulator of drinking water in England and Wales.
The principal strategy for these businesses is to The type of treatment varies from disinfection only, for some control costs and exploit the advantages of owning and operating borehole sources, to more complex processes using coagulation, three utility networks with a largely common geography.
sedimentation, clarification and ltration and activated carbon Customers, billing and debt collection absorption for certain waters.
United Utilities Water monitors water United Utilities North West places great importance on the quality by analysing samples regularly for both microbiological and customer relationship activities involved in supplying water and chemical parameters.
In the calendar year 2004, the business related products and services to homes and businesses in north continued to improve quality, with 99.88 per cent of drinking water United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 5 Operating and financial review Business description continued samples meeting the quality standards at customers taps, compared The water regulator must comply with the statutory duties set out with 99.82 per cent the previous year.
He may receive guidance from the UK government in areas such as social and environmental policy and its views on his Treated water is delivered to the end customer through a network approach to price setting, and in the performance of his statutory of large diameter trunk mains, trunk and distribution mains, service functions he is required to exercise judgement.
However, he is not reservoirs and water towers.
subject to direction about what those judgements should be and Economic regulation of wastewater and water is independent of government ministers.
Under the Act, the water The UK government awarded Instruments of Appointment regulator is and the water authority will be required to exercise licences for the provision of wastewater services and water and perform his powers and duties in the manner that he considers supply in 1989.
These licences continue in force for an indefinite is best calculated to: period, subject to potential termination rights as set out below.
further the consumer objective to protect the interests of United Utilities Water holds the licence for an area of north west consumers wherever appropriate by promoting effective England which comprises 3.1 million homes and businesses.
competition between persons engaged in, or in commercial The Water Industry Act 1991 the Act, as amended by the Water activities connected with, the provision of water and sewerage services : Act 2003 the WA 2003, provides for the appointment by way of licensing of water and sewerage undertakers.
Economic regulation secure that the functions of a water undertaker and of a pursuant to these licences is currently the responsibility of the sewerage undertaker are properly carried out in respect Director General of Water Services the water regulator, supported of every area of England and Wales: by the Ofce of Water Services Ofwat.
The water regulator secure that relevant undertakers are able in particular, by also exercises powers under UK competition legislation, most securing reasonable returns on their capital to finance the signicantly the Competition Act 1998 and the Enterprise Act 2002. proper carrying out of their functions: and The WA 2003 is expected to be fully implemented by spring secure that the activities authorised by the licence of a licensed 2006 and is intended to promote greater water conservation and water supplier and any statutory functions imposed on it in planning for the future by water companies contributing to the consequence of the licence are properly carried out.
achievement of sustainable development, revise the framework for water abstraction and impounding, and help to build a more The licences impose conditions on licensees, which the water transparent regulatory environment.
regulator enforces, along with licensees principal duties under the Act.
Licence conditions can be modied by the water regulator, The WA 2003 also aims to extend opportunities for competition either with the water undertakers agreement or following reference in the water industry in England and Wales, by introducing a new to the Competition Commission for a decision on public interest framework for the licensing of water supply.
However, reference to the Competition Commission is from Autumn 2005, water supply licensees will be able to provide not required where the changes are necessary or expedient to both retail supply i. e. the supply of water purchased from a water implement the new licensing regime for the supply of water undertaker to an eligible customer and combined supply i. e. the services to large non-household users.
introduction of water into an incumbent water companys existing network for retail by the licensee to an eligible customer, to nonUnited Utilities Waters licence restricts its conduct in a number of household users with an annual consumption of not less than ways.
These restrictions include prohibitions on undue preference 50 megalitres per year.
A water undertaker is obliged to allow a or discrimination between customers, restrictions on the declaration licensed water supplier to use its network for this purpose, subject and payment of dividends, and on cross-subsidies between United to payment of a fee and certain conditions and rights of refusal.
In Utilities Water and associated companies.
United Utilities Waters line with the new water supply licensing regime, from 1 April 2005 licence requires that it declares or pays dividends only in the threshold in the Act for an inset appointment whereby one accordance with a written dividend policy of the directors of the licensed undertaker replaces another for a specic non-household company, which has been accepted by the water regulator as not user has also been reduced from 100 to 50 megalitres.
United impairing its ability to finance its business.
United Utilities Water Utilities Water had already developed and published policies which must obtain the consent of the regulator before lending funds to allow other companies access to its water networks in order to an associated company.
Any other transactions between United supply customers and to self-lay new water mains and service Utilities Water and an associated company are required to be at pipes.
These policies have been further developed to facilitate arms length.
Any such transactions would undergo a process competition in the industry under the Act and the company of market-testing, or involve the associate being paid prices welcomes the new competitive developments in this eld.
no greater than the cost incurred in providing the goods and services plus a reasonable rate of return on any capital employed.
The WA 2003 provides for the establishment of a regulatory board to be known as the Water Services Regulation Authority the water The licence may be terminated on 25 years notice, with more authority which will replace the individual Director General as the immediate revocation in certain specic circumstances including, water regulator.
It is intended that the water authority will be set for example, failure to comply with an enforcement order made up on 1 April 2006.
This brings the water industry into line with by the water regulator.
other regulated industries whose regulators have been moved to a The WA 2003 has also introduced financial penalties for breach similar board structure.
Appointments to the water authority will be of licence conditions and other key duties to bring the industry into made by the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural line with other regulated industries.
This is in contrast to regulators in some states of the United may face a ne of up to ten per cent of turnover for breaching States who hold public ofce and are required to stand for public licence conditions, standards of performance or other obligations.
The current water regulator, Philip Fletcher, was appointed Turnover is derived from the regulated activities for the preceding to the post on 1 August 2000 for a xed term of five years.
The regulatory year in effect, the latest set of regulated accounts, as chairman of the water authority will continue to be appointed for a more specifically set out in the Water Industry Determination of xed term and may only be removed from his post for incapacity Turnover for Penalties Order 2005.
Ofwat has published a or misbehaviour.
statement of the policy that it intends to apply to the imposition of A new independent Consumer Council for Water the council any penalty and the determination of its amount.
These penalties will replace WaterVoice previously the water regulators National can be appealed, on procedural grounds only, to the High Court.
Customer Council and the regional Customer Service Committees.
The new legislation also requires water companies to disclose any The council is expected to come into being on 1 October 2005. links between directors pay and company performance.
6 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 In practice, many regulatory issues arising between licensees and with in order to obtain conrmation, and recognition in future price the water regulator are settled without the need to resort to formal limits, of changes to the funded programme.
However, where the water regulator is satisfied that a All water and sewerage companies licences now include a licensee is in breach of the conditions of its licence, he has powers shipwreck or substantial effect clause, which allows companies to secure compliance by means of an enforcement order.
Failure price limits to be revised when events beyond their control have a to comply with an enforcement order can lead to enforcement significant effect on their costs or revenues.
With effect from the in court, payment of compensation by the licence holder to last price review, this clause was included in United Utilities Waters the injured party and, ultimately, to revocation of the licence.
licence, allowing appropriate adjustment for unforeseen events both Alternatively, where actual or likely contravention of an enforcement adverse and favourable.
order or of one of a licensees principal statutory duties under the Act is so serious as to make it inappropriate for the licensee to Environmental regulation of wastewater and water continue to hold its licence, the regulator may, with the Secretary The wastewater and water industry in the UK is subject to substantial of States consent, apply to the High Court for the appointment of domestic and European Union regulation, placing significant statutory a special administrator to run the company until arrangements can obligations on United Utilities Water with regard to, among other be made for a new company to carry on the licensed activities.
factors, the quality of treated wastewater and water.
European A special administrator may also be appointed where the licensee directives including the Drinking Water Directive, the Bathing is, or is likely to be, unable to pay its debts.
Water Directive and the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive are transposed into UK law by primary and secondary legislation such as The water regulator regulates wastewater and water charges the Water Supply Water Quality Regulations 2000, the Water Acts by capping the average increase in charges that a company can 1989 and 2003, the Water Industry Act 1991, the Water Resources impose in any year.
The water regulator conducts a periodic review Act 1991 and the Environmental Protection Act 1990. and sets price caps every five years.
This price cap is set by reference to ination as measured by the retail price index in the All water and wastewater companies have a general duty to UK RPI plus an adjustment factor known as K, which is specic exercise their powers to conserve and enhance natural beauty and to each company and which can vary for each year of the review to promote the efficient use of water.
Environmental regulation is the period.
The size of a companys K factor which can be positive, responsibility of the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and negative or zero reects the scale of its capital investment Rural Affairs together with: programme, its cost of capital, and its operational and environmental the Environment Agency, which is responsible for conserving and obligations, together with the scope for it to improve its efficiency.
redistributing water resources and securing the proper uses of Unlike rate of return economic regulation, such as exists in many those resources, including the licensing of water abstraction.
states of the United States, price cap regulation in the UK is The Environment Agency also regulates discharges to controlled performance based.
Companies are incentivised to be efficient, waters, including discharges from wastewater treatment works: both in terms of their operating costs and in the implementation of the Drinking Water Inspectorate, which enforces drinking water their capital expenditure programme.
The benefit of any efficiency quality standards: and savings achieved through effective management is retained by the companies for a period of five years, after which time the benefit is English Nature, which is responsible for the protection of designated passed to customers via the subsequent price setting process.
The sites for nature conservation, e. g. Sites of Special scientific Interest.
cost of any under-performance due to poor management is borne There is a statutory requirement to manage these sites to conserve by the companies.
Companies are also incentivised to provide a or improve biodiversity.
As a result of new UK government targets, high quality of service and penalised if they provide a poor quality English Nature is seeking improvements to approximately 50 per of service by means of an adjustment to the K factor at the cent of the sites within United Utilities ownership.
The last periodic review was completed United Utilities Water expects regulatory regimes in the eld of in December 2004 and covers the period from 1 April 2005 to water and wastewater to continue to evolve and become more 31 March 2010.
In the recent price review, the water regulator onerous.
Examples of such regulatory and legislative developments set the following K factors: being the amount by which prices include the following: are allowed to rise above ination in each of the five financial years commencing on 1 April 2005: The WA 2003, which makes new water abstraction licences time-limited and unused licences more easily able to be revoked 2005 06 5.0 per cent or varied without compensation, and which makes damages 2006 07 6.4 per cent claimable where water abstraction causes loss or damage.
Water 2007 08 4.4 per cent undertakers will have a duty to promote water conservation when 2008 09 3.5 per cent carrying out their functions, and must publish drought plans.
The 2009 10 3.0 per cent government will also be able to require publication of ood plans This equates to a real before or excluding ination average annual showing the effect of a reservoir dam failure: price increase over the five-year period of 4.5 per cent.
The Water Framework Directive, transposed into UK law in 2003, Unexpected costs or savings arising from changes in certain which requires the UK government to: regulatory assumptions during a review period are recorded and agreed by the company and the water regulator.
This process, establish comprehensive river basin management plans, with known as logging up and down, allows prices to be adjusted a first set of plans in place by 2009 followed by further sets up or down at the next periodic review to compensate for the of plans on a six-year cycle: unexpected change.
In addition, where the change exceeds the implement the actions in the first set of river basin management specified materiality thresholds the company can request, and the plans by December 2015 at the latest: water regulator can instigate, a re-setting of its price limit during the five-year period, known as an Interim Determination of K IDoK.
implement measures necessary to prevent deterioration in the United Utilities Water successfully obtained permission from the ecological status of water bodies: and regulator, through the IDoK process, to increase its charges for achieve good water status by 2027 at the latest.
In the case of adjustments to the quality improvement programmes in particular, the environmental The Directive is likely to impact upon sewerage undertakers by programme, Ofwat published specic guidance in December 2004 requiring further improvements in discharges from wastewater as to the principles and outline procedures that must be complied networks and treatment works: and United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 7 Operating and financial review Business description continued The Water Supply Water Quality Regulations 2000, which 1990, increased the risk and cost of such measures.
Ofwats final transpose into UK legislation the Drinking Water Directive and, determination of December 2004 allows United Utilities Water in particular, introduce more stringent lead standards ten expenditure of 29 million to deal with odour, of which 11 million micrograms per litre 10ug l from 25 December 2013 which will relates to activity at three of its treatment works.
It is also expected that a voluntary code of practice on such odour problems will be oblige water undertakers to carry out improvements to treatment introduced during 2005. works and distribution systems.
To minimise lead concentrations at customers taps, United Utilities Water installed additional As part of the five-year periodic review of prices, the water regulator phosphate dosing and pH control assets in the AMP3 period takes into consideration the capital investment programme which April 2000 to 31 March 2005.
Over the same period, the United Utilities Water needs to achieve in order to comply with company replaced 48,000 lead communication pipes with the environmental legislation.
agreement of the Drinking Water Inspectorate quality regulator, and a further 113,000 were replaced as part of the routine Electricity distribution maintenance programme.
Despite these steps, United Utilities United Utilities Electricity owns the distribution network which Water may not achieve the final lead standard of 10ug l in a carries electricity from the National Grid along power lines to number of water supply zones unless some additional lead consumers premises on behalf of the electricity supply companies communication pipes are replaced.
The company has agreed who are its customers.
The income derived from the distribution with the Drinking Water Inspectorate to replace 40,000 of business depends in part on changes in the demand for electricity its lead communication pipes in the period 1 April 2005 to by consumers in north west England.
Demand for electricity is 31 March 2010 known as AMP4 and expects to replace a affected by such factors as growth and movements in population, further 109,000 as part of its routine maintenance programme.
social trends, economic and business growth or decline, changes in the mix of energy sources used by consumers, weather The European Union Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive, which conditions, energy efficiency measures and other factors.
The was transposed into UK legislation by the Urban Wastewater electricity distribution business is a regulated business in which the Treatment Regulations 1994, requires improvements in the average increase in charges which a company may impose in any treatment of wastewater discharges, in particular, the provision year is capped by the electricity regulator as described in more of secondary treatment.
United Utilities Water continues to make detail below.
Accordingly, profit derived from the distribution progress towards achieving this for wastewater treatment works business of United Utilities Electricity also depends on efficiency, serving areas with a population equivalent of more than 2,000. achieved by reducing and controlling costs, and providing high The European Union Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive also standards of service.
requires measures to be taken to limit pollution from storm-water overows.
The group is currently in dialogue with the regulators Key performance measures for the business relate to quality of in relation to the scope of works required in order to meet this supply.
Electricity supplies were available for 99.99 per cent of the obligation and related regulatory requirements.
time during the financial year ended 2005, sustaining the businesss high level of performance in managing the network to maintain There are ongoing infringement proceedings by the European constant supplies for consumers.
All the overall standards of Commission against the United Kingdom regarding the performance set by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority implementation of the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive.
The the electricity regulator were achieved.
European Commission has sent a reasoned opinion to the United Kingdom for failure to designate, and to review correctly, sensitive Excluding the impact of any exceptional events, for example and less sensitive areas.
The reply given by the United Kingdom is the storms experienced in January 2005 affecting Cumbria and Lancashire in the northern part of north west England, the average under technical assessment.
The European Commission believes that number of interruptions per 100 consumers per annum was the United Kingdom has not taken all measures needed to reduce 47.93, out-performing the regulatory target for the year of 54.8. the nutrients in wastewater to remedy problems in sensitive areas.
The average number of minutes for which consumers were without Depending upon the outcome of these deliberations, it could lead to supply was 52.0, beating the regulatory target for the year of the designation of some of the Irish Sea as a sensitive area.
Figures in this paragraph denoted by are as yet turn, could lead to requirements being placed upon United Utilities Water to reduce the levels of some nutrients in discharges from many unaudited by Ofgem.
of its wastewater treatment facilities which feed into the Irish Sea.
Economic regulation of electricity distribution Pursuant to the European Union Bathing Water Directive, the The electricity industry in Great Britain is regulated under the objective of which is to protect public health and the environment Electricity Act 1989 the Electricity Act and the Utilities Act 2000 from faecal pollution at bathing waters, the Environment Agency the Utilities Act by the electricity regulator.
The electricity regulator samples and analyses certain designated bathing waters around governs and acts through the Ofce of Gas and Electricity Markets the UK coast for the presence or absence of various bacteria.
The Electricity Act, as amended by the Utilities Act, United Utilities Waters programme of wastewater network and requires all companies distributing electricity in Great Britain to treatment projects relating to its operational facilities to improve be licensed unless they are covered by an exemption.
Economic the quality of, and meet the required standards for, bathing waters regulation pursuant to these licences is the responsibility of the in north west England continues.
The electricity regulator also exercises powers under UK competition legislation, most signicantly the Competition There are proposals progressing at the European level which, Act 1998 and the Enterprise Act 2002. if nally adopted, will introduce a new Bathing Water Directive with more stringent microbiological standards, and will amend the The electricity regulator comprises a board, led by a chairman who Directive on the use of sewage sludge on agricultural land so as to is an independent public servant appointed for a xed term by the introduce tighter limits for metals in sludge.
While United Utilities Secretary of State for the Department of Trade and Industry.
This Waters preferred route of disposal for sewage sludge remains is in contrast to regulators in some states of the United States spreading on agricultural land, it is taking steps to ensure that it has who hold public ofce and are required to stand for public election.
sufficient disposal capacity if that route ceases to be acceptable, The current chairman is Sir John Mogg, who was appointed from including the construction of new incinerators.
October 2003 for a period of five years.
A decision of the High Court in London in May 2003 Hounslow The electricity regulator must comply with the statutory duties LBC v Thames Water, that complaints of odour from wastewater laid down in the Electricity Act as amended by the Utilities Act.
In treatment works could enable enforcement action under the doing so, the electricity regulator may receive guidance from the statutory nuisance provisions of the Environmental Protection Act UK government in areas such as social and environmental policy.
8 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 In carrying out its statutory duties, the electricity regulator is The electricity regulator regulates electricity distribution charges required to exercise judgement, but is not subject to direction by capping the average increase in charges which a company can as to what those judgements should be and is independent of impose in any year.
The electricity regulator conducts a periodic government ministers.
The chairman of the electricity regulator review and sets price caps every five years.
This price cap is set by reference to ination as measured by the retail price index in may only be removed from the post for incapacity or misbehaviour.
the UK RPI plus an adjustment factor known as X which is The primary duty of the electricity regulator is to protect the specic to each company and which can vary for each year of interests of consumers, wherever appropriate, by promoting the review period.
The size of a companys X factor which can effective competition.
In carrying out this duty, the electricity be positive, negative or zero reects the scale of its capital regulator is required to have regard to: investment programme, its cost of capital and its operational and the need to secure that all reasonable demands for electricity environmental obligations, together with scope for it to improve its are met: and efficiency.
The last periodic review was completed at the end of 2004 and covers the period from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2010. the need to secure that licence holders are able to finance For the 2005-10 review period, United Utilities Electricity was their activities.
allowed a real excluding ination price increase of 8.2 per cent The UK government awarded electricity distribution licences in in 2005 06 followed by constant real prices thereafter.
The licences continue in force for an indefinite period, subject The electricity regulator has been consulting on the structure of to potential termination rights as set out below.
United Utilities electricity distribution charges since 2000.
As a result of this Electricity holds an electricity distribution licence which authorises it consultation there has been one significant amendment made to to distribute electricity anywhere in Great Britain.
Under that licence, all distribution licences, including United Utilities Electricitys.
From United Utilities distributes electricity across its distribution system 1 April 2005, distribution network operators have been obliged to covering an area in north west England comprising 2.2 million produce and implement charging methodologies for both connection consumer premises.
to and use of their distribution systems as a result of the collective The licence imposes restrictions.
In particular, the disposal of modication of the standard licence condition relating to the any part of the distribution system is restricted and distribution Distribution Use of System charges.
The methodologies are required businesses must provide services on non-discriminatory terms.
to set out the principles and methods by which electricity distribution Cross-subsidies to or from United Utilities Electricitys licensed charges will be calculated, including cost reectivity and facilitating business are prohibited, and the board of directors of United competition, and must be approved by the electricity regulator.
Utilities Electricity must provide a certicate of compliance before declaring dividends or making distributions afrming that the United Utilities Electricity is required to maintain certain standards directors are satisfied that it is in compliance with relevant licence relating to the quality of supply of electricity in its licence area.
obligations and that the making of the distribution will not cause These standards take the form of guarantees at the individual it to be in material breach of any of the obligations in the future.
customer level and are subject to monitoring and compliance United Utilities Electricity must also obtain the consent of the audits.
Failure to meet guaranteed standards of performance will regulator before lending funds that are not on an arms length result in a prescribed compensation payment to the customer basis or engaging in any other transaction not on an arms length concerned.
In addition, the electricity regulator is able to impose basis with its afliated companies.
In general, electricity distribution fines on companies which fail to achieve the guaranteed standards licences contain strict provisions to maintain and ring-fence the or are in breach of other licence obligations.
financial and management resources of the licensed businesses.
In practice, many regulatory issues arising between licensees and the The licence contains various conditions regulating the conduct of electricity regulator are settled without the need to resort to formal the business.
Licence conditions can be modied by the electricity proceedings.
However, where the electricity regulator is satisfied that regulator either with the agreement of the licensee or, in the case a company is in breach of the terms of its licence, it has powers to of standard conditions, with the agreement of the requisite secure compliance by means of an enforcement order.
If a company proportion of licensees or following reference to the Competition does not comply with the order as well as potentially giving rise to Commission for a decision on public interest grounds.
The licence third party action compliance can be enforced by the courts and can be terminated on 25 years notice given by the Secretary of the electricity regulator may revoke the licence.
The licence can also be revoked in certain circumstances, including where the licensee fails to comply with an enforcement An incentive scheme was introduced by the electricity regulator in order made by the electricity regulator.
The Energy Act 2004 April 2002 which provided greater focus on three specic service introduced a special administration regime, applicable to the areas: number of interruptions to customers supplies: length of holders of electricity distribution licences, similar to that provided those interruptions: and quality of the telephone response to for the water sector see above.
The electricity regulator consulted on its approach to the incentive scheme as part of the price control review: including The electricity regulator is currently consulting on proposed the form of the scheme, targets and associated costs.
It was modications to all distribution licences designed to preclude agreed that the distribution network operators performance in discrimination by distribution network operators in the provision those areas will continue to be incentivised.
Under the scheme, of point of connection information to connections providers.
A United Utilities Electricity is subject to annual rewards and penalties decision is expected to be taken on the amendments later in 2005. depending on its performance against pre-specified targets.
Both Unlike rate of return economic regulation, such as exists in many rewards and penalties under the incentive scheme are capped at states of the United States, price cap regulation in the UK is 3.0 per cent of annual revenues.
Companies are incentivised to be efficient both Environmental regulation of electricity distribution in terms of their operating costs and in the implementation of their All electricity companies have a general duty under the Electricity capital expenditure programme.
The benefit of any efficiency savings Act to have regard to the desirability of environmental preservation achieved through effective management is retained by the companies and conservation and the protection of sites of special interest for a period of up to five years, after which time the benefit is passed when they formulate proposals for development.
United Utilities to customers via the price setting process.
The cost of any underElectricity may be required to carry out an environmental performance due to poor management is borne by the companies.
assessment when it intends to lay cables, construct overhead Companies are also incentivised to provide a high quality of service, lines or carry out any other development in connection with its and penalised if they provide a poor quality of service through the licensed activities.
In response to discussions with environmental price review process, by means of an adjustment at the subsequent organisations in United Utilities Electricitys operating area, and price review.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 9 Operating and financial review Business description continued with the backing of Ofgem, the company has undertaken work to Utility Solutions assess the cost of converting from overhead cables to underground The business develops and operates contracts in the UK utility market and services over 5.2 million people in the UK.
It has a cables in designated areas on aesthetic grounds.
There is a small focused approach to pursuing opportunities, with the objective of allowance of 5 million allowed by Ofgem for such work over the securing long-term operational sources of income while limiting period 2005-10. overall financial exposure.
During the year, the business The possibility that electric and magnetic elds EMFs may cause successfully renegotiated a new operations and maintenance adverse health effects has been a topic of debate and research for contract for up to 15 years, continuing the relationship with Dwr many years.
Over the last 20 years, major research programmes Cymru Welsh Water following the expiry of the first contract on throughout the world have explored whether EMFs have an adverse 31 March 2005.
Under the new contract, the business will provide impact on health.
A large epidemiological study the UK Childhood water and wastewater services in north Wales, and water services Cancer Study reported in December 1999 that there was no in south Wales.
The business will also provide shared services evidence that exposure to magnetic elds associated with the throughout Wales, including education and conservation activities electricity supply in the UK increases risk for childhood leukaemia, and transport.
cancers of the nervous system, or any childhood cancer.
The business continued to play a leading role in the delivery of International bodies such as the World Health Organisation and part of Scottish Waters four-year 1.8 billion capital investment the International Agency for Research on Cancer and, in the UK, programme, the funding for which will be provided by Scottish the National Radiological Protection Board NRPB have Water to improve its services to 2.2 million homes and businesses investigated this issue and have concluded that there is no across Scotland.
established causal link between EMFs and ill health.
The NRPB was the UK body with statutory responsibility for advising on EMFs Prior to the approval of bids for new contracts, a full risk analysis until April 2005 when it was subsumed into the Health Protection is carried out to assess the risks associated with a project and to Agency, which has taken on its radiation protection functions.
ensure that they are mitigated to the appropriate extent, dependent upon expected returns and the expected degree of control over In March 2001, the NRPB published a review of the state of the the risks.
science and concluded for the vast majority of children in the UK there is now considerable evidence that the EMF levels to which International they are exposed do not increase the risk of leukaemia or other The International business develops and operates contracts in malignant disease.
However, it also noted that the possibility selected overseas utility markets and services over 7.3 million people remains that intense and prolonged exposure to magnetic elds can outside the UK.
The aim of the business is to focus on extending the increase the risk of leukaemia in children but the epidemiological current portfolio of contracts in target areas, including Australia and evidence is currently not strong enough to justify a rm conclusion central and eastern Europe, securing long-term investment returns that such elds cause leukaemia in children.
In the spirit of the and operational sources of income while managing the overall precautionary approach, the NRPB published in May 2003 a exposure arising from the contracts.
consultation document on how to limit exposure to EMFs and, The business continued to manage its existing portfolio of water and in particular, on whether the UK should adopt the more stringent wastewater operations through a number of joint ventures in parts of exposure guidelines of the International Commission on NonScotland, Australia, Poland, Estonia and Bulgaria.
In March 2004, the NRPB recommended that the ICNIRP guidelines should be adopted.
In March 2005, the Philippine concession company successfully listed on the Philippine Stock Exchange.
The International business United Utilities Electricity, in line with other Energy Networks participated in this process by placing part of its total shareholding in Association ENA member companies, carries out its activities the business, reducing its stake to 11.7 per cent, but it remains the in accordance with Health Protection Agency guidance.
The ENA designated international operator to the concession.
is the trade association for electricity companies in the UK.
The ENA and its member companies are committed to responsible Generally, the joint ventures have limited recourse to United Utilities.
behaviour in the light of the scientific evidence, including However, the business has performance bonds and guarantees in considering any appropriate precautionary actions.
United Utilities place supporting joint venture operations see Performance Electricity believes that present evidence does not justify any Guarantees on page 24 and in some cases there are bank letters change in the electricity industrys operating practices, or the of credit supporting equity commitments.
everyday utilisation of electricity by its customers, but United On page 24 there is a discussion on the impact of foreign currency Utilities Electricity keeps this under review and looks to the Health uctuations and the extent to which foreign currency net Protection Agency and UK government for advice on the issue.
investments are hedged by currency borrowings.
INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT The International business is affected by a variety of regulatory During the financial year ended 31 March 2005, United Utilities regimes and regulatory risks, which are accepted to varying Contract Solutions underwent a business reorganisation and now degrees by the client, the concession company and or the has three market-facing businesses: operator.
For those contracts where it is the operator, United Utility Solutions develops and operates contracts in the UK Utilities is not the licensed entity but it may be a direct or indirect applying the groups core infrastructure management skills: investor in the licensed entity.
International responsible for applying the groups core In 2002, United Utilities completed its withdrawal from infrastructure infrastructure management skills in selected overseas markets: management in the Americas by withdrawing from IEBA, the and Argentine electricity utility, and it disposed of its minority interest in IEBA on 28 April 2005.
IEBA defaulted on its repayments to Industrial and Commercial Solutions provides services to the bondholders in September 2002.
There is no recourse to the group public sector and commercial market, including multi-utility in respect of these debts and the group has no further balance connections, metering services, water and liquid waste treatment sheet exposure to IEBA.
Industrial and Commercial Solutions Disposal of Green Energy Industrial and Commercial Solutions is comprised of four distinct During the financial year, United Utilities Contract Solutions sold its businesses or: Green Energy business for 63 million in cash.
This business had been responsible for the development and operation of renewable Industrial this business is a provider of specialist water and energy generation projects.
wastewater services to industry in the UK.
In many instances, 10 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 wastewater is treated on site, under contract to the customer, The construction of Your Communications network was completed in a dedicated facility which is constructed and owned by the in 2002 03 and the group reviewed the carrying value of its business.
The business also owns two sites for the receipt and telecommunications assets, in accordance with Financial Reporting treatment of tankered liquid waste from customers.
As a result, an adjustment to value of 25.5 Industrial currently treats approximately 13 million tonnes of million was made during the financial year ended 31 March 2003. wastewater a year.
Under the obligations of FRS 11 to continually review the carrying value of the assets, it was concluded that no further adjustment to value was Metering the Metering business provides installation and necessary for the year ended 31 March 2005. maintenance services for electricity, water and gas meters.
In the financial year ended 31 March 2005, the business installed Your Communications focus remains on growth in sales, becoming 75,000 new water meters and installed or exchanged 169,000 cash generative and progressing towards profitability.
The business electricity meters in north west England.
In addition, 354,000 gas substantially reduced operating losses in the year and achieved meter installations were carried out under a contract with British break-even in the second half of the year ended 31 March 2005.
Services under this contract commenced in The business will continue to be developed with a view to disposal November 2002.
In May 2004, a revised contract was agreed when the shareholder value can be maximised.
which extended the contract for a further year to January 2009.
Telecommunications regulation Under this contract both gas and electricity meters are installed As from 25 July 2003, Your Communications has been regulated by the metering business, with rental income then being received in accordance with the Communications Act 2003 the CA 2003. for up to 20 years after installation by a joint venture company The CA 2003 incorporated into UK law the requirements of the in which the group has a 50 per cent interest, and which owns European Union Communications Directives and created a new the meter assets.
regulatory framework of electronic communications networks and Connections the Connections business provides multi-utility service providers.
Regulation of the telecommunications industry connections, to connect domestic, industrial and commercial in the UK became, with effect from 29 December 2003, the consumers to the existing utility network infrastructure.
In responsibility of the Ofce of Communications Ofcom as a unied providing this service, the business designs and installs new regulator replacing the Director General of Telecommunications electricity, water, gas and telecommunications infrastructure.
and the four other communications industry regulators.
The business has continued to pursue its strategy of expanding For Your Communications, the most significant operational change beyond north west England and won 15.6 million of orders has been the withdrawal of the Telecommunications Act 1984 out-of-area in the financial year ended 31 March 2005. licensing regime.
Previous licensing requirements were replaced by Facilities Management and Energy Services the Facilities a general authorisation regime with general conditions of entitlement, Management business manages properties for clients under which apply to all communications providers the General contract.
The scope of operations includes arranging site services Conditions, and specic conditions which apply only to individuals.
such as reception and cleaning, managing vacant space and The General Conditions set out the general authorisation ofce management.
The Energy Services business provides provisions that apply to Your Communications as a communications energy efficient infrastructure, such as lighting, to customers.
The General Conditions are intended to ensure that the BUSINESS PROCESS OUTSOURCING communications provider provides communications services which Vertex is a leading UK provider of business process outsourcing include the running of a telecommunications network in a manner services and one of the UKs major customer management service safe to the public and also that it adheres to a minimum set of suppliers.
It undertakes long-term contracts with clients to handle consumer protection measures, such as retail price publication and administrative functions, such as billing and dealing with customer independent dispute resolution for customers with ten employees enquiries.
It operates in the commercial, utility, central and local or fewer.
The General Conditions also contain an obligation on the government sectors.
Vertex administers and manages the various part of a communications network provider to negotiate with other processes, based on dened and measurable performance criteria.
network providers with a view to concluding an agreement or an amendment to an existing agreement for interconnection within a Vertex commenced trading in the UK in 1996.
It entered the reasonable period.
Either party to a negotiation of an interconnection Canadian market in March 2002 and is expanding its capabilities agreement can refer a dispute to Ofcom for resolution.
into the business process outsourcing market in North America.
In March 2004, Vertex purchased a US debt collection agency, First Furthermore, Ofcom is required under the CA 2003 to carry out a Revenue Assurance LLC, based in Colorado.
In May 2005, Vertex series of reviews of economic markets to identify communications completed its acquisition of Marlborough Stirling plc, a provider of providers with significant market power.
Ofcom has designated outsourcing services and technology to clients in the financial Your Communications as having significant market power in the services sector.
market for xed geographic call termination on its own network.
Your Communications is therefore required to provide network Capital expenditure in the year ended 31 March 2005 was access that is, xed geographic call termination services to other 15.6 million 2004: 20.4 million, 2003: 34.8 million.
communications providers and to do so on fair and reasonable TELECOMMUNICATIONS terms.
Your Communications is not subject to any price controls Your Communications in this or any other economic market identied by Ofcom.
Your Communications offers a range of fully integrated Ofcom is currently undertaking a strategic review of the UK communications services voice, data, mobile and internet to the telecommunications industry.
A consultation document setting out public sector and small and medium-sized corporate customers Ofcoms proposals for its future regulatory strategy was published predominantly in central and northern England.
It is focused on in November 2004.
The main principle identied by Ofcom was the delivering complete communications packages, tailored to t need to ensure equality of access to British Telecommunications specic business needs, and wholesale products for resellers and other operators.
Capital expenditure in the year ended 31 March UK-wide network.
The final phase of the review is expected in the 2005 was 11.1 million 2004: 9.4 million, 2003: 21.1 million.
Your Communications has responded to the consultation request both directly and through its membership During the financial year ended 31 March 2005, Eurocall Limited of the UK Competitive Telecommunications Association.
an independent provider of telecom services to the small and medium-sized enterprise market, the acquisition of which was Your Communications broadband wireless access licences in the announced in March 2004, was successfully integrated into Your UK were awarded under the Wireless Telegraphy Acts 1949 and Communications business with 9 million of synergies achieved.
1998, which authorise the use of radio equipment and frequencies United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11 Operating and financial review Business description continued and prescribe the conditions under which that equipment may unionised.
Around 95 per cent of employees in Wales remain be used to provide broadband wireless access services on a covered by collective bargaining arrangements.
In the Industrial regional basis.
Ofcom may recover part, or all, of the spectrum and Commercial Solutions business 70 per cent of its workforce allocated to the licensee if it appears that consumer interests are are covered by collective bargaining arrangements but, in the not being met.
The licences will remain in force until the end of remainder of United Utilities Contract Solutions with the exception 2015 unless revoked earlier by Ofcom, under specified and limited of a limited number of employees within United Utilities Industrial, circumstances, or surrendered by the licensee.
employees are employed on personal contracts and are not covered by collective agreements.
During the first half of 2005 06, There has been concern in the UK over the possible health United Utilities Contract Solutions will increase its headcount by effects of radiowaves emitted by base stations and mobile phones.
around 2,500 through the transfer of staff into the business from The report by the Independent Expert Group on Mobile Phones, Thurrock Unitary Council, Southern Water and National Grid commissioned by the UK government, was published in May 2000.
The majority of those transferring will have their terms and It stated that the balance of evidence indicated that exposure to conditions governed by collective agreements with trade unions.
radio frequency radiation below national and international guidelines Business process outsourcing around 50 per cent of the Vertex does not cause adverse health effects to the general population, workforce is covered by collective bargaining arrangements and but that there may be biological effects.
It recommended that a this is increasing as Vertex acquires new contracts in the public precautionary approach be taken.
The UK governments response sector in the UK.
Vertex has a progressive approach to to the report includes the publication of revised planning policy partnership with its trade unions and has been recognised guidance on telecommunications, and the introduction of a externally for best practice in this area.
requirement that applications to erect base stations with masts of 15 metres or under should be subject to the more rigorous Telecommunications 26 per cent of the Your Communications public consultation procedures that apply to masts over that size.
workforce is covered by collective bargaining arrangements.
Research is continuing into the possible health effects of base The groups employees are key to achieving the business strategy stations and mobile phones.
Following the publication of the report and enhancing shareholder value.
A review of key employee and by the Independent Expert Group on Mobile Phones, a research safety issues arising in the year is contained within the corporate programme, called the Mobile Telecommunications and Health responsibility review on page 32.
Research Programme, was set up in February 2002 to look into the possible health impacts of mobile telecommunications.
Public United Utilities remains committed to maintaining high standards of concern about this matter could lead to a decrease in the demand health and safety in every area of its business.
The groups health for Your Communications services.
and safety aims and objectives are integrated into the business planning processes.
Progress is monitored regularly at all levels PEOPLE KEY CONTRIBUTORS TO CORPORATE SUCCESS throughout the business.
See table 2 The groups risk prole is characteristic of a large multi-utility.
As Substantially all of the groups employees are based in the in previous years, the majority of accidents at work resulted from United Kingdom.
manual handling activities and slips, trips and falls.
There are already Good industrial relations remain a priority for United Utilities specic programmes in place to manage these risks, together with across the whole of its business and parts of the group have improved absence management arrangements.
As the business been recognised in the UK for excellence in this area.
The group develops, the risk prole is continually monitored and the risks arising continues to recognise and work in partnership with a range of from the transition are managed appropriately.
In this context, the trade unions operating across the sectors in which it operates.
group works collaboratively with clients, contractors and partners in A statement of principles underpins the approach to labour joint ventures, sharing experience and best practice.
The group met relations across the group.
last years short-term published health and safety targets.
In summary: The groups risk management procedures remain effective in highlighting high risk areas, which are then targeted for Licensed multi-utility operations 99 per cent of employees within improvement.
For example, during the year ended 31 March 2005, United Utilities North West are now represented by trade unions progress was made on a number of initiatives, including road risk, for collective bargaining purposes under the terms of a voluntary health and well-being, stress management and behavioural safety collective agreement, underpinned by a working together in programmes.
In addition, in response to the threat of terrorist partnership agreement.
Work is continuing to consolidate activity the group has reviewed the security of its assets and steps multiple legacy agreements into a consistent set of simplied, have been taken to upgrade the existing security protection standardised and contemporary terms and conditions.
Working measures in line with national guidance.
closely with five trade unions, a programme of partnership working for employee representatives and managers has The involvement of all staff in these initiatives is a prerequisite and developed, covering human resource practice, behaviour and the group has continued to work in partnership with a range of business knowledge.
This has been funded in part by the trade unions and employee representatives operating across the Department of Trade and Industry.
These processes will continue and be developed further over the year ahead.
Infrastructure management trade union involvement in United Utilities Contract Solutions increased signicantly as a consequence The group is committed to improving its employees skills of the Welsh Water contract, where the workforce was heavily through training and development and nurturing a culture in which Table 2: People key contributors to corporate success Number of employees financial year ended 31 March 2005 2004 2003 Licensed multi-utility operations 4,889 4,684 4,269 Infrastructure management 2,510 2,381 2,163 Business process outsourcing 7,693 7,746 6,540 Telecommunications 682 709 681 Other activities 161 154 149 Average number of persons employed by the group during the year 15,935 15,674 13,802 12 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 employees feel valued.
The group encourages employees to work However, United Utilities Electricity has statutory rights to seek the to their full potential and respects the dignity and rights of every compulsory retention of a wayleave if termination is sought by the employee and supports them in performing various roles in society.
United Utilities Electricity does not anticipate The group also challenges prejudice and stereotyping.
The group is that any significant relocation of these facilities will be required, equally committed to involving employees through open and regular although any relocation of a major portion of these facilities would communications about business developments and issues of have a material adverse effect on the business and financial position general interest, both formally and informally.
Ground mounted sub-stations are situated on properties either owned by United Utilities Electricity The group is committed to fulling its obligations in accordance or held under lease.
Pole mounted transformers are generally held with the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 and best practice.
As an under wayleave agreements.
United Utilities Electricity anticipates equal opportunities employer, the group gives equal consideration to that it will be able to negotiate lease renewals on satisfactory applicants with disabilities in its employment criteria and will modify terms or relocate equipment so that the non-renewal of any such equipment and working practices wherever it is safe and practical leases would not have a material adverse effect upon United to do so, both for new employees, and for those employees that Utilities Electricity.
are disabled during the course of their employment.
Additionally, the group is committed to providing full support and appropriate training As at 31 March 2005, Your Communications facilities included for employees who become disabled during the course of their approximately 4,160 kilometres of underground bre.
Where the employment so they can continue to work in a position appropriate bre is otherwise than in the public highway, Your Communications to their experience and abilities.
holds wayleaves which entitle it to run this bre through and across private land and in some circumstances these can be terminated PROPERTY by the landowner or occupier upon notice.
However, Your As at 31 March 2005, United Utilities Water had the principal Communications has statutory rights under the Communications operating facilities shown in table 3, all of which are owned by Act 2003 to seek the compulsory retention of a wayleave if United Utilities Water and are freehold, except Sandon Dock which termination is sought by the landowner occupier.
The exception to is leasehold.
United Utilities Waters wastewater operations involve this is land owned by Crown Estates.
Your Communications does owning and managing assets, which include: not anticipate that any relocation of these facilities will be required.
40,064 kilometres of sewers: Any such relocation of any individual facilities would not have a 1,739 pumping stations: material adverse effect on the business and financial position of 371 storage tanks: Your Communications.
3,202 combined sewer overows: Your Communications also maintains 142 points of presence 589 wastewater treatment works: and including 41 microwave radio sites and eight switches located 39 sludge treatment facilities.
in England and Scotland, from where services can be sold or United Utilities Waters water operations involve owning and where network equipment is housed.
These points of presence are managing assets which include: situated on properties either owned or leased by United Utilities or leased by Your Communications.
Your Communications anticipates 192 raw water impounding reservoirs: that it will be able to negotiate lease renewals on satisfactory terms 865 kilometres of raw water large diameter trunk mains: or relocate equipment so that the non-renewal of any such leases 117 water treatment works: would not have a material adverse effect on the business and 1,144 kilometres of treated water large diameter trunk mains: financial condition of Your Communications.
In addition, Your 455 service reservoirs and water towers storing treated water: Communications leases ofces in Birmingham, Shefeld, Bolton, 648 pumping stations: and Manchester and London.
The headquarters and depot in 39,597 kilometres of trunk and distribution mains.
Manchester are leased from United Utilities Electricity.
As at 31 March 2005, United Utilities Electricitys facilities At 31 March 2005, Vertexs facilities included leased customer included 13,655 kilometres of overhead lines, 45,329 kilometres management centres at: Knowsley, Warrington, Whitehaven, of underground cables operating at 132 kilovolts, 33 kilovolts, Bedford, Rayleigh, Edinburgh, Nairn, Forres, Dingwall, London, 25 kilovolts, 11 kilovolts, 6.6 kilovolts and 400 230 volts, 15,638 ground mounted sub-stations and 16,664 pole mounted Birmingham, Speke and New Delhi, India.
Properties in Bolton and transformers.
United Utilities Electricity holds wayleaves which Manchester are leased from the groups infrastructure management entitle it to run lines and cables through and across private land business.
Following the purchase of First Revenue Assurance, it and in some circumstances these can be terminated by the also operates a debt collection centre based in Denver, Colorado.
landowner or occupier upon notice pursuant to the Electricity Act.
Its headquarters in Manchester are also leased.
Table 3: Property Approximate area 1 Location Description in hectares Bowland Estate, Lancashire Reservoir gathering grounds 10,120 Haweswater Estate, Lake District, Cumbria Reservoir gathering grounds 9,900 Longdendale Estate, Cheshire Reservoir gathering grounds 7,490 West Pennine Moors, Lancashire Reservoir gathering grounds 6,872 Thirlmere Estate, Lake District, Cumbria Reservoir gathering grounds 4,850 Huntington, near Chester, Cheshire Water treatment works 107 Davyhulme, Greater Manchester Wastewater treatment works 89 Prescot, Merseyside Water treatment works 84 Woodgate Hill, Greater Manchester Water treatment works 40 Shell Green, Widnes, Cheshire Sludge processing centre 12 Watchgate, Cumbria Water treatment works 12 Sandon Dock, Liverpool Wastewater treatment works 8 1 One hectare equals 2.47 acres.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 13 Operating and financial review Business description continued In addition to the properties described above, the group occupies various non-operational properties consisting primarily of ofces, depots, warehouses and workshops.
These are either owned by the company or leased.
It is anticipated that the company will be able to negotiate renewals of any expiring leases, or relocate the relevant facilities, without having a material adverse impact on the company.
The most significant of these non-operational properties are: the companys London ofce, which is leased by the company: the companys headquarters and United Utilities Waters operations and customer centres in Warrington, which are owned by United Utilities Water and United Utilities Electricitys operations and customer centres in Manchester, which are owned by United Utilities Electricity.
United Utilities Contract Solutions headquarters in Warrington is leased.
In February 2004, the company, through a subsidiary, entered into a 15-year joint venture agreement with Amec Developments Limited to develop land at Lingley Mere, Warrington.
Over a period of time, the company will invest up to 20 million in this joint venture, mainly in the form of land.
The contaminated land regime in Part IIA of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 places liability for the clean-up of contaminated land upon any person who caused the contamination or, in some circumstances, who knew of its presence and failed to prevent it.
If no such person can be found after a reasonable enquiry has been made, liability for clean-up falls upon the current owner or occupier of the land.
The regime provides for exemptions from liability in certain cases.
The company is not aware of any liability which it may have under the regime, which will have a material adverse impact on its businesses.
The company believes that all its properties are in a reasonable state of repair and are adequate for their purpose.
The company has a continuing programme of improving, replacing and disposing of property when considered appropriate to meet the needs of its business operations.
The company is not aware of any material environmental issues which would prevent the companys anticipated utilisation of the above-mentioned properties.
Some non-operational areas of United Utilities Waters wastewater treatment works, including Irlam, Manchester, may be affected by contamination.
At present, it is not clear how the liability for the clean-up will be allocated, or the extent of the cost for such work.
However, this is not expected to have a material impact on the companys results.
14 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005
