Directors report Activities and review of operations The Chairman and Chief Executives statement on pages 4 to 7, Shareholders are being invited to authorise the Directors to allot equity the business review on pages 8 to 23 and financial review on pages securities as if the pre-emption provisions in section 89 1 of the 24 to 27 outline the activities and operations of the Company and its Companies Act 1985 did not apply in respect of rights issues and subsidiaries and how financial risk is addressed.
other pre-emptive issues, or otherwise for cash other than to existing shareholders up to an amount equal to 5 per cent of the issued share Dividends capital of the Company, the level permitted by the current guidelines The Directors have decided not to recommend a final dividend for the of the investment committees of the Association of British Insurers and year ended 31 December 2005 2004: nil.
No interim dividend was paid the National Association of Pension Funds.
A resolution to this effect 2004: nil.
Dividend policy will be kept under review.
Resolution 11, which will be proposed as a special resolution, is set Directors out in the notice of meeting.
The total number of shares in respect of A list of the Directors appears on pages 28 and 29 and their interests which this authority is sought is set out in the note to Resolution 11. in the shares of the Company are shown on page 44.
This authority will expire at the 2007 annual general meeting.
James Bruce retire by rotation under the Authority to purchase own shares Companys articles of association and offer themselves for re-election.
The Directors wish to be given, until the earlier of the 2007 annual general Mr Neill also offers himself for re-election as he has served as a Nonmeeting or 26 September 2007, the authority to allow the Company to Executive of the Company for more than nine years.
Mr Gawler retires purchase its own ordinary shares on a recognised investment exchange and offers himself for re-election given that he is stepping down from and Resolution 12 set out in the notice of annual general meeting seeks the position as Chief Executive on 30 June 2006 but has agreed to this.
The authority is restricted to 16,000,000 ordinary shares, which is remain as Chairman.
Brief biographical details of the Directors standing less than 10 per cent of the current issued share capital.
The resolution for re-election can be found in the notes to the notice of the annual also sets out the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may general meeting on page 87. be bought.
Purchases will only be made if the Directors expect them to result in an increase in the Companys earnings per share and consider No Director had any interest in any contract with the companies in the them in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any shares purchased Group at any time during the period, other than service contracts and in this way not held in treasury will be cancelled and the number of shares indemnity agreements.
Information covering Directors remuneration, in issue will be accordingly reduced.
Other than in relation to shares interests in shares and interests in share options is included in the bought back and held in treasury as described above, it is not the remuneration report on pages 42 to 45.
Resolution 8 asks shareholders Directors current intention to offer to purchase shares in the market to approve the remuneration report.
Directors indemnities The Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent annual Each of the Directors has been granted an indemnity by the Company general meetings.
to an extent permitted by law in respect of certain liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In accordance with the Companys articles of Employees association and The Companies Audit Investigations and Community The Companys policy is to encourage effective communication and Enterprise Act 2004 which came into force on 6 April 2005, each consultation between employees and management.
Subsidiary Director is indemnified against liability to third parties, excluding criminal undertakings develop their own consultative and communication liability and regulatory penalties and certain other liabilities.
In addition, procedures as part of their employment practices.
the Company may pay the Directors legal costs as they are incurred, The Company and its subsidiary undertakings give full and fair subject to reimbursement if the Director is convicted, or if judgement consideration to applications for employment made by disabled people, is given against the Director in an action brought by the Company.
having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
Should employees become Increase in authorised share capital disabled during employment they would be considered for any necessary In order to give the Company greater flexibility regarding future funding, retraining and available work within their capabilities.
For the purposes the Directors wish to increase the Companys authorised share capital of training, career development and promotion, disabled employees are from 4,300,000 being the authorised share capital of the Company treated in the same way as other employees.
following the passing of the resolution at the annual general meeting Creditor payment policy held on 24 June 2005 to 4,600,000 by the passing of an ordinary Creditor payment policy observes the local practice in the countries in resolution Resolution 9 in the notice of meeting.
Such an increase which it operates standard payment terms in each country may also be would represent an increase in the Companys authorised share capital varied by negotiation with individual suppliers.
It is policy to settle in of approximately 7 per cent.
The Company had no trade creditors at Authority to allot shares and disapplication of pre-emption rights the year end.
The articles of association of the Company place unissued shares Charitable and political contributions generally at the disposal of the Directors but, under the provisions of During the year the Company and its subsidiaries donated 84,000 the Companies Act 1985, cannot allot any new shares until they have 2004: 50,000 to charities of which 6,000 2004: 5,000 was in shareholders authority to do so.
Whilst they have no present intention the United Kingdom mainly for educational, community support and of utilising such authority other than with respect to the issue of shares medical purposes.
There were no political donations made during the upon the exercise of share options, the Directors wish to renew for year 2004: nil.
a further year the general authority granted to them on 24 June 2005.
Approval of shareholders will be sought at the annual general meeting Research and development by the passing of an ordinary resolution Resolution 10 whereby the The Company and its subsidiaries continue to place strong emphasis on Directors will be authorised to allot authorised but unissued ordinary research and development to meet the changing needs of the markets shares of the Company representing approximately one third of the they serve.
Research and development expenditure which excludes issued share capital.
The total number of shares in respect of which this engineering and production support costs, totalled 7.5 million authority is sought is set out in the note to Resolution 10 in the notice of 2004: 7.2 million for the year of which 5.3 million 2004: 6.8 million annual general meeting.
This new authority will expire at the 2007 annual has been charged to the income statement for the year and 2.2 million general meeting.
2004: 0.4 million has been capitalised as intangible assets.
40 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 Substantial shareholdings As at 16 March 2006, the Company has been notified of the following interests in its ordinary shares: Barclays PLC 5.42 per cent and Legal & General Group PLC 3.26 per cent.
An update will be given in the notice of the annual general meeting.
The environment Information on the Companys approach to environmental issues is set out in the corporate social responsibility report on page 33.
Statement of disclosure of information to Auditors So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys Auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution Resolution 6 to reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company and a resolution Resolution 7 to authorise the Board to fix the Auditors remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
By order of the Board R A Careless Company Secretary 16 March 2006 Registered office 52 Grosvenor Gardens London SW1W 0AU Registered in England Number 2794949 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 41
