Board of directors David Gawler Chairman and Chief Executive 66 He joined Charter as a Non-Executive Director in December 2000, became an Executive Director on 15 March 2001 and Chairman and Chief Executive on 25 April 2001.
He was formerly chief executive of Semara Holdings Plc.
He qualified as a chartered accountant in South Africa.
Michael Foster Commercial Director 53 He joined Charter as a Non-Executive Director in December 2001 and became an Executive Director on 1 January 2005.
He was formerly executive director, responsible for UK, USA and Ireland at RMC Group p. l. c. He gained an Honours Degree in Engineering and Electrical Sciences at Cambridge University and qualified as a barrister.
Robert Careless Finance Director and Company Secretary 52 He joined Charter in 2002 and was appointed Finance Director on 22 April 2004.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG and was formerly finance director and company secretary of Semara Holdings Plc.
He has an Honours Degree in Physics from Oxford University.
28 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 The Hon.
James Bruce Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 57 He joined Charter as a Director in December 2001.
He is a non-executive director of Yes Television plc and Cadogan Group Limited.
He is a chartered accountant and was formerly an investment banker with Robert Fleming and Jardine Fleming.
John Biles Independent Non-Executive Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee 58 He joined Charter as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2005.
He is a chartered accountant and was finance director of international engineering group FKI plc for six years until 2004.
Mr Biles currently serves on the boards of AmorGroup International PLC, Chapelthorpe plc, Viridian Group Plc and Hermes Pensions Management Limited as a non-executive director and chairman of the Audit Committee.
John Neill CBE Independent Non-Executive Director 58 He joined Charter as a Director in 1994.
He is group chief executive of the Unipart Group of Companies Limited and a non-executive director of Royal Mail Group plc.
He was formerly a director of the Bank of England.
Grey Denham Independent Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 57 He joined Charter as a Director in February 2005.
He is group secretary of GKN plc and a director of GKN Holdings plc and GKN United Kingdom plc.
He is also president of GKN America Corp and chairman of the GKN plc board sub-committee on governance and risk.
Andrew Osborne Independent Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 39 He joined Charter as a Director in February 2005.
He is a chartered accountant and chief executive of Geoffrey Osborne Limited.
He has a degree in Engineering Science from Oxford University.
