Valuation Certicate Valuation The Directors The British Land Company PLC Our valuations are prepared on the basis of Market Value.
This is an internationally recognised basis and is defined as: 10 Cornwall Terrace Regents Park The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the London NW1 4QP date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an armslength transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each Dear Sirs, acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The British Land Company PLC We are of the opinion that the aggregate Market Value of your interests in these properties, as at 31 March 2005, is: Valuation as at 31 March 2005 10,801,693,948 Basis of instructions In accordance with the terms of our appointment as Independent Valuers Ten billion, eight hundred and one million, six hundred and ninety three thousand, nine hundred and forty eight pounds to The British Land Company PLC, we have valued the freehold and leasehold properties detailed below, as at 31 March 2005, for balance In our full report the valuations are categorised as follows: sheet purposes and inclusion in your annual accounts.
The properties are predominantly held for investment and in some instances held for Long Part freehold Short development or in the course of development.
Freehold leasehold part leasehold leasehold These valuations have been prepared in accordance with the A Held as 5th Edition of the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards published investments 9,790,949,848 561,850,000 33,990,000 9,085,200 by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, the Red Book.
B Held for The extent of our investigations and the sources of information on development 146,705,900 31,650,000 which we have relied are as described in Section 4 Valuation C Owner occupied 32,575,000 Procedures and Assumptions.
D In the course of These valuations have been undertaken under the overall development 194,888,000 supervision of the undersigned.
Total value 10,132,543,748 626,075,000 33,990,000 9,085,200 Compliance and independence This aggregate figure makes no allowance for any effect that placing In accordance with the latest RICS regulations we can confirm that: the whole portfolio on the market contemporaneously may have on the Graham Spoor has supervised the regular valuation of the British overall realisation.
The Market Value of the portfolio sold as a single entity Land Main Fund portfolio since September 1999.
Weatherall Green would not necessarily be the same as the aggregate figure reported.
and Smith now ATIS REALWeatheralls have been your valuers Included within the aggregate are a number of negative values, since 1985.
Our policy is that, even though all valuations are amounting in total to minus 740,000 seven hundred and forty assessed by the panel as described below, we will change the thousand pounds.
These have been deducted from the positive values authorised signatory at least every seven years, as recommended to arrive at a net aggregate figure.
by the Carsberg Committee and in the RICS response to this.
Certain properties are held on very long leases, approximately As part of our Quality Assurance procedures all of the regular 999 years at fixed peppercorn or nominal rents.
In calculating the valuations we prepare, for any client, with a capital value of 10m apportionments between tenure types above, we have included these or greater are subject to an independent review from a Valuation in the freehold category.
Short leasehold properties are classified as Director with no direct involvement in that valuation exercise.
having less than 50 years unexpired.
The total fees earned in our latest financial year from The British Property values may change significantly over a relatively short Land Company PLC and its joint venture partners amounted to period.
Consequently our valuations are only valid on the date substantially less than 5% of our Company turnover.
We do not carry out any non-valuation fee earning work for British Land.
We can also confirm that we do not have any material interest in any of the properties and that we have undertaken these valuations in the capacity of Independent Valuers.
72 The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC Valuation procedure and assumptions Unless provided with information to the contrary our valuations assume: The properties were all inspected both internally and externally i That the sites are physically capable of development or by us between March 2004 and March 2005.
In preparing our valuations redevelopment, when appropriate, and that no special or unusual we have taken into account market trends in the locality and except costs will be incurred in providing foundations and infrastructure.
where you have advised us to the contrary, or our other enquiries have ii That there are no archaeological remains on or under land which could alerted us to this, we have assumed that there has been no material adversely impact on value.
change to any of the properties or their surroundings that might have iii That the properties are not adversely affected by any form of pollution a material effect on value, since the time of our inspections.
The valuations have all been prepared by qualified and experienced iv That there are no abnormal risks of flooding.
valuers and then, as part of our standard procedure, been considered and agreed by a panel of senior Directors in the Valuation Department.
We have, however, commented on anything discovered during the Details of the nature and extent of the properties, the terms under course of our valuation enquiries that in our opinion might impact which they are held, and of any sublettings, permitted uses and related upon value.
matters, have been supplied by you or your managing agents.
Where We have made informal enquiries of the local planning and highway possible this information has been confirmed at our inspections.
authorities and may have relied on information that is publicly published We have considered title documents in our possession or made or available free of charge.
Any information obtained is assumed to be available to us.
No local searches have been instigated.
Except where stated to Unless stated in our individual reports and therefore reflected in the contrary, we have assumed that there are no local authority planning our valuations, we have assumed the interests are not subject to any or highway proposals that might involve the use of compulsory purchase onerous restrictions, to the payment of any unusual outgoings or to powers or otherwise directly affect the property.
any charges, or rights of way or easements.
We have included in our valuations those items of plant and We have relied upon information supplied by you relating to tenure machinery normally considered to be part of the service installations to and related matters and have not commissioned formal legal searches.
a building and which would normally pass with the property on a sale or We have therefore assumed the information provided to be accurate, letting.
We have excluded all items of process plant and machinery and up-to-date and complete.
equipment, together with their special foundations and supports, As agreed, our valuations are based on measurements provided furniture and furnishings, vehicles, stock and loose tools, and tenants by you and carried out in accordance with The Royal Institution of fixtures and fittings.
Chartered Surveyors Code of Measuring Practice.
In many cases the Although we have reflected our general understanding of a tenants areas provided are as calculated following a rent review or letting and status in our valuation, we have made no detailed enquiries about the agreed between the agents involved.
Where appropriate, these have financial status of tenants.
We assume that appropriate enquiries are been supplemented by our sample check measurements.
made when leases were originally exchanged, or when consent was granted to any assignment or underletting.
Our valuations are based on the assumption: For properties in the course of development, we have reflected the i That except for any defects specifically noted in our report, stage reached in construction and the costs remaining to be spent at the the property is in good condition.
We have had regard to the contractual liabilities of the ii That no construction materials have been used that are parties involved in the development and any cost estimates that have deleterious, or likely to give rise to structural defects.
been prepared by the professional advisers to the project.
For recently iii That no hazardous materials are present.
completed developments we have taken no account of any retentions, iv That all relevant statutory requirements relating to use or nor made allowance for any outstanding development costs, fees, or construction have been complied with.
other expenditure for which there may be a liability.
v That any services, together with any associated computer hardware and software, are fully operational and free from impending breakdown or malfunction.
We have, however, reflected the general condition noted during the course of our valuation inspections and any defects or hazards of which we became aware in the course of our investigations.
Any matters that were considered material to the valuation are referred to in our reports.
73 General conditions Atisreal UK Norfolk House This report and our valuations have been prepared on the basis that 31St Jamess Square there has been full disclosure of all relevant information and facts which London SW1Y 4JR may affect them.
This report is private and confidential and for the sole use of The Dear Sirs, British Land Company PLC for publication in its reports and accounts.
It Valuation as at 31 March 2005 may not be disclosed to any third party without our prior written consent, I confirm our instructions for you to prepare the valuation at 31 March 2005 for nor published in any other document or circular, without our prior approval inclusion in our Report and Accounts, of all the properties owned by The British in writing as to the form and context in which it shall appear.
In breach of Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries.
This instruction excludes our overseas this condition, no responsibility can be accepted to third parties for the interests, which are to be valued as previously by Jones Lang LaSalle and CB comments or advice contained in this report.
Richard Ellis and our residential properties, which are to be valued by FPD Savills.
For this purpose, we will make available to you all the information you may Yours faithfully require which we will update through to 31 March.
We will also advise you of any transactions we are aware of that may have an impact on value.
Your valuation is to be undertaken in accordance with the 5th Edition of the Appraisal and Valuations Standards The Red Book published in 2003 by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Your valuation is for a Regulated Purpose and you are to confirm that you have followed professional standards and Graham Spoor BSc Hons MBA MRICS procedures with regard to independence and quality assurance.
You will conduct appropriate inspections of each of the properties and for and on behalf of Atisreal measure, in those cases where you have not been provided with floor areas as agreed between the landlord and tenant at the time of rent review or the initial Level 16, City Tower letting.
In respect of planning, your surveyors will make their own enquiries of the 40 Basinghall Street various planning authorities.
You will also refer to title reports and leases either London EC2V 5DE in your possession or made available to you.
In accordance with established practice, you will attend meetings 15 April 2005 as required by the Companys auditors and the Audit Committee to discuss your work and conclusions.
Yours faithfully For and on behalf of The British Land Company PLC Michael I. Gunston FRICS Chief Surveyor 2 February 2005 The Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment is the statutory body charged with inspiring people to demand more from their buildings and spaces.
CABEs philosophy is that following best practice delivers enhanced economic and social value.
As well as bringing positive benefits to the community, investment in quality architecture reduces the lifetime costs of buildings and improves their performance.
Like all our properties on the Broadgate Estate, 10 Exchange Square has a designed-in flexibility that ensures its fabric and services can readily be adapted and updated to meet the changing requirements of its tenants.
We didnt find London come up to its likeness in the red bills as it is there drawd too architectooralooral.
Charles Dickens Great Expectations 74 The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC 75
