Finance and capital structure Financing statistics 31 March 2005 31 March 2004 British Land is managed on a fully integrated basis to produce secure Group: and attractive shareholder returns.
Risk management is a distinctive skill Net debt 6,040.6m 4,866.8m at British Land where the mix of assets, leases, developments and debt Weighted average debt maturity 14.3 years 16.9 years are managed together to ensure the most effective risk adjusted result.
Weighted average interest rate 6.00% 6.38% Overall, the Groups prime assets and their uniquely secure rental % of net debt at fixed capped interest rates 90% 84% income present lower risks than other property portfolios, enabling % of gross debt ringfenced with no recourse to returns to shareholders to be enhanced using financial leverage: other Group companies assets 63% 64% a 45-55% loan to value ratio is targeted.
The financing policy is also Interest cover net rents net interest 1.59x 1.55x highly risk averse, to ride out any cycle.
Loan to value debt property & investments 50% 48% Since we seek to maximise shareholder returns, we prefer to avoid Cash and available committed facilities 2,632.2m 2,149.6m equity issuance, except where the commercial opportunity clearly merits of which drawn 1,663.4m 1,011.0m it.
We also would expect to return capital to shareholders if surplus arises over what we believe can be attractively deployed in the business.
Group and share of joint ventures: Debt is raised from a variety of sources with a spread of maturity Net debt 6,536.2m 5,396.6m dates: the weighted average maturity is 14.3 years.
Longer term debt is Weighted average debt maturity 13.5 years 15.7 years raised principally through securitisations and debentures.
Securitisations Loan to value debt property & investments 52% 51% have a range of benefits, including long maturities at competitive rates Weighted average interest rate 6.03% 6.41% with no recourse to other companies or assets in the Group, and without financial covenants by British Land.
The securitisations of 3.5 billion The reduction in weighted average debt maturity reflects three main include 2.4 billion, about 40% of Group net debt, rated AAA or AA.
factors: the new Broadgate securitisation has a longer term than the Unsecured bank facilities tend to be for terms of five to seven years, Notes redeemed, offset by the conversion of the 150 million and we aim to spread the maturities of the different facilities from a wide Convertible Bonds and the significant net investment in property, range of banks.
Further details are set out later in this report.
predominantly financed by unsecured facilities.
The Group borrows at fixed and floating rates and uses derivatives to At 31 March 2005, the market value of the Groups net debt and achieve the desired interest rate profile: currently the policy is to maintain interest rate derivatives was 293.9 million more than book values around 85% subject to 5% tolerance of debt at fixed and capped rates.
302.4 million including share of joint ventures.
This interest rate profile is closely monitored as part of our management of the overall financial effects of transactions in the Group.
Financing activity The joint ventures are separately financed, and have their own We have also been active this year in arranging financing of the busiinterest rate derivatives, all with no recourse to British Land.
ness, in the banking and capital markets.
In the year some 500 million Our principal liabilities comprise net debt of 6 billion, increased from 13 facilities came to the end of their terms and all but one was over the year as funds were drawn for net property acquisitions and renewed or replaced.
New bank lines of over 1 billion were agreed, offset by a 150 million reduction as a result of the conversion of the including a 600 million syndicated loan facility.
The major renancing of Broadgate was completed in March 2005: 2.08 billion of bonds were issued at an average interest rate of 5.05% and a weighted average maturity of 20 years.
24 The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC Important trends in the UK market Real Estate Investment Trustsprospects The introduction of a tax efficient property investment vehicle is widely anticipated.
It is still an uncertain process and might be available only on unattractive conditions.
However, we do expect REITs to happen and with a structure to which the market will respond positively.
British Land is fully supportive and deeply engaged in the process.
We believe that British Land will make an attractive REIT due to our: outstanding property portfolio strong brand name significant range of structural alternatives safe financial structure.
Code of Practice for Commercial Leases British Land is a supporter of the Code of Practice for Commercial Leases and remains committed to promoting greater flexibility in Tesco, Serpentine Green Shopping Centre, Peterborough leasing practices.
In common with other major landlords it has signed a declaration allowing sub-letting at below passing rents reserved in the The major refinancing of Broadgate was completed in March 2005: lease.
Following a period of study and consultation the Government 2.08 billion of bonds were issued at an average interest rate of 5.05% announced that it did not intend to legislate to ban upward only rent and a weighted average maturity of 20 years.
After repayment of the review clauses in commercial leases.
existing debt previously securitised on the Estate, the costs of closing out interest rate hedging and payment of transactions costs, the net Planning additional finance raised was approximately 500 million.
British Lands Town and Country Planning legislation sets the statutory and policy future interest charges are reduced by some 13 million per annum.
The framework for our development programme, as well as for extensions timing of the transaction was particularly advantageous, achieving tight and changes of use to the investment portfolio.
The planning market pricing of the bonds, particularly at the AAA rated level.
This background is also an important consideration when acquisitions financing reduces the Groups interest costs overall and extends the are made.
The 2004 Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act has changed nearly all aspects of the planning regime.
The additional importance Broadgate refinancing 2.08 billion at an average rate of 5.05% pa given to planning policy and the requirement for local planning Key benefits Key financial effects 2004 5 authorities to keep their planning policies up to date makes it more Additional 500m of long-term funding Pre-tax exceptional charge of 180m important than ever that we engage with local and regional planning Interest costs reduced by 13m per annum NAV reduced by 24p per share authorities.
The new Act also stresses the need for more public Weighted average maturity of 20 years NNNAV reduced by less than 3p per share consultation at the beginning of the process on major planning Attractive shareholder post-tax return applications.
At the same time, the scope and complexity of the Improved prepayment provisions technical issues influencing planning decisions continue to increase.
The Governments commitment to creating sustainable communities The Tesco BL Properties Limited joint venture was refinanced by a group requires a considered approach to the long term masterplanning of our of banks in January 2005, repaying existing debt and returning some major development projects.
At Regents Place, Canada Water, New 50 million surplus to each of British Land and Tesco.
Century Park in Coventry and the development land around Meadowhall As we reported at the interim, the 150 million 6% Subordinated for example, we are working with local authorities to plan the mix of Irredeemable Convertible Bonds all converted to ordinary shares, uses and the necessary infrastructure which create value and gain resulting in the issue of 30 million new shares, and an interest saving local support.
from April 2004 of 9 million per annum.
The Scottish Retail Property Limited Partnership, a joint venture established in March 2004 with funding from the partners, was refinanced after the year end by a seven year securitisation, returning some 210 million to each of the British Land and Land Securities partners.
25 The corporate responsibility programmes bring real benets to the business.
A key feature is the launch of the Sustainability Brief, a process that establishes sustainable design and construction in our developments.
the Broadgate Environmental Working Group, where we have The Government is also issuing new and revised planning guidance to support the reforms to the planning system in the new Act.
The recently worked collaboratively with Broadgate occupiers to improve waste management and increase the incidence of recycling at Broadgate.
published PPS 6 dealing with town centres confirms the Governments commitment to restricting out of town retail development and requires Operational efficiency initiatives include: wider deployment of the British Land portal web-based access local authorities to take positive action to promote redevelopment in central areas.
There are some exceptions to the general presumption to our systems for our agents and other consultants, improving operational effectiveness against out of town centre retail development but the long trail of refused applications for this type of development will continue to dissuade all but a pilot project to explore ways to improve procurement and to improve the quality of the provision of services relating to the the most determined.
service charge, which are costs incurred by the building manager and paid for by the occupier.
Corporate responsibility and relationships with key stakeholders The corporate responsibility programmes bring real benefits to the Risks and uncertainties business.
They build relationships with stakeholders, improving our reputation with tenants, investors, lenders, analysts, employees and local The Groups objective is to achieve attractive long-term total returns communities, reducing risk and costs by efficient resource management.
We are pleased to report that in 2004, for the second year running, British whilst minimising risks.
In order to identify and evaluate risks and design controls to mitigate them, a regular comprehensive assessment is Land was designated by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices as the financial services sector world market leader in corporate responsibility undertaken which has identified some 50 individual risks affecting the Group.
Responsibility for management of each key risk is clearly issues.
Our 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report was published in April identified and delegated by the Board to specific executive directors 2005.
A key feature is the launch of the Sustainability Brief, a process that and senior executives within the Group.
establishes sustainable design and construction in our developments, Most of the risks faced by the Group arise out of natural market and has been recognised by Government as a leading example.
We volatility, relating to supply and demand imbalances in the following have also been working with the Carbon Trust to develop and implement core areas: demand for space from occupiers against available space a Carbon Management Programme for the multi-let property portfolio.
This enables the Company to benchmark the energy performance for including new developments differential pricing for previous locations and buildings all multi-let buildings common areas and set targets to reduce carbon emissions and, as a result, make cost savings.
alternative use for buildings particularly redevelopment demand for returns from investors in property, compared to Technology and innovation other asset classes price differentials for capital to finance the business There have been a number of initiatives designed to support our occupiers and improve operational efficiency.
legislative initiatives, including planning consents and taxation economic cycles, including the impact on tenant covenant quality, Occupier initiatives include: our onsite replenishment and storage facility at Meadowhall ARC, interest rates and inflation mis-pricing of property assets by the equity markets.
which has experienced increased retailer take up and has also won the ICSC International Council for Shopping Centres Award for Centre Productivity in 2005 26 The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC Accounting policies that may be different from other major Our preference for long-term investments let on long leases to strong tenants with upward only rent reviews provides stable long-term property companies: We account for rent reviews only on settlement.
Some companies accrue cash flows which enables the Group to ride out much of this natural market volatility.
rent reviews on the basis of estimates of markets rents.
Our policy, whilst conservative, does not smooth earnings and where commercially we Following discussions held in 2002 and 2003, there has been a further decide to prolong negotiations or arbitrate, significant rent adjustments can arise in later years back rents.
round of consultation on corporation tax reform, in advance of intended legislation.
We operate, in common with most other corporate entities, We account for equity settled share based incentives for directors and staff by charging the fair value as determined at the date of grant with considerable uncertainty as to when and how any legislation will take effect.
We also account on balance sheet for our defined benefit scheme.
Other companies are in the process of Explanatory notes moving towards both of these bases as they implement IAS.
On acquisitions through corporate vehicles, any discount received The following sections provides shareholders with general information in respect of contingent tax taken on, is treated as negative goodwill and is not added back to net asset value.
The negative goodwill already to assist with understanding the results.
recognised is taken into account when calculating contingent capital gains.
Some companies add negative goodwill back to reserves thereby Operating and Financial Review From March 2006 British Land is required to publish an Operating increasing net assets.
and Financial Review in accordance with new regulations.
Although guidance on its preparation is not finalised, this OFR aims to anticipate Application of policies for new material circumstances: As a result of the acquisition in the second half of over 732 million of most of the new requirements.
In preparing this operating and financial review, we are required to properties with minimum periodic uplifts in rents, we have followed UK GAAP in spreading the total minimum contracted rents evenly over the advise the reader that by their nature, all forward looking statements made involve uncertainty since future events often cause outcomes lease term.
This recognises income substantially earlier than the cash flows.
To avoid double counting the asset recognised is deducted from and results to differ from those anticipated.
The additional net rental income recognised is 5 million in the year to March 2005 annualised 19 million.
International Accounting Standards This will be the Groups last set of results prepared under generally Key performance indicators accepted accounting principles in the UK UK GAAP.
As from 1 April 2005 we have adopted International Accounting Standards British Land is focused on achieving attractive and sustainable risk adjusted total returns for shareholders.
The property business IAS as required for all European Union listed companies.
We made a presentation to investors and analysts of the expected impact of is influenced by many factors and decisions are judged over multi-year periods.
We do pay careful attention to a range of KPIs, which are adoption of IAS on 21 January 2005, a copy of which can be found on our website www.
We will be re-presenting our presented elsewhere in this review.
However, movements up or down in any of these indicators are not of themselves definitive performance 2005 results in IAS format during summer 2005. indicators since, when seen in the light of other indicators, management strategies and market events, they may have quite different significance.
Understanding capital and revenue performance Major accounting policies: The more prominent KPIs include: Financial measures: total return on adjusted net assets: earnings The Groups results comprise profits arising from revenues less expenses revenue profits and capital growth, some realised in the year per share and underlying earnings per share: loan to value gearing: interest cover: average debt maturities: management of interest rate through sales and the rest unrealised but quantified by way of external valuations.
This is the last time we present the results under UK GAAP, exposure and percentage of interest costs fixed: administrative costs as a percentage of portfolio value: tax rate.
which recognises in the profit and loss account only revenue profits and that element of capital profits on assets sold which derives from Asset measures: average lease lengths: vacancy rate: security of income and tenant covenants: irrecoverable property net sales proceeds exceeding valuation.
Investment properties and investments are revalued to market costs as a percentage of portfolio value: income at risk from development programme.
In assessing total returns, return on capital is therefore rebased each year.
Returns on historical cost are considerably higher.
Tenant incentives such as rent free periods are spread to the nearest date when a rebasing to open market rent is expected.
This means that net rental income in the profit and loss account is not the same as cash rents received.
To avoid double counting, the asset arising from this rent adjustment is deducted from the valuation.
