28 BRIXTON u DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited accounts for the year Substantial shareholdings ended 31 December 2005.
At 27 March 2006 the following interests in the Ordinary share capital of the Company had been notified to the Company and recorded in the Register Business of the Group of Interests in Shares maintained in accordance with Section 211 of the The principal business of the Group, being the Company and its subsidiary Companies Act 1985: undertakings, within the meaning given by the Companies Act 1985, is Issued Ordinary share capital 269,121,175. property investment and development, together with the management of its properties.
A list of the Companys principal subsidiary undertakings as at Percentage of 31 December 2005 is given on page 83.
A full review of the activities of the Number of issued Ordinary Name Brixton shares share capital Group in the year to 31 December 2005, significant events which have occurred since the year-end and likely future developments are included in HBOS plc 55,601,985 20.66% the various reviews which precede this report.
Trefick Limited 14,590,498 5.42% Dividends Stichting Pensionenfonds ABP 13,887,556 5.16% An interim dividend of 4.15p per share has been paid on the Ordinary Legal & General Group plc 9,896,951 3.68% shares and the Directors are now recommending a final dividend of 7.65p Barclays PLC 8,097,963 3.01% per Ordinary share on the issued Ordinary share capital.
This makes a total dividend of 11.8p per share and represents an increase of 2.6% over the Of which 717,844 Brixton Shares are held by Legal & General Investment Management Limited as total dividend per Ordinary share paid in respect of 2004.
If approved, the the appointed fund manager only.
final dividend will be paid on 3 July 2006 to shareholders on the register As at 27 March 2006, no other person had notified the Company of an at the close of business on 2 June 2006.
The ex-dividend date will be interest in the issued share capital of the Company required to be recorded 31 May 2006. in the Register.
Directors Annual General Meeting The present membership of the Board is shown on page 26.
All Directors The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 10.30 am on listed were in office throughout the year.
At the Annual General Meeting to be Wednesday 10 May 2006 is sent separately to shareholders with this held on 10 May 2006, Nicholas Fry and David Scotland will retire by rotation report.
The venue for this meeting is The Holiday Inn, 3 Berkeley Street, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Nicholas Fry and David London W1J 8NE.
Scotland do not have service contracts with the Company.
Michael Moore and John Rink, who have served on the Board since January Authority to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption rights 1997 and March 2003 respectively, will retire at the conclusion of the AGM on The Notice of the Annual General Meeting includes two resolutions dealing 10 May 2006. with the allotment of Ordinary share capital.
Details of Directors interests in the Companys shares are shown on page 39.
Resolution 7 deals with the authority of the Directors to allot and grant rights over the unissued share capital of the Company.
This authority was last Properties renewed at the Annual General Meeting held on 12 May 2005.
If approved, An external professional valuation of the Groups properties on an open the renewed authority will authorise the Directors to allot up to an aggregate market basis was carried out as at 31 December 2005.
The result of the nominal amount of 12,619,706 for a five year period from the date of the valuation was a surplus of 278.5m after allowing for disposals and capital passing of the resolution.
12,619,706 is the total unissued Ordinary share expenditure on properties and the valuation has been included in the balance capital of the Company and represents 19% of the Companys issued sheet.
Details of the valuation and movements in the Groups properties Ordinary share capital as of 27 March 2006.
The Directors presently have during the year are set out in note 12 on page 53. no intention of exercising this authority.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
29 BRIXTON The Directors are of the view that it would be helpful to have at their disposal Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the a relatively small number of Ordinary shares which may be excluded from Combined Code the normal pre-emption provisions, where this is of benefit to the Company.
The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance with the revised Therefore resolution 8 authorises the Directors to allot equity securities Combined Code on Corporate Governance, originally published in July 2003, and to reissue any shares which may have been held in treasury for cash, following the review of the role and effectiveness of Non-executive directors without first offering them to existing shareholders.
Other than in connection carried out by Sir Derek Higgs the Higgs Review, which applies to the with a rights issue, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited Company for the year ending 31 December 2005. to an aggregate nominal value of 3,364,014 being 5% of the Companys The Company has, throughout the year, been in full compliance with the issued Ordinary share capital on 27 March 2006.
This authority was last principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the revised Combined Code renewed at the Annual General Meeting held on 12 May 2005. on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council and effective for the year ended 31 December 2005, with the exception of the Purchase of own shares point noted in the second paragraph of The Workings of the Board and The Companies Act 1985 allows a company, if authorised by its its Committees below.
shareholders, to purchase its own shares.
Shareholders approval is now being sought to authorise the Company to purchase on the London Stock The workings of the Board and its Committees Exchange not more than 26,912,117 Ordinary shares being 10% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company at a maximum price for each The Board issued Ordinary share, exclusive of expenses, of 5% above the average of The Non-executive directors comprise the majority of the Board and are kept the middle market quotations as taken from the London Stock Exchange fully informed of all areas of the Companys activities so that they are able to Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the date of purchase.
participate fully in all aspects of the Companys strategy and control.
The minimum price for each Ordinary share, exclusive of expenses, will be Louise Patten is Chairman of the Board and Tim Wheeler is the Chief 25p, which is the nominal value of an Ordinary share.
Their roles are separate and clearly defined.
David The effect of any such purchase will clearly depend on the price at which Scotland was appointed the Senior Independent Non-executive director on it is made.
The power will only be exercised if the Board is satisfied that such 6 February 2006.
Michael Moore is, inter alia, a Director of HBOS Financial purchases are in the long-term interests of shareholders and will result in an Services Limited whose ultimate holding company is HBOS plc but he and increase in net asset value per share and or an improvement in earnings all the other Non-executive directors, being Louise Patten, Nicholas Fry, John per share.
The Directors believe that the share purchase proposals are in Rink and David Scotland are considered by the Board to be independent.
the best interests of the Company and accordingly, resolution 9 will be Michael Moore is not a member of either the Remuneration or Audit proposed as a Special Resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Committees.
Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms, Meeting.
The Directors presently have no intention of exercising this authority.
as recommended by the Combined Code, but are subject to election and re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
The Non-executive As at 27 March 2006, options were outstanding over 3,711,716 Ordinary directors understand that the Board will not automatically recommend their shares in the Company, such number of shares representing 1.4% of the re-election by shareholders.
total number of issued equity shares in the Company as at that date.
If the Company were to purchase 10% of its Ordinary shares, in exercise of its The biographies of the members of the Board appear on page 26. power under this paragraph, shares subject to options would comprise 1.5% These demonstrate a range of experience of sufficient calibre to bring of the Companys equity shares.
independent judgement on the issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct that is vital to the success of the Company.
Corporate governance The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
A statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate accounts is set out on page 40 and a statement on going concern is set out governance.
The Statement below describes how the principles of corporate on page 31. governance are applied to the Company and reviews the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
The Board has adopted a formal corporate governance manual which is updated on an ongoing basis.
30 BRIXTON u DIRECTORS REPORT The Board meets regularly reviewing financial performance, ensuring Remuneration Committee adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining major The Remuneration Committee is chaired by David Scotland and its current acquisitions and disposal possibilities and reporting to shareholders.
membership is set out on page 26.
The Report on Directors Remuneration is The Non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the set out on pages 33 to 39. strategies proposed by the Executive directors are fully considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely Relations with shareholders information.
Briefing papers are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The various Directors in advance of Board meetings.
The Directors may take independent reviews on pages 16 to 25 include a detailed review of the business and professional advice in appropriate circumstances at the Companys expense.
There is regular dialogue with, and presentations are made to, institutional and prospective shareholders.
During the year there were six Board meetings, three meetings of the Audit Committee, two meetings of the Remuneration Committee and one meeting The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private of the Nomination Committee, all of which had full attendance except that and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairmen of David Scotland was unable to attend one Board meeting and Michael each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are normally Moore was unable to attend one Board meeting and the meeting of the available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the Nomination Committee.
resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2006 can be found in the Notice of the Meeting.
It is intended to indicate the level A Board evaluation was carried out during the year by means of a of proxies lodged on each resolution and the balance for and against the questionnaire circulated to all Board members which covered structure and resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
content of Board meetings and all Board processes and communication channels.
The responses to the questionnaire were considered at a meeting Internal control of the Board.
The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Companys system of Separate meetings were also held between the Chairman and the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can only Non-executive directors to evaluate the Executive directors performance provide reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance against material and between the Non-executive directors only to evaluate the Chairmans misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the performance.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Evaluations were also carried out during the year of the Audit and The Combined Code introduced a requirement that the effectiveness of the Remuneration Committees.
system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, is reviewed by the Directors.
In addition, The following Committees deal with the specific aspects of the Companys Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull affairs.
The Board has approved terms of reference for these Committees Report was published in September 1999, to provide guidance to Directors and the Company has published these terms on its website.
in respect of this requirement.
In this respect, the Board can confirm that Audit Committee it has the necessary procedures and policies to fully comply with the The Audit Committee is chaired by Nicholas Fry and its current membership requirements of the Turnbull Report for the year under review and up to is set out on page 26.
The Committee meets not less than twice a year and the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Executive directors.
The Board carries out a review of significant business risks and formally The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters considers the scope and effectiveness of the Companys system of internal including the half-year and annual financial statements before their control annually.
This review covers all controls, including financial, operational submission to the Board and monitoring the controls which are in force to and compliance controls and risk management.
The risks are identified by the ensure the integrity of the information reported to shareholders.
The Audit Executive directors using their detailed knowledge of the Companys activities Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and and of those areas of the property and financial markets which impact on its on their remuneration and discusses the nature, scope and results of the objectives.
The Board considers risk management and internal control on a audit with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee may also meet with regular basis during the year.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, the Companys valuers.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
Nomination Committee As the Company has a small number of employees there is a high level The Nomination Committee is chaired by Louise Patten and its current of senior executive involvement in the majority of business transactions.
The Committee is responsible for, An Executive Management Committee runs the Company at executive reviewing the size, structure and composition required of the Board, making level and reports to the main Board.
The eleven-person Committee recommendations on changes to and considering succession planning for comprises the two Executive directors of Brixton plc, five Senior directors Directors and other senior executives.
In appropriate cases, recruitment and four senior executives.
Two of these Senior directors are the respective consultants are used to assist the process.
Managing Directors of the Companys main operating subsidiaries, Brixton Investments Ltd and B-Serv Ltd. 31 BRIXTON The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has The environment decided that because of the scale and focus of the Company it is not The Companys most significant environmental risk is land contamination due justified.
However, it is a matter that is kept under regular review.
to past industrial activities or fuel spillages.
We carry out environmental audits of all new properties to identify any potential contamination.
During 2005 we The Board has a number of processes in place to monitor the overall continued work to clean up land contamination at four properties in Enfield, effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In addition, the Board Park Royal, Feltham and Heathrow.
In the past three years we have spent undertakes annually a specific effectiveness review of the Companys system over 800,000 on land remediation at these properties.
of internal control against the requirements outlined in the Turnbull Report.
No significant weaknesses have been identified during the year under review.
We also work with contractors to minimise the environmental impact during construction, refurbishment and maintenance of our properties.
Going concern Contractors are required to confirm that they will comply with our The financial statements, which appear on pages 42 to 73, have been environment policy and guidance procedures.
prepared on the going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, In 2005 we continued to offset our carbon dioxide CO2 emissions from the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate business travel.
We contributed a capital sum to The Carbon Neutral resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Company to plant new native forests, which absorb CO2 from the atmosphere.
In 2006 we will look into offsetting our CO2 emissions from Payment of suppliers energy use as well.
We also plan to review the feasibility and cost of The Board maintains a policy of paying suppliers promptly in accordance installing renewable energy technologies in new buildings.
with the terms and conditions agreed with them.
At the year-end its trade creditors represented 26 days 2004: 29 days purchase.
Stakeholders We are committed to operating ethically and with integrity.
We engage with all Corporate responsibility stakeholders on the basis that those relationships will be long term.
Brixton is committed to being a socially responsible company.
We seek to We aim to maintain high business standards in the marketplace.
We enhance our relationships with stakeholders and manage risks in key areas encourage dialogue with our customers through our Customer Service such as health and safety and land contamination.
Managers and the customer helpdesk which operates a freephone service Brixton is included in the FTSE4 Good, an index of companies that meet enabling third parties to make easy and direct contact.
All forms of contact specified corporate responsibility CR standards.
from our customers are dealt with promptly.
How we manage corporate responsibility The Company treats employees fairly, equitably and with respect.
We do We have a Corporate Responsibility Policy Statement plus a range of more not discriminate on grounds of race, disability, religion, sexuality or gender.
detailed policies to guide employees on specific aspects of CR.
We provide training so that members of staff can develop their personal as well as professional skills.
Tim Wheeler, the Chief Executive, is the Board member with overall responsibility for CR.
Steve Lee, Managing Director of B-Serv, oversees the We have respect for the local communities in which we operate and we strive Companys CR programme and provides an annual report to the Board on to be a communicative and responsible neighbour.
Rosemary Loving, Human Resources Manager, is responsible for day-to-day coordination of these issues.
We also have a Corporate Responsibility Committee consisting of managers from different areas of the business chaired by Steve Lee.
Implementation and day-to-day management of CR policies is the responsibility of the Companys Senior Management Group.
Every employee at Brixton can play an important role in CR.
As part of their annual performance appraisal, we ask employees to consider how they can contribute to the Companys CR values.
32 BRIXTON u DIRECTORS REPORT Marketplace Health and safety We aim to maintain high business standards in the marketplace.
The Board is committed to continuously improving the management of health Our Customer Service Managers visit all our customers regularly, on average and safety and to that end has carried out its annual review of the Groups every eight weeks, and we operate a 24-hour helpdesk.
We also carry out a policy and procedures following an audit by external consultants.
We are customer satisfaction survey annually and aim to improve customer pleased that advances in our systems continue to be made and that there satisfaction year on year measured via the survey.
is an effective framework in place for the future.
We are committed to working in a collaborative manner with our business Chris Sheedy, the Senior Director, Development Management acts as and our supply chain partners, treating them fairly, observing contractual Health and Safety Co-ordinator and is accountable directly to Tim Wheeler, commitments and paying them promptly.
We make an annual Supply Chain the Chief Executive, for the implementation of the system.
Chris Sheedy Award to our partner of the year and within our estate services supply chain, chairs the Group Health and Safety Committee which includes managers we measure the performance of each of our business partners on a monthly from different areas of the business.
The Committee members oversee the basis.
We communicate regularly on CR issues with our business partners implementation of good practice throughout our activities, assist with policy and require them to comply with relevant CR policies.
reviews and suggest ways in which the management of health and safety could be improved.
Employees We have an equal opportunities policy and monitor the diversity profile of Regular risk assessments are carried out at all properties which are managed our employees.
All employees receive an annual performance appraisal and by B-Serv.
Any identified risks are then appropriately dealt with.
The same we provide training to help employees develop their skills and reach their process takes place at premises which are occupied by the Company.
Our Code of Conduct sets out the standards we expect from Construction activities are managed in accordance with the requirements of employees and forms part of our employment contract.
the Construction Design and Management Regulations 1994.
The adoption of a partnering approach to both the estate services contracts and Community construction activities has contributed to the improvements in our systems.
We adopted a new Community Investment Policy in 2005.
This sets out our Only best-in-class partners who can demonstrate, inter alia, a responsible commitment to support local community organisations and charities for the and professional approach towards health and safety issues are selected.
The policy allows employees to take one day off work per year for volunteering.
We also match money raised by employees for charity up to an Charitable donations agreed maximum.
During the year the Group made contributions of 65,000 2004: 55,000 to UK charitable organisations.
We take great care to be considerate towards our neighbours and work hard to keep sites tidy and in good decorative order.
During construction, Political donations we seek to minimise noise, dust and site traffic to avoid any disturbance to The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and none were communities nearby.
We encourage our contractors to sign up to the made during the year.
For more details on Brixtons Corporate Responsibility policy please see the Further information is available in our Corporate Responsibility Review on review on our website at www.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Mark Young Company Secretary 27 March 2006
