Kenneth Ford BSc FRICS Chief Executive, 61 Managing Director of Shopping Centres, 52 Member of Nomination Committee Ken has been a director of Capital & Regional since 1997 and, Martin was a founder director of the Company in 1979 and has as Chief Executive of The Mall, is responsible for the funds shopping been involved in commercial property as a developer and investor centre portfolio.
Ken has been involved in commercial property for for over 30 years.
Martin was, until early this year, co-Chairman 30 years.
of CenterPoint Properties Trust, a real estate investment trust, listed on the New York Stock Exchange and formerly a subsidiary 5.
Andrew Lewis-Pratt BSc ARICS of Capital & Regional.
Managing Director of Retail Parks and Trade Parks, 48 2.
William Sunnucks MA ACA Andrew has been a director of Capital & Regional since 1997 and, Finance Director, 49 as Chief Executive of The Junction, is responsible for the funds retail park portfolio and the newly acquired trade parks portfolio.
Andrew William was appointed Group Finance Director in October 2002. has over 20 years experience within the retail and leisure sector.
He has been Finance Director of a number of large companies, including Securum International and English, Welsh and Scottish 6.
He is a chartered accountant and has an MBA from the Managing Director of Leisure, 40 London Business School.
William has responsibility for the Groups finances, including funding, reporting and financial control.
PY was appointed to the Board in 2003, and as Chief Executive of X-Leisure.
He has over 15 years experience in the leisure industry.
Xavier Pullen PYs career to date has included Vice President of Park Operations Deputy Chief Executive, 54 at Disneyland Paris and Chief Executive of the Dome.
PY has an MBA from one of Frances leading business schools and teaches Xavier was a founder director of the Company in 1979 and has on the MBA programme at the London Business School.
been active in the property industry for over 30 years.
Xavier focuses primarily on the supervision of the Groups fund management business together with the co-ordination of all property matters and the development of new business initiatives currently in Germany.
Paul Stobart Chairman, 53 Non-executive, 48 Chairman of Nomination Committee Chairman of Audit Committee and member of Remuneration and Nomination Committees Tom is the Chairman of The Television Corporation plc and a nonexecutive director of Global Natural Energy plc and of a number of After qualifying as a chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse, private companies.
In addition to his board positions, he has worked Paul spent five years in corporate finance with Hill Samuel before in investment banking and alternative investment areas such as joining Interbrand, an international marketing services consultancy, venture capital and hedge funds.
He is a Labour member of the in 1988.
He joined The Sage Group in 1996 as Business Development House of Lords.
He was appointed as a director of the Company Director, becoming Chief Executive Officer, UK and Ireland, in 2003. in 1993 and as Chairman in 2000.
In 2001 Paul was appointed a non-executive director of Planit Holdings plc.
Paul was appointed as a director of the Company 8.
Non-executive, 68 Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees 11.
Alan Coppin Non-executive, 55 David is the former Senior Partner of Donaldsons, a national firm Member of Audit Committee of commercial chartered surveyors with a significant reputation in retail property.
He has wide experience in the UK property market Alan is currently Chairman of Danoptra Limited, the leading and was head of the organisation for eight years.
He was appointed amusement machine and leisure management group backed by as a director of the Company in 1997.
His previous positions have included being Chief Executive of Wembley plc and Historic Royal Palaces.
Hans Mautner his current appointments include the Chairmanship of the Prince's Non-executive, 68 Foundation for the Built Environment and membership of the Chairman of Remuneration Committee Advisory Forum of the Said Business School at Oxford University.
Alan was appointed as a director of the Company in 2004.
Hans is President of the International Division of Simon Property Group SPG, the worlds largest publicly traded retail real estate company.
In addition, Hans is Chairman of Simon Global Limited, SPGs London-based entity.
SPG currently carries out its ownership development in Europe through two separate entities in which it has investments: Gallerie Commerciali Italia and Simon Ivanhoe SARL.
Hans is Chairman of both these organisations.
Hans was appointed as a director of the Company in 2003.
