To Our Shareholders: This was another year of significant achievement, extremely proud of the efforts that our company and employwith the company posting record revenues and ees put forth in providing this much-needed assistance to the earnings and carrying more passengers than thousands of individuals affected by these storms.
Our portfolio of 12 distinct cruise brands performed at very high levels, proStrong Cruise Brands, Wide-Ranging Choices viding nearly 7 million guests with outThe cover of this annual reportwhich features the recognizable standing seagoing vacation experiences.
names and logos of our brands on a classic suitcaseconveys Carnival Corporation & plc has the rich heritage, nostalgia and romance of the sea, along with become the worlds most profitable the adventurous spirit that our company was built upon.
vacation company, with revenues Some of our brands trace their lineage to the 1800s, and surpassing $11 billion and net operated some of the worlds most famous ocean liners.
Our also played a pivotal role in history, transporting thousands of revenues increased 14 percent during the past immigrants during the golden age of transatlantic travel.
Others year with 8 percent driven by added capacity of shaped and later defined the modern-day cruise industry, comnew ships and 6 percent from the combination of bining an entrepreneurial spirit with a commitment to innovahigher ticket prices, occupancies, and onboard guest spending.
tion to usher in a new era in oceangoing vacation travel.
Our company benefited from the continued demand for cruisWith the widest variety of styles in cruising, our company ing worldwide, with North American brands enjoying robust is not only steeped in tradition but also firmly committed to growth in 2005. expanding todays vacation marketplace, with forward-thinking 2005 also brought record increases in fuel prices, which ideas and an eye toward the future.
Carnivals respect for the cost the company an incremental $0.21 per share and drove unit past, focus on the present, and planning for the future has costs up 5 percent versus the prior year.
Excluding fuel, the enabled our company to build a portfolio of 12 distinct brands company maintained disciplined cost controls to achieve costs that comprises the worlds only global cruise company.
in line with the prior year.
Although our brands are vastly different in terms of prodEven with fuel prices reaching historic highs, we were still uct, style and amenities, theres one common trait that they all able to grow our earnings by more than 20 percent in 2005 to shareeach is the most successful in its respective area.
This enabled us to return more value to our shareholders.
Carnivals board of directors approved three Investing in Our Future dividend increases since October 2004 which doubled the diviMarket segmentation both geographically and demographically dend from an annual rate of $0.50 to $1.00 per share.
The continues to be key to Carnivals successful strategy.
Achieving company also repurchased 8 million shares of our stock at a the deepest penetration for cruise travel requires the developtotal cost of $386 million during the year.
ment of cruise products tailored to the specific preferences of our customers.
Thats why we have adopted a strategy of having Weathering the Storm each brand cater to the individual tastes of different cultures, This strong growth was achieved despite the most challenging from North America to the UK and Continental Europe and hurricane season in modern history, with storms affecting Australia.
As each major geographic area develops, we introhomeports and ports of call in the U. S. and the Caribbean.
duce varied products aimed at different demographic segments Hurricane Katrina was particularly devastating, resulting in of that area.
We believe this business model promises many tremendous loss of life, displacing thousands of individuals years of growth, not only in North America, the most developed from their homes along the Gulf Coast and causing millions of area in which we operate, but also in Europe, which is rapidly dollars in property damage.
growing, while also providing the platform for developing In addition to chartering three ships to the relief efforts, emerging areas including Asia.
Carnival and its employees and guests donated more than The expected growth in the various areas in which we $7 million to six different disaster relief organizations.
I am operate drives our ambitious newbuilding strategy.
While some Holland America Westerdam in Malta Windstar Ship 2 Carnival Corporation & plc may question our ability to expand at this pace, in our view, An Entrepreneurial Spirit the world holds huge potential for growth.
Although Carnival While our targeted brands and strategic growth initiatives Corporation & plc carried a record number of guests this year, remain important ingredients for success, an entrepreneurial only a small percentage of the population has ever taken a spirit is what our company thrives on.
Our culture empowers cruise, and thus it is our view that there is a vast untapped our brand management to make daily decisions in the best potential for growth.
Innovatively designed new ships and feainterest of building their respective operating companies.
Each tures continue to be the drivers for this growth.
is accountable for its individual performance.
Last year, a record 9 million North Americans took a This fluid and dynamic corporate culture fosters competicruise, continuing to position cruising as a more mainstream tion throughout each organization and challenges all individuals vacation choice.
And while Europeans are increasingly recogto create new, more efficient ways to improve our business.
nizing the tremendous value that cruising offers, still less than With constant innovation and commitment to excellence, our 3 million Europeans took a cruise last year.
To meet the growing brands continue to raise the bar both for each other and the demand for cruises, Carnival Corporation & plc has committed industry as a whole.
This entrepreneurial spirit energizes our to investing $8 billion in ship construction for our core North more than 71,000 worldwide employees to deliver unforgettable American and European operating brands.
In 2005, we ordered vacation experiences for our guests.
six new ships for our various brands and signed options for an Its often said that people are the backbone of any comadditional two vessels.
In total, 16 new ships are scheduled for pany.
I take this opportunity to thank our dedicated employees delivery between 2006 and 2009three each for Carnival worldwide who continue to work so diligently at providing Cruise Lines, Princess Cruises, Costa Cruises and AIDA Cruises, cruise vacations that exceed our guests expectations.
I also two for Holland America Line, and one each for Cunard Line thank our board of directors for their contributions in the wake and P&O Cruises.
Based on our scheduled deliveries, capacity of increasing pressures and time commitments required in fulgrowth in North America for our three operating units will filling their responsibilities.
In Europe, capacity growth is I would also like to recognize the contributions of John substantially higher, averaging 10 percent per annum: howMcNulty, a valued and respected member of Carnival Corporation ever, capacity is spread across different geographic areas.
On & plcs board of directors, who passed away suddenly in an average annual basis, in the UK, we expect a 12 percent November.
Johns experience, wisdom and friendship will be capacity increase, in Germany 13 percent, and in southern missed by everyone in the Carnival organization.
And, finally, a word of thanks to our valued shareholders We are confident in our ability to absorb this additional for their continued support and, of course, the millions of guests capacity as we have planned a very rational delivery schedule worldwide who choose a Carnival brand for their vacation.
with ship deliveries spread across our different operating units and in many different geographic areas.
Asia is another vastly Sincerely, underserved area and we are working to bring contemporary cruising to this region.
Our newbuilding program continues to serve as the primary platform for future development of these areas.
As new Micky Arison ships come on line, we are redeploying existing tonnage into Chairman and CEO other emerging areas to maximize utilization of our assets.
For February 21, 2006 example, in spring 2007, a second ship will be transferred to Ocean Village, which is pioneering a new segment in the UK cruise industry by catering to younger, more active vacationers.
In addition, we have sold P&O Cruises Australias Pacific Sky, which has been replaced with a ship transferred from Costa Cruises.
We are also transferring a third cruise ship to P&O Cruises Australia in fall 2007 as part of our plan to grow our cruise business in that part of the world.
Carnival Victory in New York Carnival Corporation & plc 3
