Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued more recent forward prices, our diluted earnings per share U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar strengthwould be reduced by $0.04 and $0.01 for the full year 2006 ens against these foreign currencies.
Accordingly, we also and first quarter 2006, respectively.
monitor our two non-GAAP financial measures assuming the Partially offsetting the impact of fuel prices, the U. S. dollar current period currency exchange rates have remained conhas weakened relative to both the euro and sterling, to curstant with the prior years comparable period rates, or on a rency exchange rates of $1.20 to the euro and $1.75 to sterling.
constant dollar basis, in order to remove the impact of Assuming the exchange rates remain at the current levels, our changes in exchange rates on our non-U.
diluted earnings per share would increase by approximately We believe that this is a useful measure indicating the actual $0.01 for the year 2006 and would be unchanged for the 2006 growth of our operations in a fluctuating exchange rate envifirst quarter.
On a constant dollar basis, net cruise revenues and net cruise costs would be $8.63 billion and $5.15 billion for Key Performance Indicators and fiscal 2005, respectively.
In addition to our two non-GAAP Pro Forma Information financial measures discussed above, our non-U.
S. cruise operations depreciation and net interest expense were We use net cruise revenues per ALBD net revenue impacted by the changes in exchange rates for fiscal 2005 yields and net cruise costs per ALBD as significant noncompared to 2004.
GAAP financial measures of our cruise segment financial Our 2003 reported results only included the results of performance.
We believe that net revenue yields are comP&O Princess since April 17, 2003.
Consequently, for the year monly used in the cruise industry to measure a companys ended November 30, 2004, we believe that the most meancruise segment revenue performance.
This measure is also ingful comparison of our annual operating income and revenue used for revenue management purposes.
In calculating net and cost metrics is to the comparable pro forma results and revenue yields, we use net cruise revenues rather than metrics in 2003, which reflect the operations of both Carnival gross cruise revenues.
We believe that net cruise revenues Corporation and P&O Princess as if the companies had been is a more meaningful measure in determining revenue yield consolidated throughout 2003.
Accordingly, we have disclosed than gross cruise revenues because it reflects the cruise pro forma information for the year ended November 30, 2003, revenues earned by us net of our most significant variable as well as the required reported information, in the discussion costs, which are travel agent commissions, cost of air of our results of operations.
transportation and certain other variable direct costs associThe 2003 pro forma information was computed by adding ated with onboard revenues.
Substantially all of our remaining the results of P&O Princess annual operations, and acquicruise costs are largely fixed once our ship capacity levels sition adjustments of $16 million of depreciation expense have been determined.
and $3 million of interest expense and excluding $51 million Net cruise costs per ALBD is the most significant measure of nonrecurring DLC transaction costs, to the 2003 we use to monitor our ability to control our cruise segment Carnival Corporation reported results for the year ended costs rather than gross cruise costs per ALBD.
In calculating November 30, 2003. net cruise costs, we exclude the same variable costs that are included in the calculation of net cruise revenues.
This is done Critical Accounting Estimates to avoid duplicating these variable costs in these two nonGAAP financial measures.
Our critical accounting estimates are those which we In addition, because a significant portion of our operations believe require our most significant judgments about the utilize the euro or sterling to measure their results and finaneffect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
A discussion cial condition, the translation of those operations to our U. S. of our critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments dollar reporting currency results in increases in reported and uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar weakens materially different estimates would be reported under differagainst these foreign currencies, and decreases in reported ent conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: 34 Carnival Corporation & plc
