Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued trademark fair values also requires significant judgments in Results of Operations determining both the estimated trademark cash flows, and We earn our cruise revenues primarily from the following: the appropriate royalty rates to be applied to those cash flows sales of passenger cruise tickets and, in some cases, the to determine their fair value.
We believe that we have made sale of air and other transportation to and from our ships.
reasonable estimates and judgments in determining whether The cruise ticket price includes accommodations, most our ships, goodwill and trademarks have been impaired.
meals, some non-alcoholic beverages, entertainment and However, if there is a material change in the assumptions many onboard activities, and used in our determination of fair value or if there is a material change in the conditions or circumstances influencing fair the sale of goods and or services primarily on board our value, we could be required to recognize a material impairships, which include bar and some beverage sales, casino ment charge.
gaming, shore excursions, gift shop and spa sales, photo and art sales, and preand post cruise land packages.
Contingencies These goods and services are either provided directly by We periodically assess the potential liabilities related to us or by independent concessionaires, from which we any lawsuits or claims brought against us, as well as for other receive a percentage of their revenues.
known unasserted claims, including environmental, legal, We incur cruise operating costs and expenses for the passenger and crew, and tax matters.
While it is typically very following: difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these matters, we use our best judgment to determine if it is probathe costs of passenger cruise tickets, which represent ble that we will incur an expense related to the settlement or costs that vary directly with passenger cruise ticket revefinal adjudication of such matters and whether a reasonable nues, and include travel agent commissions, air and other estimation of such probable loss, if any, can be made.
In travel related costs, assessing probable losses, we make estimates of the amount onboard and other cruise costs, which represent costs of insurance recoveries, if any.
We accrue a liability when we that vary directly with onboard and other revenues, and believe a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be include the costs of liquor and some beverages, costs reasonably estimated, in accordance with the provisions of of tangible goods sold by us from our gift, photo and art SFAS No.
5, Accounting for Contingencies, as amended.
auction activities, preand post cruise land packages and Such accruals are typically based on developments to date, credit card fees.
Concession revenues do not have any managements estimates of the outcomes of these matters, significant amount of costs associated with them, as the our experience in contesting, litigating and settling other simicosts and services incurred for these activities are prolar matters, historical claims experience and actuarially detervided by our concessionaires, mined assumptions of liabilities, and any related insurance payroll and related costs, which represent costs for all our coverage.
See Note 8 in the accompanying financial statements shipboard personnel, including deck and engine officers for additional information concerning our contingencies.
and crew and hotel and administrative employees, Given the inherent uncertainty related to the eventual outfood costs, which include both our passenger and crew come of these matters and potential insurance recoveries, it food costs, is possible that all or some of these matters may be resolved fuel costs, which include fuel delivery costs, and for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that we may have made with respect to their resolution.
other ship operating costs, which include repairs and In addition, as new information becomes available, we may maintenance, port charges, insurance, entertainment and need to reassess the amount of probable liability that needs all other shipboard operating costs and expenses.
to be accrued related to our contingencies.
All such revisions For segment information related to our revenues, in our estimates could materially impact our results of operaexpenses, operating income and other financial information tions and financial position.
see Note 12 in the accompanying financial statements.
