Directors report The directors present their report and the financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2005.
Results and dividend profit before tax was 150.4m 2004: 91.1m and profit for the year amounted to 116.7m 2004: 72.6m.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 9.725p per ordinary share.
This, when taken with the interim dividend of 3.925p per share, paid on 7th November 2005, gives a total dividend of 13.65p 2004: 12.50p per ordinary share payable in respect of the results for the year ended 31st December 2005, amounting to 7.2m.
Ordinary dividends paid during 2005 amounted to 6.8m 2004: 6.2m, after which 109.9m 2004: 66.4m was added to retained earnings.
Principal activities, trading review and future developments The principal activities of the group are those of property investment, refurbishment and redevelopment, and trading.
A review of the business and comments on the future outlook for the group can be found within the chairmans statement, operating review and financial review on pages 4 to 23.
Directors The directors of the company during the year and their interests in the share capital of the company, including shares over which options have been granted, are shown below.
All of these interests are held beneficially.
This reduced his holding to 226,439 ordinary shares.
There have been no other changes in directors shareholdings between the year end and 21st March 2006.
During the year, directors exercised options over 18,450 shares at an exercise price of 237p: 12,966 shares at an exercise price of 345p: 45,500 shares at an exercise price of 569p: 46,750 shares at an exercise price of 553p and 55,000 shares at an exercise price of 501.5p.
No new options were granted to directors during the year.
Full details of the options held by directors, together with their interests in the groups long-term incentive plan, are given in the report on directors remuneration, which commences on page 53.
In accordance with the articles of association, Messrs Ivey, Burns and Farnes retire by rotation, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographies of all the directors are given on page 62.
Other than as disclosed in note 36, the directors have no interest in any material contracts of the company.
Non-current assets The groups freehold and leasehold investment properties were professionally revalued at 31st December 2005, resulting in a surplus of 126.1m, before deducting the lease incentive adjustment of 2.0m.
The freehold and leasehold investment properties are included in the group balance sheet at a carrying value of 1,015.6m.
Financial instruments Details about the use of financial instruments by the group and the company are set out in note 23 of the financial statements and are discussed in the financial review on page 23.
Charitable donations During the year, the group made charitable donations amounting to 53,000.
Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 45 Directors report Substantial shareholders In addition to those of the directors disclosed above, the company has been notied of the following interests in the issued ordinary share capital as at 21st March 2006.
Percentage Number of issued of shares share capital Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 3,774,032 7.06 ISIS Asset Management 3,352,127 6.27 Standard Life Assurance Company 2,625,905 4.91 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 2,164,775 4.05 Third Avenue Management 1,631,825 3.05 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 1,627,195 3.04 Creditor payment policy It is the groups policy to agree terms of business with suppliers prior to the supply of goods or services.
In the absence of any dispute, the group pays in accordance with these agreed terms.
For the year ended 31st December 2005, the average payment period for trade creditors was 19 days 2004: 24 days.
Corporate governance Compliance The board supports the principles of good governance and believes that the company has, except as noted, complied with the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council and which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The company has not complied with code provision A.
3.2 concerning the proportion of independent non-executive directors on the board.
The companys position is described in the following section.
The company has also only complied with code provision C. 3.4 since 9th December 2005 when, on the recommendation of the audit committee, the board implemented a whistle blowing procedure.
A number of other code provisions were not applicable in the current year.
The board Throughout 2005, the board comprised Mr Ivey, the non-executive chairman, five executive directors, Messrs Burns, Silver, Odom, George and Williams and three non-executive directors, Messrs Neathercoat, Yeatman and Farnes.
In assessing the independence of the non-executive directors with regard to the guidance on independence contained in code provision A.
3.1, there have been a number of developments since last years report.
Firstly, as stated in the chairmans statement, Mr Corbyn is to join the board after the Annual General Meeting as a non-executive director and, after ten years service on the board, Mr Yeatman will not be seeking re-election: secondly, Mr Ivey has retired from The Davis Service Group plc: and nally, three years have elapsed since Mr Farnes retired from his position at CB Hillier Parker, and, consequently, he now meets all the criteria in code provision A.
Therefore, Mr Ivey is the only non-executive director not automatically deemed independent as a result of having served on the board for more than nine years.
6 of the code, the board has reviewed the roles and performance of all directors.
This review considered, amongst other matters, the independence of Mr Ivey, and again concluded that his expertise and the manner in which he carried out his duties was such that shareholders should have no cause for concern that his independence was in any way impaired.
Further more, the directors have considered the composition of the board and, although recognising that it is not compliant with code provision A.
3.2, believes it has sufficient breadth of skills, experience and balance to adequately satisfy the requirements of good corporate governance.
A formal schedule, which has been approved by the board, sets out the division of responsibilities between the chairman, who is responsible for the effectiveness of the board, and the managing director, who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the business.
Mr Neathercoat is the senior independent director.
Biographies of the directors are given on page 62.
46 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 Directors report The board is responsible for setting the companys strategic aims, ensuring that adequate resources are available to meet its objectives and reviewing management performance.
A formal list of matters reserved for the full boards approval is maintained and reviewed periodically.
Four meetings of the full board are scheduled each year with extra meetings arranged if necessary.
Additionally, the executive board, which consists of the executive directors, met nine times in 2005.
The board is provided with comprehensive papers in a timely manner to ensure that the directors are fully briefed on matters to be discussed at these meetings.
Cover is maintained by the company in respect of directors and ofcers liability insurance.
Since 1993, the board has maintained a number of board committees.
The terms of reference of each committee are available on the groups website.
Set out below are details of the membership and duties of the three principal committees.
Remuneration committee The committee is comprised of Mr Yeatman and Mr Neathercoat under the chairmanship of Mr Farnes.
It is responsible for establishing the companys remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages for the executive directors.
There were three meetings of the committee in 2005.
The report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 53 to 57.
Audit committee Mr Farnes and Mr Yeatman served on the committee throughout 2005 with Mr Neathercoat as chairman.
The committee is responsible for considering the application of financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
The committee met four times during 2005.
The report of the audit committee is on page 58.
Nominations committee Mr Ivey is chairman of this committee which consisted of all of the non-executive directors.
The committees responsibilities include identifying external candidates for appointment as directors and, subsequently, recommending their appointment to the board and, if requested, making a recommendation concerning an appointment to the board from within the company.
The committee also carries out the annual appraisal of the performance and effectiveness of the board and its three committees.
The committee met three times during the period under review.
The nominations committee report is on page 59.
Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during the period under review was as follows: Full Executive Remuneration Audit Nominations board board committee committee committee Number of meetings 4 9 3 4 3 Executive directors J. D. Burns 4 9 S. P. Silver 4 9 C. J. Odom 4 9 P. M. Williams 4 9 N. Q. George 4 9 Non-executive directors J. C. Ivey 4 3 S. J. Neathercoat 4 3 3 3 I. Yeatman 4 3 4 3 R. A. Farnes 4 3 4 3 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 47 Directors report Performance evaluation During 2005, the nominations committee carried out a formal appraisal of the performance of the board and its committees.
The remuneration committee performed appraisals of each of the executive directors as part of the salary review process.
The performance of the chairman was evaluated by the non-executive directors under the chairmanship of the senior independent director.
All of the appraisals were conducted internally using questionnaires based on the guidance contained in the Higgs Report.
Directors Appointment of a director from outside the company is on the recommendation of the nominations committee, whilst internal promotion is a matter decided by the board unless it is considered appropriate for a recommendation to be requested from the nominations committee.
All new directors must stand for election at the first annual general meeting following their appointment.
Existing directors must submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
If considered appropriate, new directors are sent on an external training course addressing their role and duties as a director of a listed public company.
Existing directors monitor their own continued professional development and are encouraged to attend those courses that keep their professional and regulatory knowledge current.
All directors have access to the services of the company secretary, and any director may instigate an agreed procedure whereby independent professional advice may be sought at the companys expense.
Communication with shareholders The company has always recognised the importance of clear communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with institutional shareholders and fund managers is maintained, principally by the executive directors, through presentations and visits to the groups property assets.
The board receives regular reports of these meetings.
The annual report, which is sent to all shareholders, reinforces this communication.
The annual general meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the directors and, in particular, the chairman of each of the board committees.
An alternative channel of communication to the board is available through the senior independent director.
Internal control The directors recognise that they have overall responsibility for ensuring that the group maintains a sound system of internal control that provides the board with reasonable assurance regarding the effective and efficient operations, internal financial control and compliance with laws and regulations.
Such a system can only manage business risk, not eliminate it, and cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Accordingly, the system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that material risks and problems are identied and appropriate remedial measures taken on a timely basis.
The board as a whole retains responsibility for the groups system of internal controls and risk management and performs an annual review of the effectiveness of the system.
Following this years review it believes that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group has been in place from 1st January 2005 to 21st March 2006.
During the period, the board has continued to monitor the operation of the system with a view to further integrating it into the business processes where possible and to address any areas for improvement as they are identied.
The board has considered the need for an internal audit function but continues to believe that this is unnecessary given the size and complexity of the group.
Going concern Having made due enquiries, the directors have reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, the board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
48 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 Directors report Corporate social responsibility CSR The board recognises that the groups activities have an impact on the economy, community and environment within which it operates.
These matters are considered to be the responsibility of the whole board and the potential risks arising therefrom are monitored by the groups system of internal control.
In assessing whether the groups controls are adequate to manage the risks to the group, the board gave due consideration to key characteristics of the groups business: the group does not operate in any countries which have unacceptable human rights records: there are 28 employees at the groups single ofce in Central London: and the group manages, refurbishes and redevelops a portfolio of Central London properties.
Accordingly, it continues to believe that formal policies are only required concerning the environment and health and safety, these being the elements of CSR that present significant risks to the group.
Details of the measures taken by the group in these areas, together with the informal policies adopted in other areas of CSR, are given below.
Environmental awareness The group is a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
This organisation has assessed the groups environmental impact as low.
A review of the groups environmental policy document, which is issued to all appropriate professional advisers and members of staff, was undertaken during the year.
A full environmental audit is carried out prior to the acquisition or redevelopment of any property.
The groups major environmental impact stems from its refurbishment redevelopment programme as, once a property is fully let, its ability to influence the tenants behaviour is limited.
No two projects are the same.
Consequently, the board, together with its environmental consultants, has not identied any measures that would enable meaningful, year on year, comparisons to be made.
Specic initiatives at each project can be used to reduce the environmental impact of the groups activities and monitoring systems can be implemented to ensure that, where the impact is already low, it remains at this level.
Set out below are those areas that the board considers to have the most significant impact on the environment, together with the actions taken: Timber the groups objective is not to use hard woods in its refurbishments.
Where such use is unavoidable, certication that the wood comes from sustainable sources is sought.
Ozone depleters all such materials have been removed from the groups portfolio.
Energy where possible, energy efficient plant and equipment is specified when undertaking a redevelopment or refurbishment and due regard is given to the revised Part L of the building regulations.
Such plant often benets from favourable tax treatment.
In new developments, consideration is given to using renewable sources such as biomass boilers or photovoltaic cells or installing more energy efficient systems, such as displacement air-conditioning.
Energy use in the common parts of the groups properties is monitored but it is accepted that this represents only a small part of the total energy consumed by the property.
At new developments, the group works with local authorities to promote the Green Travel Plan.
Waste at refurbishment and redevelopment schemes all waste is sorted and recycled where appropriate.
Recycling points for paper and plastic are provided throughout the portfolio to encourage recycling by the tenants.
Water the group aims to have water meters installed throughout the portfolio so as to promote reduced usage.
Currently, 70% of the groups properties have meters installed.
Asbestos an external audit of the groups portfolio was completed during the year.
No immediate problems were identied and, where appropriate, a monitoring regime and or a plan for removal was adopted.
A copy of the groups environmental policy is available on request and a summary can be found on the groups website.
Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 49 Directors report Health and safety The groups formal health and safety policy has been updated and reissued and is embedded in the management regime for the groups redevelopment sites.
To ensure compliance with the policy, an executive is assigned to each project to monitor the performance of the main contractor who in turn monitors the subcontractors and reports back to the executive.
All sites are registered with, and inspected under, the Considerate Contractor Scheme.
The board receives regular reports from each site together with notication of any incidents that require reporting under the Health and Safety regulations.
The health and safety policy is reviewed at regular intervals and revised as necessary.
Following the implementation of the Disability Discrimination Act, the group had an external audit of the portfolio carried out and has completed all the changes identied.
New developments are all audited by independent access consultants to ensure that they comply with the requirements of the Act.
Community society No formal policy has been adopted concerning this aspect of CSR.
However, the board is aware of the benets to the group of Londons status as a centre of business and that through sensitive planning and involvement with local initiatives it can contribute to preserving and enhancing this status.
The group supports the Crossrail link, which will represent a major addition to Londons transport infrastructure.
The group is represented in the New West End Company, the Westminster Property Owners Association, and the Paddington Business Improvement District, all of which address some of the key problems facing London, namely security, planning and transport.
The group also contributes to the Paddington Waterside Partnership.
The group recognised the problems that could arise from a confrontational relationship between landlord and tenant and was a member of the first group of landlords to adopt a voluntary code which offers tenants more exible leases.
During 2005, the group continued to support Teenage Cancer Trust by providing coordinated advice for the Trusts development programme, and sponsored postgraduate students at the London Contemporary Dance School in Camden.
Annual general meeting The notice of meeting includes three resolutions to be considered as special business.
Resolution 8 renews the authority under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 for the directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 891,208.20 representing about one third of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at the date of the notice of meeting.
The directors have no present intention of issuing shares except on the exercise of options under the companys share option scheme.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting after the passing of the resolution.
Resolution 9 is a special resolution, proposed annually, renewing the directors authority under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985.
The resolution empowers the directors to allot or, now that the company may hold shares as treasury shares as further described below, sell shares for cash in connection with pre-emptive offers with modications to the requirements set out in Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
The resolution further empowers the directors to allot or, in the case of treasury shares, sell shares for cash, otherwise than on a pre-emptive basis, up to an aggregate nominal value of 133,681.20 which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued share capital at 31st December 2005 and at the date of the notice of meeting.
50 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 Directors report Resolution 10 is proposed to renew the authority enabling the company to purchase its own shares.
This authority enables the directors to act quickly, if, having taken account of all major factors such as the effect on earnings and net asset value per share, gearing levels and alternative investment opportunities, such purchases are considered to be in the companys and shareholders best interest while maintaining an efficient capital structure.
The resolution gives the directors authority to purchase up to 10% of the companys ordinary shares and species the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Companies Act 1985 now permits the company to hold any such bought-back shares in treasury, with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to immediately cancelling them as had previously been required by the legislation.
Accordingly, if the company purchases any of its shares pursuant to resolution 10, the company may cancel those shares or hold them in treasury.
Such decision will be made by the directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the companys and shareholders best interest.
As at the date of the notice of meeting, the company held no shares in treasury.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at 21st March 2006 was 821,750, which represented 1.54% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the company were to purchase the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted by this resolution, the options outstanding at 21st March 2006 would represent 1.71% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Auditors BDO Stoy Hayward LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce and accordingly a resolution to re-appoint them and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
This is resolution 7 set out in the notice of meeting.
By order of the board T. J. Kite, ACA Secretary 21st March 2006 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 51
