Report of the Directors The Business of the Group The principal business of the Group is the investment in, and development of, freehold and leasehold properties.
A review of the development of the Groups business during the year, its position at the year end and its prospects is set out in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Financial Review on pages 5 to 22.
Results and Dividends for the Year The Group profit and loss account is set out on page 46 and shows a profit for the year attributable to shareholders of 25.2 million.
An interim dividend of 3.58p per share was paid on 6 January 2005, amounting to 5.8 million, and the directors propose a final dividend of 7.17p per share amounting to 11.5 million, making total distributions for the year of 17.3 million.
Directors David Godwin retired as a director on 9 July 2004, Charles Irby was appointed a director on 1 April 2004 and Phillip Rose was appointed a director on 11 April 2005.
The other directors whose names appear on page 30 served as directors of the Company throughout the year to 31 March 2005.
Richard Peskin, Robert Noel and Kathleen ODonovan are the directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves up for re-election.
Mr Rose will retire pursuant to Article 96 and, being eligible, will offer himself for reappointment.
As a non-executive director Mr Rose does not have a service contract.
Directors Shareholdings Shares acquired Following share Effect of share or sold At 31 March 2005 consolidation consolidation pre-consolidation At 31 March 2004 Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Richard Peskin and family beneficial 1,160,000 2,160,000 540,000 1,000,000 3,700,000 trustee 798,000 1,108,000 277,000 1,385,000 Toby Courtauld 20,000 20,000 5,000 25,000 Robert Noel 29,600 29,600 7,400 37,000 John Whiteley and family 33,887 33,887 8,472 7,615 34,744 Anthony Graham 13,760 13,760 3,440 17,200 John Edgcumbe and family 36,800 36,800 9,200 46,000 Kathleen ODonovan 800 800 200 1,000 Charles Irby 3,000 or at date of appointment.
All directors shareholdings are in ordinary shares and are beneficial, unless otherwise stated.
There have been no changes in the shareholdings of any director between 1 April 2005 and 24 May 2005.
No director had any interest in the Companys debenture stock, convertible bonds or loan notes, nor in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking, or contract with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking other than service contracts during the year.
Significant Shareholdings As at 13 May 2005, the Company had been notified of the following beneficial or discretionary interests amounting to 3 per cent.
or more of the issued share capital: Number of Shares % Garville Limited 41,484,528 25.53 M&G Investment Management Limited 11,413,241 7.02 Newton Investment Management Limited 7,654,542 4.71 Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 6,935,341 4.27 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 5,955,839 3.67 F&C Asset Management plc 4,892,392 3.01 Owned by private equity funds managed by subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley Freehold and Leasehold Properties A valuation of the Groups investment property portfolio at 31 March 2005 was carried out by CB Richard Ellis on the basis of Market Value which amounted to 804.4 million.
No account has been taken of any additional value which may be attributed to the portfolio if it were to be grouped judiciously prior to sale.
32 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Report of the Directors Annual General Meeting The Notice of Meeting on pages 66 to 67 sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions 1 to 9 comprise ordinary business and resolutions 10 to 12 special business.
Resolution 10 will renew the authority for the directors to allot up to 54,104,112 ordinary shares, representing 33.3 per cent.
of the existing issued share capital of the Company at 24 May 2005.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority, if granted.
Resolution 11 will authorise the directors to allot equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,015,468 representing 5 per cent.
of the existing issued share capital of the Company at 24 May 2005 in respect of rights and other pre-emptive issues, in each case as if the pre-emption requirements of Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply.
Resolution 12 will renew the authority enabling the Company to purchase its own shares in respect of 24,354,974 shares representing 14.99 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the Company at 24 May 2005.
The directors intend to exercise this authority if to do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
If Resolution 11 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, the Company will have the option of holding as treasury shares, any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give the Company the ability to sell treasury shares, providing the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to the treasury shares.
Whilst in treasury, the shares are treated as if cancelled.
Any shares purchased by the Company under this authority would be cancelled unless the shares are being purchased by the Company to hold and re-sell as treasury shares.
The authorities granted under Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or on 7 October 2006, whichever is the earlier.
At 24 May 2005, the Company held no shares in treasury.
Corporate Social Responsibility Great Portland Estates recognises the importance of its impact on society and the environment through its operations and interaction with its key stakeholders, including investors, employees, communities, customers and suppliers.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of policy relating to social, environmental and health and safety matters, and is determined to apply high standards to social, environmental and ethical issues in all areas in which the Group operates.
The Board receives an annual report from the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, chaired by the Property Director, Robert Noel, and regular reports from the Health and Safety and the Environmental Executive Committees also chaired by Mr Noel.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good UK index, takes part in the Business in the Communitys annual Corporate Social Responsibility survey and was awarded Best in Class status by Storebrand for environmental and social performance.
Property Industry Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent the Companys views and contribute towards the development of the property industry.
Toby Courtauld is on the Board of the Central London Partnership and a member of the Policy Committee of the British Property Federation BPF with the Company actively supporting BPF initiatives such as the Code of Practice for Commercial Leases in England and Wales and its recent formal declaration on sub-letting.
Robert Noel is on the Council of the Westminster Property Owners Association and on the Board of the New West End Company, a formal Business Improvement District encompassing Bond Street, Oxford Street and Regent Street.
Tenants and the Community The Company recognises that local initiatives are important in enhancing various aspects which serve to improve and promote central London, and supports a number of groups including The Westminster Property Owners Association, London First and the New West End Company in their work to address issues such as planning, transport and security.
In respect of the New West End Company, the Company has made voluntary contributions to match those of the Companys tenants.
During the year the Company donated the storage racking from the existing warehouse buildings on the Companys proposed development site in Tooley Street, EC2 to the Museum of London Archaeological Service for the storing of artefacts, and made a donation towards the building of the nearby Unicorn Childrens Theatre.
Public consultations were also held to keep local stakeholders informed of the development proposals.
Principal contractors on all developments and major refurbishments are required to be members of the Considerate Contractors Scheme and on all projects where there are existing tenants the Company commissions tenant impact reports to assist in tenants understanding of the effect of proposed works.
The Disability Discrimination Act is considered as an integral part of all new schemes and refurbishments, and the Company has an action plan to address, where appropriate, areas not currently compliant.
The Company has continued with its tradition of encouraging staff to be involved in, and of supporting their, charitable activities.
In particular, the Company targets charities involved in medical research, the homeless and the community, and, where practicable, allows temporarily vacant buildings to be occupied, at no cost, by charities seeking premises.
GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES ANNUAL REPORT 2005 33 Report of the Directors Employees Our employees are a key resource of our business and we seek to attract and retain the best people through competitive remuneration and benefits packages.
The Company is committed to equal opportunities, and employees are encouraged to develop their skills.
To facilitate this, each employee is regularly appraised with a view to maximising his or her potential and contribution and in April 2004, a formal training programme of both external courses and in-house seminars was introduced.
Meetings involving all employees are held on a quarterly basis to keep them informed of matters affecting the Group and to act as a forum for the executive directors to answer questions.
Health and Safety Great Portland Estates is committed to managing health and safety to a consistently high standard.
All employees are given specific training, where appropriate, and the Group employs a Safety, Health and Environmental Manager, reporting directly to the Property Director, Robert Noel, to manage and review health and safety compliance.
A Health and Safety Management System is maintained for all properties managed by the Group, and includes on-site inspections by external consultants, reviews of risk assessments, and a regular update of procedures.
A Health and Safety Executive Committee which is chaired by Mr Noel, meets on a quarterly basis, and monitors performance, the achievement of key objectives, the results of safety audits and inspections, changes in legislation, the development of new procedures, and the allocation of resources to Health and Safety.
As one of the significant Health and Safety risks to the business is the control of contractors, a contractor and consultant selection scheme is in place, under which all contractors and consultants are vetted for their Health and Safety performance and procedures.
At our construction sites, our Safety, Health and Environmental Manager liaises closely with Planning Supervisors and Project Managers to ensure regular monitoring and review is undertaken to provide effective health and safety management of our development projects.
All accidents, incidents and near misses occurring in areas managed by the Group are recorded and reported and appropriate action is taken.
A formal investigation of all serious accidents is conducted by the Safety, Health and Environmental Manager.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, there was one reportable accident arising from the Groups activities.
Environment The Company is committed to effective environmental management, and regards regulatory compliance as a minimum standard.
An Environmental Policy Statement is reviewed annually by the Board and may be viewed on the Companys website, www.
Our Environmental Management System is controlled and administered by the Safety, Health and Environmental Manager, and audited by external consultants on a regular basis.
The management system comprises of detailed checklists based upon legislation requirements and best practice measures, and is used to monitor energy and water consumption.
In order to monitor our contractors compliance with environmental legislation and to ensure the energy efficiency of our plant and equipment, maintenance contractors are required to confirm that agreed environmental protection checks have been carried out.
An Environmental Executive Committee chaired by the Property Director, meets on a quarterly basis, and reports to the Board annually.
The Committee monitors the Groups compliance with environmental legislation and best practice across the portfolio, and agrees procedures to be followed on key environmental issues.
The Groups environmental objectives and targets, and Environmental Management Plan and clearly allocated responsibilities, have been developed in line with the Groups key aspects and impacts identified through our Environmental Management System.
Key environmental areas for the Group include energy and water consumption, waste management, water and air pollution, ozone depletion, contractor and tenant awareness, and the environmental impact of developments and major refurbishments.
During the year energy audits were undertaken at nine buildings, representing a third of the Companys portfolio by value, with a view to improving energy efficiency.
An environmental guidance note explaining the Groups environmental procedures is distributed to all tenants on an annual basis to encourage them to adopt similar standards.
All contractors and consultants are given a refurbishment policy, with which they are required to comply during refurbishment and development work and on all developments and refurbishments processes exist to ensure efficient recycling of materials.
Environmental guidance and a purchasing policy are provided to employees through the Groups Policies and Procedures Manual.
All property acquisitions are subject to an environmental audit: new developments are subject to BREEAM and a sustainability report is commissioned at the appropriate stage for all developments and major refurbishments.
Environmental training is included in employees induction training.
Employees are also given training on environmental issues pertinent to their work, including sustainability in construction, general environmental awareness and training on the Environmental Management System.
Paper and cardboard used at our head office is recycled.
Toner and printer cartridges and obsolete mobile phones are recycled to help Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Wherever possible, recycling schemes are implemented at properties where waste collection facilities are provided.
34 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Report of the Directors Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys policy that suppliers be paid in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and the supplier, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
For the year ended 31 March 2005, the average payment period for trade creditors was 25 days 2004: 25 days.
Charitable and Other Donations During the year the Company made donations for charitable purposes amounting to 84,214: no contributions for political purposes were made.
By order of the Board Desna Martin Secretary 24 May 2005 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES ANNUAL REPORT 2005 35
