Business Review: Chelton Tuning and testing of an advanced antenna In February the Group announced the acquisition Strong performance with good In Antennas, the A400M aircraft has become a of Mastsystem Intll Oy Mastsystem based in organic and acquisition growth major platform for Cobhams communications Joensuu, Finland in a move that strengthens and navigation antennas, with selection by EADS Cobhams land domain products.
The company Presence increased on key land, CASA to supply phased array electronically designs, manufactures and markets telescopic sea and air platforms including steerable SATCOM antennas.
Cobham will provide antenna mast systems for use in defence markets, the Global Hawk UAV European logistical support once the aircraft including portable and mobile telescopic masts enters into service.
of carbon and glass fibre composite construction.
US$100m order for Synthetic In the USA, Cobham was selected by Boeing to Vision EFIS on Bell helicopters supply communications and data link antennas In June, Cobham acquired 100% of the share as part of the avionics modernisation programme capital of Vector Fields Ltd Vector based in the for the C130 aircraft both for standard and special UK.
Vector develops and supplies commercial operations configurations.
antenna and microwave software products and has customers in Asia, Europe and the USA.
An agreement has been reached with Rockwell Collins to supply Traffic Collision Avoidance In September Cobham completed the acquisition Antennas for a further five years and the first of the remaining 60% of the shares in US-based deliveries were made of high-speed data SATCOM TracStar.
TracStars steerable land-based antenna systems for Embraer and Gulfstream for factory SATCOM products recorded very strong sales installation on new aircraft.
The SATCOM system driven in part by the US Federal Emergency Synthetic vision Electronic Flight Instrument System EFIS provides an office-in-the-sky capability including Management Agency FEMA disaster response internet and high quality voice and data link to the autumn hurricane activity.
Throughout the Group, sales of SATCOM antennas have benefited from the Cobhams innovative, small footprint interference superior performance offered by Cobham products.
cancellation product mINCAN was selected by the US Army and won acceptance onto the US In January Cobham acquired WA Systems Limited Coastguard Rescue 21 programme.
Interference in the UK, a company that specialises in software cancellation is a requirement where data link or and hardware solutions primarily in the aerospace speech systems are operated in a jamming or high and defence domain with Battle Management interference environment in order to maintain Systems supporting soldier, vehicle and naval signal integrity, and is key to successful networkplatforms.
Existing BattleHawk and WaveHawk centric communications.
Wider military interest products form the basis of current and future continues to be shown as mINCAN is a fraction of developments which include unique Soldier C4I the size of previous systems which are deployed Command, control, communications, computers at sea and in fixed ground installations.
and intelligence solutions for a number of modernisation programmes around the world.
4 4 C Cobham plc obham plc Cobham provides an eleven part ship set for the Global Hawk UAV Signal Intelligence payload the F-35, F-18 Growler, DDX Multi-Mission In Avionics and Surveillance one of the most Revenue Trading profit Surface Combatant ship, Common m m significant successes for Cobham in 2005 was Data Link, Aerial Common Sensor, and the US the selection by Bell Helicopters to supply Coastguard Deepwater programme and Global its synthetic environment Electronic Flight 600 120 Hawk Uninhabited Aerial Vehicle UAV.
Instrument System EFIS as standard equipment on a number of their helicopter platforms.
This is Since acquisition, significant orders have been the first major Original Equipment Manufacturer 500 received for the US F A-22 and a number of OEM success for the EFIS and makes Bell the first major OEM to offer synthetic vision for all missile programmes.
These include unique 100 light and medium single engine helicopters.
It is radio frequency and microwave modules that anticipated that there will be a strong upgrade are used in the radar, electronic warfare and 400 market for the EFIS.
integrated communications, navigation and identification CNI systems on the F A-22.
Significant orders have been received from the Delivery of these modules will be integrated 300 80 US Army for tactical communications equipment with the current orders and is scheduled to be and customer evaluation of the new Wulfsberg completed in 2007.
Fliteline avionics suite has started.
Sales of the COSPAS-SARSAT compliant search and rescue In July Cobham announced the acquisition of 200 beacon products have also been strong.
selected assets of the Microwave Development Company MDC based in Salem, New Hampshire, 60 In Defence Electronic Systems, there has been USA to further strengthen the already successful excellent growth which is anticipated to continue.
MDC develops and 100 US military requirements for a light vehicle manufactures microwave products that are vital variant of the ROVIS vehicle intercom system are to network-centric warfare, primarily for the US the largest contributor to this growth with many military market.
During the year the business and 0 0 of the newly equipped vehicles destined for Iraq staff were integrated into an existing microwave and Afghanistan.
facility in New Hampshire as planned.
04 05 04 05 Following the acquisition of REMEC in May 2005 the financial performance has been strong.
In line with expectations, REMEC increased Cobham's presence on key platforms including Annual R Annual Repor eport & t & A Accounts 2005 ccounts 2005 5 5 408.5 519.2 71.0 102.5
