Our New Structure Cobham Air Refuelling and Cobham Antennas Cobham Avionics and Surveillance Auxiliary Mission Equipment Division Head Division Head Division Head Richard Tyson Pat Matthews Charlie Stuff Principal locations Principal locations Principal locations UK, USA UK, USA, RSA, Finland UK, USA, France, Canada, Denmark Revenue Revenue Revenue 130m 145m 195m Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees 750 1,300 2,000 Cobham Air Refuelling and Auxiliary With facilities on three continents Cobham Cobham Avionics and Surveillance designs, Mission Equipment provides its worldAntennas designs and manufactures offqualifies, manufactures, certifies and leading fourth generation solutions for the-shelf and custom state-of-the-art supports a complete range of electronic fixed and rotary wing tanker and receiver antenna components and sub-systems products for airborne, marine, land and aircraft around the world including the UK, that accommodate frequencies from special purpose applications.
The division US, Germany, Australia, Malaysia, Japan 2 MHz to 60 GHz.
Designs include single serves three principle markets:Avionics, and India.
The division also designs and band, multi-band and combination Law Enforcement National Security and manufactures a range of missile launchers antennas to meet communication Search and Rescue.
Included in the product and bomb ejection units, and is the design requirements for aviation, space, vehicular, base are fully certified Electronic Flight authority for the Eurofighter Typhoon watercraft and ground-based systems for Instrument Systems with complete cockpit Chaff and Flare Systems.
In the USA, military and civil applications worldwide.
communication navigation and sensor Cobham Air Refuelling and Auxiliary capability, Cospas SarSat certified marine, Mission Equipment provides Boeing with air and land Search & Rescue devices and the BRU-61 A pneumatic weapons state-of-the-art law enforcement tracking, carriage release system assembly for the monitoring and surveillance equipment.
Revenue numbers represent an estimate of a steady state outcome for each operating division.
Employee numbers exclude discontinued businesses.
20 Cobham plc Cobham Defence Electronic Systems Cobham Life Support Cobham Flight Operations and Services Division Head Division Head Division Head Dave Gaggin Kelly Coffield Steve Fitz-Gerald Principal locations Principal locations Principal locations UK, USA, Sweden UK, USA, Germany UK, France, Malaysia Australia Revenue Revenue Revenue 160m 130m 185m Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees 1,850 1,000 1,750 Cobham Defence Electronic Systems One of the worlds leading producers Cobham Flight Operations and Services designs and manufactures microwave of aviation oxygen to the military and operate more than 150 fixed and rotary components, integrated assemblies and civil markets, Cobham Life Support uses wing aircraft around the world, from Bell sub-systems for the US Department of the latest technology to take oxygen from 212 helicopters to Boeing 727 freighters.
Defense and other military and government the atmosphere and regulate the flow to National Air Support operates the largest customers around the world.
It is a leading allow pilots and passengers to breathe at civil maritime surveillance contract in developer of all classes of air, ground and altitude.
In addition, pneumatic technology the world, covering more than 37,000km shipboard antenna sub-systems, positioners, is provided for fin actuation in missiles, of Australian coastline.
National Jet radomes, high-power microwave and cryostatic cooling products supplied Systems is the only provider of outsourced components and integrated assemblies for various land and aviation markets.
flight operations for Qantas, providing and is the market leader for many niche In the personal survival market, Cobham ten aircraft with pilots, flight attendants microwave products.
Cobham Defence Life Support provides specialist products and engineering services.
FB Heliservices Electronic Systems is also the world leader for naval and land applications, including trains all UK helicopter pilots for the in advanced tactical military vehicle aircrew restraints, parachute release Navy, Air Force and Army, with more than intercom systems and soldier and ground mechanisms and flotation gear.
The Cobham Services Division comprises Cobham Flight Operations and Services, and the FSTA project.
