Business Review:Aerospace Systems Inspection of a fourth generation air refuelling pod Groups accelerated technology development 85m Airbus order for fourth In Air Refuelling and Auxiliary Mission programme.
generation pods for A400M Equipment, Cobham was selected by Airbus to supply its fourth generation refuelling systems for Major orders were received for Eurofighter Typhoon 130m Eurofighter Typhoon the tanker versions of the A400M military transport tranche two weapons carriage and release products orders for weapons carriage aircraft for Germany, Spain and France.
The order for deliveries over the next five years.
Cobham is and release consolidated Cobhams position as the market the design authority for the platforms defensive leader for strategic and tactical air refuelling solutions, with the A400M carrying wing pod aid chaff and flare systems which have now entered Successful trials for HMMWV dispensing equipment and hose drum units for into service after extensive qualification testing.
personal safety equipment centreline refuelling operations.
Work continues on the A330 Multi Role Tanker Transport MRTT In the USA, a further low rate initial production US$200m passenger service programme which has now passed the critical order was received to provide Boeing with the units order for Boeing 787 design review for the launch customer in Australia.
BRU-61 A pneumatic weapons carriage release system assembly.
The first weapon integrated on In Sweden, air refuelling trials were successfully the carriage will be the Boeing Small Diameter completed using a Swedish C-130E tanker and Bomb, with the US Air Force planning to use the Gripen single and dual-seat fighters which flew carriage to deliver a family of miniature munitions a total of six sorties.
The Swedish C-130 tanker in the future.
The BRU-61 A can accommodate was fitted with the latest generation 904E wing four small weapons on aircraft weapon stations.
pods which include an all-electric hose reel supply, The previous carriage was only able to carry one AFSOC MC-130H Combat Talon II refuelling V-22 Osprey with telescopic probe proven cockpit control systems, variable drag precision-guided munition.
drogue technology and flexibility to role change.
In Life Support, completion of the acquisition V-22 Osprey and Gripen fighters were fitted of H Koch & Sons has provided Cobham with with Cobhams space saving telescopic probes.
a complementary range of personal survival These probes, comprising a three-tube aluminium equipment.
Since acquisition, the business has design, extend out to a length of approximately won important orders for restraints to be fitted four metres when receiving fuel, and retract fully to the US Armys Tank-automotive and Armament into the structure of the aircraft to give maximum Command TACOM fleet of High Mobility aerodynamic benefits.
Outside Europe, excellent progress has been The Group won a major order to supply Super made in delivering air refuelling pods to the Integrated Passenger Service Units SIPSUs for Air Force Special Operations Command AFSOC the Boeing 787 aircraft.
The SIPSU integrates the programme, to Lockheed Martin for the electronic unit including wiring, reading lights, air US Marine Corps C-130J and upgrades for the outlet and emergency oxygen.
Cobham continues to develop its links with India as a growing market and is providing The summer of 2005 saw the first widespread both refuelling and weapons carriage release use of Cobhams Air Warrior Microclimate Cooling systems for their use.
System by US Army helicopter pilots during operations in Iraq.
The system greatly increases In air refuelling, Cobham provides wing pod the operational effectiveness of aircrew and refuelling systems on the A330, A310, A400M, consists of a vapour compression-based chiller C130 and KC130J aircraft together with advanced which cools water and pumps it through a tubed systems for large, medium and small fighter-togarment worn by the user.
Cobham designs and fighter refuelling systems.
All systems are capable manufactures the Microclimate Cooling Unit of being fitted with variable speed drogues whose MCU which lies at the heart of the system.
capability is being further enhanced under the 6 Cobham plc Elsewhere in the USA, Cobham won an initial order Cobham received the initial delivery order for the Revenue Trading profit for an advanced joint service water-activated m m Advanced Oxygen Systems from the US Navy.
personnel parachute release JWARS from the This is the first of several releases from a four year Naval Air Systems Command.
JWARS is designed to 80 contract of science and technology development 400 replace current release systems that enable aircrew funding from NAVAIR in the USA, to develop Integrated Manifold and Tube IMAT Ceramic to automatically separate from their parachutes Oxygen Generating Systems COGS for aviation upon landing in water.
The research and development efforts focus on three primary areas: IMAT COGS The initial contract award is for the qualification 60 300 generator, enabling and supporting technologies, and integration of JWARS hardware for all and advanced methods for monitoring and USN USMC USAF ejection seat equipped aircraft controlling oxygen production.
with qualification scheduled for completion in 2006.
Ultimately, the device will be fitted on all Officials from the March Air Reserve Base, California, US military ejection seat equipped aircraft and 200 40 USA, took delivery of their first Boeing C-17 increase the breadth of Cobhams life support Globemaster III airlifter which included Cobhams business with the US forces.
On Board Inert Gas Generating System OBIGGS.
The system displaces potentially explosive mixtures of air fuel vapors with nitrogen making the aircraft less vulnerable to fuel vapor explosions.
100 20 0 0 04 05 04 05 Cobham designs and manufactures multimissile launcher and missile eject launchers for METEOR missiles on the Eurofighter Typhoon Annual Report & Accounts 2005 7 382.0 374.0 59.3 60.5
