Our Strategy: Focus, Capabilities and Performance To exploit and enhance our leadership in high-technology growth segments of the aerospace and defence market.
Enhanced shareholder value through profitable growth To focus on our To build To drive operating leading technology on our positions capabilities performance Consolidate and enhance A radical change in Significant efficiency market leadership in collaboration across improvements, allowing each segment the Group and in divisions increased investment in technology Increase investment Enhance existing in technology and focus capabilities at New ways of working in R&D expenditure the divisional level business lean Exit businesses that do not Strengthen Group capabilities, An integrated and standardised align with the focused portfolio including HR, Strategy and M&A approach to managing performance across the Group 18 Cobham plc Bringing the best of Cobham to the customer Transformation a three year plan Strategic Marketing: Operational Improvements: Working Capital Integration Procurement Business Lean Programme Management Technology: Plans Accelerated Development Attendees at a programme management 2006 2007 2008 course in the UK The Group is working to strengthen the Fluid and Air & Countermeasures The strategic review announced in September 2005 capabilities of its people and deliver a step change businesses sold determined that Cobham would focus on areas in collaboration to bring the best of Cobhams where it can exploit and enhance its technological capabilities and knowledge to bear for every Resources strengthened at leadership in high-growth segments of the customer.
Investments are being increased in Group and Divisional levels aerospace and defence market.
This strategy will technology and product development capabilities help Cobham to consolidate and enhance its to bring new products and programmes to fruition Technology acceleration market leadership, allow for an increase in R&D investment, reinforce the Groups upper quartile more quickly and at lower cost.
Further investments plans established aerospace and defence margins and enhance the are being made in production capabilities across organic profit growth through market cycles.
the organisation to eliminate waste in production Operational improvements processes and deliver what customers need, when identified to fund accelerated The overall objective of the strategy is to enhance they need it.
A strategic marketing function has technology development shareholder value through accelerated, profitable been established to help identify and improve growth.
The transformation of Cobham will market penetration in an increasingly challenging Step change in crosstake at least three years to implement based on: and global environment.
These investments will divisional collaboration 1.
Focusing the portfolio of companies and improve understanding of customer requirements increasing investment in technology.
and ensure that Cobham develops products that 2.
Building on the capabilities of people across meet their current and future needs.
the Group and creating an environment which encourages performance and rewards Cobham is driving the operational performance collaboration.
of the business to capture the benefits of the 3.
Using best practice from across the Group Groups scale and generate synergies to reinvest and elsewhere to drive operating performance in the long-term health of the business through and release funds for re-investment.
technology investment and investment in the capabilities of its people.
This is being done Cobham aims to focus its portfolio around through a consistent and transparent approach technologies and products within global aerospace to measuring and managing performance and and defence markets where it can consolidate identifying opportunities across each of the six and enhance its leadership positions and deliver divisions.
As part of this, the Group is pursuing profitable growth.
The Group will focus on markets integration opportunities within the current that have attractive organic growth prospects, portfolio and with acquisitions to create further and offer opportunities to enhance its position capacity for future growth.
through acquisition by bringing complementary technologies, products and skills to the business.
In every market where Cobham competes, the Group will be committed to bringing the best of Cobham to the customer, making it easier for customers to understand the Groups capabilities.
The portfolio and technology investments will be constantly reviewed to ensure that they fit with the strategy, and resources re-invested where they do not.
