2.3 Property Outsourcing Property Outsourcing Higher Strategy IRR returns from development activity Land Securities Trillium will contribute to the IRR Innovative products accessing immature markets achievement of the Groups aims by growing the IRR Diversified portfolio in sectors Property Outsourcing business, through a strategy of: with supply side constraints WACC Active management of balance sheet 7.5% and effective recycling of capital Winning new property outsourcing contracts in a large but immature market Innovating by exploring new markets and winning new business by refining the product and service offer to ensure that it is flexible for different business models Growing business with existing clients by satisfying customers and delivering property solutions that meet their changing needs Objectives During 2004 05 our core objectives were: To grow the Property Outsourcing business by winning new contracts and expanding old ones To increase the contribution to Group profits To continue to satisfy existing clients and to achieve strong endorsements for our products 46 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 2.3 Property Outsourcing continued Achievements 1.
1bn 259.8m gross property income up 27% segment profit up 66% Land Securities Trillium now accounts Land Securities Trillium had a record year for 57% of the Groups gross with all its existing contracts moving property income into profit 23% 85m return on weighted average of investment capital employed into our existing and new contracts Land Securities Trillium returns are enhanced by our investment in Telereal which provides a healthy return for no capital invested Three 8,400 new contracts won buildings under management our new clients are Barclays, DVLA and across the Property Outsourcing business Norwich Union providing accommodation to more than 250,000 office occupants Land Securities Annual Report 2005 47 2.3 Property Outsourcing continued Property Outsourcing Market commentary Land Securities Trillium property outsourcing We are seeing good interest and activity in both the corporate and public sector markets.
Innovative approach to property ownership and management Six main clients Corporate sector 57% of Groups gross property income Following the commencement of our property outsourcing agreements with Norwich Union and 26% contribution to Groups operating Barclays during the year, interest in corporate property outsourcing remains strong, particularly profit at 31 March 2005 within the financial services sector.
Continuing occupier focus on balance sheet restructuring, business rationalisation, cost reduction and risk mitigation resonates well with our strengths in releasing capital, providing flexible occupation, managing leasehold liabilities and introducing supply chain efficiencies.
We have several opportunities at early stages of development.
Land Securities Trillium value proposition Public sector Freehold asset transfer There is also good potential for further public sector property outsourcing.
The Governments Leasehold liability transfer Efficiency Review, informed by the Lyons and Gershon reports, involving relocation, estate Unitary charge Land Client downsizing and a 30bn asset disposal programme, can be expected to generate further Securities Capital value payment release Trillium property outsourcing opportunities in the medium-term.
We have made our own submission Integrated property services Occupational flexibility to Government specifically in terms of how property partnerships can offer an effective Price certainty implementation model for departments in their response to the Efficiency Review.
In parallel with this, we are pursuing a number of specific property outsourcing projects with public sector clients including the Ministry of Defence and the Northern Ireland Estate.
Financial results Full Year Full Year 31 03 05 31 03 04 We are also exploring other public sector initiatives where there are implicit property issues m m and opportunities, including Building Schools for the Future.
This is a 15-year 30bn Operating profit Government programme to upgrade every secondary school in the UK, which was launched DWP 83.2 51.1 at the end of 2004.
BBC 20.6 6.6 Norwich Union excluding bid costs 6.1 The strong endorsement of the value for money and customer service offered by Land Securities Barclays Trillium, given by the National Audit Office report on our expanded contract with DWP, issued Bid costs 2.6 6.2 in January 2005, emphasises our successful relationship with Government and provides a firm Central costs 7.8 7.3 foundation for further business in this sector.
99.5 44.2 Profit on sale of fixed asset properties 30.5 0.1 Financial results Segment profit 130.0 44.1 Land Securities Trillium contributed 26% of the Groups operating profits and accounts for Share of Telereal segment profit 129.8 112.5 57% of gross property income.
Segment profit was 259.8m, representing a 66% increase 259.8 156.6 over last year.
Share of Telereal profit before tax 63.4 30.3 Aggregate of PRIME and Employment Services including amortisation Review of activity of goodwill.
In the year to 31 March 2004 profits for the DWP were depressed by a loss on the Employment Services element of the contract We have seen extensive activity across our three existing contracts and added three new resulting from mobilisation costs.
clients reflecting our ability to provide flexible outsourcing solutions to meet specific customer challenges.
This applies equally for existing and new clients.
48 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 We released 321.5m of capital from the sale of Media Village by Land Securities Trillium Media Village, White City Annual Report 2005 49 2.3 Property Outsourcing continued Department for Work and Pensions Segment profits As we have now merged the two estates, we have this year combined the reporting for the Department for Work and Pensions DWP contract which comprises the original PRIME 259.8m contract and the Employment Services extension signed in December 2003.
In total, this produced 603.1m of income and made a 83.2m contribution to operating profits.
However, as previously indicated, we expect this contract to produce lower operating profits next year as our client makes use of the significant vacation allowances priced into the transaction.
Up 66% Since merging the estates, this is the first full year of delivery of day-to-day real estate and Land Securities Trillium had a record facilities management services to approximately 130,000 DWP occupants in some 1,700 year with all its existing contracts buildings and customer feedback has been very positive.
moving into profit We continue to work with the DWP to formulate and implement its estate strategy in light of the requirement to reduce headcount to around 110,000 by March 2008.
DWP has indicated 2 that it intends to vacate some 80,000m of accommodation over the next 1218 months, all of which is priced into our contract.
At the same time the restructuring has also generated a requirement for new space in certain locations and we have received requests for a total of 2 25,000m of additional space.
Sales of surplus properties generated profits of 7.0m which we shared with our customer.
We continue to support the DWP in the management of its capital works programme including the rollout of the Jobcentre Plus organisation.
Over the year our Capital Projects team has handled some 81m of work for the DWP.
BBC During the year the BBC contract made a 20.6m contribution to operating profit 2004: 6.6m provided primarily by the property income generated by Media Village, White City, following successful completion of that development in late 2003.
In March 2005, we realised sales proceeds of 321.5m from the sale of Media Village, which generated a profit of 23m and the return of all our capital invested in the contract.
As we announced at the time of this transaction, we undertook to review the future basis of the contract with the BBC in the knowledge that it would now consist of development management services, already covered under separate contracts, and the provision of facilities management services only.
This joint review resulted in the announcement on 12 May 2005 that the BBC would be re-tendering the facilities management element of our contract: we decided not to participate in the re-tender process because we do not offer a facilities management service only.
This decision will not have a material impact on the financial performance of Land Securities Trillium and we will continue to manage the outsourcing contract until at least March 2006.
Over the past three years, we are pleased to have achieved cost savings for the BBC of 30m and a significant increase in customer satisfaction.
50 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 2.3 Property Outsourcing continued On the development management side, we continue with the construction of the new 2 81,390m Broadcasting House complex in London, which is being carried out by our London development project team, with phased construction completion occurring between Spring 2005 and 2008.
On handover the BBC will complete its technical fit-out and aims to have all moves complete by the end of the decade.
In July 2004 we also agreed terms and commenced 2 work in a similar capacity on the construction of the BBCs new 33,370m broadcasting facility at Pacific Quay in Glasgow, which is scheduled for completion in 2006.
BT Telereal, the joint venture vehicle that has the property outsourcing contract with BT, continued to make a strong contribution, providing pre-tax profits profits after interest on joint venture debt of 63.4m 2004: 30.3m.
Profits for the year from Telereal benefited from a high level of surplus property sales which accounted for 30m of that figure.
These sales also benefited BT through profit sharing arrangements.
Profits are not expected to continue at the same level in 2005 06 as 90% by floor area of the surplus freehold properties acquired from BT in 2001, or vacated since then, have now been sold.
We have agreed with BT to restructure the corporate services element of the contract in order to ensure it is best suited to BTs current requirements.
This restructuring was agreed in March 2005 with BT having termination rights in 2012 and seven yearly thereafter, rather than at will as previously existed.
The asset ownership elements of the contract are unaffected and the change is expected to be economically neutral to us.
Norwich Union In June 2004 we were delighted to agree a corporate outsourcing contract with Norwich Union to manage and improve its core occupational estate.
The range of services provided includes planned and reactive maintenance, life-cycle replacement of building components and the undertaking of capital projects work.
The 25-year transaction also comprises the transfer of 2 115,000m of office accommodation and the commitment by Land Securities Trillium to invest 2 92m into the phased refurbishment of Norwich Unions 30,890m Norwich headquarters.
The first phase of works is due to complete in June 2005.
The estate transferred to Land Securities Trillium comprises approximately 25% of Norwich Unions operational space by floor area.
As part of this transaction an innovative 100m onward sale was agreed involving seven freehold assets.
Through this, Norwich Union realised sale proceeds in excess of its expectations while, under the occupational leases put in place, Land Securities Trillium has the freedom to carry out all of its outsourcing obligations.
We will continue to manage and maintain these buildings on behalf of Norwich Union which will occupy the properties for a lease term, in most cases, of 25 years.
Land Securities Annual Report 2005 51 2.3 Property Outsourcing continued Barclays Gross property income In December 2004 we entered into a 20-year property outsourcing deal with Barclays Bank, combining the sale and leaseback of a regional headquarters building with the management 1.
1bn of a portfolio of surplus leasehold properties.
The transaction involved 14 properties totalling 2 31,540m and has two elements: 2 Barclays has sold Westwood Business Park, Coventry three buildings totalling 11,300m to us on a 20-year leaseback arrangement Up 27% The transfer of responsibility for 13 short leaseholds surplus to Barclays requirements and Land Securities Trillium now represents largely vacant as a result of its property rationalisation in London and the south of England.
57% of the Groups gross property income Barclays will make a capped payment to reflect the letting risk, as we assume responsibility for all future benefits and liabilities relating to the transferred interests.
The contract broke even in the fourth quarter and is expected to move into profit during the next financial year.
Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency DVLA In March 2005, we signed the property outsourcing contract with DVLA.
This Government contract is expected to break even in the first 12 months and make profits in 2007.
Under the terms of the transaction, DVLA has outsourced a major refurbishment project, life-cycle capital expenditure, estates management and facilities management across its entire UK estate to us for 20 years.
There is no transfer of freehold property to us but we receive payment for the provision of services and refurbishment works via a performance-related index linked annual unitary charge.
2 The estate comprises 58 properties, totalling 94,133m, of which 14% by area involves the 2 transfer of leasehold liabilities.
The 24,471m refurbishment of part of DVLAs headquarters site at Morriston, Swansea will result in a 30m investment by us over the next three years.
52 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 We handle over 650,000 customer service requests every year Customer Service Centre, 140 London Wall, EC2 Annual Report 2005 53
