Senior Management Simon Mitchley Nick Groves Michael Bennett Scott Potter Liz Horler Chris Dancer Nick Habgood Brian Bank John Townley Steven Dykes John Hartz Simon Turner LMS SENIOR MANAGEMENT PROPERTY SENIOR MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT UK SENIOR MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT US SENIOR MANAGEMENT Simon Mitchley Nick Groves Michael Bennett Scott Potter Company Secretary Group Property Manager Investment Manager Fund Manager, San Francisco Equity Partners Simon was appointed Company Secretary Nick joined the Company in June 1994 Michael joined the Company in May 1998. in February 2002, having joined the and was appointed as a director of the Before joining LMS Capital Michael worked Scott joined LMS in January 2003 with Company in 1995 as Deputy Company Companys principal property subsidiary in as a consultant with McKinsey & Company responsibility for the US private equity Secretary.
He previously worked in the April 1999.
He was appointed Group and previously worked for British Telecom.
San Francisco Equity Partners Secretariat departments of Forte plc and Property Manager in April 2002 and is was formed in March 2005.
Scott previously Nick Habgood Royal Insurance plc.
responsible for the ongoing management served as Senior Vice President, Field Investment Manager of all UK property assets directly held by Operations for Inktomi Corporation, which Liz Horler the Group, together with the strategic Nick joined the Company in October 2000. acquired Quiver in 2002, the company Group Financial Controller administration of the office portfolio.
He was previously Chief Executive of a where Scott was Chief Executive and in Liz joined the Company at the end of Prior to joining LMS Nick was associate company which developed a high security which LMS was a major investor.
She was formerly Financial partner at Gooch & Wagstaff.
Nick also a former Executive Vice President of Controller of Antisoma plc, a listed spent seven years working for Mars WorldRes Inc and a former corporate Chris Dancer biotechnology company specialising in Electronics a division of Mars Inc. finance attorney for leading law firm, Property Development Manager the development of anti-cancer drugs.
John Hartz Liz previously worked at Arthur Andersen, Chris was appointed in May 2004 to Inflexion plc, Joint Chief Executive Brian Bank Chartered Accountants.
manage the major property development Investment Manager projects.
He previously worked at Berkeley John, with Simon Turner, led the buy out of John Townley Homes, where he was responsible for Daiwas European private equity business in Brian has been working with LMS since Group Financial Planning Manager commercial aspects of mixed schemes.
early 1999 and formed Inflexion raising third 2000 and is currently responsible for the John joined the Company in February Prior to this he was Development Director party funds focusing on the smaller UK mid Groups US indirect investment portfolio.
1997 as Deputy Group Accountant and at Clearwater Estates involved with the market.
In the early 1990s, John joined He spent several years working as both an was appointed Group Accountant in May Groups Kingston Rotunda and the Apax Partners as a founding member of the investment banker and international 1998.
In November 2004 he was Greenwich Reach schemes.
He also spent buy-out group and previously worked for political-military analyst.
Brian also spent appointed Group Financial Planning over six years at Wilson Connolly as Price Waterhouse specialising in corporate three years consulting for Ernst & Young, Manager.
John previously worked at Development Manager.
where his focus was supply chain Moores Rowland, Chartered Accountants.
management within the high tech and Steven Dykes Simon Turner health care industries.
Head of Retail & Leisure Inflexion plc, Joint Chief Executive Steven joined LMS, as Development and Prior to establishing Inflexion in 1999, Investment Manager in Scotland.
He was Simon, together with John Hartz, was appointed Head of Retail & Leisure in recruited by Daiwa Europe Limited to September 2003 with additional establish and co-head their new European responsibility for existing retail and leisure private equity business.
Simon started his interests in the UK, together with the career at Guinness Mahon Development sourcing of new investment and Capital, where he specialised in mid-market development opportunities.
Prior to joining investments with a particular focus on the LMS Steven was Head of Retail at Knight media sector.
London Merchant Securities plc 23 Frank in Scotland.
