Board of Directors Nick Friedlos Graham Greene CBE Peter Grant CBE Bernard Duroc-Danner June fide Moller Donald Newell Martin Pexton Robert Rayne James Wilson Graham Greene CBE Peter Grant CBE Bernard Duroc-Danner Nick Friedlos Chairman Deputy Chairman Finance Director Dr Duroc-Danner is aged 51 and was Mr Greene is aged 69 and was appointed Mr Grant is aged 75 and has been a appointed a director on 1st September Mr Friedlos is aged 47 and was appointed a director in 1996 and Chairman in July director since 1984.
He was appointed 2004 due to his depth of knowledge Finance Director in January 2003.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Deputy Chairman of the Company in and experience in acquisitions and member of the Nomination Committee.
Committee and is a member of the 1994.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration multinational business and, in particular in He is a non-executive director of Energy Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Committee and a member of the the energy sector in which the Company Cranes International Limited.
He was He is a former director of Greene King plc, Nomination and Audit Committees.
He is a Finance Director of Land Securities Trillium former member of the Board of the British He has substantial financial experience member of the Nomination Committee.
and was involved in its sale to Land Council and former Chairman of the gained through a career in investment He has been Chairman, President and Securities plc in 2000.
Before joining Trustees of The British Museum.
He was with Lazard Brothers & Chief Executive Officer of Weatherford Trillium in 1998, he worked for 12 years at has included directorships with Guinness Co. Ltd from 1952 to 1988, as a International since 1998, one of the leading  in London Mahon, Guinness Peat Group plc Jupiter managing director from 1968 and as a oilfield service companies in the world.
and Birmingham, becoming a partner at International Green Investment Trust plc.
He was a Prior to this position he was President Price Waterhouse in 1992.
For over 25 years Mr Greene was a director of Sun Life Assurance for 22 years and Chief Executive Officer of EVI, Inc. Robert Rayne publisher the founding Chairman and Chairman from 1983 to 1995.
Chief Executive of Chatto, Bodley Head & Jonathan Cape He has also been a director of BNP He is also a director of a number of other Ltd and chairman and director of a Paribas Holdings Ltd and Scottish Hydro oilfield service sector companies.
He holds The Hon R A Rayne is aged 56 and first number of publishing companies in now part of Scottish and Southern a Ph.
D. in economics from Wharton joined the Company in 1968 when he the Commonwealth.
Energy plc University of Pennsylvania and has was initially involved in the development previously held positions at Arthur D. Little of LMS properties in the US.
He later June fide Moller Donald Newell and Mobil Oil Inc. returned to the UK with responsibility for Mrs fide Moller is aged 57 and was Mr Newell is aged 62 and was appointed LMS properties in Scotland.
He was Martin Pexton appointed a director in May 2002 and she a director in 1998 and is Chairman appointed Investment Director in 1983, Director of Corporate Development brings to the Board her considerable of the Audit Committee and a member Joint Managing Director in 1998 and business acumen and experience gained of the Remuneration and Nomination Mr Pexton is aged 48, joined the Company Chief Executive in May 2001.
He is a from a wide variety of companies.
A Chartered Surveyor, he in April 2002 and was appointed a director member of the Nomination Committee.
She is a member of the Nominations, was Senior Partner of Hillier Parker May & in October 2002.
He is a member of the He has been on the boards of a number of Remuneration and Audit Committees.
He was Co-Chairman Nomination Committee.
He is responsible public companies including First Leisure She is a non-executive director of of the Europe, Middle East and Africa for a wide range of corporate and Corporation plc and Crown Sports plc.
J Sainsbury plc, and Archant Limited.
division of CB Richard Ellis Services Inc. management matters, including personnel He is currently a non-executive director She is a former Managing Director of until December 2000.
He is a past and investor relations, and has overseen of Inflexion plc and NYSE quoted, Carlton Communications Plc and was President of the British Council of Offices.
the strategic investment made in Inflexion Weatherford International Inc, an previously a non-executive director of plc.
He is a non-executive director international oil services company, Cookson Group plc, BT plc and AWG plc.
of Inflexion plc and Energy Cranes where he serves on the Audit Committee.
He was formerly the He is also Chairman of Energy Cranes James Wilson director responsible for human resources International Limited.
The Hon J M Wilson is aged 52 and was at the international law firm Allen & Overy.
appointed a director in April 2001 Prior to joining Allen & Overy in 1990, and he brings to the Board a wealth of he worked for Deloitte, Haskins & Sells and experience in the private equity market.
in the insurance and nuclear industries.
He is a member of the Nomination He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Committee.
He is a founding partner of Personnel and Development and has an Boston Ventures, a leading US media MBA from the London Business School.
and communications private equity firm.
He is a director of Jobson Publishing LLC, PartMiner Inc. CAMP Systems Corp, Northstar Travel Media and World Publications.
