Aegis R&A 2005 Board & reports 30-48 12 4 06 7:06 am Page 5 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Results and dividends The consolidated income statement is set out on page 51 and shows a profit for the financial year of 64.6 million 2004: 64.5 million.
An interim dividend of 0.65p per share was paid on 30 September 2005 to ordinary shareholders.
The directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 1.00p per share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be payable on 2 June 2006 to ordinary shareholders registered at 12 May 2006.
The total dividend for the year will then amount to 1.65p per share 2004: 1.45p.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company based in London.
Its subsidiaries and related companies provide a broad range of services in the areas of media communications and market research.
Review of business and future developments A review of the business and likely future developments of the Group is given in the Letter to shareholders on pages 4 and 5 and in the Business and financial reviews on pages 10 to 25.
Donations The Groups policy with respect to charitable donations and the amounts donated are detailed on page 29.
Employment policies The Group operates throughout the world and therefore has developed employment policies that meet local conditions and requirements.
These policies are based on the best traditions and practices in any given country in which it operates and are discussed on pages 26 to 29.
Health and safety policies The Group is committed to conducting its business in a manner which ensures high standards of health and safety for its employees, visitors and the general public.
It complies with all statutory and regulatory requirements.
Ethical, environmental and social issues The Group takes its ethical, environmental and social responsibilities seriously and details of our policies in these respects are given on pages 26 to 29.
Supplier payment Whilst the Company does not impose a formal code of payment practice on its subsidiaries, the Group nevertheless does have a policy toward the payment of its suppliers and details are given on page 29: At 31 December 2005, the Group had 61 days purchases outstanding 2004: 59 days.
The creditor day analysis is not applicable to the holding company.
Directors The names of the directors at the date of this report and biographical details are given on page 30.
Lorraine Trainer and Brendan ONeill were appointed to the Board on 2 August 2005 and 8 August 2005 respectively.
As reported in last years accounts, Doug Flynn formerly Chief Executive Officer, resigned from that position as at 7 February 2005 and as a director of the Company on 31 March 2005, and Robert Lerwill formerly a non-executive director, was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 7 February 2005.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 47.
Re-election of directors In accordance with the Articles of Association Lorraine Trainer and Brendan ONeill, having been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, offer themselves for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, David Verklin, Daniel Farrar and Bernard Fournier retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of all the directors service contracts, including notice periods, are given in the Remuneration Report on page 43.
Directors indemnities A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association and sections 309A to 309C of the Companies Act 1985, has been granted by the Company to each of the directors of the Company.
Under the provisions of the QTPIs 33 Aegis R&A 2005 Board & reports 30-48 12 4 06 7:06 am Page 6 Aegis Annual Report 2005 Report of the directors the Company undertakes to indemnify each director against liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to the Company if the director is convicted or, in an action brought by the Company, judgement is given against the director.
Substantial shareholdings At 6 April 2006 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: Number of Shares % Bollor Group 287,361,596 25.47 Fidelity Investments 104,822,401 9.29 Aegon Asset Management UK 55,241,660 4.89 UBS AG 45,535,773 3.85 Legal & General Investment Management 43,406,824 3.84 Share capital Details of share capital movements authorised and issued are given in note 23 to the financial statements on page 83.
Special business at the Annual General Meeting Details of the special business and the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM are given in the enclosed circular, along with the Notice of Meeting.
Auditors Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and have chosen to prepare Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
In the case of the Groups IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
In the case of the Companys UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
John Ross Company Secretary 7 April 2006 34
