Aegis R&A 2005 Review 1-29 12 4 06 6:55 am Page 8 Aegis Annual Report 2005 Q&A with Robert Lerwill What makes Aegis different from other the total media space.
Looking across the marketing services companies?
whole of press, broadcast, cinema, online and out-of-home because the consumer doesnt Let me start with our approach.
Its built on a think in neat media categories.
And in research, very firm base of insight knowing the weve created what is possibly the first truly consumer inside out in both media and global company.
Synovate has no internal research.
Because we dont have a legacy in boundaries: it has a single brand, no traditional creative advertising, were not headquarters and no nationality.
wedded to any particular channel or medium.
We see things rather differently from the Why is Aegis outperforming and how competition.
And we concentrate on the two sustainable is this?
fastest growing areas of marketing services: Aegis has a good record in outperforming the media communications and market research.
And its our aim to keep up that lead.
You say that Aegis sees things differently.
In research, Synovates one company approach What does that mean?
makes for a total focus on supporting clients Again, its a question of approach.
Call it what and colleagues, wherever they are in the world.
you will: independent, specialist, media neutral, And our expertise in certain industry sectors agnostic.
What it all adds up to is a different and areas of specialism what we call practices way of looking at brands and consumers and also underpinned our outperformance.
coming up with more innovative ideas to In media, we outgrew our local markets in connect them.
For example, in media, we start almost every part of the world, thanks to the with the consumer, not the brand message or approach Ive described.
What is he or she doing, thinking Does Aegis Media have the scale it needs to about, enjoying?
How is he or she spending win in this market?
Only then can we plan truly effective marketing communications that In Europe, our largest market, Carat is the engage and entertain.
As part of that, weve largest single media agency.
And, with Vizeum, developed our own proprietary tools to Aegis Media is the second largest network.
In measure the impact of communications across our other regions we rank around fifth, so we 2006 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Use our communications planning tools and new media capabilities across Aegis Media to stay ahead of the game in consumer-centric marketing communications Unlock further the benefits of Synovates geographic presence, and develop existing and new practice areas Deliver superior growth and further margin improvement 8 Aegis R&A 2005 Review 1-29 12 4 06 6:55 am Page 9 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts have the scale and clout to buy as effectively looking for some further improvement in 2006. as anyone.
And clients are increasingly That said, if were to keep on coming up with preoccupied with an agencys media insight, industry-leading top line growth, well need to knowledge and innovation, particularly as keep on investing in new tools, products, media fragmentation gathers pace.
Here we are services and people to stay on top of the game.
Why is Synovates growth so rapid?
Why are you in both media and research?
Synovate really came into its own in 2005.
In part, thats a result of the investment weve Research and media are the two sweetest spots put into building the network.
Its now got in the marketing mix today.
One reason we like research is that data and insight are growing ever more important as consumers become more sophisticated and elusive.
And likewise in In Europe, our largest media, brands need to navigate around more channels, outlets, and opportunities than ever market, Carat is the largest before to connect with those consumers.
Although we run them separately, our two single media agency businesses are complementary, both in their geographic coverage in virtually every major skills and focus, and they collaborate on a market, and so the business momentum is number of tools and projects.
But Synovate is a truly unique business.
Because theres no deference to any single Would you expect the same in 2006?
country or region, thats very empowering.
Last year was fairly busy on the acquisition Synovate people think and act globally, front.
The majority of our investment went into sharing expertise, tools and platforms around building out the Synovate network and the world.
Building teams regardless of national establishing our digital media services in the or office boundaries lets us mirror our clients worlds major digital economies.
Weve now own structures so we can service them more got both networks into a very good shape, and effectively.
As the need grows for research you can see that coming through in the 2005 results to be consistent and comparable across numbers.
Well continue to acquire new borders and time periods, this puts us at a businesses where they add value: bringing real advantage.
people, skills and technology that we can What priority do you give revenue feed into our existing business, and where investment against further margin theres a strong cultural and financial fit.
Weve got a strong balance sheet, so weve got We moved margins forward in 2005 and were plenty of flexibility.
