COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 14 INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Compass Group PLC has prepared its consolidated financial the Group will recognise actuarial gains and losses in full in statements for the year to 30 September 2005 in accordance the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
income and expense in accordance with the amendment to All publicly listed companies in the EU are required to adopt IAS 19 issued in December 2004. International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for their Business combinations: The Group will elect to apply IFRS 3 financial statements for years beginning on or after 1 January Business Combinations prospectively from the transition date.
Consequently, the Group will be implementing IFRS from Subject to any subsequent impairments recorded, goodwill 1 October 2005. arising from business combinations prior to the transition date remains at the net book value recorded under UK GAAP as at the transition date.
The first financial information to be reported by the Group in Cumulative translation differences: IAS 21 requires an entity accordance with IFRS will be for the year ending 30 September to classify some translation differences as a separate 2006.
Comparative figures for the year ended 30 September component of equity and, on disposal of a foreign operation, 2005, as presented in these financial statements, will be restated to transfer the cumulative difference relating to that operation from UK GAAP to IFRS.
In addition, the interim report for the to the income statement as part of the profit or loss on 6 months to 31 March 2006 will be prepared in accordance disposal.
The Group deems the cumulative translation with IFRS and comparative figures previously reported for the differences for all foreign operations to be zero at the 6 months to 31 March 2005 will be restated.
date for Compass Group PLC is 1 October 2004, being the Financial instruments: The Group will not elect to defer the start of the period of comparative information.
implementation of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Basis of preparation Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 and will adopt these The key differences between UK GAAP and IFRS affecting with effect from the transition date.
It is the intention to apply the Groups accounting policies are set out below and assume hedge accounting where the requirements of IAS 39 are met.
that all existing IFRS, Standing Interpretations Committee and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Summary of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Financial instruments Board IASB effective for the year ending 30 September 2006 The Group uses currency denominated borrowings and will be fully endorsed by the European Commission EC derivative financial instruments derivatives to hedge its and adopted from 1 October 2005.
The failure of the EC to exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising endorse all of these standards in time for the 2006 financial from operational, financing and investment activities.
The reporting period could result in the need to change the basis Group does not hold derivatives for trading purposes.
of accounting or presentation of certain financial information from that set out here.
Under IAS 39 derivatives are recognised initially at cost and subsequently measured at fair value.
The fair value is This summary sets out the areas where it is expected that determined by reference to market values for similar financial differences between UK GAAP and IFRS will have an impact instruments, or by discounted cash flows.
Where derivatives on the Groups financial statements based on the standards do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses currently in issue.
It is not intended to be a complete list of on measurement are immediately recognised in the income areas.
Further differences may arise as a result of the Groups statement.
Where hedge accounting is employed, recognition continued detailed assessment of IFRS.
The IASB continues of any resulting gain or loss depends on the nature of the to amend certain of these standards and interpretations as well hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
as to issue new standards and interpretations.
Such guidance may be applicable to the year ending 30 September 2006 or In order to qualify for hedge accounting the Group is required may be applicable to later periods but be adopted early.
to document from inception the relationship between the item The IFRS position as stated herein represents the Groups being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is current view based on the standards currently in issue.
also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial instrument, which shows that the hedge will be effective on an Reporting Standards ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed at each IFRS 1 permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first time period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
to take some specific exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS and also to exercise certain elections in the transition Fair value hedging Derivatives are classified as fair value period.
The Group intends to take the following exemptions and hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes elections: in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or Share-based payments: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment has loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument is recognised been applied to all equity-settled share option transactions immediately in the income statement.
Any change in the fair granted but not vested as at the transition date.
The value of the hedged item, attributable to the hedged risk, is requirements of IFRS 2 need only be applied to share-based adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged item and payments granted after 7 November 2002.
However the Group recognised immediately in the income statement.
considers that retrospective application before this date gives Cash flow hedging Derivatives are classified as cash flow a better indication of how past and future results are affected hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in relation to the year on year level of grants.
in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk Employee benefits: Under IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19 associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly all cumulative pension actuarial gains and losses will be probable forecast transaction.
The effective element of any recognised in equity at the transition date.
After that date, ANNUAL REPORT 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 15 INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED gain or loss from re-measuring the derivative is recognised correlate to the charge.
Any excess of the deferred tax over the immediately in equity.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is cumulative income statement charge at the tax rate will be removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in recognised in equity.
the same periods during which the hedged transaction affects the income statement.
Any element of the re-measurement of Under UK GAAP the Group expensed share bonus schemes by the derivative that does not meet the criteria for an effective reference to the intrinsic value of the awards.
The IFRS charge hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
will be based on the fair value calculated using the Black-Scholes Derivatives qualifying for cash flow hedging are principally option-pricing model.
floating to fixed interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange transactions.
Hedge accounting is discontinued Post-employment benefit schemes when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated For UK GAAP reporting the Group has applied the measurement or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At and recognition policies of SSAP 24 Pension Costs, whilst that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging providing detailed disclosures for the alternative measurement instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the principles of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits FRS 17. forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss The methodology and assumptions used to calculate the value recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
of defined benefit pension scheme assets and liabilities under Net investment hedging Currency denominated borrowings FRS 17 are substantially consistent with IAS 19.
On transition, and derivatives are classified as net investment hedges the cumulative difference between the market value of assets when they hedge the Groups net investment in an overseas and the present value of the accrued pension liabilities will be operation.
The effective element of any gain or loss from recognised as an asset or liability in the balance sheet together re-measuring the hedging instrument is recognised directly with the related tax effect.
Subsequently, actuarial gains and in equity.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately losses will be recognised immediately in equity using the in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in statement of recognised income and expense.
equity are included in the income statement when the overseas operation is disposed of.
Joint ventures The Group has interests in a number of companies where it In 2004, the Group monetised profitable interest rate swaps.
Under UK GAAP the Group has The amount realised was held in deferred income and amortised consolidated the turnover, results, assets and liabilities of these through the interest line in the profit and loss account.
On entities where the Group has actually exercised dominant transition to IFRS, the remaining credit balance was transferred to influence, with the partners share shown as minority interest.
Under IFRS 1 there is a corresponding credit to IFRS requires the Groups accounting to follow the legal form the value of financial liabilities, which is subsequently amortised of the agreement more closely and consolidate only its share through the interest line in the income statement.
The net effect of turnover, results, assets and liabilities.
is a transfer between deferred income and financial liabilities with no impact on the income statement and net assets.
Taxation Under IAS 12 Income Taxes IAS 12, certain temporary timing Goodwill differences that previously were not recognised under UK GAAP Under UK GAAP, the Groups policy is to capitalise goodwill will be recognised.
In addition, IAS 12 does not allow discounting in respect of businesses acquired and to amortise it on a of deferred tax balances, previously adopted by the Group as straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, which has permitted under UK GAAP.
IAS 12 does not permit the recognition been assessed at 20 years for all acquisitions to date.
Under in the income statement of tax relief on goodwill arising on IFRS goodwill is no longer amortised, but is subject to an acquisitions.
This will result in a higher tax charge under IFRS annual impairment review.
although generally the Groups effective tax rate under IFRS is expected to be more volatile than under UK GAAP.
Business combinations The Group has entered into arrangements with minority Proposed dividends shareholders to potentially acquire their interests at some point Under IFRS dividends declared after the balance sheet date in the future.
These arrangements include both call options will not be recognised as a liability as at that balance sheet that enable the Group to acquire interests and put options that date.
Consequently the Group will not recognise the accruals enable minority shareholders to require the Group to buy out for its final dividends in either the 30 September 2005 or 2004 their interests.
Under IAS 32 the present value of put options is balance sheets, but will report these within the reconciliation of recorded as a financial liability, and is reflected as a deduction movements in equity for the period in which they were paid.
Other differences Share-based payments It is anticipated that other differences between UK GAAP and Employees and directors share options will be expensed through IFRS, such as accounting for leases, will have either no effect the income statement, calculated with reference to the fair value or no significant effect on the consolidated net profit or of the award on the date of grant and recognised over the vesting shareholders funds of the Group.
The Group will use either the Binomial Distribution or the Black-Scholes option-pricing model as most appropriate to each scheme to calculate the fair value of options on their grant date.
Deferred tax is calculated on the basis of the difference between market price at the balance sheet date and the option exercise price.
As a result the tax effect will not
