COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 16 DIRECTORS, SENIOR EXECUTIVES AND ADVISORS Directors Val Gooding CBE Non-executive director Age 55 Sir Francis Mackay Appointed to the Board in January 2000.
She is Chief Executive Chairman Age 61 of BUPA, a non-executive director of Standard Chartered PLC Appointed Chairman in July 1999 having joined the Group in and formerly a non-executive director of BAA plc and Cable and 1986 as Finance Director.
Appointed Group Chief Executive in Wireless Communications plc.
She is a member of the Council 1991 and additionally Deputy Chairman in September 1994. of the University of Warwick and co-chair of the Advisory Board He is a member of the Nomination Committee, non-executive of the Warwick Business School.
She is a trustee of the British Chairman of Kingfisher plc, and a non-executive director of Museum, the President of International Federation of Health Plans English National Opera and Carlton Financial Group Ltd. Sir and a non-executive director of the Lawn Tennis Association.
Val Francis received his Knighthood in 2003 for services to the is a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees hospitality industry and charity.
and was awarded a CBE in 2002 for services to business.
Michael Bailey Sven Kado Group Chief Executive Age 57 Non-executive director Age 61 Appointed Group Chief Executive in July 1999 having been Appointed to the Board in April 2002.
He is Chairman of appointed to the Board in 1995.
Joined the Group in 1993 to Marsh & McLennan Holdings GmbH and was previously Chief lead the branded concepts team.
Appointed Chief Executive Financial Officer of Nixdorf Computer AG, Chief Financial Officer of the North American Division upon the acquisition of Officer of Dyckerhoff AG and senior advisor of Principal Finance Canteen Corporation in 1994.
Previously he was Managing Group Nomura International.
He is a member of the Audit and Director of Gardner Merchant UK and was for 6 years President Remuneration Committees.
Steve Lucas Andrew Martin Non-executive director Age 51 Group Finance Director Age 45 Appointed to the Board in July 2004.
He is Group Finance Appointed to the Board in March 2004.
He was previously a Director of National Grid Transco plc having been previously partner with Arthur Andersen and held senior financial positions Executive Director, Finance of Lattice Group plc.
He is a chartered with Forte PLC and Granada Group PLC.
Following the accountant and since leaving private practice in 1983 has disposal of the Hotels Division in 2001, Andrew joined First held a number of senior finance positions with Shell International Choice Holidays PLC as Finance Director.
He joined Compass Petroleum Company and British Gas.
More recently he was Group in 2004.
He is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Treasurer at BG Group plc.
Steve is Chairman of the Audit Accountants in England and Wales and an Associate of the Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir Roy Gardner Peter Cawdron Senior Independent Director Age 60 Non-executive director and Deputy Chairman Age 62 Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
He is Chief Executive Appointed to the Board in November 1993.
He is Chairman of of Centrica plc, President of Carers UK, President of the GCAP Media PLC and a non-executive director of a number of Employers Forum on Disability and Chairman of the National companies, including Arla Foods UK PLC, ARM Holdings PLC, Apprenticeship Task Force.
He is a former Chairman of Christian Salvesen PLC, Johnson Press PLC, Prostrakan Manchester United plc, Finance Director of British Gas plc, Group PLC, Punch Taverns PLC and The Capita Group PLC.
Managing Director of GEC-Marconi Ltd and a director of GEC plc.
Peter is a former director of Grand Metropolitan PLC.
He is Sir Roy is Chairman of the Nomination Committee, a member of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is a member the Remuneration Committee and received his Knighthood in of the Nomination Committee.
2002 for services to the gas and electricity industries.
Peter Blackburn CBE Non-executive director Age 64 Appointed to the Board in April 2002.
He is a non-executive director of SIG PLC and was until July 2005 Chairman of Northern Foods PLC.
He is a past President of the Food and Drink Federation and former Chairman and Chief Executive of Nestl UK.
Peter is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees and was awarded a CBE in 2003 for services to the food and drink industry.
ANNUAL REPORT 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 17 DIRECTORS, SENIOR EXECUTIVES AND ADVISORS CONTINUED Senior Executives Advisors Andrew Lynch Auditors Chief Executive Officer, Select Service Partner Age 48 Deloitte & Touche LLP Appointed Chief Executive Officer, Select Service Partner in March Hill House 2004.
He was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director 1 Little New Street in 1997 and stepped down from the Board in September 2005.
London EC4A 3TR He joined the Group in 1992 as finance director of the UK Division and was previously finance director of Travellers Fare Limited.
Financial Advisors His earlier career included corporate finance and financial Citigroup management positions with Prudential Corporation plc and Citigroup Centre KPMG.
He is a non-executive director of DSG International PLC.
33 Canada Square Canary Wharf Chris Bucknall London E14 5LB Group Commercial Director Age 55 Involved in the management buy-out of Compass Group in 1987.
Legal Advisors After a year at Norwest Holst he rejoined Compass Group in 1991 Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer as Chief Executive of the catering operations and later became 65 Fleet Street Group Purchasing Director.
He joined Granada as Chief Executive London EC4Y 1HS of Granada Purchasing Ltd and rejoined Compass Group upon the merger with Granada to be responsible for Group purchasing.
Registrars Capita Registrars Gary Green The Registry Chief Executive Officer of the Americas Age 48 34 Beckenham Road Joined the Group in 1986 in a senior finance role in the UK Beckenham Division and became a UK divisional director in 1992.
Moved to Kent BR3 4TU the USA in 1994 as Chief Finance Officer of the Groups North American Division and in 1999 became Chief Executive Officer.
Stockbrokers Appointed to current position in January 2005.
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited 25 Cabot Square Didier Coutte Canary Wharf Chief Executive Officer France & Asia Pacific Age 47 London E14 4QA Joined the Group in 1998 as Group Marketing Director.
Previously he was managing director of Reckitt & Coleman Benelux and Merrill Lynch International held several senior executive positions in purchasing with Reckitt Merrill Lynch Financial Centre & Coleman and Procter & Gamble.
Appointed Chief Executive 2 King Edward Street Officer France in January 2005 and given additional responsibility London EC1A 1HQ for Asia Pacific in October 2005.
Miguel Ramis Chief Executive Officer Europe Age 49 Joined the Group in 1995.
Previously he managed the inflight catering business of Accor in Spain.
Appointed Chief Executive Officer Europe and Latin America in 1999.
Appointed to current position in January 2005.
Tim Mason Company Secretary Age 47 Joined the Group in 1986 in a senior finance role in the UK Division.
Appointed Company Secretary to a number of Group subsidiary companies in 1987.
Appointed a divisional director in 2002 and appointed Group Company Secretary in 2005.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Member of the Executive Committee Not a director of the Company
