COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 18 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report and the audited financial Payments to suppliers statements for the year ended 30 September 2005.
The Groups policy and procedure, which is internally rather than externally set in relation to all its suppliers, is to settle the terms Activities, results and future prospects of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each The Groups trading results, future prospects and operating transaction.
The Group will abide by those terms provided that it company activities are described in detail in the operating and is satisfied that the supplier has supplied the goods or services financial review and the financial statements.
in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Group as at Directors 30 September 2005 was 58 days 2004: 58 days.
Details of the directors of the Company are set out on page 16.
All the directors served throughout the year with the exception Substantial shareholdings of Sir Roy Gardner who was appointed to the Board on 1 October As at 29 November 2005 the Company had received notification 2005.
Accordingly, Sir Roy Gardner will retire and offers himself of material interests in its issued ordinary share capital and for election at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Peter Blackburn American Depositary Receipts ADRs numbers of shares, and Sven Kado retire from the Board by rotation.
In accordance ADRs and percentage interests are as at the notification dates with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Peter from the following.
Cawdron is subject to annual re-election.
of ADRs % of issued Sven Kado and Peter Cawdron being eligible offer themselves m m capital for re-election at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Denis Franklin Resources, Inc. Cassidy, Clive Grundy, Andrew Lynch and Alain Dupuis ceased to and its affiliates 312.0 14.5 be directors of the Company on 14 February 2005, 29 July 2005, The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 96.0 4.5 28 September 2005 and 1 October 2005 respectively.
Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 55.5 57.6 5.2 Barclays PLC 81.0 3.8 Directors indemnities As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which Legal & General Group plc the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the and its subsidiaries 78.8 3.7 Company Secretary, who is also a director of certain subsidiaries AVIVA plc 65.6 3.0 of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Scottish Widows Investment Companys articles of association in respect of all losses arising Partnership Limited 64.7 3.0 out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties A profile of shareholdings in the capital of the Company is set out on page 71. and responsibilities as a director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Political and charitable donations Charitable donations for the year amounted to 1,340,000.
Directors interests There were no donations for political purposes but, because Details of the interests of the directors holding office at the end the full extent of current UK legislation in this area is uncertain, of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set the directors will seek to renew their authority to make such out in the Remuneration Committees Report on pages 24 to 35. expenditure for a further year.
Accordingly Resolution 10 set out None of the directors had any interests in the shares of any of the in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will be proposed on a Companys subsidiaries at any time during the year.
None of the precautionary basis at the 2006 Annual General Meeting to directors had a material interest in any contract of significance authorise such expenditure.
with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings during the year.
Dividends and results A final dividend on the ordinary shares is proposed for the year ended 30 September 2005 of 6.5 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend paid on 15 August 2005 of 3.3 pence per share, makes a total for the period of 9.8 pence per share 2004: 9.3 pence per share.
Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the 2006 Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 6 March 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 February 2006.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 8 February 2006.
ANNUAL REPORT 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 19 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Employees Auditors The Group is committed to an active policy of equal opportunity In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee from selection and recruitment, through training and development, as disclosed on page 21, Resolution 8 set out in the Notice of the appraisal and promotion to retirement.
The policy promotes an Annual General Meeting relating to the re-appointment of Deloitte environment free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the where all employees can receive equal treatment regardless of 2006 Annual General Meeting.
gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday 10 February The policy gives full and fair consideration to the recruitment of 2006 at 11.00am in the Fleming Room at the Queen Elizabeth II disabled persons.
Where disabled persons are employed their Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London training including retraining for alternative work for employees SW1P 3EE.
The Notice setting out details of the business to be that become disabled and development for promotion are considered at the meeting is sent to shareholders separately encouraged and assisted.
Expert advice is taken on the needs with this Annual Report.
of disabled employees and special equipment is provided where appropriate.
By Order of the Board Group personnel policies ensure that all employees are made Tim Mason aware on a regular basis of the Groups policies, programmes and Company Secretary progress.
Extensive use is made of briefing meetings, in-house 29 November 2005 magazines, notice boards and other communications channels including Mercury, the Groups global intranet.
Mercury facilitates the capturing and sharing of information and knowledge and provides an important link to the Groups employees worldwide.
The Company operates a range of employee share schemes and they are described in the Remuneration Committees Report on pages 24 to 35.
