COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 16 CUSTOMER CASE STUDY Nationwide Building Society Technology Solutions By taking a proactive approach to renewing our cabling infrastructure, we will ensure that the needs of the business continue to be met now and in the future.
CHALLENGE SOLUTION In the fast-moving financial services sector, companies must be The upgrade was a long-term commitment requiring a able to deploy new technologies to retain competitive advantage.
substantial amount of out-of-hours working to avoid disruption These technologies often rely heavily on a companys networking to the business.
To access the additional resources and avoid performance and underlying cabling infrastructure.
compromising its daily support activities, Nationwide decided to partner with Computacenter.
Nationwides current cabling solution was between 12 and 14 years old.
Although it met the current needs of the business, As well as assisting with the cabling upgrade, which is the building society had to ensure it could continue to offer high due to be completed in 2008, Computacenter has helped availability into the future.
Nationwide deploy an intelligent patching solution to aid ongoing management.
Upgrading the infrastructure was a mammoth task, and would involve 8,000-plus desktops and approximately 1,000 kilometres of cabling.
SERVICES PROVIDED BENEFITS The new infrastructure will increase connectivity to the Planning and design desktop from 20 Mbps to 1,000 Mbps.
Installation Supply chain services This improved cabling and connectivity performance will Project management enable Nationwide to take advantage of new feature-rich applications it is developing.
The real-time monitoring capabilities of the new patching Country: UK solution will enable Nationwide to seamlessly manage its estate, and reduce support overheads.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 17 CHAIRMANS ST CUSTOMER CASE STUDY ATEMENT DaimlerChrysler Financial Services AG Technology Solutions and Support Services The new network has proved to be very reliable and delivered outstanding performance.
CHALLENGE SOLUTION As one of the largest providers of automotive financial services, As a former DaimlerChrysler supplier of the year, Computacenter the company needed to ensure that its network could meet its was a natural partner for the project and helped the company high expectations.
design and implement a powerful network that would ensure trouble-free operations.
Expansion of the local area network at the companys Berlin headquarters had led to unstructured infrastructure growth The new infrastructure, which Computacenter now supports, and inadequate performance levels.
was built in parallel to the existing network to ensure a seamless migration.
Computacenter also managed the roll-out to help As well as increasing networking performance, DaimlerChrysler reduce both risk and implementation time.
Financial Services was also keen to ensure the ongoing sustainability of the new environment.
SERVICES PROVIDED BENEFITS Installation Thanks to round-the-clock monitoring by Computacenter, Planning and design any problems can be immediately addressed, thereby Network support ensuring outstanding networking performance.
Product supply The new infrastructure also provides the company with operating reliability and greater transparency, which enables support costs to be easily monitored.
Country: Germany By equipping its headquarters with a state-of-the-art networking infrastructure, DaimlerChrysler Financial Services will be able to take advantage of future technological enhancements and optimise its mobility and security capabilities.
DaimlerChrysler COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 18 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 19 COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 20 CUSTOMER CASE STUDY Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA Managed Services and Technology Solutions Outsourcing our IT to Computacenter is very cost-effective and reduces our operational outlay.
CHALLENGE SOLUTION The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority had just a matter of The NDA turned to Computacenter to plan, design and months between the UK governments approval of its formation implement a new infrastructure that would meet its operational and its go-live date of 1 April 2005 to deploy a fully integrated IT deadline and deliver a reliable infrastructure that could grow environment.
with the new organisation, The new infrastructure not only had to meet the needs of the As the authority wanted to ensure its ongoing agility by limiting business but also comply with industry regulations and deliver its headcount and outsourcing non-core business activities, operational excellence, which required a broad set of IT skills it also signed a three-year Managed Service contract with and resources.
Due to tight security controls, the efficiency of the environment had to be achieved without the advantage of technologies such as remote management.
SERVICES PROVIDED BENEFITS Datacentre, desktop and By outsourcing its IT, the NDA has been able to reduce network support its operational overheads both in terms of IT support Supply chain services and recruitment costs.
End user management Portfolio management The organisation is able to enjoy the benefits of new Product supply technology more rapidly, which enhances both efficiency and agility.
The partnership with Computacenter enables the NDA to Country: UK tap into a flexible pool of resources, which helps ensure continuous service improvements and systems availability.
ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 21 CHAIRMANS ST CUSTOMER CASE STUDY ATEMENT Saunier Duval Technology Solutions We can now detect errors even before theyve affected users.
We are saving precious time each day and on each operating system.
CHALLENGE SOLUTION As a leading supplier of heating and hot water equipment, To assist with the implementation of its chosen solution, Saunier Duval must ensure that its IT infrastructure keeps Microsoft Operations Manager MOM, Saunier Duval turned to pace with business demand and delivers competitive Computacenter.
MOM collects warnings and events from the advantage.
companys servers and helps restore the systems back to full service.
Maintaining business continuity is a key concern for any organisation, and Saunier Duval needed to be aware of By working in partnership with Computacenter, Saunier Duval potential risks to the availability of its core server was able to fide-risk the roll-out, reduce implementation time and infrastructure.
gain a full understanding of how to maximise its investment in the solution.
With 10 main sites across France and 50 servers, the company lacked the in-house resources to deploy an effective monitoring and supervision solution without expert help.
SERVICES PROVIDED BENEFITS Planning and design The company saves at least an hour of support time every day, Project management thanks to its proactive monitoring capabilities.
Implementation and testing This increased level of proactive IT management means that Saunier Duval can also detect errors before they impact users, which helps safeguard business continuity.
Country: France The overall resilience of its IT infrastructure has been enhanced, with information on server malfunctions and performance being used to optimise and strengthen systems management.
COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 22 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 23
