DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors are responsible for preparing the accounts and IFRS, dividends are now recognised in the accounts in the year in herewith present their report and the audited accounts of the which they are paid, or in the case of a final dividend, when Company for the year ended 31 December 2005. approved by the shareholders.
As such, the amount recognised in the 2005 accounts, as described in note 10, is made up of last Principal activities years final dividend and the interim dividend of this year.
The Company is a holding company and is a going concern.
The principal activities of the group of subsidiary company The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 30 May undertakings, of which it is the parent, are the design, project 2006 to those shareholders on the register as at 5 May 2006. management, implementation and support of information The Company paid an interim dividend of 4.6 million on 21 technology systems.
October 2005. Review of the business Directors A detailed review of the Groups activities and the development of The Directors who served during the year ended 31 December its business, together with an indication of future developments, 2005 are detailed below.
Brief biographical details of the Directors are included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5, the at the date of this report are given on page 25.
Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 11 and the Finance Directors Review on pages 12 to 15.
Ron Sandler will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer himself for Results and dividends re-election.
Philip Hulme and Peter Ogden, having served as The Groups activities resulted in a profit before tax of 34.0 million Directors for more than nine years, will retire and offer themselves 2004: 67.9 million.
The Group profit for the year available to for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
shareholders amounted to 20.4 million 2004: 44.4 million.
Directors interests in shares The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company 9.4 million 2004: 9.8 million.
Due to the implementation of at the beginning and end of the year are set out below: At 31 December 2005 At 1 January 2005 or as at date of appointment Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial Executive Directors RA Sandler 75,000 75,000 MJ Norris 1,271,265 1,271,265 FA Conophy 1,762,758 1,762,758 Non-Executive Directors NJ Cosh 5,000 5,000 PW Hulme 24,977,295 9,772,707 24,977,295 9,772,707 1 GM Lescuyer PJ Ogden 42,402,764 1,175,000 42,402,764 1,175,000 CSF Preddy 5,000 5,000 1 Mr Lescuyer resigned as a Director on 13 September 2005.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the shares of Computacenter since 31 December 2005.
Major interests in shares In addition to the Directors interests set out above, no persons have notified the Company as of 31 January 2006, that they hold a substantial interest as defined in the Companies Act 1985 in the existing issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
34 COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Authority to purchase own shares Health, Safety and Environment At the 2005 Annual General Meeting a resolution was passed It remains the policy of the Group that each business maintains giving the Company authority to purchase up to 10% of its the high standards necessary to safeguard the health and safety ordinary shares by market purchase.
No such purchases were of its employees, customers, contractors and the public.
This made during the year.
A resolution to renew the authority is to be commitment is formally contained in the Health and Safety Policy put to the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Statement signed by the Chief Executive, which is available from the Companys website at www.
com corporateCreditors payment policy responsibility or upon request.
The Health, Safety and The Company does not hold any trade creditor balances.
Environment HSE Department monitors and reviews all However, it is the policy of the Group that each of the businesses procedures and policies, whilst also utilising the advice of external should agree appropriate terms and conditions with suppliers consultants in order to ensure the management systems comply ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated with current legal requirements.
The health, safety and contracts and that payment should be in accordance with those environment management systems are registered with UVDB and terms and conditions, provided that the supplier has also verify with annual audits conducted to ensure conformance.
environment management system EMS additionally remains ISO 14001:2004 certified with the BSI conducting bi-annual audits at Financial instruments all key locations.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in the Finance Directors Review on pages 12 to 15 Employee involvement and in note 23 to the accounts.
Computacenter remains committed to involving all employees in contributing to the development of the Group.
Regular team Employee share schemes briefing processes exist in which employees are encouraged to The Company operates executive share option schemes and a discuss matters affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
performance-related option scheme for the benefit of employees.
Employee Consultative Forums exist in each country to consult During the year, no options to purchase shares of the Company staff on major issues affecting employment and matters of policy.
were granted under these schemes 2004: 1,607,222 ordinary Should there be trans-national issues to discuss, there exists a shares of 5p each.
At the year-end options remained outstanding facility to engage the European Forum.
under these schemes in respect of a total of 7,881,153 ordinary shares of 5p each 2004: 8,566,056 ordinary shares.
During the Employee opinion surveys were conducted during 2005 in the year, options over 28,600 shares were exercised and options over UK, Germany and France by external research companies, to 656,303 shares lapsed.
seek employees views on a wide range of subjects.
Feedback has been shared and action plans developed involving employees At the Annual General Meeting in April 2005, the shareholders from across the business.
Examples of changes made as a result approved a new Performance Share Plan PSP but no shares of previous surveys include the introduction of a new employee were granted under the terms of this scheme during 2005. induction programme, the launch of a quality based employee reward and recognition scheme, and improved remote access to In addition, the Company continues to operate a Sharesave corporate systems.
scheme for the benefit of employees.
At the year-end, 3,309,941 2004: 3,603,417 options granted under the Sharesave scheme Equal opportunities remained outstanding.
The Group is committed to equal opportunities, monitoring and regularly reviewing policies and practices to ensure that it meets During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom the standards it sets.
No employee or potential employee limits for the issue of new shares for employee share plans receives less favourable treatment or consideration on grounds as required in the rules of the plans, specifically the 5% in of race, national or ethnic origin, gender, age, disability, sexual 10 years limit for discretionary plans and the 10% in 10 years for orientation or marital status.
The Group is committed to make all share plans.
full use of the talents and resources of all its employees and to provide a healthy environment that encourages good and Corporate Social Responsibility productive working relationships within the organisation.
Policies The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible way dealing with equal opportunities are in place in all parts of the benefits the community, our customers, shareholders and Group, which take account of the Groups overall commitment employees alike.
A wide variety of initiatives and measures are and also address local regulatory requirements.
The HR underway to ensure the Group continues to develop in a socially Department monitors and reports to the Board on developments responsible way.
in regulation and practice in the various jurisdictions where the Group companies operate, thereby ensuring that appropriate action can be taken to ensure compliance.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 35 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Performance and personal development Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the The Group is committed to the development of its employees financial statements through a regular performance review process.
Managers are The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and responsible for setting and reviewing personal objectives aligned the financial statements in accordance with applicable company to corporate and functional goals, reviewing performance against law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as behavioural standards appropriate to job level, agreeing adopted by the European Union.
appropriate training and development interventions, and discussing career aspirations.
The Group Executive Committee The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for has overall responsibility for monitoring management each financial year which present fairly the financial position of development and ensuring that the required skills are available the Company and of the Group and cash flows of the Company to meet the current and future management needs of the Group.
and of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial At divisional and functional level, review processes exist to ensure statements, the Directors are required to: that there is breadth and depth of management talent throughout the business.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Each year, approximately 2.5% of the Groups salary expense make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and is spent on technical training and skills development.
The prudent: Companys reward strategy has been reviewed and continues state whether applicable accounting standards have been to emphasise performance-related pay, with bonus payments followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed aligned to the Companys and divisional financial performance.
and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is On 16 December 2005, the UK business was awarded the status inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will of an Investors in People organisation.
Workplace The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting International human rights obligations and international records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the employment laws are met through a broad range of policies financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the across the Group.
These ensure that, for example, employees accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of are not subject to discrimination, arbitrary or unjust dismissal or the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the unjust application of wage rates.
Appropriate employee benefit assets of the Group and hence taking reasonable steps for the programmes exist across the Group.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Business ethics Auditors An ethics policy is operated by the Group, which includes a Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in requirement for all employees to report abuses or nonoffice as auditor and a resolution approving the re-appointment of conformance with the policy whistle-blowing.
This policy Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at commits Computacenter employees to the highest standards of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
ethical behaviour in respect of customers, suppliers, colleagues and other stakeholders in the business.
By order of the Board Community relations and charity activities The Group supports community and charitable projects as part of its commitment to the concept of corporate social responsibility and encourages its employees to support such projects.
It also organises and supports ad hoc charitable fundraising events.
In addition, the donation of IT equipment to schools and other charitable causes is a feature of the Groups recycling SJ Benade programmes.
In 2005 the Group made charitable donations Secretary amounting to 79,000.
13 March 2006 Going concern The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
36 COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
