Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 14 Summary report by the valuers In accordance with UKPS 5.4, we are required to A high proportion of the total value of the Subsidiary To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC make certain disclosures in connection with this Companies properties and Properties is accounted In accordance with your instructions, we have valuation instruction and our relationship with the for by properties and Properties situated in adjacent undertaken a valuation of the various commercial Company and the Subsidiary Companies.
Sean and or adjoining locations in three specific areas of and residential freehold and long leasehold Wordley is the signatory of our Reports.
He has the West End of London: Carnaby Street and its property interests as at 30th September 2005 the been the signatory of valuation reports addressed environs, Chinatown and the adjoining area date of valuation held by Shaftesbury Carnaby to Shaftesbury PLC, in respect of the properties immediately west of Wardour Street south of its Limited, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, which are the subject of our Reports, for the junction with Shaftesbury Avenue, and the areas Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited and Shaftesbury previous two years.
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung has around Seven Dials in the western part of Covent Charlotte Street Limited, which are subsidiary been carrying out this valuation instruction for the Garden.
These areas are all dominated by retail companies of Shaftesbury PLC collectively Company, and now the Subsidiary Companies, for and restaurant uses.
In our opinion, at the date of referred to as the Subsidiary Companies, and a continuous period since 1996.
As well as preparing valuation, this particular unusual confluence of Shaftesbury PLC the Company, as referred to our Reports, we also undertake valuations of ownership and use characteristics may cause in our valuation reports dated 30th November certain of the properties referred to in our Reports some prospective purchasers to regard parts of the 2005 our Reports.
Our Reports were prepared for other purposes, such as secured lending and portfolio when combined as having a greater value for accounts purposes.
for inclusion in shareholders circulars.
Currently, than the aggregate of the individual values of the in addition to valuation instructions, there are other combined properties and Properties which make All properties have been subject to external fee-earning relationships between DTZ Debenham up those parts.
inspections between August and November 2005 Tie Leung, the Company and certain of the and a number were subject to internal inspections.
As required by the provisions of the Red Book, in Subsidiary Companies.
These relate to our undertaking our valuations, we have valued each The valuations have been made in accordance with appointment as property and asset managers in property or Property separately, rather than valuing the appropriate sections of the current Practice respect of the properties known as Wellington the portfolio as a whole or in combinations of parts.
Statements PS, and United Kingdom Practice House, 13 14 Upper St Martins Lane, 15 17 Mercer The total valuation figure below is the aggregated Statements UKPS contained within the RICS Street and 140 142 Long Acre & 16 19 Upper St value of the separate properties or Properties within Appraisal and Valuation Standards, 5th Edition Martins Lane and to our involvement in advising the various categories of tenure referred to below.
The valuations have been the Company in connection with a potential joint undertaken by external valuers, qualified for the venture scheme in respect of these properties with All valuations were on the basis of Market Value.
a third party: to our involvement in advising the We have assessed Market Value in accordance with Company or certain of the Subsidiary Companies in PS 3.2 of the Red Book.
connection with the acquisition of certain properties We have not made any allowance for vendors sale and to our involvement on behalf of the Company costs nor for any tax liabilities which may arise or certain of the Subsidiary Companies in acting as upon the disposal of any of the properties or letting agents in respect of certain of the office Properties.
We have made deductions to reflect accommodation.
In accordance with the provisions of Guidance Note A full explanation of the assumptions made in our 3 of the Red Book, in undertaking our valuations, valuations and details of the sources of information we have lotted together certain individual properties are contained within our Reports.
to form a separate property a Property or Properties in the manner we consider to be We have measured certain of the properties, or most likely to be adopted in the case of an actual parts of properties, either on site or by scaling sale.
We consider that lotting the properties from floor plans.
The Company or its managing together on the basis reflected in our valuations agents have provided us with the floor areas of the would allow a purchaser to capitalise on the estate remaining properties or parts of properties.
management advantages and opportunities available from such comprehensive ownership.
50 Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 15 We have read the majority of the leases and related Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the The contents of our Reports are confidential to documents provided to us in respect of the opinion that the aggregates of the Market Values, Shaftesbury PLC, Shaftesbury Covent Garden commercial properties.
Where we have not read as at 30th September 2005, of the freehold and Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, Shaftesbury leases, we have relied on tenancy information long leasehold property interests owned by the Chinatown Limited and Shaftesbury Charlotte provided by the Company.
Company and the Subsidiary Companies, subject Street Limited, for the specific purpose to which to the assumptions and comments in our Reports they refer and are for their use only.
Consequently, Certain properties were subject to works of repair dated 30th November 2005, were as follows:- and in accordance with current practice, no or refurbishment at 30th September 2005, or were responsibility is accepted to any other party in subject to outstanding retentions and fees in Freehold properties 940,264,000 respect of the whole or any part of the contents of respect of projects already completed at that date.
Nine hundred and our Reports or this summary report.
Before our In these instances, the Company advised us of the forty million, two Reports or this summary report, or any part amount of the outstanding costs.
However, we have hundred and sixtythereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any been advised by the Company that accrual is made four thousand document, circular or statement, and before their in its financial statements as at 30th September pounds contents, or any part thereof, are disclosed orally 2005, for the costs to complete these projects or or otherwise to a third party, the valuers written Long leasehold properties 21,025,000 settle outstanding retentions and fees.
Accordingly, approval as to the form and context of such Twenty-one million we have not deducted these outstanding sums publication or disclosure must first be obtained.
and twenty-five from our valuations.
The total amount of such For the avoidance of doubt such approval is thousand pounds costs is 2,876,715 and details of the individual required whether or not DTZ Debenham Tie Leung sums are included in our Reports.
Total 961,289,000 are referred to by name and whether or not the Nine hundred and contents of our Reports or this summary report As referred to above, we have lotted together sixty-one million, are combined with others.
certain individual properties to form a separate two hundred and Property or separate Properties.
In the case of four eighty-nine Properties which comprise a number of individual thousand pounds properties, the majority of such properties are held Sean A Wordley MRICS freehold but certain of them are held on long leases.
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited A long lease is one with an unexpired term in In order to divide our valuation of these Properties International Property Advisers excess of 50 years.
between the categories of freehold and long One Curzon Street leasehold, we have undertaken notional London W1A 5PZ apportionments of value between the freehold elements and the long leasehold elements which together comprise the relevant Properties.
The amounts arising from these notional apportionments of value have been included in the figures representing the freehold and long leasehold categories below.
The amounts arising from the notional apportionments do not themselves represent the Market Value of the two elements.
The Subsidiary Companies own a number of properties on a freehold basis where it also holds long leasehold interests within the freehold and has not merged the interests.
For the purposes of the freehold long leasehold split below, we have included such properties within the freehold category.
