Directors biographies 1 Andrew Palmer 5 David Sleath Non-Executive Director Finance Director 1 3 56 7 A chartered accountant, he is currently Group Finance A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, Director with Legal & General Plc.
Since joining Legal he joined Slough Estates from Wagon plc, where he had 2 4 & General in 1988 he has held a number of financial and spent five years as Finance Director.
He trained at Arthur operational roles in the asset management, insurance Andersen, becoming a partner in 1992 and Head of Audit and international businesses.
He was appointed and Assurance for the Midland Region in 1995.
He joined a director of Slough Estates in January 2004.
Slough Estates as Deputy Finance Director in April 2005 and joined the Board as Group Finance Director on 1 January 2 Lord Blackwell 2006.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Amongst other business interests, he is Chairman of 6 Ian Coull Interserve plc, a non-executive director of Standard Chief Executive Life, The Corporate Services Group plc and Smartstream A Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Technologies Ltd and a senior adviser to KPMGs Surveyors, he joined Slough Estates from J Sainsbury plc Corporate Finance practice.
He also serves as a nonwhere he was director responsible for Real Estate.
executive Board Member of the Office of Fair Trading.
Before joining Sainsburys in 1987 he held Board and Senior After many years as a partner with McKinsey & Company, Management positions at Ladbrokes, Texas Homecare and he served as Head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit Cavenham Foods.
He is on the London Regional Board of from 1995-97, and was Director of Group Development at Royal and Sun Alliance and is currently the President of the NatWest Group from 1997-2000.
He became a Life Peer in British Property Federation.
He is a non-executive director 1997 and is currently Chairman of the Centre for Policy of House of Fraser Plc.
He has been a director of Slough Studies.
He was appointed a director of Slough Estates in Estates since January 2003.
7 Paul Orchard-Lisle CBE TD DL 3 Marshall Lees Chairman Executive Director A Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, Responsible for operations in North America.
He is a he is Executive Chairman of the Falcon Property Trust, graduate of the University of Western Ontario and York a director of Standard Life Property Income Trust and University, Toronto.
Following three years with British a member of the advisory board of IVG Immobilien AG.
American Tobacco, he obtained an MBA at the London He is a member of the Estates Committee of the Wellcome Business School and subsequently joined Imperial Group Trust, Chairman of the Royal Artillery Museum and a Trustee plc.
He joined Slough Estates in 1987 and was appointed a of The United Learning Trust Foundation.
He is also Deputy director in March 1998.
He is a director of the Charterhouse Lieutenant for the County of Greater London and a past Group International, Inc.
He is a Canadian and is aged 52. president of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
He has been a director of the Company since 4 Stephen L Howard June 1980.
He became Chairman in August 2005, when Non-Executive Director Sir Nigel Mobbs stood down due to ill health.
Chairman of Remuneration Committee He began his career as an attorney in his native US with a focus on corporate advisory work for multinational companies.
He went on to become Group Chief Executive of Cookson Group plc and then Novar plc.
He is on the advisory councils of various private and non-profit organisations and is the Managing Director of Business in the Community.
He was appointed a director of Slough Estates in May 2001.
54 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 8 10 Christopher Peacock The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market PC, OBE Non-Executive Director 9 Non-Executive Director A Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, 11 8 10 12 Chairman of Audit Committee.
he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Jones Member of Parliament for South Norfolk from 1974 Lang LaSalle until the beginning of 2004.
He served Lang Wootton in 1972 and was made a partner in 1974.
Conservative Governments in several Cabinet He became the European Chief Executive in 1996 and appointments, from l985 to 1995, Chief Secretary to the Jones Lang Woottons first global Chief Executive in 1997.
Treasury, Agriculture, Education & Science, Leader of the In 1999 he became Chief Operating Officer and House and Lord President of the Council and Secretary of subsequently CEO of the NYSE listed company.
He was State for Transport.
He is currently a non-executive director appointed a director of Slough Estates in January 2004. of Associated British Foods plc, Friends Provident plc, and He is aged 60. of the European Supervisory Board of DAF Trucks NV, Netherlands.
He was appointed a director of Slough Estates 11 John Heawood in January 1995.
Executive Director Responsible for the UK property portfolio.
He holds 9 Dick Kingston degrees in Estate Management and Rural Planning Executive Director Studies from Reading University and is a Member of the Chairman of Slough Estates Continental European Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
After six years with business.
Having obtained a Business Studies degree Fletcher King and 11 years with DTZ Debenham Thorpe, while with British Petroleum, he qualified as a chartered dealing with provincial industrial and office property, he accountant with Whinney Murray & Co. now Ernst & joined the Board of Slough Estates in November 1996.
Young in London and Paris.
Following five years with He is aged 53.
Hawker Siddeley as Head of Financial Control and Audit, he joined Slough Estates as Group Financial Controller 12 Thom Wernink in 1987.
He was appointed a director in April 1996, with Non-Executive Director responsibility for Group Finance, adding responsibility for A Dutch citizen and a senior figure in the Continental Europe Continental Europe in 2002.
He relinquished his finance property market.
He was until April 2005 Chairman of responsibilities on 31 December 2005.
He is non-executive the European Public Real Estate Association and was chairman of Alpha Pyrenees Trust Ltd.
He is aged 58. a former Chairman of Corio NV, a Netherlands-based property company which had retail, office and industrial interests across Europe, the US and Canada.
He is a non-executive director on a number of Continental European-based property and investment companies.
He was appointed a director of Slough Estates in May 2005.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 55
