10 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Understanding our business Our business reviewed the Groups website, focusing Workspace rental income by location per sq ft Our core product is an affordable, on improvements in the sales presentation flexible lease which allows our 1 6 and customer support aspects of the site.
customers to move in quickly and 2 An improved site was launched after the to expand or contract as their financial year end.
5 1 North London 12.95% 2 South London 25.46% Our marketing activities are supported Typical lease terms include a tenancy 3 East London 12.00% 3 by the Groups association with the Small 4 West London 24.82% for 3 years, protected in the main by the 4 5 Central London 14.51% Business School at Kingston University Landlord and Tenant Act but affording 6 Outer London & SE 10.26% which continues to provide valuable tenants the right to break on 3 months insights into the activities of SMEs in With the spread of our portfolio, we can service SMEs notice.
In many respects we are an throughout London and the South East.
general and on a segmental basis.
hotelier of space for small businesses, Research undertaken with Kingston has focused on providing good customer Workspace rents by property type % service.
With average rents of just provided profiles of our customers and 9.29 per sq ft and an average unit size their performance, plans, impressions and 5 1 of 1,100 sq ft, our average customer attitudes, presentations of which may be in London pays approximately 10,200 found on the Groups website see inside in rent per annum which we believe back cover.
All this helps us shape our should be readily affordable for small product and manage risk in our business.
1 Industrial 30.4% 2 businesses operating in one of the best 3 2 Warehouse 1.1% 4 markets in the UK.
3 Offices & Studios 5.1% With its in-house management operations 4 Business Centres 62.5% lettings, estate management and credit 5 Open Storage & SE 0.9% Our business, its product and its systems, control the Group is attuned to the is designed to accommodate the changing Our portfolio is focused on the principal flexibility needed by the SME marketplace.
accommodation requirements for SMEs, needs of our customers as they upsize This enables us to foster close contact industrial and business centres.
or downsize providing an appealing with our customers, to monitor changes Workspace occupancy % offer to customers whilst generating in the market and to maintain exacting premium rents.
We try to work closely with 1 2 our customers and to understand and be During the year under review we received responsive to their needs.
This is reflected 7,764 enquiries which yielded 1,012 not only in our flexible leasing approach new lettings.
The principal generators but also through a combination of entry of enquiries continued to be estate and exit interviews and active centre signboards, internet references and management.
From the pricing of our 1 Occupied 90.51% referrals from existing customers.
product, the focus on occupancy and 2 Vacant 9.49% These enquiries are crucial to the actual achieved rates for rentals, Groups success: not only do they to the front of house management We achieved a key target for 2004 05 achieving a like-for-like occupancy rate of 90.51%.
provide new lettings but they are also easy-in-easy-out lettings and on-site an indication of levels of activity within management and the provision of the SME sector and industry sub-sectors, add-on services, our approach is, as enabling us to focus our offer effectively noted above, like that of an hotelier.
on emerging value adding businesses those best able to pay improving rents.
We are the largest provider of accommodation focused on the SME Enquiries also provide valuable sector in London and the South East with intelligence into the developing patterns 3,940 customers in 103 estates providing and trends in the sector.
This influences 5.2 million sq ft of accommodation.
There our acquisition strategy and product are few significantly sized competitors in development both in terms of the type this large but disaggregated marketplace.
and location of the buildings and the We have found that our portfolio services we provide within them.
With aggregation has provided both the benefits the growth in internet enquiries we have of greater choice to our customers and
