Understanding our business Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 19 From risk to opportunity Workspace provides a key link in the Risk management Social, ethical and economic development of London Whilst careful management of risk will environmental SEE issues and the South East by providing affordable protect earnings and shareholder value, Our business is founded on a financially flexible space for such entrepreneurs.
systematic analysis of risk and the attractive yet sustainable SEE business Our sites are often catalysts for the wider application of this into a business model model.
From the recycling of older economic regeneration in inner city areas.
Casual analysis buildings that have outlived their former We have an active community involvement of the Groups activity of investing in use, to the provision of an attractive programme giving both financial and secondary property and letting to occupational offer to new and emerging customers of weaker covenants would practical help and supporting the efforts, small businesses, SEE concerns are lead to the conclusion that this is a addressed not just by the way we ingenuity and time of our employees.
By aggregating conduct our business but by the these properties and customers, risk business itself.
We respond to the Our corporate, social, and environmentally is not compounded but shared.
This interest and concerns of our customers responsible strategies are at the heart aggregation provides a better insight by encouraging the use of environmentally of the Workspace strategy supporting into customers behaviour, facilitates a friendly transportation and the our commercial success.
We believe that wider pool of enquiry contacts, enables minimisation and recycling of waste.
addressing SEE issues is not simply more efficient centralised procurement The training of our staff and policies philanthropy but something that has strategies and secures a wider mix of with our customers and suppliers are yielded commercial benefits to the Group.
offer and therefore greater probability focused on sustaining the interests of of satisfying customer requirements.
A more detailed analysis of the Groups Link these with the capacity in a larger engagement is included in the Corporate organisation for a more systematised Our business strategy supports and Governance report on page 51 and in approach to management and the assists the development of new its separate CSR report see the inside opportunity emerges not just to manage businesses, many in the knowledge, back cover.
risk but to take advantage of it.
creative and high added value sectors.
Location Leathermarket Urban regeneration When the Leathermarket was acquired it was 30% let and declining.
Carefully planned refurbishment and marketing has established it as a major employment location in Southwark whilst creating good value for the Group.
