16 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Understanding our business Adding value At 31 March 2005 the Group supplied gas next year.
The Company has found that Services and electricity to 918 customers, had this service not only benefits its customers The Company has set itself the objective 580 business insurance customers and but enhances its brand through wider of being a good landlord and providing 256 internet connectivity customers.
recognition of the services it provides the highest levels of customer service.
During the year the Group launched an for SMEs.
It recognises that its standards and initiative to provide internet protocol efficiency of service, from the initial telephony IPT on a number of its sites letting process through to moving in Properties following the successful provision of an and occupation, should allow customers The Groups core activity is investment to maximise time spent on their own IPT service as part of its Quality Court in, and the letting of, small-unit businesses.
To do this it has developed refurbishment project.
This project will accommodation for SMEs.
As such, it stream-lined processes and actively seeks be progressed through 2005 06 with is not a property development company.
out opportunities to complement its services being extended to other sites.
However it will, when appropriate, accommodation offer.
These currently engage either directly itself or by extend principally to energy electricity For many years the Group has operated a working with partners in property and gas, business insurance and internet tenants directory a yellow pages type improvement and development activities connectivity services.
Whilst these guide to services offered and preferential to meet changing consumer needs and provide a useful supplement to earnings, terms made available by customers to create additional value.
The Group their main objective is to increase the to other Workspace customers.
This has spent a considerable amount of attractiveness of the Workspace core directory has recently been transferred time and effort analysing its portfolio accommodation offering and support the from a paper form to a web-based to ensure that it prioritises its efforts on maintenance of high levels of occupancy solution.
Plans are also in hand to those properties which have significant and rental income.
upgrade further this service over the potential for value enhancement.
Customer Seoidra Design Pall Mall Deposit Being a good landlord...
Involves providing outstanding customer service, being approachable and providing well managed centres, leaving customers to focus on their own business.
Understanding our business Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 17 Location Enterprise House Recycling property The Group extends the life of buildings redundant for their former use by refurbishment and subdivision.
At Enterprise House, works include the construction of a roof top extension and refurbishment and subdivision of office space.
Customer Coad, Cole & Burey Leathermarket Tenants directory Workspace has assisted its customers through its blue pages directory for many years.
This is now offered in a web format.
18 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Understanding our business Adding value continued Recent projects to improve our In addition to these projects, initiatives Aberdeen Studios: planning consent accommodation offering to customers for the partial or complete change of use has been sought for a mixed-use and the rental potential from our of sites have been progressed: residential and business centre properties which demonstrate this development involving the replacement focus include: Thurston Road: this 46,400 sq ft of the existing centre and the industrial estate is to be replaced by development of 96 residential units: Leathermarket: construction of single up to a 75,000 sq ft retail warehouse, storey extensions to two blocks of the together with up to 290 residential Greenheath Business Centre: planning estate undertaken in conjunction with units and related parking.
Once consent has been sought for a mixedrefurbishment works: planning consent and vacant possession use residential and business centre have been secured then the property development in which the existing will be sold to a commercial Barley Mow: refurbishment of 50% of 59,000 sq ft centre would be replaced development company: space at centre to bring it in line with by a new 48,000 sq ft centre and current customer requirements: 100 residential units.
Wharf Road: planning consent The latter three projects will provide Quality Court: refurbishment of was received during the year for new accommodation in place of the former Patent Office to create replacement of the 43,000 sq ft old tired buildings together with a managed office space: business centre by 77 residential cash consideration of the order of the units and a new 32,500 sq ft business original value of the existing buildings.
A residential developer refurbishment of centre to target partner is to be sought for this site: offering at cultural and creative markets in this area: Enterprise House: extension, refurbishment and sub-division of single let space to create enlarged business centre.
Location Barley Mow Property refurbishment Barley Mow was one of the first business centres targeted at SMEs to be created.
Careful refurbishment to update its accommodation has again extended the life of this former Sanderson wallpaper factory.
