14 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Understanding our business The Board 01 05 02 06 03 07 04 08 Understanding our business Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 15 01 Antony Hales BSc 05 Bernard Cragg BSc ACA Executive Board Chairman Bernard Cragg 50 joined the Board in Tony Hales 57 joined the Board in June 2003.
He is Chairman of Datamonitor Harry Platt, Chief Executive November 2002 and was appointed Plc and a non-executive director of Chairman in December 2002.
He is Mothercare Plc, Bristol & West plc Madeleine Carragher Operations Director currently Chairman of NAAFI Ltd and and Astro All Asia Networks PLC.
Responsibilities include: British Waterways and a non-executive He was formerly Group Finance Director Estate management director of Reliance Security Group plc and Chief Financial Officer of Carlton Lettings Communications Plc and a non-executive and Aston Villa plc.
He was previously Building Maintenance & Development Chief Executive of Allied Domecq plc director of Arcadia plc.
Marketing and a non-executive director of HSBC Bank plc.
06 Patrick Marples MRICS Patrick Marples Property Director Property Director Responsibilities include: 02 Harry Platt MA MRTPI Patrick Marples 49 joined the Property acquisitions and disposals Chief Executive Board in November 1996 as Property Change of use opportunities Harry Platt 53 joined the Board as Director responsible for the investment Joint venture schemes Director and General Manager in April management of the Groups property 1991, became Managing Director in April portfolio.
He had previously worked Mark Taylor Finance Director as a property consultant for the Group 1992 and Chief Executive in October 1999.
Responsibilities include: since 1987 and prior to that he was He was Chief Executive of Harlow District Finance Council between 1983 and 1989 and an associate partner at fide&J Levy.
Company Secretarial before that Assistant Chief Executive Investor Relations at the London Borough of Greenwich.
07 Christopher Pieroni BA Hons Workspace Energy Prior to joining the Group he was MSc Econ PhD Cantab IT Operations Director of Dixons Chris Pieroni 47 joined the Board in Commercial Properties Limited.
After teaching economics at Cambridge University in the 1980s he 03 John Bywater FRICS joined PA Cambridge Economic Consultants John Bywater 58 joined the Board in before moving on to Price Waterhouse and June 2004.
He is an executive director subsequently to Colliers Erdman Lewis of Hammerson PLC and Managing CEL in 1993 where he remained until 2005, initially leading the Research and Director of its UK activities.
John started Consultancy Department before becoming his career with British Rail later moving Chief Operating Officer of CEL and Head of to the Burton Group, Allied Lyons and International for Colliers CRE.
He now acts Donaldsons, Chartered Surveyors.
as a consultant advising companies on real estate issues.
04 Madeleine Carragher FRICS Operations Director Maddy Carragher 50 has worked for 08 Mark Taylor BSc FCA the Group since its establishment, Finance Director initially as Estates Surveyor.
She is Mark Taylor 54 joined the Board in responsible for the development and October 1995 as Finance Director.
He implementation of the Groups marketing trained with Touche Ross and was strategy and the promotion, letting and previously employed for sixteen years by overall management of the Groups John Laing PLC, latterly as Joint Managing estates.
She was promoted to the Director of John Laing Developments and Non-executive main Board in January 1996.
Prior to Director of Group Investments.
Following Member of Audit Committee joining the Group she was a surveyor this he worked for a short period with the Member of Remuneration Committee at fide&J Levy.
