02 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Driving our business forward Drivingour business forward Our growth is founded on a virtuous circle starting with ownership of the right properties, through to the offer made to our customers, leading to the lettings that we achieve which create the value that finances the acquisitions we continue to make, extending our focused portfolio.
In this section Key business drivers Map showing our coverage in London and the South East Financial highlights Chairmans statement Key business drivers Properties Customers Product 90% 3,940 7,764 of our portfolio is inside customers in 103 letting enquiries the M25 and two thirds estates 5.16m sq ft during the year is within six miles of Central London London and South East is the most Workspace is the largest provider of Enquiries are the life-blood of our active location for SMEs, and London accommodation to SMEs in London and business.
As our portfolio and has by far the highest density of SMEs the South East.
With this size comes customer base increases so too do per square mile of any part of the UK.
the ability to offer a wide range of enquiries for space generated by London is growing and so is demand.
accommodation to suit our customers signboards, our website and word and the capacity to provide the support of mouth.
With 103 estates and an systems to manage our estate.
established brand Workspace is uniquely positioned to respond to the needs of the SME community.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 03 Driving our business forward Our track record shows that growth flows Upper floor extension to Lafone House at from the better management and rental the Leathermarket, now occupied by Coad, growth of the properties we purchase and Cole & Burey, a customer who has expanded own, through to the added value initiatives and relocated from one of our other we apply to these properties.
Flexibility Growth Potential 1,012 43.4m 715.8m new lettings in acquisitions last portfolio, 139 year and 256.8m per sq ft over last five years London continues to grow, putting Our simple flexible, affordable lease Demand for our premises generates pressure on land and premises allows our customers to move in quickly long term rental growth increasing our property values and supporting such as ours which have a low and to expand or contract as their the further organic growth of our capital value, are not densely circumstances dictate.
developed and are well located.
