Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 27 Report of the directors The directors present their report and the audited financial Substantial interests in the share capital of the Company statements for the year ended 31 March 2005.
At 10 June 2005 the directors had been notified of the following shareholdings, amounting to 3% or more of the ordinary share Principal activities capital of the Company: The Group is engaged in property investment in the form of % of letting of business accommodation to small and medium Holder Share capital sized enterprises located in London and the South East.
At 31 March 2005 the Company had 11 active subsidiaries, F&C Asset Management 9.5% 9 of which are engaged in the Groups core activities.
Details of Standard Life 6.8% the Companys subsidiaries are listed on page 48.
LI Property Insight 6.0% Services Limited procures insurance on behalf of the Group.
ING Investment Management 5.4% Workspace Management Limited acts as manager for all the Scottish Widows 4.5% Groups property investment companies.
Workspace Holdings Legal and General 3.9% Limited is an intermediate holding company and borrower CCLA 3.7% under the Groups facility with Bradford & Bingley PLC.
Stichting and Pensioenfonds 3.5% Workspace Group ESOT 3.5% Operating and financial review Newton Investment Management 3.2% A review of the Groups operations and financial affairs is set Henderson Global Investors 3.0% out on pages 8 to 26 of this report.
Donations Profit and dividends The Company has made no political donations.
It has The Group profit after tax for the year attributable to made charitable donations, principally through rental shareholders amounted to 10,136,000 2004: 10,533,000. concessions and sponsorship, totalling 59,033 2004: 88,000.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 2.28p 2004: 2.07p net of tax, making a total of 3.41p net of Health and safety tax for the year 2004: 3.10p leaving 4,550,000 to be The Groups policy is to provide and maintain safe and transferred to reserves 2004: 5,552,000.
Figures have been healthy working conditions, equipment and systems of adjusted to reflect the bonus share issue made in March 2005. work for all its employees and to provide such information, training and supervision as they need for this purpose.
Fixed assets The Group accepts responsibility for the health and safety The Groups fixed assets consist of investment properties, of other people who may be affected by its activities.
The Groups investment properties have been Whilst all employees of the Group have a responsibility independently valued by CB Richard Ellis, Chartered Surveyors, in relation to health and safety matters, certain staff have at 31 March 2005 at open market value.
The surplus on been designated workplace responsibilities or other revaluation 67,256,000 has been carried to the revaluation co-ordinating responsibilities throughout the Group, and reserve.
ultimately, at Board level, the Chief Executive has overall responsibility.
Reports on health and safety are made to Directors each Board meeting.
Mr A J Hales, Mr H Platt, Ms M Carragher, Mr B Cragg, Mr J P Marples, Dr C J Pieroni and Mr R M Taylor served Employment policies the Company as directors throughout the year.
Mr J Bywater The Group aims to create a working environment in which every joined as a non-executive director during the year and current or prospective employee is given equal opportunity in Mr A Cherry retired.
H Platt, J P Marples and C J Pieroni selection, development and promotion.
retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Brief biographical During the year a Staff Forum has been established to improve details of each of the directors including those standing communication and consultation with employees.
for election appear on page 15.
Purchasing policies and payments The Company has a Directors and Officers liability insurance The Group tries, wherever possible, to procure its own policy which indemnifies the directors and officers against requirements from within its own tenant base providing breach of fiduciary duty.
tenants are competitive on price and quality.
The Groups policy is that unless agreed otherwise at the time of the No director had, during the year, any beneficial interest in any transaction its own payments to others for goods and contract significant to the Companys business.
services received are made on average within a month of the date of invoice.
Directors interests Details of the directors shareholdings and options over shares The number of days for trade creditors outstanding at are provided on pages 59 and 60.
31 March 2005 has not been calculated for the Company, as it has no trade creditors.
28 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Financial statements Post balance sheet events and future developments intention of issuing any ordinary shares, except in connection Following the year end the Groups interests in Payne Road with the Companys share option schemes.
As at 10 June 2005 Studios and 5 Payne Road were sold for a combined consideration the Company held no equity securities in treasury.
The Company plans to continue the development and expansion of its business and has targeted the acquisition b Companys power to purchase own shares renewal of at least 60,000,000 of new property in the current year.
of authority Resolution 10 authorises the Company to make market Going concern purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable Act 1985 on the London Stock Exchange of up to an aggregate expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate of 16,883,966 ordinary shares equivalent to 10% of the issued resources to continue in operational existence for the share capital of the Company as at 10 June 2005 at a minimum foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt price per ordinary share of 10p and a maximum price of 105% the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
of the average of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official Auditors List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on The auditors  LLP have indicated their which that ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they will be reappointed is included as ordinary business at the Annual This proposal should not be taken as an indication that the General Meeting.
Company will purchase shares at any particular price or indeed at all.
The directors will only consider making purchases if Annual General Meeting they believe that such purchases would result in an increase The 19th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held in earnings per share and are in the best interests of the at Magenta House, 85 Whitechapel Road, London E1 1DU on shareholders.
Any shares purchased under the authority Tuesday 26 July 2005.
Formal notice of the meeting is given would either be cancelled, and the number of shares in issue on pages 63 and 64. would be reduced accordingly, or would be held in treasury.
Special business at the Annual General Meeting The authority will expire on 25 July 2006 or, if earlier, at the In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, three conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company resolutions numbered 8 to 10 are proposed as special business in 2006.
It is intended to renew such authority and power at and are concerned with the following matters: successive annual general meetings.
a Directors powers to allot securities renewal of authority By virtue of the Company Acquisition of Own Shares By law, directors are not permitted to allot new shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 which came into force or to grant rights over shares unless authorised to do on 1 December 2003, certain listed companies which buy so by shareholders.
In addition, directors require specific back their own shares are now permitted, subject to certain authority from shareholders before allotting new shares restrictions, to hold up to 10% of their issued shares in or rights in respect of shares for cash without first offering treasury rather than cancelling them as previously required.
them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Instead, such repurchased shares may be held by companies Resolutions dealing with the authority of the directors to allot as treasury shares and later resold for cash, transferred for shares will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
the purposes of an employee share scheme, or cancelled.
Whilst any shares are held in treasury, voting rights are suspended, Resolution 8 gives the directors the necessary authority dividends are not paid and companies cannot take advantage for the period of five years from the date of the passing of of statutory pre-emption rights in respect of the shares other such resolution to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal than in connection with a bonus issue of fully paid shares.
amount of 5,627,988 being one third of issued share capital of the Company as at 10 June 2005.
The directors would consider holding as treasury shares any shares which the Company repurchases pursuant to Resolution 9 empowers the directors for the period of the authority provided by this resolution.
To the extent that five years from the date of the passing of such resolution any shares repurchased by the Company are held in treasury, to allot shares for cash or transfer equity securities which earnings per share will only be increased on a temporary basis are from time to time held by the Company in treasury until such time as the shares are sold or transferred out of otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis treasury.
Overall, the directors believe that the ability of the up to an aggregate nominal amount of 844,198, which is Company to hold shares in treasury will provide the Company equivalent to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company with greater flexibility in the management of its share capital.
It also enables the directors, in the case of an issue by way of rights, to deal with fractional entitlements By order of the Board and to make such exclusions or other arrangements as may be appropriate to resolve legal, regulatory or practical problems R Mark Taylor which might arise, particularly with regard to overseas Company Secretary shareholders.
It is intended to renew such authority and power 10 June 2005 at successive annual general meetings.
