Directors Report 1 Ingress Park, Greenhithe, Kent 2 The Chase at Braydon Mead, Swindon 3 Park Central, Birmingham 4 The Arboretum, near St Albans 2 4 1 3 The Directors present their annual report Results and dividend Employment policies with the consolidated accounts of the The profit for the financial year after taxation Arrangements exist to keep all employees Company and its subsidiaries for the year was 54.7m 2004 57.0m.
The Directors informed on matters of concern to them to 31st October 2005. propose that a final dividend of 8.7p per through a variety of media including share be paid to holders of ordinary shares conferences, newsletters and meetings.
Principal activities and business review which together with the interim dividend of The principal activities of the Group are 4.2p makes a total for the year of 12.9p.
It is the policy of the Group that disabled residential housing and property persons shall be considered for employment, development.
The Annual Review on pages Share capital training, career development and promotion 4 to 12 deals with the development of the Details of shares issued during the year are on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities, Group's business and its activities during set out in Note 15 to the accounts.
in common with all employees.
of any existing employee who becomes Information regarding substantial disabled are retained wherever possible.
Going Concern Assumption shareholdings in the Company is contained The Directors have considered, as part of in the Shareholder Information section on Training their annual budget process, the adequacy of page 59.
The Group recognises that its reputation is the Groups banking and other facilities in very dependent on the quality, effectiveness relation to its profit and cash flow Donations and skill base of its employees.
The Directors have reasonable During the year the Group made commitment at Board level to ensure that its expectations that the Group has adequate contributions to charities of 48,000 2004 employees and management are properly resources to continue trading for the 36,000.
There were no political donations inducted into the Company and given foreseeable future.
For this reason they made in either year.
necessary training to fulfil their roles.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in With ever increasing customer demands, preparing the financial statements.
particular emphasis is placed on customer service and build quality skills training.
24 Directors Report Directors Creditor payment policy International Financial Reporting The Directors of the Company at the date of The Group's policy concerning the payment Standards this report are shown on pages 22 and 23. of its trade creditors is as follows: The application of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS will be required to agree the terms of payment at the start Mr J Callcutt and Mr S Stone will retire in for listed companies for accounting periods of business with the supplier: accordance with the Articles of Association at commencing on or after 1st January 2005. to ensure that suppliers are aware of the the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Crest Nicholson will therefore publish full terms of payment: and, being eligible, will offer themselves for IFRS compliant financial statements for the re-election.
Mr J Callcutt does not have a year to 31st October 2006.
The impact of the to pay in accordance with its contractual service agreement with the Company but transition to IFRS is set out in the Annual and other legal obligations: and Mr S Stone has a service agreement Review on pages 4 to 12. not to alter payment terms without prior determinable on twelve months notice.
Auditors A statement of the Directors' share interests A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG The Company does not have trade creditors.
is set out in the Remuneration Report on Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to Creditor days for the Companys subsidiary pages 51 to 56. be proposed at the forthcoming Annual undertakings are shown in the financial General Meeting.
Environmental policy It is the Company's policy to assess Annual General Meeting environmental issues which may be The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual applicable to its business, customers and the General Meeting to be held on 7th April 2006, general public and to take such measures together with explanatory notes, appear in consistent with being a responsible property the separate Notice of Meeting to be sent development group.
By Order of the Board N I Hughes, Secretary 25th January 2006 Crest Nicholson Annual Report 2005 25 26 Crest Nicholson Annual Report 2005
