S Stone Chairman and Chairman Chief Executive of the Nomination Committee Age 52 Age 61 Stephen Stone joined the Group in 1995 and John Matthews, a chartered accountant, was was appointed to the Board in 1999, appointed Chairman in 1996.
He is chairman becoming Chief Executive on 1st November of Regus Group Plc and a non-executive 2005.
He is a chartered architect with over director of Center Parcs UK Plc, Rotork Plc, 30 years experience in the construction and SDL Plc and Diploma Plc.
He has previously house building industry.
been a managing director of County NatWest and deputy chairman deputy chief executive of Beazer Plc.
SECRETARY BANKERS N I Hughes The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Lloyds TSB Bank Plc AUDITORS HSBC Bank PLC KPMG Audit Plc Barclays Bank PLC SOLICITORS Allied Irish Banks, p. l. c. Linklaters Bank of Scotland National Bank of Egypt International Limited BROKERS Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Limited MERCHANT BANKERS UBS Warburg 22 Directors and Advisors 3 4 5 6 7 8 3.
D P Darby Deputy Chairman Executive Director Finance Director Age 59 Age 56 Age 55 John Callcutt, a solicitor, joined the Group in Paul Callcutt joined the Group in 1982.
Peter Darby, a chartered accountant, was 1974.
He was appointed to the Board in 1985 He was appointed to the Board in 2000 appointed to the Board in August 2003. and became Chief Executive in 1991 and and is Group Land Director.
He is a solicitor He had previously served with the Group for Deputy Chairman on 1st November 2005. who practised in property and planning law 9 years in a range of finance and general He is a trustee of the BRE Trust, a director of prior to taking up a commercial role with management roles, rejoining the Group in the Housing Forum, a member of the Crest Nicholson.
He was formerly group finance director Sustainable Buildings Task Group and a of The Berkeley Group Plc and divisional regular contributor to Building Magazine on finance director of Wimpey Homes.
L J Wigglesworth Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Director Age 60 Age 60 Age 46 Stephen Lidgate was appointed to the Board Richard Scholes was appointed to the Board Lloyd Wigglesworth was appointed to the in April 2003.
He is past president of the in July 2003.
He is a Non-Executive Director Board in 2000.
He is a director of Woolworths House Builders Federation and a board and chairman of the audit committee of Group plc, where he is Managing Director of member of the Construction Industry Bodycote International plc, Chaucer Holdings Entertainment UK.
He was formerly a Training Board.
He was formerly chairman of PLC and Marshalls PLC.
He is also a director of WHSmith PLC.
John Laing Homes Plc and W L Homes LLC non-executive director of Keller Group PLC in the USA and a director of John Laing Plc.
He has been involved in housebuilding for 35 years and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
