Corporate governance Executive committee Remuneration committee Mike Humphrey Chairman David Dunn Chairman David Barraclough Mike Buzzacott Keith Gregersen Michael Ward Keith Layden Kevin Nutbrown The remuneration committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, is responsible for advising on remuneration Barbara Richmond policy for senior executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors.
The Group Chief Executive normally attends its meetings.
The directors remuneration report is set out on pages 23 to 30 and a resolution The executive committee meets every month to deal with all executive business of the Group not specifically reserved will be proposed at the AGM to approve the report.
to the Board or to any of the committees mentioned below.
Among other matters, it reviews investment proposals below the levels which are reserved for Board approval.
Terms of reference are posted on the Companys website.
The committee met seven times in 2005.
A self evaluation of the effectiveness of the committee was undertaken with no significant issues revealed.
Audit committee Michael Ward Chairman Nomination committee Mike Buzzacott Martin Flower Chairman appointed 28 September 2005 David Dunn Antony Beevor Chairman resigned 28 September 2005 Mike Buzzacott The audit committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, meets at least twice a year.
It assists the Board in David Dunn observing its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up to date information Michael Ward on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this Mike Humphrey position.
It also assists the Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, internal financial controls, internal audit activities and compliance procedures are in place.
Terms of reference are posted on the Companys website, including its The nomination committee is responsible for nominating, for the approval by the Board, candidates for appointment role and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
It meets on an ad hoc basis.
Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the committees work.
Members have During the year the committee met three times: to consider the appointment of Martin Flower as a non-executive director recent employment in either finance or accounting roles or comparable experience in corporate activities as set out in and subsequently as Chairman of the Company in succession to Antony Beevor: to consider the reappointment of David their biographies on page 19.
Dunn as a non-executive director for a further term: and to undertake a general review of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
In considering the appointment of Martin Audit independence Flower, the committee acted under the chairmanship of Michael Ward and Spencer Stuart, an external search consultancy, The committee and Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups auditors,  was engaged to identify candidates.
With regard to the reappointment of David Dunn, who completes six years of service LLP PwC, in their reporting to shareholders.
The PwC audit partner and manager are present at all audit committee as a non-executive director on 24 February 2006, the committee considered that in his role as chairman of the meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
remuneration committee and Senior Independent Director, David Dunn had demonstrated a high level of commitment and expertise and that his continuing contribution to the Board was invaluable.
The committee had no hesitation in The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the audit committee, taking into account the views recommending his reappointment as a non-executive director for a further term of three years from 24 February 2006. of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms David Dunn relinquished the additional post of chairman of the pension trustees with effect from 1 January 2006.
The part of PwCs own system of quality control.
committee is satisfied that the size, structure and composition of the Board is appropriate.
All the non-executive directors continue to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time for performance of their duties.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the audit committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the committee and then referred to the Board for approval.
Rotation of audit partners responsibilities within PwC A process has commenced for the appointment of a new Group Finance Director following the resignation of Barbara is required by their professions ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
Spencer Stuart have been instructed to undertake an executive search based on a detailed role description, considered and approved by the committee.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and are, subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
The chairman of the audit committee is required to give prior The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal business hours at approval of work carried out by PwC and its associates in excess of predetermined thresholds: part of this review is to the Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary.
determine that other potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as appropriate, taking into account These controls provide the committee with adequate confidence in the independence of PwC in their reporting existing experience, qualifications and skill sets.
32 Corporate governance Corporate governance 33 Corporate governance Risk management committee Internal control Barbara Richmond Chairman The Code principle C. 2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness Keith Layden of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and Graham Myers report to the shareholders that they have done so.
In order to discharge this responsibility the directors have utilised an Kevin Nutbrown organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
The risk management committee evaluates, proposes policies on and monitors processes to control the business, In particular there are clear procedures for: operational and compliance risks faced by the Group.
It normally meets four times a year.
Membership of the capital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review committee rotates annually.
With effect from 1 January 2006 David Barraclough has replaced Keith Layden.
financial reporting, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework Routine business committee monitoring of business risks.
During the year the Company has continued its formal procedures for the assessment The routine business committee comprises the two executive directors with the Company Secretary and Group Financial and review of all business risks under the direction of the risk management committee which reports regularly to the Controller acting as alternates.
The committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the Board.
Such procedures have been embedded into the system of internal control.
other executive director being present.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or the executive committee.
There are also clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal financial control.
This is a process which involves: reports from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the Non-executive directors system for which they are responsible, and a report from the Group Financial Controller concerning the operation Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent of the system as a whole advice and judgement.
At present there are four such directors, including the Chairman, each of whom has significant reports from the Group Financial Controller on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan.
Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular divisional presentations audit work is carried out by both our own employees and personnel seconded from Deloitte & Touche LLP who report and by site visits.
through the Group Financial Controller to the audit committee No non-executive director nor the Chairman: reports from the external auditors.
has been an employee of the Company or Group The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation throughout the financial year and has, or has had, a material business relationship with the Group up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal received, or receives remuneration other than a directors fee or share options or is a member of the group pension scheme control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure has close family or business ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors or senior employees to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
holds cross directorship or significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies Going concern represents a significant shareholder The financial statements, which appear on pages 38 to 76, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
enquiries, including a review of forecasts, strategic plans and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are included in their biographies on pages 18 and 19.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
Compliance The information contained in this report demonstrates how the Company has complied with the Code throughout 2005.
Board and committee evaluation The one material exception is that the service agreements of the executive directors provided for pre-determined compensation During the year a process of self-evaluation has been conducted.
This process was organised round a questionnaire equivalent to eighteen months remuneration on termination without just cause.
The level of compensation on termination used to assess the effectiveness of the Board, the Chairman and each of the committees.
Minor shortcomings were was determined when the notice period for directors service agreements was reduced from three years to six months identified and addressed.
Following discussions between the chairman of the remuneration committee on behalf of the committee and the executive directors, Mike Humphrey and Barbara Richmond agreed to accept modifications to their Investor relations service agreements.
On 21 December 2005, Mike Humphrey entered into a new agreement under which the level of The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate compensation is commensurate with a revised notice period of twelve months as described in the directors remuneration with private investors.
It is normal practice for all members of the Board to attend the AGM and be available to answer report on page 25.
In view of Barbara Richmonds impending departure her new agreement was not finalised.
New questions raised by shareholders.
Major shareholders have been advised that the Chairman and Senior Independent appointees to the Board will be entitled to no more than one years compensation on termination.
Director are available for personal meetings and discussion with major shareholders.
The annual report and accounts including notice of AGM are sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on each substantially separate issue.
The level of proxies lodged on each AGM resolution and the balance for and against each resolution is declared by the Chairman after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands providing there has been no call for a poll.
When appropriate, meetings are held between the executive directors and institutional investors.
There is a separate investor relations section on the Companys website www.
com which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
