Board of Directors John Whybrow John Hodgson John Scarisbrick James Collier Remuneration Committee Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Technical Officer, Audit Committee Chairman Nomination retired 28 February 2006 effective 1 March 2006 Co-founder Nomination Committee Committee John Hodgson served as the John Scarisbrick was appointed James Collier has served as John Whybrow served as Companys Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer on the Companys Chief Technical non-executive director of the Officer from February 2000 to 1 March 2006, having been Officer since CSRs Company since December 2003 February 2006.
From April 1997 Chief Executive Officer Designate establishment in April 1999. and was appointed Chairman in to July 1999, Mr Hodgson since 1 December 2005.
Mr Collier is a co-founder of CSR.
Having spent the served as senior vice president of Mr Scarisbrick joined the board Between 1984 and April 1999, majority of his career with Philips worldwide sales and technology of CSR in June 2004 as a Mr Collier held a number of Electronics, he was appointed centres at VLSI Technology.
executive and technical positions president & CEO of Philips From January 1990 to April 1997, He has extensive experience at Cambridge Consultants Ltd, Lighting Holdings BV, based in Mr Hodgson served as vice in the telecommunications and where he formed the Holland, in 1995, becoming president for worldwide sales semiconductor sectors, having microelectronics group in 1987. executive vice president of Royal and marketing and corporate worked for Texas Instruments Prior to 1984, Mr Collier held a Philips Electronics BV and officer at Lucent Microelectronics.
for 25 years in a variety of senior number of executive and technical member of the Board of Prior to 1990, Mr Hodgson was roles including President TI positions at Schlumberger.
He a co-founder, director and Europe and a Senior Vice Mr Collier has a degree in physics returned to the UK in 2002, executive vice president at VTC President of Texas Instruments from Oxford University.
becoming chairman of Wolseley Inc. a start up semiconductor Inc responsible for TIs $5 billion Age 47. plc having been a non-executive company, and prior to that held Application Specific Products director of the company since a number of executive, sales chip business and led the team 1997.
He is also a non-executive and technical positions at which created TIs Digital Signal director of DSG international plc.
Prior to TI, Mr Whybrow is a graduate of companies, including Fairchild Mr Scarisbrick worked in the Imperial College, London Semiconductor and Texas electronics systems design where he completed a degree Instruments.
Mr Hodgson holds roles at Rank Radio International in Mechanical Engineering.
and Marconi Space and Defence He also has an MBA from Mr Hodgson retired from the Systems in the UK.
He is a Manchester Business School.
Company and stood down from non-executive director of ARM Age 58. the Board on 28 February 2006.
Holdings plc and Intrinsity Inc Age 62. and is chairman of Cambridge Positioning Systems Limited.
36 Changing the way the world connects Glenn Collinson Paul Goodridge Ron Mackintosh David Tucker Anthony Carlisle Sales Director, Finance Director Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director Co-founder Paul Goodridge has served as Chairman Remuneration Senior Independent Director, Mr Carlisle was appointed Glenn Collinson has served Finance Director for CSR since Committee Chairman Audit Committee a non-executive director of as CSRs Sales Director since January 2002, having joined Ron Mackintosh was appointed David Tucker joined CSR as CSR in July 2005.
Mr Collinson is the Company in 2000.
Prior to a non-executive director of CSR a non-executive director in an executive director of Citigate a co-founder of CSR.
Between joining CSR, Mr Goodridge in May 2004.
After nineteen Dewe Rogerson, where he October 1996 and 1999, was head of UK finance for PA held a number of senior executive years as an investment manager is responsible for strategic Mr Collinson served as a Consulting.
From 1990 to 1997 positions in European technology with M&G unit trusts, Mr Tucker consultancy and client services.
senior engineer and then Mr Goodridge had a variety of companies.
Between 1992 and retired as deputy managing He has over thirty years as a marketing manager at senior financial positions at Black 2000 he was chief executive of director in 1988.
He is currently experience in marketing and Cambridge Consultants Ltd. & Decker Inc. and Charringtons Computer Sciences Corporations a non-executive director of communications, advising Prior to that, he served as a Fuels Limited.
Mr Goodridge CSC European business which Edinburgh UK Tracker Trust plc major companies in the UK and design engineer and marketing is a member of the Institute had revenues of $2.5 billion.
where, until April 2005, he was internationally.
He holds a BA manager at Texas Instruments of Chartered Accountants in He is also a former director chairman and is a non-executive in Economics and is a Fellow Limited.
Mr Collinson is a England and Wales.
and interim CEO of Gemplus SA, director of Rexam PLC where of the Institute of Public Relations.
non-executive director of Age 40. the worlds largest smartcard he chairs the audit committee.
Mr Mackintosh He is also a trustee of the holds a B. Sc.
in physics, is a non-executive director of Mineworkers Pension Scheme.
in electronics from software company Royalblue Mr Tucker is a member of the Durham University, and an MBA PLC, chairman of software Institute of Chartered Accountants from Cranfield University and company Smartstream in England and Wales.
is a member of the Institute Technologies Ltd and chairman Age 66. of Electrical Engineers.
of Differentis, a privately owned Age 42.
IT consultancy which he co-founded in July 2000.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 37
