4561 DC pp 14-15 lores 13 6 05 10:06 AM Page 15 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 15 Milk purchasing Dairy Crest is one of the UKs largest Main photograph: David and Jane Homer of Chisbury Lane Farm near Marlborough, with purchasers of milk, buying approximately 2.2 billion litres Direct Supply Manager, Chris Mayo.
A consistent source of high quality, farm assured British milk is critical to our business Top centre: Sue Webb, Dairy Crest Direct Forum Chairman, at Upper Ley Farm, success and Dairy Crest recognises the vital role that Westbury-on-Severn in Gloucestershire.
dairy farmers play in the milk supply chain.
Bottom right: Heather Jenkins and Natalie Mitchell from Waitrose with John Pennington at Treore Farm, Cornwall.
We buy milk from 1,400 British dairy processors work together towards our customers.
We will continue to work farmers who supply us directly, as well as common goals.
with DCD and our other milk suppliers to from First Milk, one of UKs leading milk Good relationships with our farmers make sure that the needs of both farmers co-operatives.
We would like farmers to are important if we are to achieve these and Dairy Crest are reflected in our feel proud that the milk they supply to us objectives.
A dedicated team of Direct decisions.
is used to make our brands and products Supply Managers, supported by a farmer We also believe that Dairy Crest has a and our aim is to be the industrys milk helpdesk, works closely with farmers on role to perform in improving trust within purchaser of choice.
an individual basis, assisting with the dairy industry and we are committed The dairy industry continues to face a operational and milk quality issues and to regular, transparent communication number of challenges, including reform of ensuring that the requirements of the with farmers, customers, industry bodies the Common Agricultural Policy which industry farm assurance scheme are met.
We also play an active began in July 2004.
We believe that May 2004 saw the launch of Dairy part in Dairy UK, the body which brings working in partnership with our farmers Crest Direct DCD, the farmer together all elements of the dairy industry will help to deliver a sustainable, organisation representing the great for the first time.
long-term future for the industry, built on majority of our direct suppliers, which we driving efficiencies through the supply have encouraged and supported.
DCD chain and growing the proportion of has a voice at all levels within the added value dairy products in the UK.
company and has already made We have established added value, significant progress in achieving its segregated milk pools in recent years objective to represent and inform direct which are a good example of what can suppliers, as well as strengthening be achieved when farmers and relationships with both the company and
