0197 DC AR 2005 p22 39 2 6 05 10:29 am Page 33 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 33 Directors report The directors of Dairy Crest Group plc present their ninth annual a material interest of 5.44% in the Company.
No other person report and the audited financial statements for the year ended has notified an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company 31 March 2005. required to be disclosed to the Company in accordance with Sections 198 to 202 of the Companies Act 1985.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture and Employee involvement trading of milk and dairy products.
The importance of good communication is recognised by the Company.
There are also well-established consultation and Review of operations negotiating arrangements with recognised trade unions.
The Groups operations and future developments are dealt with in the Chief Executives review, Operational review and Financial Employment of disabled persons review on pages 4 to 20.
The Company considers applicants for posts compatible with their disability.
Staff who become disabled are retained Results and dividends wherever practicable.
The consolidated profit and loss account is on page 35.
The profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to 47.7 million Charitable and political donations 2004 35.2 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million 2004 of 14.3 pence per share which, together with the interim 0.1 million in the year.
Small contributions, mainly of product, dividend of 5.9 pence per share paid on 31 January 2005, were also made to local charities.
No donations were made to makes a total dividend for the year of 20.2 pence per share.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 9 August 2005 to shareholders on the register on 8 July 2005.
Supplier payment policy Payment dates are established according to the agreed date of Fixed assets delivery of goods or provision of services and the receipt of a Following the introduction of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets, correct invoice.
The Group agrees the length of payment terms the Company followed the transitional provisions to retain the with each of its suppliers as part of the overall purchasing existing book value of land and buildings.
It is the Groups policy to abide by these agreed obtained an informal valuation of the Groups land and buildings terms of payment.
The number of days purchases in the Groups and believe that the current market value in existing use of these creditors at 31 March 2005 was 24 days 2004 24 days.
properties slightly exceeds their book value.
Auditors Directors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue A list of the directors at the end of the year together with a brief as auditors of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & biography is set out on page 21.
Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association Mr G E Grimstone and Mr J W D Hall retire by rotation and being Annual General Meeting eligible seek re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Chartered Mr P S Lewis also retires by rotation but will not seek reAccountants Hall, Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ on election.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed, including items of special business, are given Mr D H Richardson was appointed as a non-executive director in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and Explanatory Notes on 9 December 2004.
As he was appointed during the year he which appear on pages 58 to 60. will retire at this years Annual General Meeting in accordance with the articles of association and will seek election.
The directors believe that the resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole Details of the directors remuneration, service contracts letters and unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote of appointment in the case of the non-executive directors, in favour of all resolutions.
interests in shares, share options and long-term incentive share plan awards are given in the Report of the Board on directors By order of the Board remuneration on pages 26 to 32.
Roger Newton, Secretary 24 May 2005 Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the shares issued during the year, are shown in note 20 on page 48.
