4561 DC pp 8-13 13 6 05 9:58 AM Page 12 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 Operational review Consumer foods Liquid products thirst The retail milk market continued to grow Midlands Co-op Dairies and Starcross during the year with volumes up by Foods and the recent business wins are almost 2%.
The retail milk market is now expected to have a broadly neutral effect worth over 2 billion per annum.
Whilst on earnings in the financial year 2005 06 our overall fresh milk volumes to major and benefit group profitability by retailers were up 5% year on year, approximately 4 million per annum profitability in our liquid products business thereafter.
These acquisitions better align was impacted by the competitive retail our business to customers requirements environment and higher fuel and plastics and have strengthened Dairy Crests costs, particularly in the second half.
During the financial year major food The business achieved price increases retailers reviewed their milk supply on fresh milk sales in March and April arrangements.
A significant element of this price increase our share of Sainsburys volume increase was used to increase the price to approximately 50% and to maintain our we pay to our milk suppliers, whose costs sole supply positions with Waitrose and have increased during the year.
We will increase our average, taking into account customer share of Morrisons fresh milk supply from specific milk pools, Dairy Crest had approximately 30% to approximately 50% increased its prices for its liquid milk by from October 2005.
However we lost our 0.75 pence per litre by April 2005. supply positions with both ASDA and We continue to work towards adding Tesco with effect from November 2004 value to fresh milk in a number of ways.
The organic milk business made good We recently announced the progress, benefiting from a strong market acquisitions of both Starcross Foods and the continued improvement in Limited for 16.9 million and Midlands managing the demand and supply Co-op Dairies for 20 million.
Retailer own label organic milk an advanced modern facility, capable of sales value grew by 38% and the processing up to 100 million litres of milk Rachels organic milk brand under licence per annum.
This will significantly extend from Horizon Organic Dairies sales value our geographical footprint across England grew by 22%.
and Wales to cover most of the major Frijj, our flavoured fresh milk drink, has northern conurbations.
Midlands Co-op maintained its position as the leading Dairies processes approximately 200 brand in the flavoured fresh milk sector million litres of milk per annum and with sales up 1% by value.
We have distributes fresh milk to a range of retail, improved our added value mix of potted wholesale and doorstep customers cream business even though overall across the Midlands region.
This business volumes are slightly down.
Our potted will be consolidated into Dairy Crests cream business will benefit in the current existing dairy operations and it is financial year from the completion of the anticipated that the Midlands Co-op investment in a new speciality cream Birmingham dairy will be closed in due facility at our Chard site.
Milk processing will be transferred we launched St. Ivel advance, a new to Dairy Crests existing dairies including branded fresh milk enriched with the Starcross site.
4561 DC pp 8-13 13 6 05 9:59 AM Page 13 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 13 For whatever they want to be, St. Ivel advance is fresh milk enriched with Omega-3 to feed their bodies and minds.
Studies have shown that Omega-3 may enhance learning and concentration in some people.
