EUROMONEY Turnover increased by 12% to 196 million.
INSTITUTIONAL Euromoneys successful performance was assisted INVESTOR by a robust trading background.
Strong financial markets have generated record profits for the global financial institutions and emerging markets remain attractive to capital flows and investment.
Padraic Fallon Chairman left Richard Ensor Managing Director right Euromoneys key customers are refocusing With the exception of Adhesion, all of the their marketing efforts on face-to-face groups event businesses increased profits.
events, a key growth area for the group.
IMN was particularly successful in both Moreover, the financial success of these growing its market-leading securitisation customers is driving an increase in conferences as well as launching new demand for training and information.
events, and its performance since The events and training businesses now acquisition has significantly exceeded contribute more than 53% of operating expectations.
IMNs results also benefited profit compared to 37% three years ago.
from the timing of its ABS East conference.
The companys focus on organic growth Training continued the strong growth has been a key driver in increasing turnover.
seen in 2004 with revenues up 13% Financial highlights Some of the successes during the year and operating profit increasing 25%.
have included Euromoneys coverage of In general the improvement was driven real estate, the Institutional Investor hedge by growth in the volume of courses fund institute, new conference and seminar delivered, particularly in emerging Turnover businesses in Asia, and expansion of ISI markets.
In addition, new legislation and into 18 sub-Saharan Africa countries.
compliance requirements in the United States helped MIS, the Boston-based audit 196m The focus with events is on quality rather and information security business, to grow.
The group now has more than 10 market-leading annual events with Operating profit from databases and 39m revenues in excess of US$1 million, and information services increased 15%.
the strategy is to continue to grow these The main driver of the growth was ISIs Operating margin events by both investing in the content and Emerging Markets Information Service building new revenue streams such as where gross sales were the highest since 20% vendor exhibitions, awards dinners and launch.
ISIs subscription revenues increased business meetings.
In addition successful by 20% and the revenue retention rate new events were launched covering such improved to an all-time high of 91%.
Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of diverse areas as Native American finance, CEIC, which was acquired in March, has intangible assets condo hotels, renewable energy and performed ahead of expectations.
Revenues and operating profit from publishing improved by 5% and 10% respectively.
Advertising revenues increased Euromoney Institutional Investor by 6% in generally tough markets, helped ISI revenue US$ million by the launch of new products such 10 as roundtables, polls and research.
Euromoney magazine, Asiamoney and The group now Euroweek all achieved above average 25 has more than 10 increases in advertising revenues.
20 market-leading 15 The fastest growing part of the business is annual events with 10 events, including conferences, seminars and awards dinners.
Revenues increased 5 revenues in excess by 31% and operating profit by 55%.
growth underpins the companys strategy of reducing its exposure to advertising.
