OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED DMG dmg world media had another successful year in WORLD MEDIA 2005.
It has been a year of growth through strategic acquisitions and launches, focusing on building its niche business-to-business sector, its new technology sector and broadening its global presence.
It also disposed of a number of its non-core businesses.
Charles Sinclair Chairman left Mike Cooke Chief Executive Officer right 2005 was a low year in dmg world medias launches were across a broad range of cycle of events with large non-annual events sectors including chemicals and coatings, such as the Global Petroleum Show not home and garden and interior design and taking place and no Index Shows reporting.
In 2004, two Index shows were reported due to the timing of Ramadan.
As a result, Once again, dmg world media recorded operating profit was 25 million, down 5% some of its largest ever events.
However, underlying operating included the Big 5 in Dubai, Chemspec in profit taking account of this cycle and the Dusseldorf, Germany, Surf Expo in Orlando, effect of foreign exchange grew by 19% and USA and the Oil Sands Tradeshow held revenue by 11%.
In addition, dmg world in Fort McMurray, Canada: the latter two media disposed of two of its non-core were both recognised by Tradeshow Week Financial highlights assets in the year: the California Market in their Fastest 50 growing shows in Center and its business interests in Brazil.
dmg world media has seen strong In 2006, dmg world media expects further Turnover performances from its Middle East overall growth with nine launches already business, its Surf sector, its Business Media planned and continuing regional expansion, International business and from ad:tech: particularly in fast-growing Asian markets.
152m the foundation of the new technology sector, Operating profit which has already outperformed initial revenue projections.
25m Much of dmg world medias growth this Operating margin year has been underpinned by a number of strategic acquisitions and new launches.
16% These illustrate its continued commitment to diversify its business both by sector and by regional market, building on its already Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of strong bases in the U. K. North America, intangible assets Australasia and the Middle East.
Key acquisitions included the Gastech show held in March, the Bathrooms and Kitchens Expo and Magazine, the ad:tech series of exhibitions and iMedia Communications, the latest addition to dmg world medias dmg world media new technology sector.
Launches included growth in operating profit million three shows in India, three shows in North America and new shows in Tunisia, the Czech Republic and Australia.
These 30 25 20 15 Ad:tech Expositions and iMedia 10 Communications, both acquired in 5 2005, formed the nucleus of dmg world 0 medias new technology sector, which is forecasting significant revenue growth over the next three years.
