LEADING IN TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT IN STATE-OF-THE-ART TECHNOLOGY HAS PUT DMGT AT THE FOREFRONT OF EVERY MEDIA SECTOR IN WHICH IT OPERATES.
Associated Newspapers investment of 100m over the next three years in plant and IT equipment will provide full high quality colour throughout the country, providing even more value to our readers and advertisers.
Jobsite and Find a Property have performed well, reducing our dependence on more traditional media.
Environmental Data Resources is Americas largest provider of property environmental risk information and played an active role in assessing the environmental impact of hurricane Katrina.
05 Daily Mail and General Trust plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Trends and factors likely to affect the outlook Looking ahead, DMGTs business-to-business divisions, particularly DMGI and Euromoney, continue to grow strongly as the Group continues its strategy of reducing its dependence on U. K. newspaper advertising.
As set out on pages 9 and 11, the advertising markets experienced by the Groups U. K. newspaper businesses show no sign of recovery yet.
Our national newspapers have continued to increase their market shares, despite fierce competitive circulation activity within the national market.
The Group has implemented cost saving programmes in its newspaper divisions and at Teletext, giving significant protection to the profitability of these businesses, despite falling revenues at present.
They are all well placed to take full advantage of any recovery in consumer advertising markets, although the trend in newsprint prices is a concern.
Even in the absence of any recovery, the Groups long-standing strategy of reducing its dependence on traditional U. K. advertising markets leads us to look forward to another year of progress.
Charles Sinclair Chief Executive Performance of DMGT A price since 30 September 1988 and of FT All-Share Index relative to its value at that date 225% DMGT A monthly closing price FT All-Share Index Outperformance since 1988.
14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 DMGT dividend history for the period 1988 2005 pence 10% 12 Compound dividend 10 growth over the last 8 10 years.
