STRENGTH IN BREADTH FROM THE HEART OF OUR NEWSPAPER BUSINESS TO INFORMATION AND FINANCIAL PUBLISHING, EXHIBITIONS, TELEVISION AND RADIO, DMGT IS A TRULY MULTI-MEDIA COMPANY.
Nova 1069 launched in Brisbane in April, and resulted in the national Nova network becoming the Number One station for people under 40 in all metropolitan markets.
Strong demand for Risk Management Solutions products and services continued in 2005 due to an increasing desire for more information on risk exposure.
Information Management Network IMN has boosted Euromoneys conference business with a strong performance in 2005.
03 Daily Mail and General Trust plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Over the years, we have built a number of other businesses exhibitions, information publishing, Australian radio and Euromoney.
These businesses are now big enough to develop on their own, although further acquisitions will be a good use of the Groups capital.
Many of our businesses are highly cash-generative and, should suitable opportunities not emerge, an alternative option would be to return cash to shareholders.
At the national newspapers, we have invested in talent, promotions and more recently in further colour capacity in order to maintain the market-leading positions of our titles within the mid-market.
Metro, which we started in 1999, continues to perform strongly Standard Lite, a free edition of the and this year we launched a further innovation in the form of the free Lite edition of the Evening Standard, was launched in December 2004.
We will also continue to develop a powerful portfolio of digital media properties to complement our established businesses.
At the regionals, we have invested substantially in new presses and improved technology in order to produce high quality regional newspapers with strong editorial content.
We have followed a strategy of publishing market-leading local newspapers and websites which cater for the needs of our readers and advertisers.
As the Chairman has said in his statement, the Board has been conducting a strategic review of Northcliffe.
This review has identified the potential for further restructuring of the business, in addition to that being undertaken through the Aim Higher project, detailed on page 11.
Given the strategic importance of Northcliffe within the U. K. regional newspaper industry, the Board has also decided to explore whether greater shareholder value can be achieved through a sale of the business.
In the event of a sale, the Board intends to return a substantial portion of the net proceeds to shareholders, after allowing for continuing our current acquisition and investment programme and maintaining our current credit rating.
Development and performance of the business On pages 8 to 16, we set out our review of the performance of each division over the last year.
Resources, principal risks and uncertainties The Groups main resources are its brands and its people.
The principal risks and uncertainties we face vary across the divisions and are the focus of the Risk Committee which I chair.
Economic risks concern the health of the markets in which we operate.
Major risks over which we have some control are to our reputation, to our capacity to compete and to retention of staff where our record is good.
Clearly risks within particular businesses include the apparent re-positioning of the broadsheet or ex-broadsheet national newspapers within the mid-market and newsprint price volatility.
On the other hand, the cover price wars of the last decade, by which the Daily Mail was only indirectly affected, now seem to be at an end.
Another major risk is the increased cost of defined benefit pension schemes which we operate for our newspaper divisions.
As explained last year, we have kept these funds open, whilst informing those employees of the need to contribute more in order to retain the same benefits.
The take up of this Pension option has been 75%.
The Group has also increased its contributions into the schemes, but we have been able to hold the cost to an acceptable level, while being able to focus the investment on our long-term employees.
75% Capital structure The Company has not made a call on its shareholders for over 70 years.
As a consequence, The take up growth is financed by long-term debt and by retained earnings.
DMGTs policy is to seek to of Pension.
increase the dividend each year by 5% to 7% in real terms, within reason regardless of the results, as long as we continue to have confidence in the strength of our businesses.
As shown on page 6, the compound dividend growth over the last ten years is 10%.
Details of treasury policies and liquidity are set out on pages 19 to 20.
Relationships with stakeholders, other than shareholders Environmental, social and community issues are taken seriously by the Company and are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 21 to 23.
During 2005, we produced our first separate report which is being distributed to shareholders with this Report.
04 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
