OPERATING AND THE FOLLOWING PAGES SHOW HOW FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW EACH OF OUR BUSINESS DIVISIONS IS PERFORMING AND EXPLAIN THE KEY ASPECTS OF THEIR ACTIVITY.
ASSOCIATED Associated Newspapers achieved its highest NEWSPAPERS profit ever, despite one less weeks trading than last year.
This result was particularly commendable in a year which saw a significant slowdown in the advertising market in the second half and increased newsprint prices.
Kevin Beatty Managing Director left Lord Rothermere Chairman centre The Daily Mail average daily circulation After adjusting for the extra week last year, Paul Dacre for the year came in at 2,385,000.
Although total advertising revenues increased by only Editor-in-Chief right this represents a decline of 1.8%, the overall 0.5%, as a result of the difficult market sales of national daily newspapers fell by conditions in the second half of the year.
2.3% leading to an increased market share Display was down 0.7%, Classified was of 19.2%.
The quality of the newspaper down 6.2%, but internet-related revenue was again recognised with the accolade was up 74% including Find a property, of Daily Newspaper of the Year in the 2005 which was acquired in November 2004.
The Daily Mail was down 3.4%, whilst The Mail on Sunday was down 2%, but Metro The Mail on Sunday circulation at 2,351,000 was up 13.8%.
The Evening Standard was was only 0.4% down year on year in a market down 7.1%, mainly due to the continued Financial highlights which declined by 3.1%.
Once more it weakness of its recruitment advertising, increased its market share, reaching 17.2%, and Loot was down 5.4%.
Both Irish titles against last years 16.7%, which is the were up Ireland on Sunday by 14.3% and highest ever recorded.
The cover price Buy and Sell by 9.1%.
Colour advertising Turnover increased in May by 10p.
The Mail on Sunday also rose to an all-time high of 6.56 million, and its supplements, On the production front, the DMGT Board 878m Financial Mail on Sunday and You Magazine approved a major investment to facilitate Operating profit also enjoyed readership increases.
colour on every page of Associateds titles.
The project is proceeding well and due 95m The Evening Standard launched an innovative for completion in the last quarter of 2007. new free Lite edition of the paper in Part of the investment is a new production Operating margin December 2004.
Distribution quickly reached facility purchased in Didcot, for which 77,000 per day with minimal effect on the planning permission has been obtained and 13% paid-for editions where circulation was down presses ordered.
This will be supported by 8.25% over the April to September period.
enhancements at Harmsworth Quays and This compares favourably to the year on year other sites around the U. K. During the year Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of decline of 9.5% in the July December period, higher productivity and a reorganisation of intangible assets prior to the launch of Lite.
The average daily resources at Harmsworth Quays allowed circulation over the twelve months, including the reduction of production capacity at sites Standard Lite, was 403,000.
Further cost in Dundee, Southampton, Newcastle and reductions were made during the year, the Derby.
Significant cost savings were achieved major benefits of which will flow through in by transferring production of supplements the next financial year.
This new contract also allows Associated to enhance the Metro continued to show strong growth quality of its supplements and further in profit and return on sale.
has risen to an average of 1,006,000 per day, consolidating its position as the Associated New Ventures ANV, which fourth largest Monday to Friday daily manages the digital activities of Associated newspaper.
Metros investment in its Newspapers, made good progress in the staff was recognised both by its inclusion year, strengthening its position in jobs and in Britains Top Employers book and expanding into property.
Jobsite continued accreditation by Investors in People.
to show strong growth and traded ahead of expectations.
During the year it launched Metro continued to show strong growth in 2005 with circulation rising Ireland on Sundays circulation fell 8.6% three new niche sites for the pharmaceutical to an average of 1,006,000 a day.
as we reined in promotional expenditure.
and secretarial markets and for jobs in 08 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Loot had a difficult year, with advertising Scotland.
In August, ANV acquired Top revenue down 5% and circulation falling by Consultant and Office Recruit, underlining 24%, much in line with the market.
Strict this expansion into niche online recruitment cost control and restructuring of the sectors.
Find a property also showed strong papers layout and distribution yielded growth, trading ahead of expectations and significant cost savings which, together extending its market position in London with a significant investment in Loot.
It is now poised for its should return this business to profit next phase of growth.
The performance growth next year.
Buy and Sell, Loots of the established websites all improved, Find a property was acquired in sister paper in Ireland, had a good year, enhancing relationships with both advertisers November 2004, as part of the and visitors.
continuing strategy to develop a powerful portfolio of digital media properties.
Ireland on Sunday continued to improve its The new financial year has started as the trading performance and in its fourth year old one ended, with a newspaper advertising of operation is now well established as market showing little sign of recovery the number three Irish Sunday newspaper.
and fierce competitive circulation activity.
Although circulation was down 8.5% at However, with strong readership and 139,000, readership has reached 469,000 market share figures, a thriving online per week, 55% of which are female.
This is division and strict control of costs, the highest proportion of female readership Associated is best placed to trade through of any newspaper in the Irish Market.
these difficult times and so take full Trading losses were reduced by over 20% advantage of any recovery in the market for the second year running.
later in the financial year.
In November 2004, the 2001 04 press Associated Newspapers enhancement project at Harmsworth Growth in adjusted operating profit over 10 years million Quays was completed.
