OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED NORTHCLIFFE Northcliffe achieved operating profit of NEWSPAPERS 102 million in 2005, 1.5% ahead of last year notwithstanding an increasingly challenging advertising market.
Lord Rothermere Chairman left Michael Pelosi Managing Director right This was before charging 10 million and a CV matching service has recently in restructuring costs as we embark been introduced.
Over 1,200 estate agency on a programme to reduce Northcliffes branches now upload their entire property cost base.
Attention has now been turned to motors clients.
They are being offered, Advertising got off to an encouraging start, free of charge, thisismotors.
net, an inventory particularly in the recruitment and property management system which facilitates the categories.
However, a slowing economy upload of all stock held by a dealer directly and a decline in public sector spending have to our websites.
had an adverse impact in the second half of the financial year.
In aggregate, advertising Innovation across our thisis network of revenues grew by 2% to 329 million.
local websites continues with initiatives Financial highlights Property had another strong year recording such as Bid4it, an online and in-print growth of 13%: retail generated growth of auction and Stuff4Sale, a website that 3%: motors declined by a similar amount.
enables users to bid for an item at auction Recruitment was down 4%, but down 16% or buy it now.
Website users can now Turnover in the last quarter.
Given these figures, upload comments and feedback on any Northcliffe appears to be outperforming story in real time and Northcliffe is one its regional newspaper peers.
of the first regional publishers to provide 520m video streaming of news on its websites.
Operating profit The downturn in advertising affected most of our publishing centres but there were a Our local websites continue to deliver a 102m couple of notable performances.
Aberdeen growing audience, presently standing at saw its profit rise by 18% on the back of a 1.7 million unique users and 28 million Operating margin buoyant local economy and Bristol was up page views, representing year-on-year by 10% driven by cost savings.
A 20% major contribution to the growth in page Northcliffes titles continued to show views was property, where search engine declining circulations.
Nevertheless, the optimisation and marketing has driven a Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of evenings marginally outperformed the substantial increase since the summer.
intangible assets industry reporting declines of 4.3% in July to December 2004 and 3.7% in January to The Northcliffe Press, our print division, June 2005, compared to industry declines had another year of decline on the back of 4.5% and 3.9% respectively.
Northcliffes of lost contracts and the withdrawal of the weeklies showed declines of 2.2% and 2.5% Daily Mail production from the Plymouth over the two periods compared to industry print facility.
Northcliffe has responded by reductions of 1.3% and 2.5%.
These gentle reducing capacity through the closure of declines look set to continue but, together its Exeter and Swansea printing presses, with our wider portfolio of products and neither of which provided sufficient colour services, we maintain the highest reach for todays publishing environment.
of any media in our core market places.
Clearly, the local media landscape is The internet remains a key area of focus.
changing and Northcliffe recognises that We are determined to provide customers the disparity in margin performance when with effective advertising channels, whether compared to its peers, combined with longthese be in print, online or a combination of term circulation trends which are only the two.
Almost 70% of all local recruitment slightly ahead of the industry, necessitated advertising is being upsold to our websites a radical review of the groups cost base.
10 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Page Views m So far in the new financial year, A major cost reduction programme has advertising revenues are running behind been launched and six months into this last year because of a significant downturn project we have made significant progress.
We do not envisage that Our target now is to reduce Northcliffes the situation will stabilise until well into cost base by at least 30 million by 2007 2006.
However, substantial savings from which is 10 million more than envisaged the cost reduction programme will help at the outset.
A further exceptional cost of to mitigate this revenue decline.
10 million is expected in 2005 06, 3 million higher than originally estimated.
Bid4it, a print and online auctions initiative, has exceeded revenue Northcliffes international division expectations and attracted 928 continues to deliver good growth with an advertisers in our test areas.
50% of increase in profit of 13% to 4.5 million.
these advertisers had not previously advertised either in print or online During 2005, four businesses were added with Northcliffe.
to the portfolio, including a leading jobs board in Slovakia.
We anticipate continued acquisition activity in Europe during 2006.
Northcliffe Newspapers Visits and page views for thisis property sites 2005 63% Visits Page Views Source: NEP WebTrends Reporting Centre v7.1c 450 6 The thisis network of 400 sites have seen a 63% 5 350 increase in page views 300 4 year on year.
250 3 200 150 2 100 1 50 0 0 Northcliffe Newspapers Northcliffe Newspapers Average issue readership of Northcliffe titles vs national Turnover analysis 2005 titles in Northcliffe evening title areas % adult reach Source: TNS 2003 Advertising 66% Base: Adults 15 in 17 Northcliffe Evening title 10% areas Circulation 19% 60 Northcliffe Retail 6% Contract Printing 5% 50 Other 4% 40 30 20 10 0 11 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Any Northcliffe evening title Any national quality Any national mid-market' Any national tabloid Any Northcliffe evening and free weekly combined Visits 000s
