OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED DMG DMG Information had an outstanding year INFORMATION with all companies making good progress and operating profit growing by 41%.
David Dutton Chairman left Martin Morgan Managing Director right Business to Business division strongly, both in the U. S. and in the This division was once again the main emerging European market, for assetdriver of growth, with underlying revenues backed securities.
excluding the impact of acquisitions increasing by 14% and underlying operating The expanded range of hazardous chemical profit by 38%.
Operating profit margin inventory management products at Dolphin improved to 29%.
was the catalyst for strong revenue growth.
Risk Management Solutions continued its Revenues at Sanborn picked up strongly strong growth trajectory.
The increasing and the Solutions business acquired from appetite of the insurance sector for more Space Imaging in March was successfully sophisticated quantification of risk integrated.
Financial highlights exposure, together with the trend for closer integration of peril modelling into RMSI, our Indian based geographic core underwriting processes, is driving information services company, also demand for RMS products and services.
Turnover Environmental Data Resources enjoyed an Careers division excellent year in a buoyant U. S. commercial This was another pleasing year at 295m property market.
The U. S. business, including Operating profit made in providing products and services Academic Engine, was the main driver of to commercial property lenders.
the growth whilst trading remained more 52m difficult in the U. K. and continental Europe.
In the U. K. the home property market for Hobsons Australia had an outstanding year.
Operating margin environmental reports was depressed, although with some improvement becoming Study Group performed satisfactorily.
17% evident in the final quarter.
It is pleasing The U. K. had another solid year, the USA that in such market conditions Landmark continued its encouraging recovery trend was still able to grow revenues through whilst student volumes softened into Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of increasing market penetration.
Strong Australia and New Zealand in line with the intangible assets growth was achieved in the commercial market there, a trend which was reversing property market from sales of both mapping by the year end.
Property & Portfolio Research had a satisfactory year, and shortly after the DMG Information year end launched a service covering Operating profit million major European cities to complement its U. S. property research services.
Trepp continued its excellent growth trend 60 in a buoyant commercial mortgage-backed 50 EDR provides information to support securities market.
The company successfully 40 over 215,000 real estate transactions expanded its product range to cover loan in the U. S. In 2005, it continued its 30 portfolios held by single investors.
diversification as new environmental 20 information services were launched in 10 the commercial banking and residential Lewtans performance exceeded 0 disclosure markets.
EDR expects that expectations at the time of its acquisition these emerging markets will provide in November 2004.
Revenues grew considerable growth opportunities.
