DMG 2005 proved to be a challenging year for Teletext as BROADCASTING: its traditional travel advertisers faced erratic market TELEVISION activity and greater competition, particularly from online retailers.
Revenues fell by 14% compared to last year against a background of the structural decline in analogue television viewing.
Peter Williams Chairman left Mike Stewart Managing Director right As a consequence, operating profit fell Although the year saw further growth by 13 million and a restructuring of the in Teletexts mobile services, which provision of these services was undertaken.
delivered an estimated 20 million alerts, Teletexts new digital services, which SMS messaging appears to be reaching continue to be the focus of its investment a plateau and the company is developing activity, more than doubled audience and new service propositions for the 3G and revenue in the year.
In December 2004, the company completed In conclusion, in a difficult advertising an exclusive agreement with ITV to provide market Teletext saw encouraging growth text and commercial services behind the in its new digital services which it will text button for all the ITV digital channels.
continue to develop and expand.
As a Financial highlights This agreement mirrors that signed with result, Teletext is well placed to benefit Channel 4 last year and provides Teletext from the switch to digital television and with unique and exclusive access to the the growth in online travel.
major digital television audiences on all Turnover delivery platforms.
Since the Teletext on ITV service was launched on satellite and Freeview in June, audience has 63m grown rapidly and the digital services Operating profit now account for over 25% of Teletexts total television audience.
co. uk enhanced its position Operating margin as one of the most popular travel websites in the U. K. to almost 3 million monthly 3% users.
In the year, revenues grew by over 70%.
Teletext is one of a small repertoire of sites which can consistently attract high Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of volume, high quality traffic.
As the only intangible assets travel intermediary in this group, it is well positioned to prosper in an increasingly competitive market.
Data from the travel industry indicate that Teletexts television and web services accounted for in excess of 1.2 million holidays in the last twelve DMG Broadcasting: Television months, representing a total transaction Growth in monthly visitors to value of over 750 million.
co. uk millions 3.0 2.5 2.0 There was a 120% increase in Teletexts 1.5 digital audience television and internet, 1.0 largely due to the launch of Teletext on 0.5 ITV digital.
