DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Report and Accounts for the year Policy on Payment of Suppliers ended 2nd October, 2005.
The Groups policy on supplier payments varies across its subsidiaries.
These companies have no formal code or standard Trading Results and Dividends which deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, The profit after taxation of the Group amounted to 109.9 million.
their policy is to ensure that the terms of payment, as specified by, After charging minority interests of 11.1 million, the Group profit and agreed with the supplier at the outset, are not exceeded.
for the year amounted to 98.8 million.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end date.
An interim dividend of 3.75 pence per share was paid on the Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and the Directors The Groups average payment period, calculated on the basis of recommend that a final dividend of 8.25 pence per share be paid year end trade creditors, is 56 days 2004 57 days, although this on 10th February, 2006 making 12.0 pence per share for the year is dependent on the year end date and cannot therefore be 2004 11.0 pence.
Activities Donations The principal activities of the Group are set out in the Group at Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted a Glance section at the front of the Annual Report.
No political donations were made by the Group.
The analysis of turnover and operating profit for the years ended 2nd October, 2005 and 3rd October, 2004 are included as Notes 1 Substantial Shareholdings and 2 to the Profit and Loss Account.
A review of the development As set out in Note 31, the Company has two classes of share of the business of the Group during the year, of its position at the capital Ordinary shares and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
end of the year and of likely future developments in its business On 29th November, 2005 the following were interested in more is given in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 20. than 3% of the issued Ordinary shares: Directors Rothermere Continuation Limited Biographical details of the Directors of the Company at 29th and other parties to an agreement which comes November, 2005 are set out on page 24.
The Directors remained within section 204 of the Companies Act 1985 62.8% unchanged throughout the year, with the exception of Mr Beatty who Codan Trust Company Ltd and Codan Trustees BVI Ltd was appointed to the Board on 1st December, 2004 and Professor trustees of the Esmond Schwab who stood down from the Board on the same day.
Harmsworth 1998 Family Settlement 29.3% The number of shares of the Company and of securities of other Group companies, in which the Directors or their families had an Auditors interest at the year end, are stated in the Remuneration Report The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated on page 38. their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing In accordance with the Articles of Association, Messrs Sinclair, their reappointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Park, Fallon and Balsemo retire by rotation at the Annual General meeting on 8th February, 2006.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Each of the Directors being eligible, offers himself for re-election 8th February, 2006 at 9.00 a. m. at the Kensington Roof Gardens, with special notice having been given that Mr Park, who is 70 99 Kensington High Street, London W8.
Details of all resolutions years of age, will be proposed, given his continuing relevant to be put as special business are set out in the enclosed circular experience and helpful contribution to the Board.
Tangible Fixed Assets and Investments By Order of the Board Changes in tangible fixed assets and investments other than associates and joint ventures during the year are set out in Notes N D Jennings, FCA 20 and 23 to the balance sheets.
Secretary 29th November, 2005 Share Capital Details of allotments in share capital during the year, which arose solely from the exercise of options, are given in Note 31.
Employees Under the Groups general policy of decentralised management, it is the responsibility of the management in each subsidiary to encourage the involvement and participation of employees in their company.
The methods used depend on the wide variety of the companies, but the linking to performance targets of a significant portion of remuneration is one widely used means.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to suitable applications from disabled persons for employment.
If existing employees become disabled they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, every effort will be made to find suitable alternative employment and to provide appropriate training.
25 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
