OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED DMG DMG Radio Australia outperformed the market BROADCASTING: once again, recording revenue growth from RADIO continuing operations of 39% and operating profit growth excluding new station costs of over 95%.
Peter Williams Chairman left Paul Thompson Managing Director right With the spectacular launch of Nova 106.9 In an unprecedented programme of in Brisbane in April, the national Nova activity, DMG Radio has launched nine network was complete, seeing the new commercial FM stations within culmination of a plan which began in 1996.
Australia over the past five years, and with the addition of the new services in Sydney In Nova Brisbanes first independent and Melbourne, DMG Radio now operates listener survey in June, it debuted as the two stations in each of the cities of Sydney, Number One station for people Under 40 Melbourne and Adelaide.
and the markets second most popular station overall.
This result enabled the Nova DMG Radios metropolitan talk speech network to become the number one station station, Five AA in Adelaide consolidated in its targeted Under 40 demographic in on recent improvements, winning the all Financial highlights every metropolitan market.
important breakfast programme in every survey held in calendar 2005.
While Nova Adelaide capitalised on its successful launch in late 2004, the more DMG Radio was required to divest of its Turnover established Nova stations in Sydney, controlling interest in Hot 91 Sunshine Melbourne and Perth all continued to Coast in order to comply with broadcasting record strong above-market increases in regulations resulting from its acquisition of 34m revenues resulting in a 60% increase in Nova 106.9 in Brisbane in 2004.
The sale Operating profit operating profit for those existing stations.
took place in December 2004, with DMG Radio recognising a gain on its original 0.4m Nova 969 in Sydney continued to lead the investment, in addition to retaining a 14.9% group being recognised in every survey interest in this fast growing market.
Operating margin as Sydneys number one choice for commercial FM listening in the important In the U. K. GWR Group plc, in which the -1% breakfast programme.
It was also the Group held a 29.9% stake, completed its overall number one FM station in all but merger with Capital Radio plc in May.
As a consequence, DMGT took a 14.3% Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of investment in the renamed GCap Media plc.
intangible assets The second of DMG Radios metropolitan FM brands was born in August when Vega 95.3 Sydney and Vega 91.5 Melbourne were launched.
Vega complements Nova, targeting people aged 40-60 and focusing on a combination of talk and music from DMG Broadcasting: Radio the past 40 years.
Metropolitan revenue from 2001 2005 million 35 30 25 20 In its first independent listener survey 15 as a completed network, Nova was the 10 Number One station in its targeted 5 Under 40 demographic in every market.
