Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report together with the Revised Combined Code Provision B1.6 recommends audited Group and Company financial statements that the contractual notice provision available to for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Directors should be no greater than 12 months.
The Company is aware that the current notice period Business Review and Future Activities applying for Mr T P Cross is not in line with the The principal activities of the Group are oil and gas provisions of the Revised Combined Code.
The Chairmans and Chief the Board is currently reviewing contractual notice Executives Review and the Review of Operations provisions in conjunction with a wider review of all describe the significant developments in the business elements of the Companys current remuneration of the Group during 2005 and its future prospects.
Details of the proposed changes to the Companys remuneration policy will be reviewed with Results, Dividends and Retentions shareholders at a forthcoming General Meeting of the The Group profit for the year after taxation and before Company.
The Directors do not recommend the The Board will continue to review and report on payment of a dividend.
the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls as detailed on pages 25 and 26 and the Events Since the Balance Sheet Date Audit Committee will review annually the need for On 13 April 2006, Faroe Petroleum plc announced a an internal audit function.
fund-raising of 25.0 million through a market placing.
This was subsequently approved by the shareholders of The Workings of the Board and its Committees the company at an extraordinary general meeting held THE BOARD on 8 May 2006.
The Group participated in the placing As planned, Charles Smith, who led the Board as and subscribed for a further 3,161,765 shares at a cost Chairman with great skill, diligence and integrity of 4,300,000, thereby maintaining a 17.2% interest in during the formative years of Dana, retired as a NonFaroe Petroleum plc.
Executive director at the AGM on 28 July 2005.
Prior Corporate Governance to Charles departure, Ian Rawlinson was appointed as The Company is committed to high standards of a Non-Executive director with effect from 31 March corporate governance and the Board is accountable 2005 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee in to the Companys shareholders for good corporate December 2005.
In recognition of Danas continuing governance.
This statement describes how the development, Philip Dayer was appointed as a Nonprinciples of corporate governance are applied to the Executive director with effect from 16 March 2006.
Company and the Companys compliance with the On 29 May 2006, Dr Stuart Paton was appointed to 2003 Revised Combined Code, which was adopted the Board as the executive director responsible for by the Financial Services Authority for reporting Technical & Commercial activities for the Dana group periods commencing on or after 1 November 2003. and Andy Bostock left the Board in June 2006 after The Company will continue the ongoing development six successful years with the Company, due to a family of its corporate governance practices to ensure high relocation.
We look forward to the valuable input which standards are maintained.
Ian, Philip and Stuart will make to the Group during the next few years of growth, and thank Charles and Statement by the Directors on Compliance with Andy for the contribution made and wish them every the Provisions of the Revised Combined Code success for their respective futures.
The Company has been in compliance with the The Board is responsible to shareholders for the provisions of the Revised Combined Code throughout the year save as with respect to Revised Combined proper management of the Group.
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Code Provisions A 3.2 and B 1.6.
Under the former provision, at least half the board, excluding the Executive, the Finance Director, the Technical & Commercial Director and three further Non-Executive Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent, and Directors.
Brief biographies appear on page 22.
These demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient a non-executive director, once elected Chairman, is no longer considered independent.
Following the calibre to bring independent judgments on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of appointment of Mr C R Goodall, to the position of Chairman in January 2005, the Company technically conduct, which are vital to the continuing success of the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice and could only be considered to have two independent non-executive directors.
This position was resolved services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are upon the appointment of Mr P J Dayer on 16 March 2006. followed and that applicable rules and regulations are 24 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report complied with.
In addition, the Company Secretary will The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing ensure that the Directors receive appropriate training a wide range of matters including the Interim Report as necessary.
The appointment and removal of the and the Annual Report and Accounts before their Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a respective submission to the Board and the monitoring whole.
of the controls that are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders.
The The Board has a formal schedule of matters Audit Committee advises the Board on the specifically referred to it for decision.
In addition to appointment of external auditors and on their those formal matters required by the Companies Act s remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and to be set before a board of directors, the Board will discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit also consider business strategy and policy, business with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee keeps plans, acquisition and divestment proposals, approval under review the cost effectiveness, independence and of major capital investment plans, risk management objectivity of the external auditors.
In line with the policy, significant financing matters and statutory Revised Combined Code, the Audit Committee is also shareholder reporting.
responsible for reviewing annually the requirement for an internal audit function.
To comply with the provisions of the Revised Combined Code and in an effort to strive for continual NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE improvement in the effectiveness of the Board, its The Nominations Committee is responsible for committees, and the individual Board members, the appointments or re-appointments to the Board.
Company has introduced an evaluation process.
This committee comprises the Non-Executive directors, The Board meets regularly during the year with and Mr T P Cross and is chaired by Mr A M Pelham additional meetings as dictated by matters arising.
It meets not less than once annually.
The addition, there is frequent dialogue between meetings Nominations Committee is charged with ensuring the to progress the Groups business.
During 2005, all of necessary balance of skills, knowledge and experience the Board members in office at the time of the Board is maintained and represented on the Board.
Members meetings attended the Board meetings.
To enable the of the Nominations Committee are precluded from Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive participating in the process to nominate their appropriate and timely information and the Chairman replacement.
ensures that the Directors take independent professional advice as required.
The Non-Executive REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that Full details of the Remuneration Committee, the the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts are fully considered.
and compensation payments are given in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 29 to 34.
Statements of the Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts are set out on page 28, as is a Relations with Shareholders statement on going concern.
Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
Extensive information about the Groups Where matters arose during the year which required activities is provided in the Annual Report and the the attention of the Audit, Nominations or Interim Report which are sent to all shareholders.
Remuneration Committees, a separate meeting of the relevant committee was convened with full attendance There is regular dialogue with major institutional by its members.
These committees deal with the shareholders and meetings are offered following the following specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Groups preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Company has its own AUDIT COMMITTEE web-site www.
com for the purpose The Audit Committee, which was chaired by of improving information flow to shareholders as well Mr C R Goodall until 8 December 2005 and as potential investors.
Enquiries from individual by Mr D I Rawlinson thereafter, now comprises all shareholders on matters relating to their shareholdings the Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman, and the business of the Group are welcomed.
and meets not less than twice annually.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to auditors.
If required, meetings are also attended by communicate with private and institutional investors appropriate members of senior management at the and welcomes their participation.
The Board aims to specific request of the Committee.
ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 25 Report of the Directors continued and Nominations Committees are available at the Performance is monitored and relevant action Annual General Meeting to answer questions and taken throughout the year through the regular explain details of resolutions to be proposed at the reporting to the Board of changes to the business Annual General Meeting.
plan and variances from the budget and updated forecasts for the year together with information on Internal Control the key risk areas.
The Board confirms that during 2005 it maintained the procedures necessary to implement the Internal Investment appraisal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Capital expenditure is regulated by budgetary and that these procedures are still in place.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed proposals have to The Board is responsible for establishing and be submitted to the Board.
Due diligence work is maintaining the Groups system of internal control.
carried out if a business or significant assets are Internal control systems are designed to meet the to be acquired.
particular needs of the organisation concerned and manage or eliminate the risks to which it is exposed.
Audit Committee By their nature such systems can provide reasonable, The Board has delegated periodic review of the but not absolute, assurance against material missystem of financial internal control to the Audit statement or loss.
There is a continuous process for Committee which has reported its conclusions identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced to the Board during the year.
The Board has also by the Group.
The key procedures which the Directors consulted the Audit Committee, during the year, on have established with a view to providing effective other internal control matters.
The Audit internal control, are as follows: Committee believes that the Companys external auditors adopt an objective and impartial approach Management structure to the audit of the Group and that this is in no way The Board has overall responsibility for the Group influenced by the extent of non audit work and there is a formal schedule of matters undertaken by the Companys external auditors specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Such work in 2005 largely related Each Executive Director has been given to advice in connection with a one-off transaction responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups that was subsequently aborted.
The Executive Directors together with key continue to carefully consider how such advice senior executives constitute the management is sourced in future.
The Audit Committee has committee, which meets regularly, to discuss considered the need for an internal audit function day-to-day operational matters.
but has decided that, given the size of the Group and the system of controls in place, it is not Quality and integrity of personnel required at present.
The Audit Committee will The integrity and competence of personnel continue to review this decision annually.
is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality Annual review and assessment personnel are seen as an essential part of the The Board undertakes an annual review of the control environment.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This includes a review of the Audit Identification of business risks Committees assessment of the system of financial The Board is responsible for identifying the major internal control.
A review took place in December business risks faced by the Group and for 2005 and addressed internal control issues determining the appropriate course of action to generally and, more specifically, financial, manage those risks.
This includes performing or operational and compliance controls and risk participating in audits of Joint Ventures JV to management.
The review included reports from, ensure JV expenditures have been committed with and interviews with, key operating personnel.
the necessary JV approval and in accordance with JV agreements.
Budgetary process Each year the Board approves the business plan and annual budget.
Key risk areas are identified.
26 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report performance by promoting a culture which Substantial Shareholdings encourages all employees, contractors and other The Company has been notified of the following stakeholders to contribute to its implementation.
shareholdings of 3% or more in the issued share Responsibility for health, safety and environmental capital of the Company as at 31 May 2006: management begins with the Board of Directors and carries through to every employee and contractor No.
of % of issued engaged in Danas activities.
shares share capital Fidelity International UK 9,015,856 10.54 In Dana operated activities, the Group makes Aegon Asset Management 4,188,928 4.90 appropriate resources and training available to reduce health and safety risks to employees and Schroder Investment 3,411,383 3.99 contractors to a level which is as low as reasonably Management practicable and also strives for a neutral or positive ABN AMRO Equities MM 3,096,826 3.62 impact on the physical and socio-cultural environment of the regions in which Dana does Merrill Lynch 3,043,128 3.56 business.
Dana aims to meet relevant regulatory and Investment Managers legislative requirements as a minimum and to apply Legal & General 2,967,015 3.47 Danas own responsible standards in those countries Investment Management where appropriate laws and regulations are inadequate or do not exist.
Recognising that a Composition of Group significant proportion of Danas activities are carried Details concerning the principal subsidiary out by other companies, Dana also actively promotes undertakings are given in note 38 to the Company and supports the application of equivalent health, financial statements.
safety and environmental standards by those suppliers, contractors and companies who operate on Health, Safety, the Environment Danas behalf.
This is particularly true of developing and the Community countries, and where the Company does not operate, Dana considers health, safety and environmental Dana seeks to partner with large, well established management to be an integral part of its business.
upstream companies, with a track record of Dana has a formal Health, Safety and Environmental successfully working with host governments, and for HS&E Policy which is brought to the attention of every promoting the highest standards of Corporate, Social employee and contractor working on Dana business.
Full details of the The policy aims to achieve first class HS&E operators of all Danas licence interests are on pages Directors Interest in Share Capital The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company were as follows: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares at 31.05.06 at 31.12.05 at 31.12.04 15p shares 15p shares 15p shares C R Goodall 46,133 46,133 36,133 T P Cross 560,882 548,784 535,451 D A MacFarlane 60,000 20,000 20,000 A M Bostock resigned 2 June 2006 276,613 70,641 54,695 S M Paton appointed 29 May 2006 278 N A N A A M Pelham Burn 47,665 47,665 147,665 C M Smith retired 28 July 2005 N A N A 148,009 D I Rawlinson appointed 31 March 2005 38,440 38,440 N A P J Dayer appointed 16 March 2006 2,000 N A N A Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 27 Report of the Directors continued 79 and 80.
It is the policy of the Group to consider and conditions on the entitys financial position the health and welfare of employees by maintaining and financial performance: and a safe place and system of work as required by the state that the Group has complied with IFRS, Safety, Health and Welfare at Work Act, 1989. subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group financial statements.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Statement of Directors Responsibilities in auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the Respect of the Company Financial Statements Annual General Meeting.
Company law also requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which Going Concern presents a true and fair view of the financial position The Boards review of the accounts, budgets and of the Company.
In preparing those financial forward plans, lead the Directors to believe that the statements, the Directors are required to: Group has sufficient resources to continue in operation select suitable accounting policies and then apply for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements are them consistently: therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, Directors comparable and understandable information: and state whether applicable UK accounting standards The membership of the Board is set out on page 22. have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Interests in Contracts financial statements.
There have been no contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a Director of the Company The Directors are responsible for keeping proper was materially interested and which were significant accounting records which disclose with reasonable in relation to the Groups business.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to Creditors Payment Policy ensure that the financial statements comply with The Groups policy is to agree payment terms with the Companies Act 1985, as amended and Article individual suppliers and to abide by these terms.
They are also responsible for The Company acts as a holding company for the safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Group and does not have any trade creditors.
and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Group Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Signed on behalf of the Board by: Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group, the Thomas P Cross Group financial performance and the Group cash flows Chief Executive for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: David A MacFarlane provide additional disclosures when compliance Finance Director with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the 12 June 2006 impact of particular transactions or other events 28 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report
