ANGUS M PELHAM BURN Non-Executive Director Chairman & Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Colin Goodall joined the Dana Board in 2002 following Angus Pelham Burn was appointed to the Dana Board a successful 24 year upstream oil career with the BP in 1999, bringing a wealth of experience in international group.
A Chartered Accountant, Mr Goodall worked in business development and financing, as well as Africa for a number of companies, including Anglo institutional fund management.
Mr Pelham Burn served American Corporation, and became a partner at Touche as a main board Director of the Bank of Scotland from Ross.
He joined the finance team at BP in 1975, later 1977 to 2000.
From 1975 to 1998 he was a Director of becoming the first Chief of Staff within the BP group.
The Scottish Provident Institution, holding the offices of From 1995 to 1999 he served as Chief Financial Officer Deputy Chairman and Chairman between 1991 and of BP Europe and then as BPs senior representative in 1998.
Mr Pelham Burn also held the post of Chairman Russia.
Mr Goodall has been a lecturer and examiner for of Aberdeen Asset Management plc between 1992 London University in the areas of management and and 1999.
He chairs Danas Remuneration and finance.
Mr Goodall is also a non-executive director of a Nominations Committees.
In January 2005, he was appointed Chairman of the Group.
THOMAS P CROSS Chief Executive Officer Ian Rawlinson joined Dana in 2005, bringing some 20 years experience in corporate finance and investment, Tom Cross co-founded Dana Petroleum in 1994.
Mr gained with Lazard Brothers and Robert Fleming & Co. Cross is a Chartered Director and Petroleum Engineer.
Ian read law at Cambridge University and was called to After graduating with a First Class Honours Degree in the Bar in 1981.
From 1995 he was based in Engineering, he went on to hold senior positions with Johannesburg and became responsible for managing Conoco, Thomson North Sea and Louisiana Land and Flemings Southern African corporate finance business, Exploration.
From 1990 to 1993 he was Director of advising on numerous major transactions including the Engineering at the UKs Petroleum Science and London listings of Billiton and South African Breweries.
Mr Cross is a Fellow of the In 2000, he became Chief Operating Officer of Fleming Institute of Directors, a former Chairman of the Society Family & Partners and was later appointed Chief of Petroleum Engineers and an advisor to BBC Radio Executive of The Highland Star Group, a business on oil affairs.
In February 2005 he was elected as representing certain members of the Fleming family and Chairman of BRINDEX, the Association of British investing principally in the resources sector.
He is also non-executive Rawlinson is a director of a number of private Chairman of AUPEC, a global advisory group on energy companies, and is Chairman of the Tusk Trust, a charity policy and economics.
` focused on conservation in Africa.
He became Chairman of the Audit Committee in December 2005.
PHILIP J DAYER David MacFarlane, a Chartered Accountant, joined Dana Non-Executive Director in 2002.
He has more than 20 years experience in Philip Dayer joined Dana in March 2006, bringing financial control and management in the upstream oil 20 years of public market and corporate finance and gas business.
Between 1985 and 1993 he was experience gained with a number of prominent city Finance Director of the MOM Group, later becoming institutions during which he has advised a wide range of Finance Director for two key subsidiaries of the John public companies across a variety of sectors including Wood Group plc.
He joined Dana from Amerada Hess UK and International groups active in the oil and gas where during the previous six years he headed finance sector.
After graduating in Law from Kings College, for its fast growing international exploration and London, Mr Dayer qualified as a Chartered Accountant production group and latterly for its substantial N. W. and went on to develop widespread experience as Europe production business.
Director or Head of Corporate Finance with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd, Citigoup Scrimgeour Vickers, ANZ 4.
STUART M PATON Grindlays and Societe Generale.
Latterly whilst focusing on the energy sector, Mr Dayer was Director of Corporate Technical & Commercial Director Finance at Old Mutual Securities and Executive Director Dr Stuart Paton was appointed to the Dana Board as at Hoare Govett Limited.
Technical & Commercial Director in May 2006, having joined the Companys senior executive team in 2003 to lead Danas Business Development and Commercial 8.
Dr Paton is a graduate of Cambridge University, Company Secretary & Group where he gained a First Class Honours Degree in Natural Legal Manager Sciences specialising in Earth Sciences, followed by a PhD in Geology.
At Shell International, in the Hague, he John Arnton joined Dana in 2000 as Group Legal worked on the quantitative assessment of exploration and Manager and was appointed Company Secretary in the development opportunities world-wide.
Later, at Shell in same year.
He began his legal career in private practice the UK, he held senior technical and commercial roles as and moved to Total Oil Marine as a staff lawyer in 1985. well as being on the commercial leadership team of Shell Mr Arnton joined Occidental Petroleum in 1987 as Legal UK, before joining Dana.
Counsel, and continued with the Elf Group following its acquisition of Occidentals UK assets in 1991.
He was appointed Legal Manager of Elf Exploration UK in 1996 and became Company Secretary of the Elf Groups UK Independent Director and member of the Audit and upstream companies.
Mr Arnton is a qualified solicitor Remuneration Committee and Notary Public.
He also holds a post-graduate Member of the Nominations Committee Diploma in Petroleum Law.
22 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report
