Directors report The Directors present their Annual report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2005.
Principal activities and business review The Kesa Group is an electricals and furniture retailer operating through 669 stores in seven European countries.
It is Europes third-largest home equipment retailing business by sales.
Kesa Electricals businesses share a trading philosophy based on three principles: best price, best choice and best service.
This distinctive customer proposition is designed to address the needs of a broad customer base, to create strong customer brand loyalty and to deliver a business model that is both profitable and cash generative.
This model has a track record of success within Kesa Electricals and is being rolled out across the Groups businesses in line with changing customer aspirations, so as to differentiate Kesa Electricals retail brands from those of its competitors.
The Groups businesses offer a broad range of home equipment products across the key white, brown and grey electrical product categories whilst, in addition, BUT offers a wide selection of furniture products.
The Chief Executives report sets out in more detail the plans and prospects for the Group over the coming year.
Kesa Group sales for the financial year to 31 January 2005 were 3.95 billion a5.86 billion 2004: 3.8 billion a5.5 billion with total retail profit of 206.7 million a304.6 million 2004: 202.7 million.
Profit and dividends The attributable profit for the year amounts to 58.0 million.
An interim dividend of 2.75 pence was paid to the ordinary shareholders of the Company on 10 December 2004 and on 22 March 2005 the Directors recommended the payment, on 15 July 2005, of a final dividend of 8.25 pence, giving a total dividend for the year of 11.0 pence.
The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business on 17 June 2005.
Directors The names and biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are shown on pages 22 and 23.
Particulars of Directors emoluments and their interests in the shares of the Company and its subsidiaries are shown in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 32 to 39.
There were no changes in the Directors interests in shares between the end of the financial year and 22 March 2005.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the following Directors will be retiring and being eligible are offering themselves for re-election: David Newlands Peter Wilson Simon Herrick Details of the terms of the appointments for David Newlands, Peter Wilson and Simon Herrick can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on page 38.
Their biographies are set out on page 23.
The Board strongly supports their re-election and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions proposing their re-election.
Details of all the Directors service contracts are set out in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on page 38.
Throughout the year, the Company has maintained liability insurance for its Directors and officers against the costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Company has also provided an indemnity for its Directors and officers.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides any cover where the Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Corporate governance The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 27 to 31.
24 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 Share capital At 31 January 2005 there were 529,553,216 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue together with rights under the Demerger Award Plan for the issue of a further 3,680,866 ordinary shares of 25 pence although it is intended to satisfy these rights through market purchase, rather than issuing new shares.
Further details of the share capital are given in note 23 to the financial statements.
Substantial shareholding As at 22 March 2005 the following interests of more than 3 per cent in the issued share capital of the Company had been notified pursuant to sections 198 to 210 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended Name Number of ordinary shares Percentage Fidelity Investments 74,315,335 14.03 Capital GroupCompanies 42,336,725 7.995 Legal and General 20,978,414 3.96 which represented 25.99 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company at that date.
Save for the above, no person has reported any material interest of 3 per cent or more.
Annual General Meeting The second Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The New Connaught Rooms, 61-65 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5DA at 11.00 am on Wednesday 25 May 2005.
Corporate social responsibility The Group has a code of conduct which sets out the standards of behaviour expected in the Group and of all who work for the Group, in their relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, business partners, the community including the environment, government and all other stakeholders in the business.
More information on corporate social responsibility is set out on pages 20 and 21.
Donations The Groups support for charitable causes is principally through the work done by the Groups operating companies to the value of 170,196.
Details of the types of activity undertaken are set out in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 20 and 21.
The Group made no political donations and incurred no items of political expenditure.
Employment policies At 31 January 2005 the average number of full-time equivalent employees working for the Group throughout Europe was 25,174.
Kesa Electricals consists of a number of businesses operating in different sectors.
While employment practices may vary between these businesses, the Group is, nevertheless, committed to ensuring that: All employees receive fair and equal treatment irrespective of gender, ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital status, religion, sexuality or disability.
The working environment is conducive to achievement and free from harassment and intimidation.
Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated and that their training and career development needs are carefully managed.
The assessment of training needs and the provision of appropriate training is delivered to its employees.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 25 Directors report Health and safety Group companies have a responsibility to ensure that all reasonable precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions, for employees and visitors alike, which are safe, healthy and in compliance with statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
The Groups companies pursue the objective of minimising the instances of occupational accidents and illnesses.
Examples of this are to be seen in the employment of health and safety advisers and in the establishment of detailed policies and statements of intent.
The Company Secretary has the responsibility to ensure that the Board is presented with a review at least annually detailing how the Group complies with the statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
Employee involvement Group companies actively consult their staff on matters of concern to them in the context of their employment.
In Europe, where the largest numbers of employees are, there is a formal consultation process through workers councils.
Consultation also takes place through joint consultation committees.
Information on matters of concern to employees including the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group is also disseminated through conferences, meetings, publications and electronic media.
A special all-employee savings plan for employees in France, as well as all-employee schemes to benefit employees in the UK, Holland, Belgium and the Czech Republic will be launched in 2005, following approval at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2005.
Creditor payment For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: Agree and confirm the terms of supply at the commencement of business with that supplier.
Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good working relationship.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 January 2005 were 36.8 days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Auditors Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of the auditors and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Simon Enoch Secretary 22 March 2005 Registered Office 22-24 Ely Place London EC1N 6TE 26 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05
