Revenue share fide La Rue today Banknote printing 70% The Group comprises two principal Banknote paper 30% areas of activity, Security Paper and Print and Cash Systems with strong market positions and attractive cash generation characteristics.
Security Paper and Print Gateshead Lisburn Westhoughton Bray Dunstable Debden Albany Dulles Bathford A B Overton Zejtun Basingstoke Headquarters Malwana Currency Kuala Lumpur Nairobi A Overton UK Security Products B Basingstoke UK Midrand Currency Security Products We aim to be the preferred partner of central banks The business provides a range of secure printed for printed banknotes, banknote paper and banknote products, services and solutions to businesses technologies worldwide.
By investing significantly we and governments worldwide.
deliver the most effective service and advanced security features, tailored to meet our customers Strategy Focus on the core business of individual needs.
authentication labels, passport and fiscal stamps markets and a broadening of the current Strategy Build on the existing business by customer base.
maintaining its market leadership position through selective investment in R&D.
The Currency business, Products Authentication labels, export cheques while mature, provides attractive returns, is highly cash and drafts, drivers licences and issuing systems, generative and has a strong competitive position in holograms, motor vehicle title documents, national the market in which it operates.
identity cards and issuing systems, passports and issuing systems, postage, revenue and fiscal stamps, Products Anti-counterfeit consultancy, banknotes, secure substrates, signature panels, tax discs, banknote paper, coins, currency management, travellers cheques, visas, vital records, vouchers.
design and origination service, security threads.
Locations Bathford, Basingstoke HQ and Locations Debden, Gateshead, Overton HQ Dunstable UK, Bray and Lisburn Republic of and Westhoughton UK, Zejtun Malta, Malwana Ireland, Albany and Dulles USA, Nairobi Kenya, Sri Lanka, Nairobi Kenya.
Midrand South Africa, Kuala Lumpur Malaysia.
06 fide La Rue Annual Report fide La Rue today Revenue share by Strategic Business Units Branch Teller Automation 72% OEM Desktop Products 15% Sorters 13% Cash Systems Eskilstuna Flen Dublin Knutsford Vianen Moerfelden Paris Montreal Bern Basingstoke Watertown A Chicago Madrid Portsmouth Beijing Lisbon Dallas Hong Kong Mexico City Headquarters A Basingstoke UK Key Manufacturing Hubs Key Sales and Sao Paulo Service Centres Sydney Also 40 local sales and services offices worldwide Branch Teller Automation Products Fully configurable note sorters that enable Our range of teller automation solutions helps bank the highest levels of counterfeit detection and quality branches, bank tellers and post banks offices ensure control for cash providers.
Software that delivers a that cash is readily available for their customers systematic approach to cash processing control.
wherever and whenever they need it.
OEM Desktop Products Strategy Support and develop strong market The Desktop Products business provides low cost, position as the global market leader in Teller simple-to-use cash counters targeting the banking, Automation products serving the retail bank sector retail, gaming, leisure and cash-in-transit markets.
through a greater focus on the key growth markets, fide La Rue is also a leading supplier of Original particularly North America, together with driving Equipment Manufacture OEM mechanisms and further operational productivity improvements.
technologies to the ATM industry.
Products Teller cash dispensers and recyclers help Strategy Optimise earnings for the OEM to increase teller productivity and improve customer and Desktop Products businesses through the service.
Self-service systems and multifunctional ATM rationalisation of the manufacturing capacity and solutions automate routine self-banking operations.
Cash Processing Solutions Sorters Products Note and coin counters, from simple The Sorters business provides cash handling solutions, batching to counterfeit checking, including including banknote sorters and software systems to reconciliation of deposits.
Cash dispensing help Central Banks, commercial banks and cash-inmechanisms.
transit companies worldwide process cash efficiently and improve customer service.
Locations Basingstoke HQ and Knutsford UK, Dublin Republic of Ireland, Chicago, Dallas, Strategy Revitalise the Sorter business.
There are Watertown USA, Mexico City Mexico, Montreal attractive segments of this market where fide La Rue Canada, Lisbon Portugal, Madrid Spain, Bern can compete successfully and which complement Switzerland, Moerfelden Germany, Paris France, the Groups Currency operations.
Vianen Netherlands, Flen and Eskilstuna Sweden, Beijing and Hong Kong China, Sydney Australia.
fide La Rue Annual Report fide La Rue today 07
