Five year information continued 10 Exchange rates A substantial portion of the groups assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses is denominated in currencies other than pound sterling, principally US dollars.
For a discussion of the impact of exchange rate uctuations on the companys financial condition and results of operations, see Operating and financial review Risk management.
The following table shows, for the periods indicated, information regarding the US dollar pound sterling exchange rate, based on the noon buying rate, expressed in US dollars per 1.
These rates have been provided for your convenience.
They are not necessarily the rates that have been used in this document for currency translations or in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
See note 2 i c to the consolidated financial statements for the actual rates used.
The following table shows period end and average US dollar pound sterling noon buying exchange rates by month, for the period to 31 August 2005, expressed in US dollars per 1.
2005 August July June May April March $$$$$$ Period end 1.80 1.76 1.79 1.82 1.91 1.89 Average rate 1.79 1.75 1.82 1.86 1.90 1.90 Diageo Annual Report 2005 8 Five year information Business description Overview Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks business with a collection of international brands.
Diageo was the thirteenth largest publicly quoted company in the United Kingdom in terms of market capitalisation on 31 August 2005, with a market capitalisation of approximately 23.4 billion.
Diageo was formed by the merger of Grand Metropolitan Public Limited Company and Guinness PLC that became effective on 17 December 1997.
Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited company in England and Wales.
Diageo plcs principal executive ofce is located at 8 Henrietta Place, London W1G 0NB and its telephone number is 44 0 20 7927 5200.
Diageo is a major participant in the branded beverage alcohol industry and operates on an international scale.
It brings together world-class brands and a management team committed to the maximisation of shareholder value.
The management team expects to invest in global brands, expand internationally and launch innovative new products and brands.
Diageo is the worlds leading branded premium spirits business by volume, sales revenue and operating profit.
Diageo also brews and markets beer and produces and sells wine.
It produces and distributes a wide range of premium brands, including Smirnoff vodka, Johnnie Walker Scotch whiskies, Guinness stout, Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur, J&B Scotch whisky, Captain Morgan rum and Tanqueray gin.
In addition it also owns the distribution rights for the Jos Cuervo tequila brands in the United States and other countries.
Strategy Diageo is a global consumer goods company focused on premium drinks.
The group operates across the total beverage alcohol sector, owning leading brands in spirits, wine and beer.
Diageos strategy is to generate consistent top line growth while enhancing its operating margins and return on invested capital.
Diageos brands are the platform from which its strategy will be delivered.
The companys leadership position in premium drinks is based on its ownership of a number of the worlds most important brands.
Diageo manages nine of the worlds top 20 premium distilled spirits brands as dened by Impact, a publication which compiles volume statistics for the international drinks industry.
The consumer appeal of Diageos brands across broad geographies has enabled the company to build individual market-leading positions in some of the worlds most profitable markets for premium drinks.
Diageos global business is managed as three regions, North America, Europe and International, led by market presidents who each report to the chief executive.
Diageos size provides an opportunity for significant scale efficiencies in operations and marketing effectiveness.
Diageo uses this scale to ensure cost efficiencies, to enable the dissemination of consumer insight across brands and markets and to better serve its customers and consumers.
Diageos high return on invested capital together with the low capital intensity of the business means that Diageo generates high levels of free cash ow.
Diageo will continue to review opportunities to invest in acquisitions which are consistent with its strategy of focusing on premium drinks.
Diageo is committed to returning surplus cash to shareholders by means of its dividend and its share buy-back programme.
Diageos position in premium drinks enables the company to attract and develop talented people with the capabilities to contribute to the successful delivery of Diageos strategy.
Diageo will ensure that its employees are supported as they develop.
Market participation Diageo targets its geographical priorities in terms of the major regional economies in which it operates.
These markets are managed in three regions: North America, Europe and International.
International markets comprise Latin America and the Caribbean, Africa, the Middle East and India, China and other Asian markets, Australia and New Zealand, and the Global Duty Free business.
North America accounts for the largest amount of Diageos operating profit.
Product offering Diageo manages its brands in terms of global priority brands, local priority brands, and category brands.
Acting as the main focus for the business, global priority brands are Diageos primary growth drivers across markets.
Local priority brands have marketleading positions in the markets in which they are distributed.
They drive growth on a significant scale but with a narrower geographic reach than the global priority brands.
Category brands comprise the smaller scale brands in Diageos collection.
Business effectiveness Over the long term, Diageos strategy will be continually focused on driving growth and increasing shareholder value.
Diageo has completed a number of acquisitions and disposals consistent with its strategy of focusing on its premium drinks business.
Between the merger in December 1997 and 30 June 2005 the group has received approximately 9.7 billion from disposals including 4.3 billion from the sale of Pillsbury, 1.2 billion from the sale of General Mills shares and 0.6 billion from the sale of Burger King and spent approximately 4.7 billion on acquisitions.
On 21 December 2001, Diageo and Pernod Ricard S. A. Pernod Ricard completed the acquisition of the spirits and wine businesses of The Seagram Company Ltd Seagram from Vivendi Universal SA Vivendi for $8.15 billion 5.62 billion in cash subject to certain debt, working capital and other adjustments.
Diageos share of the purchase price after adjustment was 3.7 billion.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 9 Business description Business description continued Continuing operations Premium drinks Diageo is engaged in a broad range of activities within the beverage alcohol industry.
Its operations include producing, distilling, brewing, bottling, packaging, distributing, developing and marketing a range of brands in approximately 180 markets around the world.
Diageo markets a wide range of recognised beverage alcohol brands including a number of the worlds leading spirits and beer brands.
The brand ranking information below, when comparing volume information with competitors, has been sourced from data published during 2005 by Impact.
Market data information is taken from industry sources in the markets in which Diageo operates.
Seventeen of the groups owned brands were among the top 100 premium distilled spirits brands worldwide, as ranked by Impact, in calendar year 2004.
References to ready to drink products below include avored malt beverages.
Ready to drink products are sold throughout the world, but avored malt beverages are currently only sold in the United States and certain markets supplied by the United States.
References to Smirnoff ready to drink include Smirnoff Ice, Smirnoff Black Ice, Smirnoff Twisted V, Smirnoff Mule, Smirnoff Spin and Smirnoff Caesar Classic.
References to Smirnoff Black Ice include Smirnoff Ice Triple Black in the United States.
In the year ended 30 June 2005, Diageo sold 101 million equivalent units of spirits including ready to drink, 22 million equivalent units of beer and 3 million equivalent units of wine.
In the year ended 30 June 2005, ready to drink products contributed 7 million equivalent units of total volume, of which Smirnoff ready to drink variants accounted for 5 million equivalent units.
Volume has been measured on an equivalent units basis to nine litre cases of spirits.
An equivalent unit represents one nine litre case of spirits, which is approximately 272 servings.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
Therefore, to convert volume of products other than spirits to equivalent units, the following guide has been used: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine litre cases divide by five and ready to drink in nine litre cases divide by 10.
The premium drinks portfolio comprises brands owned by the company as a principal, and brands the company holds under agency agreements.
The portfolio includes: Global priority brands Smirnoff vodka and Smirnoff ready to drink products Johnnie Walker Scotch whiskies Guinness stout Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur J&B Scotch whisky Captain Morgan rum Jos Cuervo tequila agency brand in North America and many other markets Tanqueray gin Other spirits brands include: Wine brands include: Other beer brands include: Crown Royal Canadian whisky Beaulieu Vineyard wine Harp Irish lager Buchanans fide Luxe whisky Sterling Vineyards wine Smithwicks ale Gordons gin and vodka Chalone Vineyards wine Malta non-alcoholic malt Windsor Premier whisky Blossom Hill wine Red Stripe lager Bells Extra Special whisky Piat dOr wine Dimple Pinch whisky Seagrams 7 Crown American whiskey Old Parr whisky Seagrams VO Canadian whisky Bundaberg rum Ursus vodka Bushmills Irish whiskey Diageos agency agreements vary depending on the particular brand, but tend to be for a xed number of years.
Diageos principal agency brand is Jos Cuervo in North America and many other markets.
There can be no assurances that Diageo will be able to prevent termination of distribution rights or rights to manufacture under licence, or renegotiate distribution rights or rights to manufacture under licence on favourable terms when they expire.
Diageo also brews and sells other companies beer brands under licence, including Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers in Ireland, Heineken lager in Jamaica and Tiger beer in Malaysia.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 10 Business description Global priority brands Diageo has eight global priority brands that it markets worldwide.
Diageo considers these brands to have the greatest current and future earnings potential.
Each global priority brand is marketed consistently around the world, and therefore can achieve scale benets.
The group manages and invests in these brands on a global basis.
In the year ended 30 June 2005, global priority brands contributed 59% of total volume and achieved turnover of 5,221 million.
Figures for global priority brands include related ready to drink products, unless otherwise indicated.
Smirnoff is Diageos highest volume brand and achieved sales of 25.2 million equivalent units in the year ended 30 June 2005.
Smirnoff is ranked, by volume, as the number one premium vodka and the number two premium spirit brand in the world.
Johnnie Walker Scotch whiskies comprise Johnnie Walker Red Label, Johnnie Walker Black Label and several other brand variants.
During the year ended 30 June 2005, Johnnie Walker Red Label sold 7.7 million equivalent units and was ranked, by volume, as the number one premium Scotch whisky and the number five premium spirit brand in the world.
Johnnie Walker Black Label sold 4.0 million equivalent units and the remaining variants sold 0.6 million equivalent units in the year ended 30 June 2005.
Guinness is the groups only global priority beer brand, and for the year ended 30 June 2005 achieved volume of 11.4 million equivalent units.
Baileys, ranked the number one liqueur in the world, sold 6.7 million equivalent units in the year ended 30 June 2005.
Captain Morgan is ranked as the number two premium rum brand in the world and contributed 6.5 million equivalent units in the year ended 30 June 2005.
Other global priority brands were also ranked, by volume, among the leading premium distilled spirits brands by Impact.
These include: J&B Scotch whisky comprising J&B Rare, J&B Select, J&B Reserve, J&B -6C and J&B Jet, ranked the number two premium Scotch whisky in the world: Jos Cuervo, ranked the number one premium tequila in the world: and Tanqueray, ranked the number four premium gin brand in the world.
During the year ended 30 June 2005, J&B, Jos Cuervo and Tanqueray sold 5.9 million, 4.5 million and 1.9 million equivalent units, respectively.
Other brands Diageo manages its other brands by category, analysing them between local priority brands and category brands.
Local priority brands represent the brands, apart from the global priority brands, that make the greatest contribution to operating profit in an individual country, rather than worldwide.
Diageo has identied 30 local priority brands.
Diageo manages and invests in these brands on a market by market basis and, unlike the global priority brands, may not have a consistent marketing strategy around the world for such brands.
For the year ended 30 June 2005, local priority brands contributed volume of 22.7 million equivalent units, representing 18% of total volume in nine litre equivalent units, and turnover of 1,860 million.
Examples of local priority brands include Crown Royal Canadian whisky in North America, Windsor Premier whisky in South Korea, Seagrams VO whisky and Seagrams 7 Crown whiskey in North America, Cacique rum in Spain, Gordons gin in Great Britain, Bundaberg rum in Australia, Bells whisky in Great Britain, Smithwicks ale in Ireland, Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers in Ireland and Sterling Vineyards wines in North America.
The remaining brands are grouped under category brands.
Other spirits achieved volume of 21.4 million equivalent units and contributed 1,229 million to Diageos turnover in the year ended 30 June 2005.
Examples of category spirits brands are Gordons gin all markets except Great Britain and North America in which it is reported as a local priority brand, Gordons vodka, The Classic Malt whiskies and White Horse whisky.
In the year ended 30 June 2005, Diageo sold 4.8 million equivalent units of beers other than Guinness, achieving turnover of 403 million.
Other beer volume was attributable to mainly owned brands, such as Harp Irish lager all markets except Ireland, Kilkenny Irish beer, Malta non-alcoholic stout all markets except Africa and Smithwicks ale all markets except Ireland, with a minority being attributable to beers brewed and or sold under licence, Tiger beer in Malaysia and Heineken lager in Jamaica.
In addition, Diageo produces and markets a wide selection of wines.
These include well known labels such as Beaulieu Vineyard and Chalone Vineyards in the United States, Blossom Hill in the United Kingdom, and Barton & Guestier and Piat dOr in Europe.
For the year ended 30 June 2005, other wine volume was 2.3 million equivalent units, contributing turnover of 323 million.
Production Diageo owns production facilities including maltings, distilleries, breweries, packaging plants, maturation warehouses, cooperages, vineyards and distribution warehouses.
Production also occurs at plants owned and operated by third parties and joint ventures at a number of locations internationally.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 11 Business description Business description continued Approximately 80% of total production including third party production is undertaken in five Diageo production areas, namely the United Kingdom, Baileys, Guinness, Santa Vittoria and North America centres.
The majority of these production centres have several production facilities.
The locations, principal activities, products, production capacity and production volume in 2005 of these principal production centres are set out in the following table: Production Production volume in capacity 2005 Production centre Location Principal products million million United Kingdom United Kingdom Scotch whisky, gin, vodka, rum, ready to drink 58 38 Baileys Ireland Irish cream liqueur, vodka 12 8 Guinness Ireland, United Kingdom Beers, ready to drink 13 9 Santa Vittoria Italy Vodka, wine, rum, ready to drink 8 6 North America United States, Canada Vodka, gin, tequila, rum, Canadian whisky, American whiskey, avored malt beverages, wine, ready to drink 65 38 In equivalent units.
Spirits are produced in distilleries located worldwide.
The principal owned distilleries are 29 whisky distilleries in Scotland, a whisky distillery in Canada and gin distilleries in the United Kingdom and the United States.
Diageo produces Smirnoff vodka internationally, Popov vodka and Gordons vodka in the United States and Baileys in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Rum is blended and bottled in the United States, Canada, Italy and the United Kingdom and is distilled, blended and bottled in Australia and Venezuela.
All of Diageos maturing Scotch whisky is located in warehouses in Scotland.
On 25 August 2005, Diageo acquired the Bushmills Irish whiskey distillery located in Northern Ireland.
Diageos principal wineries are in the United States, France and Argentina.
Wines are sold both in their local markets and overseas.
Diageo produces a range of ready to drink products mainly in the United Kingdom, Italy, South Africa, Australia, the United States and Canada.
Diageo has completed the restructuring of its production operations in Canada to reduce excess capacity following the acquisition of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses, and the associated enforced sale of the Malibu brand.
The facility in LaSalle, Quebec capacity of 10 million equivalent units was closed in April 2005.
Diageos principal brewing facilities are at the St Jamess Gate brewery in Dublin and in Kilkenny, Waterford and Dundalk in the Republic of Ireland, and in Nigeria, Kenya, Malaysia, Jamaica and Cameroon.
Ireland is the main export centre for the Guinness brand.
In other countries, Guinness is brewed under licence arrangements.
In June 2005, Diageo closed its Park Royal brewery in London, England and transferred all Guinness Draught production to St Jamess Gate brewery in Dublin in the Republic of Ireland, to optimise utilisation and reduce ongoing costs.
Guinness Draught in cans and bottles, which uses an in-container system to replicate the taste of Guinness Draught, is packaged at Runcorn and Belfast in the United Kingdom.
The Runcorn facility has been enhanced during the year ended 30 June 2005 to establish and provide kegging of Guinness Draught for the Great Britain market.
Property, plant and equipment Diageo owns or leases land and buildings throughout the world.
The principal production facilities are described above.
As at 30 June 2005, Diageos land and buildings were included in the groups consolidated balance sheet under UK GAAP at a net book value of 798 million.
Diageos largest individual facility, in terms of net book value of property, is St Jamess Gate brewery in Dublin.
Approximately 88% by value of the groups properties were owned and approximately 7% are held under leases running for 50 years or longer.
Diageos properties primarily are a variety of manufacturing, distilling, brewing, bottling and administration facilities spread across the groups worldwide operations, as well as vineyards in the United States.
Approximately 47% and 22% of the book value of Diageos land and buildings comprise properties located in the United Kingdom and the United States, respectively.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 12 Business description Raw materials The group has a number of contracts for the forward purchasing of its raw material requirements in order to minimise the effect of raw material price uctuations.
Long term contracts are in place for the purchase of significant raw materials including glass, other packaging, tequila, neutral spirits, cream, rum and grapes.
In addition, forward contracts are in place for the purchase of other raw materials including sugar and cereals to minimise the effects of short term price uctuations.
Cream is the principal raw material used in the production of Irish cream liqueur and is sourced from Ireland.
Grapes are used in the production of wine and are sourced from suppliers in the United States, France and Argentina.
Other raw materials purchased in significant quantities for the production of spirits and beer are tequila, neutral spirits, molasses, rum, cereals, sugar and a number of avours such as juniper berries, agave, chocolate and herbs.
These are sourced from suppliers around the world.
The majority of products are supplied to customers in glass bottles.
Glass is purchased from suppliers located around the world, the principal supplier being the Owens Illinois group.
Diageo has a supply agreement with Casa Cuervo S. A. fide C. V. a Mexican company, for the supply of bulk tequila used to make the Jos Cuervo line of tequilas and tequila drinks in the United States.
The supply agreement will expire in June 2013.
Diageo has a supply agreement with Destilria Serralls, Inc Serralls, a Puerto Rico corporation, for the supply of rum used to make the Captain Morgan line of rums and rum drinks in the United States.
The supply agreement is for 10 years from 2002, with a three year notice requirement coming into effect once the original 10 year term has expired.
Marketing and distribution Diageo is committed to investing in its brands.
1,023 million was spent worldwide on marketing brands in the year ended 30 June 2005.
Marketing was focused on the eight global priority brands, which accounted for 68% of total marketing expenditure in the year ended 30 June 2005.
Diageo announced on 8 September 2004 a new geographic organisation comprising North America, Europe and International.
Diageo markets and distributes its brands under this geographic organisation.
Diageo Europe consists of the following regions and countries: Great Britain: Ireland: Northern Europe the Nordics, Germany, France, Benelux, Austria, Switzerland and the Baltics: Southern and Eastern Europe Greece, Turkey, Italy, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, the former Yugoslavia, Cyprus, Malta, Israel, Romania, Bulgaria, Albania and Russia: and Iberia comprising Spain, Portugal and the Canary Islands.
Diageo International consists of the following regions and countries: Latin America and the Caribbean, Africa, the Middle East and India, China and other Asian markets, Australia and New Zealand, and Global Duty Free.
There has been no change to the composition of the Diageo North America operating unit.
In the year ended 30 June 2005, North America, Europe and International contributed 37%, 33% and 30% respectively of the groups operating profit before exceptional items and corporate costs.
An analysis of turnover and operating profit before exceptional items by market for the year ended 30 June 2005 is as follows: Operating Turnover profit loss million million North America 2,619 778 Europe 3,852 692 International 2,503 627 Corporate 62 153 Total 9,036 1,944 Before exceptional items.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 13 Business description Business description continued North America North America is the largest market for Diageo in terms of operating profit before exceptional items, and the largest market for premium drinks in the world.
Diageo markets its products through 14 business teams or clusters.
The 14 teams or clusters are managed as a single business unit, US Spirits.
National brand strategy and strategic accounts marketing are managed at the corporate North America level.
The clusters market the majority of Diageos collection of spirits including Smirnoff vodka, Baileys Irish Cream liqueur, Jos Cuervo tequila, Captain Morgan rum, Crown Royal Canadian whisky, Seagrams 7 Crown American whiskey, Seagrams VO Canadian whisky and, from 1 July 2004, Johnnie Walker, Tanqueray, Tanqueray No.
TEN, Croc, J&B, Buchanans, Pinch, Cardhu and The Six Classic Malts of Scotland Talisker, Lagavulin, Oban, Glenkinchie, Dalwhinnie and Cragganmore across the United States.
Diageo-Guinness USA distributes Diageos US beer portfolio Guinness stout, Harp lager, Kaliber non-alcoholic lager and Red Stripe lager as well as the groups avored malt beverages Smirnoff Ice, Smirnoff Ice Triple Black, and Smirnoff Twisted V. Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines markets all Diageos wine brands such as Beaulieu Vineyard, Sterling Vineyards and the Chalone brands including Chalone Vineyards and Hewitt Vineyards across the United States.
The Canada business unit distributes the groups spirits, wine and beer portfolio across all Canadian territories.
Within the United States, there are two types of regulatory environments: open states and control states.
In open states, spirits companies are allowed to sell spirits, wine and beer directly to independent distributors.
In the open states within the United States, Diageo trades through a three tier distribution system, where the product is initially sold to distributors, who then sell it to on and off premise retailers.
In some states, such as Texas, Diageo sells its products on premise through a four tier system, whereby Diageo sells to large distributors, which then sell to off premise retailers, and off premise retailers with special Class B licences sell to on premise retailers.
In most control states, Diageo markets its spirits products to state liquor control boards through the bailment warehousing system, and from there to state liquor stores.
There are variations, for example certain states control distribution but not retail sales.
Generally, wines are treated in the same way as spirits, although some states that are control states for spirits are open states for wines.
Beer distribution follows open states regulation across the entire United States.
In Canada, spirits distribution laws are similar to those of control states in the United States.
In Canada, beer distribution laws are generally similar to those for spirits.
Diageo, however, has some licenses to direct-deliver keg beer to licensed accounts, which account for approximately 53% of Diageos beer business in Canada.
The completion of the Seagram acquisition in December 2001 provided Diageo with the opportunity to pursue consolidation of its distributors in a strategy called Next Generation Growth NGG.
Building on the Seagram integration, the strategy focuses on consolidating the distribution of Diageos US spirits and wine and former Seagram brands into a single distributor in each state wherever possible.
The strategy provided sufficient economies of scale to support the distributor changes, a consolidated network limiting duplication of activities between Diageo and the distributor, increased Diageo and distributor selling capabilities and employed a number of alternative approaches to optimise product distribution.
During the year ended 30 June 2005, Diageo consolidated its business in additional states bringing the total to 39 states plus Washington DC.
These 39 states, together with Washington DC, represent nearly 85% of Diageos US spirits and wine volume.
Across the United States, Diageos distributors and brokers have over 2,100 dedicated sales people focused on selling Diageos spirits and wines brands.
In future, Diageos focus will be on helping build the capabilities and selling tools of the distributors dedicated sales force and creating a more efficient and effective value chain.
In the year ended 30 June 2005, the states of South Carolina, Delaware and Nebraska were consolidated and negotiations are underway in several additional states.
The majority of the remaining states are franchise states that will be consolidated as opportunities arise.
Europe Diageo Europe covers Great Britain, Ireland, Iberia, Northern Europe, Southern and Eastern Europe and Russia.
In Great Britain Diageo markets its products via three business units: Diageo GB spirits, beer and ready to drink, Percy Fox & Co wines and Justerini & Brooks Retail private client wines.
Products are distributed both via independent wholesalers and directly to the major grocers, convenience and specialist stores.
In the on trade for example, licensed major bars and restaurants, products are sold through the major brewers, multiple retail groups and smaller regional independent brewers and wholesalers.
The customer base in Great Britain has seen consolidation in recent years in both the on trade and home consumption channels.
In particular, Great Britains top four national multiple grocers together make up over 45% of home consumption total spirits volume.
Ireland comprises the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
In both territories, Diageo sells and distributes directly to both the on trade and the off trade for example, retail shops and wholesalers through a telesales operation, extensive sales calls to outlets and third party logistics providers.
The Guinness, Smirnoff and Baileys brands are market leaders in their respective categories of long alcoholic drinks, vodka and cream liqueurs.
Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers, also major products in the Diageo collection of brands in Ireland, are brewed and sold under licence in addition to the other local priority brands of Smithwicks ale and Harp lager.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 14 Business description Across the remainder of the Europe region, and including the majority of the markets within Northern and Southern and Eastern Europe, Diageo distributes its spirits brands primarily through its own distribution companies.
Exceptions to this are: France, where Diageo sells its spirits and wine products through a joint arrangement with Mot Hennessy, and its beer products through Interbrew: Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Albania, Cyprus, Malta, Croatia, former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Slovenia where Diageo also sells and markets its brands via local distributors: Russia, where Diageos products are distributed in conjunction with a local company, Roust: and in the Nordic countries, where Diageo has sales ofces in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, and representation through third party distributors in Finland and Iceland.
In all Nordic markets except Denmark, off premise sales are controlled by state monopolies, with alcohol tax rates among the highest in the world, and border trade and duty free are important sources of purchase.
A specialist unit for the distribution of Diageos beer brands in continental Europe was formed in July 2004 in order to achieve synergies in the marketing and distribution of Guinness, Harp and Kilkenny brands within continental Europe.
These brands are distributed by the specialist unit both in the on trade and off trade with special focus on the markets in Germany, Italy and France, which are the largest continental European beer markets by size for Diageo.
International Diageo International covers Latin America and the Caribbean, Africa, the Middle East and India, China and other Asian markets, Australia and New Zealand, and Global Duty Free.
In Latin America and the Caribbean, distribution is achieved through a mixture of Diageo companies and third party distributors.
In addition, Diageo owns a controlling interest in Desnoes & Geddes Limited, the Jamaican local brewer of Red Stripe lager.
Africa excluding North Africa is one of the longest established and largest markets for the Guinness brand, with the brewing of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout in a number of African countries, either through subsidiaries or under licence.
Last July, Diageo entered into a three way joint venture with Heineken and Namibia Breweries Limited in South Africa.
Diageo has a wholly-owned subsidiary in Cameroon and also has majority-owned subsidiaries in Nigeria, Kenya, Uganda, Runion and the Seychelles.
In Ghana, Diageo and Heineken have amalgamated the businesses of Guinness Ghana Limited Diageo and Ghana Breweries Limited Heineken to achieve a number of commercial and operational synergy benets.
In the Middle East and India, distribution is achieved mainly through third party distributors.
Lebanon is an exception, where a Diageo majority-owned joint venture distributes most of the Diageo brands sold there.
Elsewhere in Asia, Diageo works with a number of joint venture partners.
In Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Peoples Republic of China, Thailand, Japan and Taiwan, Diageo distributes its spirits and wine brands through joint arrangements with Mot Hennessy.
Diageo recently entered into a distribution agreement with Citic Sims for the distribution by that company of certain spirits products in the Peoples Republic of China.
In South Korea, Diageos own distribution company distributes the majority of Diageos brands.
The remaining brands are distributed through third party distributors.
In Japan, Guinness beer is distributed through an associated company of the group, a joint venture with Sapporo Breweries.
There is also a direct relationship with Sapporo Breweries for distribution of Smirnoff Ice.
In Malaysia and Singapore, Diageos own and third party beers are brewed by the joint venture company that Diageo owns with Asia Pacic Breweries.
Generally the remaining markets are served by third party distribution networks monitored by regional ofces.
In Australia, Diageo has its own distribution company as well as a distribution arrangement with VOK beverages, and also has licensed brewing arrangements with Carlton-United Breweries.
In New Zealand, Diageo operates through third party distributors and has licensed brewing arrangements with Lion Nathan.
Global Duty Free is Diageos sales and marketing organisation which targets the international duty free consumer in duty free outlets such as airport shops, airlines and ferries around the world.
The global nature of this organisation allows a co-ordinated approach to brand building initiatives and builds on shopper insights in this trade channel, where consumer behaviour tends to be different from domestic markets.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 15 Business description Business description continued Seasonal impacts The Christmas holiday season provides the peak period for sales.
Historically, approximately 30% of sales volume occurs in the last three months of each calendar year.
Employees Releasing the potential of every employee is recognised as one of Diageos core strategic imperatives to deliver enhanced business performance.
The organisation and people strategy determines our ability to: Attract, retain and professionally grow a deep pool of diverse, talented employees Utilise our recognition and reward programmes to stimulate outstanding team and individual performance contributions Ensure Diageo adapts its organisation and working environment to maximise employee contribution and deliver performance goals.
The focus on accessing the very best talent, from the widest possible global talent pools, is to provide the ideas, innovation and performance outcomes necessary to achieve the companys ambitions for itself and its stakeholders.
Opportunities for employment, training and career progression are determined on the basis of each individuals aptitude and ability, irrespective of their gender, ethnic origin, nationality, age, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
The monitoring of progress against organisation and people development plans is integral to the ongoing business review process.
The compensation packages provided for employees are regularly benchmarked against other employers in the geographies where Diageo operates, so as to ensure that the value of the roles they perform are competitively positioned and that employees contributions are fairly recognised.
Where feasible, the compensation packages on offer include a exibility of choice from a range of options.
The group also has a variety of plans in place to promote share ownership which enable employees to share in the achievements and future growth of the business.
Currently there are 16 countries operating sharesave plans.
Employee policies are designed to take account of external legislation and internal codes of conduct, as well as Diageos values as an organisation.
Diageo is committed to the safety and wellbeing of employees at work.
In particular it promotes responsible drinking behaviour among its workforce.
Diageo strives to foster a sense of pride in employees working for Diageo through a wide range of communication methods across the business.
The senior leadership community is committed to open and continuous dialogue with its employees as a way to inform and engage them in the groups strategy and business goals.
They are also committed to honouring its obligations to consult openly and regularly with employee representative forums and or trade unions where appropriate.
Diageos average number of employees during each of the three years ended 30 June 2005 was as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Full Part Full Part Full Part time time Total time time Total time time Total Continuing operations 22,333 633 22,966 22,548 1,172 23,720 23,427 1,134 24,561 Discontinued operations 8,965 5,429 14,394 22,333 633 22,966 22,548 1,172 23,720 32,392 6,563 38,955 Discontinued operations include employees for the quick service restaurants business prior to 13 December 2002, reecting the period in which the group owned the business.
Competition Diageo competes on the basis of consumer loyalty, quality and price.
In spirits and wine, Diageos major global competitors are Pernod Ricard, Allied Domecq now part of Pernod Ricard, Bacardi and Brown-Forman, each of which has several brands that compete directly with Diageo brands.
Diageo believes, based on its analysis of data compiled by Impact, that Diageo and these three other major international companies account for approximately 63% of the volume of the top 100 premium distilled spirits in the world.
In addition, Diageo faces competition from local and regional companies in the countries in which it operates.
In beer, the Guinness brand competes in the overall beer market with its key competitors varying by market.
These include Heineken in Ireland and both Heineken and SABMiller in several markets in Africa, Coors Brewing Carling in the United Kingdom and Carlsberg in Malaysia.
Diageo aims to maintain and improve its market position by enhancing the consumer appeal of its brands through consistent high investment in marketing support focused around the eight global priority brands.
Diageo makes extensive use of magazine, newspaper, point of sale and poster and billboard advertising, and uses radio, cinema and television advertising where appropriate and permitted by law.
Diageo also runs consumer promotional programmes in the on trade for example, licensed bars and restaurants.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 16 Business description Research and development The overall nature of the groups business does not demand substantial expenditure on research and development.
However, the group has ongoing programmes for developing new drinks products.
In the year ended 30 June 2005, the groups research and development expenditure amounted to 16 million 2004 11 million: 2003 15 million.
Research and development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Trademarks Diageo produces and distributes branded goods and is therefore substantially dependent on the maintenance and protection of its trademarks.
All brand names mentioned in this document are trademarks.
The group also holds numerous licences and trade secrets, as well as having substantial trade knowledge related to its products.
The group believes that its significant trademarks are registered and or otherwise protected insofar as legal protections are available in all material respects in its most important markets.
Regulations and taxes In the United States, the beverage alcohol industry is subject to strict federal and state government regulations covering virtually every aspect of its operations, including production, marketing, sales, distribution, pricing, labelling, packaging and advertising.
Spirits, wine and beer are subject to national import and excise duties in many markets around the world.
Most countries impose excise duties on beverage alcohol products, although the form of such taxation varies signicantly from a simple application to units of alcohol by volume, to advanced systems based on imported or wholesale value of the product.
Several countries impose additional import duty on distilled spirits, often discriminating between categories such as Scotch whisky or bourbon in the rate of such tariffs.
Within the European Union, such products are subject to different rates of excise duty in each country, but within an overall European Union framework, there are minimum rates of excise duties that can be applied.
Import and excise duties can have a significant impact on the final pricing of Diageos products to consumers.
These duties have an impact on the competitive position versus other brands.
The group devotes resources to encouraging the equitable taxation treatment of all beverage alcohol categories and to reducing government-imposed barriers to fair trading.
Advertising, marketing and sales of alcohol are subject to various restrictions in markets around the world.
These range from a complete prohibition of alcohol in certain countries and cultures, through the prohibition of the import of spirits, wine and beer, to restrictions on the advertising style, media and messages used.
In a number of countries, television is a prohibited medium for spirits brands and in other countries, television advertising, while permitted, is carefully regulated.
Spirits, wine and beer are also regulated in distribution.
In many countries, alcohol may only be sold through licensed outlets, both on and off premise, varying from government or state operated monopoly outlets for example, Canada, Norway, and certain US states to the common system of licensed on premise outlets for example, licensed bars and restaurants which prevails in much of the western world for example, most US states and the European Union.
In about one-third of the states in the United States, price changes must be led or published 30 days to three months, depending on the state, before they become effective.
Labelling of beverage alcohol products is also regulated in many markets, varying from health warning labels to importer identication, alcohol strength and other consumer information.
Specic warning statements related to the risks of drinking beverage alcohol products are required to be included on all beverage alcohol products sold in the United States.
Following the end of the voluntary restrictions on television advertising of spirits in the United States, Diageo and other spirits companies have been advertising products on the air on local cable television stations.
Expressions of political concern signify the uncertain future of beverage alcohol products advertising on network television in the United States.
Further requirements for warning statements and any prohibitions on advertising and marketing could have an adverse impact on sales of the group.
Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal and regulatory environment could increase Diageos costs and liabilities or impact on its business activities.
Business services Diageo has committed to re-engineer its key business activities with customers, consumers, suppliers and the processes that summarise and report financial performance.
In that regard, global processes are being designed, built and implemented across a number of markets and global supply.
A business service centre in Budapest, Hungary performs various process tasks for North America, Great Britain, Ireland, the Canaries, Switzerland, Benelux, Global Duty Free and Guinness supply.
From 1 July 2005 the business service centre also provides services to Australia.
Additional markets and supply entities are scheduled to transfer to Budapest during the next few years.
The costs of the business service centre and other corporate costs which cannot be directly allocated to the geographical operating units are reported separately as Corporate costs in the geographical analysis of business performance.
Also included in Corporate are the revenues and costs related to rents receivable in respect of properties not used by Diageo in the manufacture, sale or distribution of premium drink products and the results of Gleneagles Hotel.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 17 Business description Business description continued Associates Diageos principal associate is Mot Hennessy.
It also owns shares in a number of other associates.
In the year ended 30 June 2005, the share of profits of associates before interest, exceptional items and tax was 185 million, of which Mot Hennessy accounted for 169 million.
Diageo owns 34% of Mot Hennessy, the spirits and wine subsidiary of LVMH Mot Hennessy-Louis Vuitton SA LVMH.
LVMH is based in France and is listed on the Paris Stock Exchange.
Mot Hennessy is also based in France and is a producer and exporter of a number of brands in its main business areas of champagne and cognac.
Its principal products include champagne brands, Mot & Chandon including Dom Prignon, Veuve Clicquot and Mercier, all of which are included in the top 10 champagne brands worldwide by volume, and Hennessy which is the top cognac brand worldwide by volume.
On 11 January 2005, Met Hennessy completed its acquisition of Glenmorangie PLC, a malt whisky distillation and distribution business.
Since 1987, a number of joint distribution arrangements have been established with LVMH, principally covering distribution of Diageos premium brands of Scotch whisky and gin and Mot Hennessys premium champagne and cognac brands in the Asia Pacic region and France.
Diageo and LVMH have each undertaken not to engage in any champagne or cognac activities competing with those of Mot Hennessy.
The arrangements also contain certain provisions for the protection of Diageo as a minority shareholder in Mot Hennessy.
The operations of Mot Hennessy in France were conducted during the year ended 30 June 2005 through a partnership in which Diageo has a 34% interest.
As a partner, Diageo pays any tax due on its share of the results of the partnership to the tax authorities.
Acquisitions and disposals Diageo has made a number of strategic acquisitions and disposals of brands, distribution rights and equity interests in premium drinks businesses.
In February 2005, Diageo acquired The Chalone Wine Group for US$285 million 153 million.
The Chalone Wine Group is a North America based wine business with a range of premium brand wines and has been merged into Diageos North American wine business, Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines.
In February 2005 Diageo acquired Ursus Vodka Holding B. V. the owner of the Ursus vodka and Ursus Roter brands.
The principal market, by volume, for the Ursus vodka and Ursus Roter brands is Greece.
Diageos total cash investment was a146 million 99 million.
On 25 August 2005, Diageo completed the purchase of The Old Bushmills Distillery Company Limited, owner of Bushmills Irish whiskey, one of the worlds leading Irish whiskey brands, from Pernod Ricard SA for approximately 200 million.
The transaction is not reected in these financial statements but will be accounted for as an acquisition in the six month period ending 31 December 2005.
Disposed businesses General Mills Diageo ceased to equity account for its shares in General Mills which it acquired on the disposal of Pillsbury to General Mills in October 2001 from 23 June 2004.
On 4 October 2004 Diageo sold 49.9 million shares in General Mills and transferred a further 4 million shares to the Diageo UK pension fund.
Diageo ceased to be an afliate of General Mills for US securities laws purposes at that time.
The remaining 25 million shares are subject to a call option purchased by General Mills on 23 October 2002.
On 24 August 2005 Diageo purchased an option to dispose of its remaining interest in the shares of General Mills see Related party transactions Agreements with General Mills.
During the year ended 30 June 2005, the group received dividends of 17 million from General Mills.
During the year ended 30 June 2004, the equity stake contributed 258 million to share of profits of associates before exceptional items 2003 287 million, 7 million to exceptional items 2003 18 million, 59 million to interest expense 2003 73 million and 66 million to tax expense 2003 69 million.
Quick service restaurants Diageo completed the disposal of Burger King on 13 December 2002.
See Operating and financial review Off-balance sheet arrangements.
Burger King is a leading company in the worldwide quick service restaurant industry.
In the year ended 30 June 2003, Burger King contributed turnover of 479 million and operating profit of 53 million to Diageo.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 18 Business description Risk factors Diageo faces competition that may reduce its market share and margins Diageo faces competition from several international companies as well as local and regional companies in the countries in which it operates.
Diageo competes with drinks companies across a wide range of consumer drinking occasions.
Within a number of categories, consolidation or realignment is taking place as evidenced by the acquisition of Allied Domecq plc by Pernod Ricard S. A..
Consolidation is also taking place amongst Diageos customers in many countries.
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline in Diageos market share in any of these categories, which would adversely affect Diageos results and hinder its growth potential.
Diageo may not be able to derive the expected benefits from its strategy to focus on premium drinks or its change and costsaving programmes designed to enhance earnings On 17 July 2000, Diageo announced the integration of its spirits, wine and beer businesses to create a premium drinks business as part of an integrated strategy to be a focused premium drinks company.
There can be no assurance that Diageos strategic focus on premium drinks will result in better opportunities for growth and improved margins.
It is possible that the pursuit of this strategic focus on premium drinks could give rise to further acquisitions.
There can be no guarantee that any such acquisition would deliver the benets intended.
Systems change programmes may not deliver the benefits intended and systems failures could lead to business disruption Certain change programmes designed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of end-to-end operating, administrative and financial systems and processes continue to be undertaken.
This includes moving transaction processing from a number of markets to shared service centres.
There can be no certainty that these programmes will deliver the expected benets.
There is likely to be disruption caused to production processes and possibly to administrative and financial systems as further changes to such processes are effected.
They could also lead to adverse customer or consumer reaction.
Any failure of information systems could adversely impact Diageos ability to operate.
As with all large systems, Diageos information systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes.
Such unauthorised access could disrupt Diageos business and or lead to loss of assets.
The concentration of processes in shared service centres also means that any disruption arising from system failure or physical plant issues could impact on a large portion of Diageos global business.
Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal and regulatory environment could increase Diageos costs and liabilities or limit its business activities Diageos operations are subject to extensive regulatory requirements regarding production, product liability, distribution, importation, marketing, labelling, advertising, labour, pensions and environmental issues.
Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy, could cause Diageo to incur material additional costs or liabilities that could adversely affect its business.
In particular, governmental bodies in countries where Diageo operates may impose new labelling, product or production requirements, limitations on the advertising activities used to market beverage alcohol, restrictions on retail outlets or other restrictions on marketing and distribution.
Regulatory authorities under whose laws Diageo operates may also have enforcement power that can subject the group to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on its sales or damage its reputation.
In addition, beverage alcohol products are the subject of national import and excise duties in most countries around the world.
An increase in import or excise duties could have a significant adverse effect on Diageos sales revenue or margin, both through reducing overall consumption and by encouraging consumers to switch to lower-taxed categories of beverage alcohol.
Companies in the beverage alcohol industry are, from time to time, exposed to class action or other litigation relating to alcohol advertising, alcohol abuse problems or health consequences from the misuse of alcohol.
If such litigation resulted in fines, damages or reputational damage to Diageo or its brands, Diageos business could be materially adversely affected.
Diageos reported after tax income is calculated based on extensive tax and accounting requirements in each of its relevant jurisdictions of operation.
Changes in tax law including tax rates, accounting policies and accounting standards could materially reduce Diageos reported after tax income.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 19 Business description Business description continued Demand for Diageos products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes Diageos collection of brands includes some of the worlds leading beverage alcohol brands as well as brands of local prominence.
Maintaining Diageos competitive position depends on its continued ability to offer products that have a strong appeal to consumers.
Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including changes in demographic and social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns and a downturn in economic conditions, which may reduce consumers willingness to purchase premium branded products.
In addition, concerns about health effects due to negative publicity regarding alcohol consumption, negative dietary effects, regulatory action or any litigation or customer complaints against companies in the industry may have an adverse effect on Diageos profitability.
The competitive position of Diageos brands could also be affected adversely by any failure to achieve consistent, reliable quality in the product or service levels to customers.
In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products is inherently uncertain especially as to their appeal to consumers: the failure to launch a new product successfully can give rise to inventory write offs and other costs and can affect consumer perception of an existing brand.
Growth in Diageos business has been based on both the launch of new products and the growth of existing products.
Product innovation remains a significant aspect of Diageos plans for growth.
There can be no assurance as to Diageos continuing ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products or as to the profitable lifespan of newly or recently developed products.
Any significant changes in consumer preferences and failure to anticipate and react to such changes could result in reduced demand for Diageos products and erosion of its competitive and financial position.
If the social acceptability of Diageos products declines, or if the litigation directed at the beverage alcohol industry were to succeed, Diageos sales volume could decrease and the business could be materially adversely affected In recent years, there has been increased social and political attention directed to the beverage alcohol industry.
Diageo believes that this attention is the result of public concern over problems related to alcohol abuse, including drink driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol.
If, as a result, the general social acceptability of beverage alcohol were to decline signicantly, sales of Diageos products could materially decrease.
At least nine nearly identical putative class actions are pending in state and federal courts in the United States against Diageo, Diageo North America Inc and other Diageo entities, along with a large group of other beverage alcohol manufacturers and importers.
All have been brought by the same counsel.
In each action, the plaintiffs seek to pursue their claims on behalf of parents and guardians of underage drinkers who bought alcohol beverages during the period from 1982 to the present: and in all but one of the actions, plaintiffs seek to pursue claims on behalf of all parents and guardians of children currently under the age of 21.
Plaintiffs allege several causes of action, principally for negligence, unjust enrichment and violation of state consumer fraud statutes.
Some complaints include additional claims for conspiracy, nuisance and other theories of recovery.
The US domestic defendants including Diageo North America Inc have moved or will at an appropriate time move to dismiss each of the actions.
Three motions to dismiss are fully briefed and await decision.
There has been no discovery to date.
Diageos operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs or shortages of raw materials or labour or disruption to production facilities or shared service centres The raw materials which Diageo uses for the production of its beverage products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls.
If commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials cost or the cost of packaging materials, Diageo may not be able to increase its prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income.
Diageo may be adversely affected by shortages of such raw materials or packaging materials.
Similarly, Diageos operating results could be adversely affected by labour or skill shortages or increased labour costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.
Diageos success is dependent on the capability of its employees.
There is no guarantee that Diageo will continue to be able to recruit, retain and develop the capabilities that it requires to deliver its strategy, for example in relation to sales, marketing and innovation capability within markets or in its senior management.
Diageo would be affected if there were a catastrophic failure of its major production facilities or shared service centres.
See Business description Continuing operations Premium drinks Production for details of Diageos principal production areas.
In addition, the maintenance and development of information systems may result in systems failures which may adversely affect business operations.
Diageo has a substantial inventory of aged product categories, principally Scotch whisky and Canadian whisky, which mature over periods of up to 30 years.
As at 30 June 2005, the historical cost of Diageos maturing inventory amounted to 1,558 million.
The maturing inventory is stored primarily in Scotland, and the loss through contamination, re or other natural disaster of all or a portion of the stock of any one of those aged product categories could result in a significant reduction in supply of those products, and consequently, Diageo would not be able to meet consumer demand for these products as it arises.
In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance proceeds would cover the replacement value of Diageos maturing inventory or other assets, were such assets to be lost due to contamination, re or natural disasters or destruction resulting from negligence or the acts of third parties.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 20 Business description Diageos business may be adversely impacted by unfavourable economic conditions or political or other developments and risks in the countries in which it operates Diageos business is dependent on general economic conditions in the United States, Great Britain and other important markets.
A significant deterioration in these conditions, including a reduction in consumer spending levels, could have a material adverse effect on Diageos business and results of operations.
In addition, Diageo may be adversely affected by political and economic developments in any of the countries where Diageo has distribution networks, production facilities or marketing companies.
Diageos operations are also subject to a variety of other risks and uncertainties related to trading in numerous foreign countries, including political or economic upheaval and the imposition of any import, investment or currency restrictions, including tariffs and import quotas or any restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and capital.
Current examples of such potential upheaval are currency restrictions and potential further disruption to movement of goods into and out of Venezuela, affecting both imports of goods principally Scotch whisky into Venezuela and export of rum Cacique, especially to Spain, unrest in the Middle East, and the impact on tourism and travel of terrorist threats.
These disruptions can affect Diageos ability to import or export products and to repatriate funds, as well as affecting the levels of consumer demand for example in duty free outlets at airports or in on trade premises in affected regions and therefore Diageos levels of sales or profitability.
Part of Diageos growth strategy includes expanding its business in certain countries where consumer spending in general, and spending on Diageos products in particular has not historically been as great but where there are prospects for growth.
There is no guarantee that this strategy will be successful and some of the markets represent a higher risk in terms of their changing regulatory environments and higher degree of uncertainty over levels of consumer spending.
Diageo may also be adversely affected by movements in the value of, and returns from, the investments held by its pension funds.
Diageo may be adversely affected by uctuations in exchange rates.
The results of operations of Diageo are accounted for in pounds sterling.
Approximately 30% of sales in the year ended 30 June 2005 were in US dollars, approximately 25% were in sterling and approximately 21% were in euros.
Movements in exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into pounds sterling may have a significant impact on Diageos reported results of operations from year to year.
Diageo may also be adversely impacted by uctuations in interest rates, mainly through an increased interest expense.
To partly delay any adverse impact from interest rate movements, the prole of xed rate to oating rate net borrowings is maintained according to the duration measure that is equivalent to an approximate 50% xed and 50% oating amortising prole.
See Operating and financial review Risk management.
Diageos operations may be adversely affected by failure to renegotiate distribution and manufacturing rights on favourable terms Diageos business has a number of distribution agreements for brands owned by it or by other companies.
These agreements vary depending on the particular brand, but tend to be for a xed number of years.
There can be no assurance that Diageo will be able to renegotiate distribution rights on favourable terms when they expire or that agreements will not be terminated.
Failure to renew distribution agreements on favourable terms could have an adverse impact on Diageos revenues and operating income.
In addition, Diageos sales may be adversely affected by any disputes with distributors of its products.
Diageo may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights Given the importance of brand recognition to its business, Diageo has invested considerable effort in protecting its intellectual property rights, including trademark registration and domain names.
Diageos patents cover some of its process technology, including some aspects of its bottle marking technology.
Diageo also uses security measures and agreements to protect its condential information.
However, Diageo cannot be certain that the steps it has taken will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe on or misappropriate its intellectual property rights.
Moreover, some of the countries in which Diageo operates offer less intellectual property protection than Europe or North America.
Given the attractiveness of Diageos brands to consumers, it is not uncommon for counterfeit products to be manufactured.
Diageo cannot be certain that the steps it takes to prevent, detect and eliminate counterfeit products will be effective in preventing material loss of profits or erosion of brand equity resulting from lower quality or even dangerous counterfeit product reaching the market.
If Diageo is unable to protect its intellectual property rights against infringement or misappropriation, this could materially harm its future financial results and ability to develop its business.
It may be difficult to effect service of US process and enforce US legal process against the directors of Diageo Diageo is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
The majority of Diageos directors and ofcers, and some of the experts named in this document, reside outside of the United States, principally in the United Kingdom.
A substantial portion of Diageos assets, and the assets of such persons are located outside of the United States.
Therefore, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon Diageo or these persons in order to enforce judgements of US courts against Diageo or these persons based on the civil liability provisions of the US Federal Securities laws.
There is doubt as to the enforceability in England and Wales, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgements of US courts, of civil liabilities solely based on the US Federal Securities laws.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 21 Business description
