Corporate governance report continued Basis of regulation US companies listed on the NYSE are required to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
The Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority require each listed company incorporated in the United Kingdom to include in its annual report and accounts a narrative statement of how it has applied the principles of the Code and a statement as to whether or not it has complied with the best practice provisions of the Code throughout the accounting period covered by the annual report and accounts.
References to the Code are to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in 2003.
It is not mandatory for companies to follow the principles set forth in the Code, and the Code does not require companies to disclose the full range of corporate governance guidelines with which they comply.
A company that has not complied with the Code provisions, however, or that complied with only some of the Code provisions or in the case of provisions whose requirements are of a continuing nature complied for only part of an accounting period covered by the report, must specify the Code provisions with which it has not complied, and where relevant for what part of the reporting period such non-compliance continued, and give reasons for any non-compliance.
As stated above, Diageo complied throughout the year with the best practice provisions of the Code, except that not all the directors attended the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Director independence The Codes principles recommend that at least half of a companys board, excluding the chairman, should consist of independent non-executive directors.
The NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies state that companies must have a majority of independent directors.
Currently, seven of Diageos 10 directors are non-executive directors.
The NYSE rules set forth five bright-line tests for determining director independence and require in addition that the board of directors affirmatively determines that the director has no material relationship with the company either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the company.
The Code, which is followed by Diageo, prescribes a more general standard for determining director independence.
The Code requires a companys board to assess director independence by affirmatively concluding that the director is independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
Diageos board has determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors are independent.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs bright-line tests.
In addition, as at 31 July, all members of Diageos audit committee are independent non-executive directors as per the requirements of section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Chairman and chief executive The Code recommends that the chairman and the chief executive should not be the same individual in order to ensure that there is a clear division of responsibility for running each companys business.
There is no corresponding requirement for US companies.
Diageo has a separate chairman and chief executive.
Non-executive director meetings Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, non-management directors must meet on a regular basis without management present and independent directors must meet separately at least once per year.
During the year under review, Diageos non-executive directors met three times as a group without any executive directors present.
Committees Diageo has a number of board committees which are similar in purpose and constitution to those required for US companies under NYSE standards.
Diageos audit and remuneration committees consist entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The nomination committee is chaired by Lord Blyth, who is not independent.
Under NYSE standards, companies are required to have a nominating corporate governance committee, composed entirely of independent directors.
In addition to identifying individuals qualified to become board members, this committee must develop and recommend to the board a set of corporate governance principles.
The terms of reference for Diageos nomination committee, which follow the requirements of the Code, do not require the committee to develop and recommend corporate governance principles for Diageo.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, Diageo discloses in its annual report how the board, its committees and the directors are evaluated and the results of the evaluation and it provides extensive information regarding directors compensation in the directors remuneration report.
Code of ethics NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of the code for directors or executive officers.
Diageos board has established a compliance programme to support achievement of its commitment to conducting Diageos business responsibly and in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject.
Diageos code of business conduct sets out expectations of Diageo businesses and employees in relation to issues such as conflicts of interest, competition law, insider trading and corrupt payments as well as illegal acts in general.
A marketing code establishes the principles that Diageo follows in relation to advertising and promotion of its products.
In addition, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Compliance certification In accordance with NYSE listing rules applicable to foreign private issuers, PS Walsh, Diageos chief executive, is required to provide the NYSE with an annual compliance certification stating that he is not aware of any violation by the company of any NYSE corporate governance standards.
In accordance with rules applicable to both US companies and foreign private issuers, PS Walsh is also required to notify the NYSE promptly in writing after any executive officer becomes aware of any material non-compliance with the NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to the company.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 80 Corporate governance report Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2005.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 2.30 pm on Tuesday, 18 October 2005.
Dividends Diageo paid an interim dividend of 11.35 pence per share on 6 April 2005.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 18.2 pence per share.
Subject to approval by members, the final dividend will be paid on 24 October 2005 to shareholders on the register on 16 September 2005.
Payment to US ADR holders will be made on 28 October 2005.
A dividend reinvestment plan, which enables ordinary shareholders to invest their dividends in ordinary shares, is available in respect of the final dividend and the plan notice date is 3 October 2005.
Directors The directors of the company who served during the year are listed under Directors and senior management above.
Lord Blyth, M Lilja and WS Shanahan retire by rotation at the AGM in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Dr FB Humer, who was appointed since the last AGM, retires in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, offers himself for election at the AGM.
RF Chase and JK Oates retired at the AGM in October 2004.
Lord Hollick succeeded RF Chase as senior non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee in September 2004 and JR Symonds succeeded JK Oates as chairman of the audit committee after the AGM in October 2004.
The non-executive directors proposed for re-election do not have service contracts.
Further details of directors contracts and their interests in the shares of the company at 30 June 2005 are given in the directors remuneration report above.
Auditor The auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in office and a resolution for its re-appointment as auditor of the company will be submitted to the AGM.
Purchases of own shares At the 2004 AGM, shareholders gave the company renewed authority to purchase a maximum of 306 million ordinary shares.
During the year ended 30 June 2005, Diageo purchased 94 million ordinary shares nominal value 27 million, representing approximately 3% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares at 15 August 2005, for a consideration including expenses of 710 million.
Of the shares purchased, 8 million were cancelled and 86 million were held as treasury shares.
Other information Other information relevant to the directors report may be found in the following sections of the Annual Report.
Information Location in Annual Report Business activities and development Chief executives review and Business description Charitable and political donations Corporate governance report Corporate citizenship Corporate governance report Directors indemnities Directors remuneration report Employment policies Business description Continuing operations Employees Purchase of own shares Operating and financial review Liquidity and capital resources Shareholdings in the company Additional information for shareholders Major shareholders Supplier payment policies and performance Corporate governance report The directors report of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2005 comprises this page and the sections of the Annual Report referred to under Other information and Directors above.
The directors report was approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the board of directors on 31 August 2005 and signed on its behalf by Susanne Bunn, the company secretary.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 81 Directors report Contents Consolidated financial statements Year ended 30 June 2005 83 Independent auditors report to the members of Diageo plc 84 Consolidated profit and loss account 86 Consolidated balance sheet 87 Consolidated cash ow statement 87 Movements in net borrowings 88 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 88 Note of consolidated historical cost profits and losses 89 Accounting policies 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 145 Company balance sheet 146 Notes to the company balance sheet 148 Principal group companies Diageo Annual Report 2005 82 Consolidated financial statements Contents
