ANNUAL REPORT 2005 REMUNERATION REPORT Long term performance In line with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the graph below shows Dimension Datas total shareholder return from 1 October 2000 to 30 September 2005, together with a comparator index.
Total shareholder return 100 80 60 40 20 0 Sep 2000 Sep 2001 Sep 2002 Sep 2003 Sep 2004 Sep 2005 Dimension Data Holdings FTSE Software and Computer Services Index This graph shows the value, at 30 September 2005, of 100 invested in Dimension Data Holdings plc on 30 September 2000 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Software and Computer Services Index.
The other values plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
This index was chosen as the Company has been a constituent since listing and is considered appropriate.
By order of the Board RM Scott Chairman of the Remuneration Committeee 15 November 2005 045 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVES Directors Jeremy John Ord 48 Patrick Keith Quarmby 51 Chairman Director: Corporate Finance Jeremy Ord was appointed as Chairman of Dimension Data Patrick Quarmby was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and Johannesburg Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
He held the combined role of Chairman and Chief in 2000.
Prior to that appointment he served on the Board of Executive Officer until 1 March 2004, when Brett Dawson was Dimension Data Holdings Ltd from 1996.
Previously he worked as appointed as Chief Executive Officer.
Jeremy previously served as a tax partner at Ernst & Young South Africa and was a director of Executive Chairman of Dimension Data Holdings Ltd from 1987, as Standard Bank in London and Hong Kong.
He was appointed as the Groups Managing Director and in other senior positions since Chairman of Datacraft Asia in July 2002.
He graduated from the the Groups 1983 inception.
University of Cape Town and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
He is a non-executive director of Unitrans Ltd. Brett William Dawson 41 Chief Executive Officer David Brian Sherriffs 42 Brett Dawson was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the Chief Financial Officer Group and to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc on 1 David Sherriffs was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 1 March 2004.
Prior to this appointment he had served as Dimension March 2004, and was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Datas Chief Operating Officer from 2002.
He joined the Group in Holdings plc on 9 June 2004.
He joined the Group in 1997 as a 1997 as Financial Director of the Groups joint venture, OmniLink.
member of the finance team, primarily involved in corporate finance He was instrumental in growing the business, which exceeded all activities.
In 2000, David was appointed Vice President of Business business plan objectives and claimed a dominant market share in Development for Europe and relocated to Germany.
From 2003, the South African market.
Following the merger of OmniLink and David served as Group Executive Operations and was responsible Internet Solutions, Brett was appointed CEO of Internet Solutions.
for business case assessments relating to strategic projects.
Prior In September 2001 he relocated to take on the role of CFO of to joining the Dimension Data Group, David served in various Dimension Data North America, where he focused on integrating financial, corporate finance and strategy roles for Anglo American acquisitions in that territory.
Prior to joining Dimension Data, Brett plc, including Executive Assistant to the chairman.
David is a was responsible for corporate strategy and planning at National Chartered Accountant SA and received his MPhil in Management Brands Ltd and held corporate finance positions at Anglovaal Ltd Studies at the University of Oxford.
He graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
Stephen Michael Joubert 47 Group Executive Global Solutions Groups Stephen Joubert was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that appointment he served as a director of Dimension Data Holdings Ltd from 1998.
He joined the Group in 1996 as Group Financial Director in Network Services.
Before that, he was a partner at  for a number of years.
046 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVES Non-Executive Directors Gordon Herbert Waddell 68 Moses Modidima Moss Ngoasheng 48 Senior independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Gordon Waddell was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Moss Ngoasheng was appointed to the Board in September Holdings plc as a non-executive director at the time of its listing 2002.
He also serves as a non-executive director on the board of in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
Mr Waddell is the nonDimension Data South Africa Pty Ltd.
He is executive chairman of executive chairman of Mersey Docks and Harbour Company.
investment company Safika Holdings Pty Ltd, and was previously He was appointed senior non-executive director in September economic advisor to South African President Thabo Mbeki.
He also 2002 and is a member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration serves as a non-executive director of The Industrial Development Committee and Nomination Committee.
Mr Waddell graduated Corporation and New Africa Capital Ltd. Moss graduated from the from Cambridge University with a Bachelor of Arts degree and has University of South Africa and has an MPhil from Sussex University.
an MBA from Stanford University.
Safika Holdings Pty Ltd, amongst its other activities, has formed a minority part of the consortium involved in the BEE transaction Rupert George Maxwell Lothian Barclay 48 with Dimension Data South Africa.
The Company has reviewed Independent non-executive director this involvement, and considers that Moss should continue to be Rupert Barclay joined the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc considered as fully independent.
as an independent non-executive director with effect from 9 June 2004.
Rupert is a partner of Cairneagle Associates LLP and is a Roderick Rory Michael Scott 46 non-executive director of Lowland Investment Company plc.
He Independent non-executive director has previously served in an executive capacity as CFO of Lombard Rory Scott was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Risk Management plc, Director of Group Strategy Development at plc as a non-executive director at the time of its listing in London and Reuters plc and Director of Group Strategy at Allied Domecq plc.
He had previously served as a non-executive Rupert was appointed to the Audit Committee on 15 September director on the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Ltd, and before 2004.
He is a graduate of Cambridge University, has an MBA from that served as the Group Financial Director from 1987 to 1991.
He is INSEAD and is a Chartered Accountant.
presently Managing Director of the Scottish Knitwear Group SA Pty Ltd.
He is a Chartered Accountant SA and serves as chairman of the Wendy Lucas-Bull 52 Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Given the length of time that Independent non-executive director has elapsed since his service as an executive director, the Company Wendy Lucas-Bull joined the Board of Dimension Data Holdings considers him to be fully independent.
plc as an independent non-executive director with effect from 1 July 2005.
Wendy is currently a member of the Aveng Limited Peter Dorian Dorian Wharton-Hood 66 Board, the Eskom Holdings Limited Board and she chairs the Independent non-executive director Eskom Finance Committee.
She graduated from the University of Dorian Wharton-Hood was appointed to the Board of Dimension the Witwatersrand with a Bachelor of Science degree.
Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director at the time of its listing in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
He previously served Josua Dillie Malherbe 49 as a non-executive director of Dimension Data Holdings Ltd from Independent non-executive director 1998.
He was vice-chairman of Liberty Life for eight years.
He was Dillie Malherbe was appointed to the Board of Dimension chairman of the Life Offices Association of SA on three occasions Data Holdings plc in November 2003 and as a member of the and president of the Insurance Institute of SA.
He was also a Remuneration Committee on 15 September 2004.
He is the Chief member of the Council of the SA Foundation and a director of Executive Officer of VenFin Ltd.
He also serves on the board of Business Against Crime.
In 1998 he was chairman of the Governing Vodacom Group Pty Ltd, GenuOne Incorporated and MidiTV Pty Body of Business SA of which he is now a trustee.
He graduated from the Universities of Stellenbosch and of the Nomination Committee and the Treasury Committee.
Cape Town and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
He graduated from Stellenbosch University with a Bachelor of Commerce degree.
047 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Executive Committee Group Operations Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Executive Committee Dave Sherriffs Chief Financial Officer Patrick Quarmby Director: Corporate Finance Regional CEOs Russell Bolan CEO UK and Europe Bob Cagnazzi CEO US Allan Cawood CEO Africa Steve Nola CEO Australia Bill Padfield CEO Asia Functional Heads Alan Burgess Chief Information Officer Marilyn Chaplin Group Executive Human Resources Adam Craker Group Executive Sales Connie fide Lange Group Executive Marketing Steve Joubert Group Executive Global Solutions Groups Scott Petty Group Executive Services Ettienne Reinecke Chief Technology Officer Bruce Watson Group Executive Cisco Alliance 048
