ANNUAL REPORT 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors of Dimension Data present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2005.
Principal activities The Group continued its investment in the development and Dimension Data Holdings plc is a specialist IT services and implementation of its e-procurement facility for its clients.
Clients solutions provider helping clients plan, build, support and manage have the ability to access Dimension Data offerings via their their IT infrastructures.
Dimension Data applies its expertise in core e-procurement service or directly via the Internet.
This is in networking, security, operating environments, storage and contact the process of being implemented in all regions and adoption by centre technologies and its skills in consulting, integration and regional and multinational clients is showing significant growth.
managed services to create customised client solutions to achieve improved business performance.
Acquisitions In December 2004 we acquired Euricom NV, a Microsoft-focused The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the consultancy business in Belgium.
Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Operating Review and the Chief Financial Officers Financial Review, which In May 2005 Dimension Data acquired a 51% stake in Dimension provide information about the Groups businesses, their financial Data Ltd in Nigeria, which had acquired the assets of ROE Ltd, a performance during the year and likely future developments.
Nigerian IT solutions and services company.
Results In August 2005, we acquired a further 20% shareholding total For the year ended 30 September 2005, total turnover including effective interest now 77.91% in Internet Solutions Pty Ltd from associates was US$2,826.9 million, compared with US$2,484.0 Nedcor Ltd. million for the previous year.
Total operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items was US$69.6 In September 2005 we acquired a 51% interest in Bellerephon million, compared with US$33.0 million for the previous year.
Basic Group Pty Ltd, an Australian-based provider of Microsoft earnings per share amounted to 1.3 US cents 2004: loss 2.8 US management and infrastructure solutions.
Further details of acquisitions are set out in Note 27.
Dividends The Board considers it important to retain a strong positive cash Disposals position to provide a sense of stability to our customers and to There were no material disposals during the year.
allow us to take advantage of opportunities that continue to present themselves across our Group.
The Board is mindful of the ultimate objective of providing an acceptable cash return to shareholders and our dividend policy remains under review.
Research and development Dimension Data continues to align its research and development investments with its core strategy of establishing world class expertise in its lines of business.
Dimension Data also continues to invest in advanced service models where capacity benefits can be achieved.
One such investment is the acquisition of Bellerephon, which establishes a desktop deployment offering that is being rolled out to all regions.
The Group has continued its investment in achieving alignment across all regions, facilitating the leverage of intellectual property and adoption of best practices.
026 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors The current Directors are listed on pages 46 and 47.
Details of the members of the Board, who served throughout the year, except as listed, are given below: Name Position Appointed Resigned Jeremy Ord Chairman May 2000 Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer March 2004 Stephen Joubert Group Executive Global Solutions Groups July 2000 Patrick Quarmby Director: Corporate Finance July 2000 David Sherriffs Chief Financial Officer June 2004 Gordon Waddell Senior independent non-executive director July 2000 Rupert Barclay Independent non-executive director June 2004 David Frankel Non-executive director November 2004 resigned Wendy Lucas-Bull Independent non-executive director July 2005 Dillie Malherbe Non-executive director November 2003 Moss Ngoasheng Independent non-executive director September 2002 Rory Scott Independent non-executive director July 2000 Dorian Wharton-Hood Independent non-executive director July 2000 At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Stephen Joubert, Rory Corporate Governance Scott and Dillie Malherbe retire by rotation and offer themselves A report on Corporate Governance and compliance with the for re-election in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The Combined Code is set out on pages 29 to 32.
Chairman confirms that the directors up for re-election continue to be effective in their roles as directors of the Company.
The Employee involvement Companys Articles of Association provide that every director The Dimension Data Group seeks to engage all employees in appointed to the Board during the year shall automatically retire and a shared commitment to the success of its business and keeps seek election at the next general meeting following appointment.
them informed regarding the business environment and matters of Accordingly, shareholders will be asked to elect Wendy Lucas-Bull concern to them.
Dimension Data offers long term incentives and  details of those directors seeking re-election and related bonus payments in order to encourage the participation of election are set out on pages 46 and 47. employees in the success of the Group.
Details of the long term incentives appear in the Remuneration Report, and the outstanding Directors memberships of Board Committees are set out in the share options, Share Appreciation Rights and Long Term Incentive Corporate Governance Report.
Details of Directors service Plan awards appear in Note 36 to the annual financial statements contracts and remuneration are set out in the Remuneration on pages 93 and 94.
An Extraordinary General Meeting EGM Report.
Details of the Directors interests in any Group company was held on 2 December 2004, where approval for the Long Term can also be found in the Remuneration Report.
Incentive Plan and Share Appreciation Rights Scheme was given.
027 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Ethics Post balance sheet event The Group embraces the highest standards in its business activities.
There were no post balance sheet events, other than disclosed in The Group operates in accordance with an ethical code that is Note 35. distributed to employees via the corporate intranet.
A copy of the code is available on the Groups website www.
Going concern The Group is not political.
It does not make contributions to After making due enquiry, the Directors consider that, as at the political parties or allow its assets and services to be used in any date of the approval of the financial statements, the Group has way that favours any particular political grouping, other than in the adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable provision of its normal products and services, under its usual terms future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern and conditions of sale.
basis in preparing their financial statements.
Authorised share capital Corporate responsibility The authorised share capital of the Company is made up of 50,000, Dimension Datas position on the environment and on charitable divided into 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each, and US$30 million, donations is detailed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report divided into 3 billion ordinary shares of 1 US cent each.
Donations and grants made during the year totalled US$167,000 2004: US$42,000.
The Company made The holders of the deferred shares have no right to receive notice of no political donations in the year under review 2004: nil.
any general meeting of the Company, nor the right to attend, speak or vote at such general meetings.
The deferred shares have no Auditors rights to dividends and on a return of assets in a winding-up, entitle Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups the holder to the repayment of the amounts paid on the deferred auditors and authorising the Directors to determine their shares after repayment of the capital paid up on the ordinary remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General shares plus the payment of US$10 million per ordinary share.
Issued share capital Company Secretary As at 30 September 2005, the Companys issued share capital The UK Company Secretary is Mrs JM Duck and the South African was 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each and 1,345,050,505 ordinary Company Secretary is Mrs ML Taylor details on page 97. shares of 1 US cent each.
Annual General Meeting Details of interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share The notice convening the Annual General Meeting, together with capital of the Company are shown in Shareholder Information on the proxy form and notes explaining the various resolutions, will be page 50. mailed to shareholders in due course.
Creditor payment policy By Order of the Board Dimension Data Holdings plc is a holding company and, as such, Mrs JM Duck had no trade creditors at the year end.
It is therefore not applicable Secretary to provide statistics for the Company as required by the Companies 15 November 2005 Act.
Group operating companies have no fixed payment policies but agree in advance the best possible terms with their suppliers and the Group is committed to honouring those terms.
