OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED PC City total sales were up 45 per cent to 218 million 2003 04 151 million.
The product trends across mainland Europe were similar to those in the UK, with PCs and laptops selling well.
Investment losses were 19.7 million 2003 04 24.8 million.
Losses fell in Spain, France and Italy.
At the year end, there were 37 PC City stores trading in four countries.
PC City France made good progress.
One new store was opened during the year.
The business is delivering consistent sales growth with all stores making a positive contribution to central costs.
The Group is now satisfied that the PC City business Below: Rossella fide Giglio at PC City, in France is sufciently robust to pursue national coverage in that market and in May Bari giving advice to a customer.
announced its plans to accelerate the rate of new store openings in France, with a projected target of 100 stores over time.
PC City Spain also continued to make progress.
Credit sales were encouraging and a new customer support agreement, PC a Punto Gold, was launched.
An improved B2B offering was launched in Spain, utilising the UK expertise, and initial performance has been encouraging.
Six new stores were opened during the year.
The Group recently announced its intention to open a PC City store in Portugal, leveraging the existing infrastructure in Spain.
The format is still in the early stages of being tested in Italy six stores and Sweden two stores and the Group plans six further store openings in these markets in 2005 06.
Electro World sales increased by 23 per cent to 106 million 2003 04 86 million.
Operating losses were 7.4 million 2003 04 11.6 million.
During the year, margin performance improved and cost reduction initiatives were implemented.
A central warehouse has been established to serve both the Czech and Hungarian markets.
The same infrastructure will be used to support openings in Poland.
A move towards a centralised buying model for the Group enabled Electro World to reduce head ofce costs.
